08-07-2021||First Edit||Cabinet Reshuffle: Fine electoral engineering at work||The major restructuring effected by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the Union cabinet is a mid-term course correction, involving expansion, elevations, reshuffle and dropping of incumbents. It is at once administrative and political, more the latter than the former. Administratively, it is an attempt to shape a ministerial team that can deal with the post-pandemic situation. The performance of the Modi cabinet over the past over two years has not been anything great, and even after giving a margin for the impact of Covid on everything, the assessment cannot be benign. The next half of the term is important because the run-up to the general elections will soon start. But the immediate challenge is the string of Assembly elections to take place in major states, including UP and Gujarat. Much of the ministry is designed to meet that challenge. The heavy intake from UP and other poll-bound states is the main political feature of the reshuffle. It has also been done thoughtfully, with communities and sections which are electorally important getting awarded. There is a micro-management of social groups and fine electoral engineering at work, with the new ministers being chosen from castes, sub-castes and regions that will be most useful in the elections. Women, Dalits, backward castes and youth have also got more representation and that could also be a conscious decision. These are sections which are electorally significant, but they need in any case to be given greater participation. Another feature of the exercise is that coalition partners have been accommodated more than in the past. The BJP realises that it will need their help in the coming elections more than in the past. The new ministry would look very different because as many as 36 new ministers have been inducted and 12 incumbents dropped. The inclusion of Jyotiraditya Scindia from MP and Sarbananda Sonowal from Assam was expected. But the dropping from the cabinet of senior ministers like Dr Harsh Vardhan, Ravi Shankar Prasad, Prakash Javadekar and Ramesh Pokhriyal was unexpected. Dr Harsh Vardhan may have paid the price not just for his failure but the failure of the government in Covid management. Equally surprising is the elevation of Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur whose ministry is among the worst performers. All ministers are thought to have been under continuous scrutiny and the Prime Minister is known to act on such assessments. The moot question is whether the government, which did not have much to show and has many negative marks on its slate, will perform better in the rest of its term. Those who have been taken on political considerations cannot be expected to present any great performance. But the expectation of performance becomes relevant only if the ministers are capable and have enough room and autonomy to function.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/cabinet-reshuffle-fine-electoral-engineering-at-work-1006141.html
08-07-2021||In Perspective||Teaching teachers||Covid shows that India rises to challenges, but she needs to be stronger. The most powerful lever for national strength is school education; it builds individuals, society, economy and democracy. A post-Covid agenda for Indian education needs replacing our industrial revolution-catalysed model of one-size-fits-all with 25 years of learning, 25 years of earning, and 25 years of retirement, with lifelong learning that is self-directed, differentiated, fluid and collaborative. A changing world and changing India need changing teacher training and empowering teachers. School education in a digital and connected world should be based on the evolving frontiers of brain research. We now better understand differently wired brains, interventions that rewire the brain, how unlimited pathways extend. How people access data, think and learn, what information they access, and also what they need to learn for this has changed. Our learners need contextual learning, solving problems by working together, accessing current information beyond textbooks, and affirming visions of identity. Learning needs skills of research, inquiry, problem-solving, collaboration, and communication. Growth of new nerve cells, especially beyond the first eight years of life, needs triggers like experiential learning and physical, hands-on activity. In a world where Google knows everything, knowing matters less than making connections and using knowledge. Learners need self-awareness to help them imagine their future, set goals, reflect and make choices. Piaget, Maria Montessori, Tagore, Vivekananda and Krishnamurthy had rhyming visions of education; connecting with the self, connecting with the world, and building knowledge. Harvard Professor Tony Wagner suggests that education needs five transitions: from consumption to creating more, from being risk-averse to becoming risk-taking, from being specialists to being transdisciplinary, from extrinsic motivation to intrinsic motivation, and from celebrating individual achievement to valuing teamwork. These visions demand moving beyond the binary mindset of either/or — either Academics or Creativity, Science or Humanities, Thinking or Discipline — to the both/and mindset— both Scores and Thinking, Math and Arts, Discipline and Freedom, Global outlook and Identity. Putting children at the centre of their learning, allowing them to set their own pace and giving them choices, instils accountability and decision-making capabilities, building motivation. NEP 2020 emphasizes 21st-century skills, working towards ‘how to think’ instead of ‘what to think’, interdisciplinary learning and the importance of identity. The most important lever for realising this change is teachers. Our current teacher training is fragmented, with inadequate content in short courses and outdated content in long courses, producing teachers with little technical understanding and skill; this is remedied through a few high-stress years in the workplace, often at the cost of learners. There is a shortage of trainers who understand high-quality teaching practice and can inspire skill growth in trainee teachers. The effect of this dysfunction on people choosing to build teaching as a professional career is compounded by increasing domestic demand for talent outside education. Rising global demand for our best teachers prices them out of reach of all but a few elite schools. We need a large force of highly skilled and caring teachers to effect change in education across strata. We need to personalise the learning of our teachers, develop their identities, and nurture their dreams. Training must offer global best practices at affordable prices, set higher standards for entry and exit, and have multiple on and off-ramps. It must meet the needs of teachers across elite urban schools (who can afford many choices), low-cost private schools (who offer moderate compensation but deep hands-on learning), and government schools (where teachers struggle with resources, flawed governance, and motivation). Training must include short-burst, skills-focussed courses in language and literacy teaching, inquiry, classroom management, responsible technology use, differentiation by process, product and ability, observation and assessment, and experiential and contextual learning to bring the world into the classroom. Educators need abilities beyond content knowledge -- understanding how children learn, planning for impactful teaching, assessing for continuous growth, building self-esteem, nurturing relationships, and using technology as a lever. Reimagining excellence starts with education reform. Covid has demonstrated that the traditional strategy of the middle class buying its way to the front of the line in healthcare and education is not viable, desirable, or sustainable. India is a world leader in knowledge industries like IT, services and pharmaceuticals, but many Indians will not ride the cars they clean, read the newspapers they deliver or send their children to the schools they build. Our shared constitutional and cultural vision of an India that is democratic, equal and excellent needs changing school education by asking new questions around teacher training. How can teachers nurture thinking? What kind of work should teachers get children to do at school and home? How should teachers provoke inquiry, create room for reflecting, and grow lifelong learners? How should teachers create an environment to develop our children’s identity and diversity, and nurture passions? How can teachers bring the world into their classrooms to build the cognitive, ethical and social domains of learning? How can we teach our teachers to transform teaching? Let the quest begin. (The writer is Head of School, Neev Academy)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/teaching-teachers-1006139.html
08-07-2021||Kalaburagi||Heavy rain warning: High alert sounded till July 15 in Kalaburagi||In the wake of the prediction of heavy rainfall in the district, Deputy Commissioner V V Jyothsna sounded a high alert till July 15. Speaking at a meeting with the district-level officials at her office auditorium here on Thursday, she said it has been raining in the district. Task Force teams should be formed in villages as there is a possibility of flash floods along the riverbed in rural areas. All taluk-level officials should stay put in their headquarters and should face the imminent floods, the DC instructed. Relief centres should be opened in the villages which are to be affected by the floods. All facilities including food and water, electricity and accommodation should be provided in relief centres. Milk and biscuits should be served to children. If supplying milk gets delayed, milk powder should be kept ready, she said. A list of pregnant women should be obtained from Anganwadi workers. Covid-19 protocols like maintaining social distance, wearing masks and using sanitisers should be followed in the relief centres, the DC directed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/heavy-rain-warning-high-alert-sounded-till-july-15-in-kalaburagi-1006455.html
08-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Court summons K S Eshwarappa in defamation case||A Bengaluru-based City Civil Court has issued summons to Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa in connection with a defamation case.  A Shivamogga-based advocate had filed a petition in the court against Eshwarappa alleging that BJP leader used an unparliamentary word against him. The BJP leader had appealed to the court to quash the case. The court, however, denied the appeal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/court-summons-k-s-eshwarappa-in-defamation-case-1006126.html
08-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||No politics should be done over KRS dam: MP Pratap Simha||MP Pratap Simha on Thursday said KRS Dam in Srirangapatna in Mandya district is safe and no politics should be played over the dam. The MP was commenting over Mandya MO Sumalatha's statement that the dam has developed a crack. Pratap Simha said seepage during rainy season is common and water flow is not due to any crack. The MP said the officials of Cauvery Neeravari Nigam have already examined the dam and have said there are no cracks, he claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-politics-should-be-done-over-krs-dam-mp-pratap-simha-1006220.html
08-07-2021||Main Article||Time to ask questions||Nations are not judged merely by the number of nuclear warheads, GDP, attractive tourist destinations, corporate multinationals that transcend borders or tall skyscrapers in their cities’ downtowns. If that was the case, America was not just a front-runner in that global sprint, it was running a one-horse marathon race (China panting and puffing away in second place) for a long while to come. The above, of course, are indeed manifestations of financial clout and military prowess that gives one entry into the UN Security Council, powerful groups such as G-7 and G-20 and, of course, that seductive destination of the rich and famous called Davos. But as the Great Recession of 2007-8 irrefutably proved (when Wall Street bared its crude avariciousness) and the 2020 Coronavirus has since totally established, a new norm of judging business and political leadership has since emerged. It’s called public morality. Of course, it was always there, but mostly it got lip-service. Leaders from their bully pulpits uttered platitudinous rubbish to get applause and that coveted headline. They got it. After all, that was anyway the true objective, influencing impressionable people for votes or impact equity analysts for market capitalisation. Political pundits would then dissect their words of wisdom on immigration, climate change, globalisation, racial diversity, protecting small businesses, old-age care, campaign reform, etc., as if they meant everything they said. It was exactly as per the modern demagogue’s playbook; it amplified their messaging of airy-fairy trash. At some point though the chickens come home to roost. The mendacity is unsustainable. People have woken up, even if belatedly and even if not entirely. Questions are being asked. Donald Trump and Jair Bolsonaro epitomise the fall of the coyotes, the frauds. Trump mocked the virus from the very beginning, plunging his country into an unpardonable lethargy and smugness. It would cost America dear (a total caseload of over 33 million and over 600,000 dead so far). Albeit, in all fairness, Trump displayed smart business sense through his Operation Warp Speed to get vaccine manufacturers to guarantee the US first rights and full access to vaccine supply. But the damage had been done and it was irreversible. Trump’s defeat in November 2020 exhibited the disdain of the average US voter with American politics, even if a polarised country still gave him 74 million votes. He got seven million votes less than Democrat Joe Biden, who won the most votes ever in a presidential election. The less said about Brazilian President Bolsonaro, the better. At the time of writing, Sao Paulo and Rio De Janiero are rising in unison to put their head of state under a commission of inquiry for crimes against humanity. Every human life matters. Bolsonaro, who like Trump ironically got infected with the same virus they ridiculed) demonstrated shocking apathy. His statements were preposterous, he refused to wear a mask and get vaccinated. Brazil has suffered a humongous headcount of over 500,000 dead. Now they want an answer, not just a response. India -- 30 million caseload -- is comparatively extraordinarily silent, though there are signs of rising disaffection. There is palpable anger against what can be called a failed State, which underestimated the second Covid wave and appeared clueless on the availability of elementary medical necessities such as oxygen supply and ventilators. Its approach to ensuring vaccine supply for its vulnerable population was abecedarian, born out of both intrinsic hubris and incompetence. India’s summer of 2021 is an unforgettable nightmare, a devastating consequence of State callousness. While reams have already been documented on the subject, the Delhi High Court’s observation was perhaps the most trenchant: “Someone needs to be booked for manslaughter.” In other words, a venerable court in India’s capital city unambiguously categorised the tragic deaths (people dying because there was no oxygen supply, bodies floating down the Ganga, families struggling to get crematorium space, vaccine shortage, etc.) was nothing short of institutional murder. The Supreme Court was equally unequivocal about the “arbitrary and irrational vaccination policy.” The government has since revised its bizarre policies and stopped somnambulating, but can a family resurrect its dead? Worse, the government has added grievous insult to still bleeding wounds. Let me elaborate. In response to a petition demanding ex gratia for every family that lost a member to Covid, the Modi government has expressed its reluctance to pay it in a written affidavit to the Supreme Court. In the history of India’s parliamentary democracy, this must rank as its lowest abysmal moment of shame. Assuming just one member has died per family, India has to pay about Rs 16,000 crore as ex-gratia (nearly 400,000 dead x Rs 4 lakh). But a government that’s continuing with the meretricious Rs 20,000-crore Central Vista project, is contesting the demand for ex gratia for the victims of a monumental catastrophe that was mostly avoidable. Can there be anything more humiliating and insulting to the bereaved families? In 2019, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman gave tax concessions to India’s corporate sector of Rs 1.45 lakh crore. But so far as pandemic deaths are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that Covid was not included in the initial classification of natural disasters years ago, and of course, we must look at “optimum utilisation of resources.” This from a government whose prestidigitation has led to an under-reporting of virus-related deaths. At some point, there needs to be a high-powered independent criminal investigation into why India became the basket-case of Covid mayhem in a ghastly period beginning March 2021. This Commission of Inquiry must have televised hearings, and everyone from the State machinery and political class (including state governments cutting across all political parties) must be rigorously examined under the public microscope. It must be bipartisan, with party representatives given rights to question each other. There must be comeuppance. After all, in the absence of political morality, democracy is a sham. And governance will continue to elude India’s besieged citizens. Are we still going to be fooled by $5 trillion GDP goal by 2024, the inflow of hot money, a booming stock market, and periodic homilies of our greatness? It is time to say, enough is enough. The time to demand accountability has come. It is not just 4,00,000 people who have died. But also India’s moral conscience. (The writer is a former Congress spokesperson)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/time-to-ask-questions-1006140.html
08-07-2021||National||Urmila Matondkar slams BJP leader for his remarks on Dilip Kumar's name||Actor-politician Urmila Matondkar has criticised BJP politician Arun Yadav after he claimed that screen icon Dilip Kumar, who passed away on Wednesday, used a Hindu name to earn money as an actor. One of India's finest actors who ruled the hearts of generations, Kumar was born Mohammed Yousuf Khan on December 11, 1922 in Peshawar, Pakistan. Devika Rani, who was the head of the Bombay Talkies where he joined as an actor, rechristened him as Dilip Kumar. Kumar, who died at a Mumbai hospital on Wednesday morning after prolonged illness at the age of 98, was remembered by many on social media who called his demise an irreparable loss to Indian cinema. Haryana BJP IT cell and social media head Arun Yadav courted controversy with his condolence message. "The death of Mohammad Yusuf Khan (Dilip Kumar), who earned money by keeping a Hindu name in the film world, is an irreparable loss to the Indian film industry! Deepest condolences to the bereaved family. Hope God gives peace to the departed soul," Yadav wrote in Hindi. Reacting strongly to his tweet, Matondkar expressed her anguish as she wrote "Shame on you", with a thumbs down emoji. Yadav's tweet also drew criticism from other Twitter users who called out the politician for his remarks. "Shame... How can you post something like this on someone's death. What is the problem if a Muslim has a Hindu name? And if a Hindu has a Muslim name, then also there is a problem. Please grow up and be a good human being, you will feel good," a social media user wrote. Another user said Kumar's contribution to Indian films trumps all such comments made in poor taste. "... Yusuf Khan aka Dilip Kumar made India known and famous through the whole world (sic)," a tweeple noted. Kumar, known to generations of film-goers as 'tragedy king' for his portrayal of the brooding, intense romantic, starred in classics such as "Mughal-e-Azam" and "Devdas". Also called the Nehruvian hero, he made his acting debut with "Jwar Bhata" in 1944. In his five-decade career he worked in 65 films which included titles like "Naya Daur", "Madhumati" and "Ram Aur Shyam" in which he starred as the leading man. In his twilight years, he graduated to character roles in films like "Shakti" and "Karma". His last on-screen appearance was his last "Qila" in 1998.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/urmila-matondkar-slams-bjp-leader-for-his-remarks-on-dilip-kumars-name-1006114.html
08-07-2021||National||US Covid-19 vaccine donation: Regulatory issues holding up supplies to India||Last month, the US pledged to ship 80 million doses of American made Covid-19 vaccines to countries around the world to help them fight the pandemic. A large number of countries, including in India's neighbourhood, have already received the vaccines from the US. It was estimated then that India could get one to two million doses of the vaccines. The people cited above said the issue of indemnity is linked to the supply of US vaccines to India and a reason for the delay. Grant of indemnity would provide vaccine suppliers protection from legal liability in the event of adverse reaction among the vaccine recipients. When asked what was holding back the supplies of the vaccines to India, a US embassy spokesperson said the delay is not from the US side. "As President Joe Biden announced earlier this year, the United States will share 80 million doses from our own vaccine supply with countries around the world," the spokesperson said. "As part of that, before we can ship doses, each country must complete its own domestic set of operational, regulatory, and legal processes that are specific to each country," the spokesperson added. Several countries in the region have already received the vaccine doses from the US as part of the donation. "In the case of India: the delay is not from the US side. India has determined that it needs further time to review legal provisions related to accepting vaccine donations. Once India works through its legal process, our donation of vaccines to India will proceed expeditiously," the spokesperson said. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar visited the US in May during which he had met senior executives of the leading US pharma companies. The supply of raw material by the US to India to boost its domestic production was a major focus of Jaishankar's five-day visit to the US. In early June, the US announced allocating the first 25 million coronavirus vaccines to various countries. It said at least 75 per cent of the total doses or nearly 19 million would be shared through COVAX, including approximately six million doses for Latin America and the Caribbean, and approximately seven million for South and Southeast Asia. It said approximately five million would be sent to Africa and the remaining six million would be shared directly with countries experiencing surges and other partners and neighbours, including Canada, Mexico, India, and the Republic of Korea. On June 23, the US came out with an allocation plan of 55 million doses. It announced that approximately 41 million would be shared through COVAX. Out of 41 million doses, the US said around 14 million would be for Latin America and the Caribbean countries while approximately 16 million doses would go to India, Nepal, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Afghanistan, Maldives, Bhutan, Philippines, Vietnam, Indonesia, Thailand, Malaysia, Laos, Papua New Guinea, Taiwan, Cambodia, and the Pacific Islands. It said approximately 10 million doses would be shared with Africa. The remaining 14 million - or 25 per cent of the 55 million vaccines was to be shared under regional priorities and other recipients such as Colombia, Argentina, Haiti, Dominican Republic, Costa Rica, Panama, Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Philippines, Vietnam, Indonesia, South Africa, Nigeria, Kenya, Ghana, Cabo Verde and Egypt, among others. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-covid-19-vaccine-donation-regulatory-issues-holding-up-supplies-to-india-1006137.html
08-07-2021||National||DH Toon | 'The buck stops with ex-ministers'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday showed the exit door to prominent ministers – Ravi Shankar Prasad, Harsh Vardhan, Sadananda Gowda and Prakash Javadekar – who had served in the government for the past seven years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-the-buck-stops-with-ex-ministers-1006145.html
08-07-2021||National||Petrol, diesel prices rise for second straight day: Check rates||Fuel prices were hiked for the second straight day and the fifth time this month, with the cost of petrol well above Rs 100 per litre in all major cities, according to a price notification from Indian Oil Corporation. In Delhi, petrol witnessed a hike of 35 paise to Rs 100.56 per litre, while diesel was up by 9 paise to Rs 89.62 per litre. A litre of petrol in Mumbai now costs 34 paise more at Rs 106.59 per litre. Diesel in financial capital has been hiked 9 paise to Rs 97.18 per litre. The price of petrol in Bengaluru has seen a hike of 37 paise to Rs 103.93, while diesel has seen a hike of 10 paise to Rs 94.99. People in Chennai will have to pay 31 paise more for a lite of petrol, which costs Rs 101.37. Diesel will cost them 9 paise more at Rs 94.06. Among the metros, Kolkata has seen the sharpest hike, with petrol now 39 paise more at Rs 100.62 and diesel now 15 paise more at Rs 100.65 per litre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-diesel-prices-rise-for-second-straight-day-check-rates-1006170.html
08-07-2021||National||Cabinet rejig: Sitharaman, Jaishankar and other ministers who retained their posts||As Prime Minister Narendra Modi inducted 36 new ministers in a bid to hit reset and removed 12 senior ministers from their posts, Nirmala Sitharaman, S Jaishankar and Rajnath Singh were among those who retained their portfolios after the rejig. Senior BJP leader Amit Shah retained his portfolio of Home Affairs, even as he was given charge of the newly formed Ministry of Cooperation. BJP's Piyush Goyal retained Commerce Ministry and gained Textile Ministry as Railway was taken from him and given to Ashwini Vaishnaw. Nitin Gadkari will continue in the Road and Transport Ministry while Narendra Singh Tomar will be Minister for Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare. Pralhad Joshi and Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi retained their portfolios of Parliamentary Affairs and Minority affairs. Arjun Munda will continue in Ministry for Tribal Affairs and Gajendra Singh Shekhawat will be Union Minister for Jal Shakti.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-rejig-sitharaman-jaishankar-and-other-ministers-who-retained-their-posts-1006176.html
08-07-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi, Nadda pay tribute to ex-CM Virbhadra Singh in Shimla||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and BJP president J P Nadda joined a large number of supporters on Friday to pay last respects to former Himachal Pradesh chief minister Virbhadra Singh who passed away on Thursday. Gandhi, accompanied by Congress Working Committee member Rajeev Shukla, laid a wreath at the mortal remains of Singh to pay his last respects to the departed leader at the state Congress office -- Rajiv Bhawan. श्री वीरभद्र सिंह जी का मजबूत मनोबल, दृढ़ संकल्प और उत्कृष्ट कार्य हम सबके लिए सदैव प्रेरणादायक रहेगा। भगवान उनकी पुण्य आत्मा को अपने श्रीचरणों में स्थान दें तथा शोकग्रस्त परिवार एवं प्रशंसकों को इस कठिन समय में संबल प्रदान करें। ॐ शांति! Gandhi later hugged the late Congress leader's son Vikramaditya Singh, the Shimla Rural MLA, to express his condolences. Earlier, Nadda accompanied by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur laid a wreath on Singh's mortal remains at the Ridge Maidan. The BJP president reached Shimla in a helicopter from Delhi to pay his last respects to the departed leader. Earlier on July 5, Nadda had enquired about Singh's health during his visit to the hill state. The 87-year-old veteran Congress leader breathed his last after prolonged illness at Shimla's Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) at 3.40 am on Thursday. Singh had served as the state's chief minister for six times with the latest stint from 2012 to 2017. In the 2017 Assembly polls, Singh was elected from Arki constituency in Solan district. On Thursday, Singh's body was kept at his residence, Holly Lodge, here for the entire day for 'antim darshan'. On Friday, the body was kept at Ridge Maidan for the public to pay their last respects from 9 am to 11.30 am. Then, it was kept at the state Congress office from 11.40 am to 1 pm. A large number of supporters of Virbhadra Singh had their 'antim darshan' of the departed leader at both the places amid chanting of slogans like 'Raja sahab, amar rahein', 'Jab tak sooraj chand rahegaa, Raja sahab ka naam rahega' and 'Raja nahi fakir tha, janta ki takdeer tha'. Thereafter, the body was taken to Rampur at 1 pm and it is scheduled to reach Padam Palace in Rampur Bushahr in the evening. On Saturday, the body will be kept at Padam Palace from 8 am to 2 pm before the funeral at 3 pm. A delegation of Congress leaders will represent party president Sonia Gandhi at his cremation on Saturday. The delegation will comprise Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel and Congress treasurer Pawan Kumar Bansal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-nadda-pay-tribute-to-ex-cm-virbhadra-singh-in-shimla-1006177.html
08-07-2021||National||India's adds 45,892 more Covid-19 cases, 817 deaths||India recorded a single-day rise of 45,892 new Covid-19 cases, taking its infection tally to 3,07,09,557, while the count of active cases increased slightly to 4,60,704 after being on a consistent downward trend for nearly 55 days, according to the Union Health Ministry on Thursday. The death toll has climbed to 4,05,028 with 817 new fatalities being reported. The number of active cases comprises 1.50 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate stands at 97.18 per cent, data updated by the ministry at 8 am showed. An increase of 784 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours, it showed. Also, 18,93,800 Covid-19 tests were conducted in the country on Wednesday, taking the total number of such examinations so far to 42,52,25,897, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.42 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for 17 consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate has declined to 2.37 per cent, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,98,43,825, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.32 per cent, the data stated. The total number of vaccine doses administered so far has reached 36.48 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and one crore on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore infections on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 817 new fatalities include 326 from Maharashtra, 148 from Kerala and 75 from Karnataka. A total of 4,05,028 deaths have been reported so far in the country. This includes 1,23,857 from Maharashtra, 35,601 from Karnataka, 33,196 from Tamil Nadu, 25,005 from Delhi, 22,666 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,850 from West Bengal and 16,141 from Punjab. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-adds-45892-more-covid-19-cases-817-deaths-1006178.html
08-07-2021||National||Infrastructure gets a lion's share in SC/ST funds||Karnataka will pump over Rs 11,400 crore of its SC/ST funds into eight key departments, including irrigation and energy, to push infrastructure development this financial year.  These are funds under the Scheduled Castes Sub-Plan and Tribal Sub-Plan (SCSP-TSP) that have a total of Rs 26,005 crore this year. Of this, Rs 11,480 crore or 44 per cent will go to major irrigation, minor irrigation, energy, public works, urban development, housing, programme monitoring and rural development & panchayat raj (RDPR) departments.  The next highest allocation is for the welfare sector comprising health, education, women & child development, social welfare and transport departments that have received Rs 8.933.18 crore or 34.35 per cent of the total sub-plan funds.   In effect, the SCSP-TSP have been distributed into six sectors, just like in Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s budget.  In 2013, Karnataka enacted the Karnataka Scheduled Castes Sub Plan and Tribal Sub Plan (Planning, Allocation and Utilisation of Financial Resources) Act, 2013, making it the second state after Andhra Pradesh to introduce a law that mandates spending public money for SC/STs. Under the law, the government has to spend 24.1 per cent of its total budget on SC/ST welfare; that is 17.15 per cent for SCs and 6.95 per cent for STs. The SCSP-TSP funds are also a way for the government to take up infrastructure projects without worrying about mobilising resources.  “Wherever we do roads, for example, we will choose places that have a substantial SC/ST population of at least 40 per cent,” RDPR principal secretary L K Atheeq said. His department has Rs 3,134 crore under SCSP-TSP this year.  The RDPR department is looking to use the SCSP-TSP money in the Pavagada multi-village water supply scheme project that costs Rs 2,400 crore. “The project passes through several SC/ST reserve constituencies. That’s how the project has been designed,” Atheeq said.  The same argument is used by other departments involved in infrastructure creation. They say their projects are used by SC/ST population, justifying such spending. The government has asked departments to track and report the number of SC/ST beneficiaries covered with the sub-plans money. Also this year, SC/ST farmers will get some new sops under the sub-plans. The animal husbandry department will provide 90 per cent financial assistance on purchasing motorized milking machines. Milk producers will get 75 per cent assistance on cow/buffalo units.  Similarly, the cooperation department will provide SC/ST farmers 50 per cent assistance to pay rent to warehouses where they store their agricultural commodities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/infrastructure-gets-a-lions-share-in-sc/st-funds-1006182.html
08-07-2021||National||Cabinet 2.0: Babul Supriyo clarifies he was ‘not asked to resign’||A few hours before Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Cabinet ministers' list was announced, Babul Supriyo took to social media to announce that he had resigned from the position of junior minister in the Environment Ministry. However, in his first post, he said, “I have been asked to resign and I have!!” Later, he deleted the post and reposted the same news with a clarification. Referring to the older post, he said, "Yes, when there is smoke, there must be a fire somewhere. Not being able to take phone calls of my friends in the media who care for me hence let me spell it out myself... Yes, I have resigned from the Council Of Ministers (As I had framed it earlier, 'Asked to resign' may not be the right way to put it).”   "I thank Hon'ble Prime Minister for giving me the privilege to serve my country as a Member of his Council of Ministers. I am extremely happy that I go today without a spot of corruption on me, having served my constituency with all my might and having enjoyed their confidence when Asansol voted me back as their MP once again, with triple the margin in 2019 again," Supriyo said in his Facebook post. While the BJP MP expressed that he is “sad for himself”, he clarified that he was “not asked to resign”. "My bestest of wishes to my colleagues, whose names I can't spell out but by now everyone is aware, will be sworn in as Hon'ble ministers from Bengal. I am surely SAD for myself but very HAPPY for them. More power to all of them," Supriyo added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-20-babul-supriyo-clarifies-he-was-not-asked-to-resign-1006184.html
08-07-2021||National||Mansukh Mandaviya, Ashwini Vaishnaw, Anurag Thakur, others take charge of respective ministries||Newly appointed Union ministers, including Ashwini Vaishnaw, Anurag Thakur and Mansukh Mandaviya, took charge of their respective ministries on Thursday. Bureaucrat-entrepreneur-turned-politician Vaishnaw, 51, took charge as the country's new Railway Minister, while Thakur who was elevated as Information and Broadcasting Minister also assumed office. Vaishnaw also holds two other important portfolios of Communications and Electronics and Information Technology. "I thank the honourable Prime Minister for the great opportunity he has given me to serve the nation. Telecommunications, IT and Railways. There are lots of synergies in the three and I will be working to ensure that his vision is implemented," Vaishnaw told reporters. Darshana Jardosh took charge as Minister of State for Railways. Speaking to reporters after assuming charge, Thakur said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given him a huge responsibility and that he will make best efforts to fulfil it. "Modiji has done fantastic work in the last seven years. My endeavour will be to meet his expectations, reach out to maximum people and take the legacy of my predecessors forward," Thakur said. Mansukh Mandaviya, a BJP leader from Gujarat, took charge as the new Health Minister amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Mandaviya replaces Harsh Vardhan. Dr Bharati Pravin Pawar, who succeeded Ashwini Kumar Choubey, took charge as the Minister of State (MoS) for Health and Family Welfare. Ram Chandra Prasad Singh and Kiren Rijiju took charge of Steel and Law Ministries respectively. Singh, a JD(U) leader, is a retired IAS officer. Bhupender Yadav assumed charge of the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change. Veteran parliamentarian Virendra Kumar took office as the country's new Social Justice and Empowerment Minister. Two junior ministers in the ministry Pratima Bhoumik and A Narayanaswamy also took office. Jitendra Singh took charge as the new Union Science and Technology Minister. Singh was on Wednesday allocated two new portfolios -- the Ministry of Science and Technology and the Ministry of Earth Sciences -- with independent charge after a Union cabinet reshuffle. BJP Rajya Sabha member Bhupender Yadav took charge of the Ministry of Labour and Employment as Union Cabinet Minister amid the pandemic which has hit the working class, especially informal sector workers, hard. Minister of Culture, Tourism and DoNER G Kishan Reddy also assumed charge. Shiv Sena leader Narayan Rane took charge as the new Union MSME (micro, small and medium enterprises) Minister. Rane said the ministry will work in the direction of creating more jobs and promoting GDP growth. "Today, I have taken the charge. We will think of steps to promote GDP growth and the creation of jobs for youth," he told reporters. Senior Gujarat BJP leader Parshottam Rupala, who has been promoted as a cabinet minister, took charge as Minister of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying. Rupala (66), who comes from the influential Kadva Patidar or Patel community in Gujarat, is in charge of the new ministry formed in 2019 in order to promote allied farm activities for enhancing farmers' income. Subhas Sarkar and Munjapara Mahendrabhai took charge as Minister of State for Education and Women and Child Development Ministries respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mansukh-mandaviya-ashwini-vaishnaw-anurag-thakur-others-take-charge-of-respective-ministries-1006205.html
08-07-2021||National||USCIRF condemns death of Stan Swamy||A federal American body has condemned the “deliberate neglect" by the government of India that it said led to the death of Jesuit priest Stan Swamy. Swamy, 84, who was arrested last year under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in connection with the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, died at a Mumbai hospital on Monday. “Father Stan Swamy’s death is a stark reminder of the egregious and ongoing persecution of India’s religious minority communities,” Nadine Maenza, chair of the US Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF) said in a statement on Wednesday. The USCIRF condemns "in strongest terms the deliberate neglect and targeting by the government of India that led to the death of Father Stan Swamy," it said. Maenza urged the United States to “hold the Indian government accountable and to raise religious freedom concerns in the US-India bilateral relationship.” Rejecting mounting international criticism over the handling of the case of Swamy, India on Tuesday said the concerned authorities act against violations of law and do not restrain the legitimate exercise of rights. The Ministry of External Affairs said India remains committed to the promotion and protection of the human rights of all its citizens and that the country's democratic polity is complemented by an independent judiciary and a range of national and state-level human rights commissions. "Swamy was arrested and detained by the National Investigation Agency following due process under the law. Because of the specific nature of charges against him, his bail applications were rejected by the courts. Authorities in India act against violations of law and not against legitimate exercise of rights. All such actions are strictly in accordance with the law,” the MEA said in a statement in New Delhi. It said Swamy was receiving all possible medical attention at a private hospital where he was admitted since May 28. His health and medical treatment were being closely monitored by the courts. He passed away on July 5 following medical complications. "India remains committed to promotion and protection of human rights of all its citizens,” the ministry said in response to media queries. India had earlier rejected its criticism by the USCIRF, terming its observations on the condition of minorities and religious freedom in the country as “biased and tendentious”. The MEA had termed the USCIRF as an "organisation of particular concern" in 2020 and said it will treat it accordingly. USCIRF Commissioner Anurima Bhargava said that the commission is deeply saddened and appalled by the death of Swamy. “For years, he fought for the rights and dignity of low-caste and poor people across India,” she said. “Father Swamy died in the custody of Indian authorities who targeted him for giving voice to the human rights concerns of Adivasis and other low-caste, religious and poor communities," she said. "The Indian government held him for these past months, without any trial or conviction, despite lack of credible evidence on the charges filed against him, his deteriorating health, and global calls for his release,” Bhargava added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uscirf-condemns-death-of-stan-swamy-1006212.html
08-07-2021||National||Dilip Kumar was a legend in his lifetime, will remain so in future: Sonia Gandhi||Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Thursday said Dilip Kumar was a legend in his lifetime and will remain so in the future too and with his passing away the golden age of Indian cinema has come to an end. In her condolence message to Kumar's wife Saira Banu, she said the actor left a priceless legacy through his rich contributions to the world of art and culture. "With the passing away of your beloved husband Shri Dilip Kumar, the Golden Age of Indian Cinema has finally come to an end, Shri Dilip Kumar was a legend in his lifetime, and will remain a legend in the future too, as generations of film lovers will continue to watch him with admiration in films that his superb acting skills turned into evergreen classics," Gandhi said in her letter.  "Who can forget the realism, the emotion and power that he brought to his roles in films as diverse as Ganga Jumna, Daag, Deedar, Mughal e Aazam, Naya Daur, Madhumati, Devdas, Ram aur Shyam and so many, many more. In all his films he kept his audience entranced, inspired and deeply moved," she said. Gandhi said India will always honour Kumar’s memory and his loss will be deeply mourned by his countless fans. “I pray that you find the strength to bear your loss. With my heartfelt condolences," the Congress chief said in her letter to Banu. Kumar died in Mumbai at the age of 98 after a brief illness on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dilip-kumar-was-a-legend-in-his-lifetime-will-remain-so-in-future-sonia-gandhi-1006222.html
08-07-2021||National||Mansukh Mandaviya takes charge as Union Health minister, Dr Bharati Pravin as MoS Health||Mansukh Mandaviya took charge as the country's new health minister on Thursday. Dr Bharati Pravin Pawar, who succeeded Ashwini Kumar Choubey, also took charge as the minister of state (MoS) for Health and Family Welfare. Mandaviya, a BJP leader from Gujarat's Saurashtra region, replaced Dr Harsh Vardhan, who was dropped from the Council of Ministers on Wednesday. Mandaviya’s portfolio assumes utmost significance as the country is battling the coronavirus pandemic. He will also lead the Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers. "Mansukh Mandaviya takes charge as Union Minister of Health & Family Welfare at Nirman Bhawan today (Thursday)," the Health Ministry said. Mandaviya was on Wednesday elevated to the Cabinet rank from minister of state (MoS). He was holding the independent charge of the Shipping Ministry and was MoS for the Chemicals and Fertilizers Ministry. Mandaviya has been an important young face in the Narendra Modi government at the Centre since 2016. He was first inducted in the Union cabinet as MoS for Road Transport and Highways, Shipping and Chemicals and Fertilisers on July 5, 2016. On May 30, 2019, he was again sworn in as MoS for Chemicals and Fertilisers with an independent charge of Ports, Shipping and Waterways. Earlier, Mandaviya had served as chairman of the Gujarat Agro Industries Corporation Limited. Dr Bharati Pravin Pawar, 42, is a first-time Lok Sabha member for Dindori in Maharashtra. She served as a member of Nashik zila parishad and worked for eradicating malnutrition and providing clean drinking water to people. Before joining politics, she was a medical practitioner. Mandaviya and Pawar were received by senior officers of the ministry, including Rajesh Bhushan, Health Secretary; Vandana Gurnani, Additional Secretary and Mission Director, NHM (MoHFW); Dr Manohar Agnani, Additional Secretary (Health); Vikash Sheel, Additional Secretary (Health); Alok Saxena, Additional Secretary; Dr Sunil Kumar, DGHS (MoHFW); Arun Singhal CEO, FSSA, and other key officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mansukh-mandaviya-takes-charge-as-union-health-minister-dr-bharati-pravin-as-mos-health-1006228.html
08-07-2021||National||Focus on supply of vaccines to states: Chidambaram to new Health Minister||As the new Union health minister assumed charge, Congress leader P Chidambaram on Thursday said his first task is to ensure adequate and uninterrupted supply of vaccines. He said vaccinations have been suspended at several centres in Tamil Nadu as vaccines have run out of supply. "Once again, vaccination has been suspended at several centres in Tamil Nadu because they have run out of vaccines.  "The first task of the new Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya will be to ensure adequate and uninterrupted supply of vaccines to all States," Chidambaram tweeted. "No more games to enter the Guinness Book of Records please. Just focus on the supply of vaccines to all the States," he also said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/focus-on-supply-of-vaccines-to-states-chidambaram-to-new-health-minister-1006230.html
08-07-2021||National||Fire breaks out in CBI building||A fire broke out in the CBI building at CGO complex in Lodhi Road area on Thursday morning, officials said. Fire officials said a call about a blaze was received at 11.36 am. Six fire tenders were rushed to the spot and the blaze was brought under control, a senior fire official said. The fire had broken out in the transformer and AC plant rooms in the second basement of the building, he said. The police rushed to the spot after they received a call about the fire, officials said. A lot of smoke was coming out from the basement of the building. Fire tenders, PCR vans and CAT ambulances reached the spot. No casualty has been reported and the situation is under control, a senior police officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fire-breaks-out-in-cbi-building-1006232.html
08-07-2021||National||Farmers in Punjab, Haryana protest against fuel, LPG price hike||Farmers in Punjab and Haryana on Thursday held protests at several places in the twin states against the hike in fuel and cooking gas prices. The call for the protest from 10 am till 12 noon was given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is spearheading an agitation against the Centre's three farm laws. Protesters parked their tractors and other vehicles on the roadside and shouted slogans against the Union government over the rising prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas. Some of them also brought empty LPG cylinders to the protesting sites as a mark of protest. Agitating farmers also honked their vehicles for a few minutes, saying it was done to “wake up” the government from “slumber”. The farmers slammed the government for not being able to control the prices of essential commodities. Police personnel were deployed in strength near the protest sites to maintain law and order, officials said. Protests were held at many places in Mohali, Amritsar, Ludhiana, Moga, Rupnagar in Punjab and Sonipat, Sirsa and Gohana in Haryana. Farmer leader Harmeet Singh Kadiyan, who led the protest in Ludhiana, slammed the BJP-led government at the Centre over the increasing prices of fuel and cooking gas. Every day, prices of fuel are going up which is adversely affecting every section of the society, he said. In Moga, a protester said rising prices of diesel would increase the farmers' input cost. In Haryana's Sirsa, a protesting farmer brought a camel to pull a four-wheeler as a mark of protest against the rising fuel prices. Agitating farmers said their demonstrations were peaceful. Thousands of farmers have been camping at Delhi's borders since November last year demanding that the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee minimum support price for crops. However, the government has maintained the laws are pro-farmer. Several rounds of talks between farmers and the government have failed to break the deadlock over the three central controversial legislations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-in-punjab-haryana-protest-against-fuel-lpg-price-hike-1006235.html
08-07-2021||National||What is cytomegalovirus?: Delhi hospital sees cases of infection after Covid-19 test||Six persons have been diagnosed with cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection at Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals in Delhi within 20 to 30 days of testing positive for coronavirus, officials said on Thursday. All these patients admitted at Apollo had severe Covid-19 pneumonia in the preceding month, received high doses of steroids and had turned Covid negative at the time of detection of CMV disease, they said. Cytomegalovirus infection is a common herpesvirus infection with a wide range of symptoms: from no symptoms to fever and fatigue (resembling infectious mononucleosis) to severe symptoms involving the eyes, brain, or other internal organs. The cytomegalovirus (CMV) disease is usually found in patients with immunocompromised status like those who suffer from HIV, low CD4 counts, or are cancer post-transplant patients on immunosuppressive medicines etc. Suppression of immunity due to Covid-19 and steroids gives CMV a chance to attack patients. The virus otherwise exists in 80-90 percent of the Indian population in asymptomatic form due to inherent immunity. Dr Athar Ansari, Consultant (Department of Respiratory, Critical Care and Sleep medicine), Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals, said, “In the past month, we have detected CMV disease in six patients with post Covid-19 syndrome that came with varied manifestations. Symptoms of CMV depend on which part of the body it is affecting. If it has direct involvement of lungs, the patient will have a fever, difficulty in breathing, chest pain or cough.” The patients that were admitted to Apollo after 20-30 days of testing Covid-19 positive were detected with conditions like hypoxia, inflammation in the lungs and liver, and one of them was a known case of acute myeloid leukemia, he said. CMV colitis is a known entity. Although more common in immunocompromised, it has been reported in immunocompetent patients earlier as well. CMV is an opportunistic infection that preys on low immunity, and Covid-19 is capable of severe immune suppression, the doctor added. The reason of the activation of the CMV virus in these patients could be the Covid 19-induced immunosuppression and high dose steroid therapy, said Dr Avdhesh Bansal, Senior Consultant, Department of Respiratory, Critical Care and Sleep Medicine, Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals. CMV disease can have varied presentations and a high index of suspicion is required to make the diagnosis among Covid-19 patients with persistent symptoms not responding to treatment, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/what-is-cytomegalovirus-delhi-hospital-sees-cases-of-infection-after-covid-19-test-1006242.html
08-07-2021||National||Future-Reliance deal: SC to hear on July 20 Amazon plea against HC verdict||The Supreme Court Thursday said it will hear on July 20 the Amazon plea against the Delhi High Court verdict which stayed the directive by its single-judge and paved the way for the multi-billion dollar deal to amalgamate Future Retail Ltd (FRL) with Reliance Retail. A bench of Justices R F Nariman, K M Joseph and B R Gavai was informed by senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for the Future group, that a Singapore tribunal will commence hearing on the issue from July 12 and requested that the proceedings on the appeals be adjourned for a week. Senior advocate Gopal Subramanian, appearing for the US-based e-commerce giant, said he had no problem if the hearing on the appeals was adjourned by a week, as they will be busy next week before the tribunal. The bench then posted the matter for further hearing on July 20. On February 22, the top court had asked the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) not to pass the final order on the amalgamation. The Future group had moved the tribunal seeking regulatory approvals to the Rs 24,713 crore deal with Reliance. Amazon moved the top court against the order of the Delhi High Court division bench which paved the way for the Reliance-FRL deal. On February 8, the division bench had stayed the single judge direction to FRL and various statutory authorities to maintain status quo on the mega deal. The interim direction was passed on FRL's appeal challenging the February 2 order of the single judge. The high court division bench had also declined Amazon's request to keep its order in abeyance for a week so that it can explore appropriate remedies. In August last year, the Future group had reached an agreement to sell its retail, wholesale, logistics and warehousing units to Reliance. Subsequently, Amazon took FRL into an emergency arbitration before the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) over an alleged breach of contract by the Future group. Amazon had first filed a plea before the high court (single judge) for enforcement of the October 25, 2020 Emergency Arbitrator (EA) award by SIAC restraining FRL from going ahead with its Rs 24,713 crore deal with Reliance Retail. The high court division bench had however said that it was staying the single judge order as FRL was not a party to the share subscription agreement (SSA) between Amazon and Future Coupons Pvt Ltd (FCPL) and the US e-commerce giant was not a party to the deal between FRL and Reliance Retail. It had further said it was of the prima facie view that the shareholding agreement (SHA) between FRL and FCPL, the SSA between FCPL and Amazon and the deal between FRL and Reliance Retail "are different" and "therefore, the group of companies doctrine cannot be invoked". Another reason given by the court for its interim order was that there was prima facie no reason to seek a status quo order before the single judge. The high court had said there were a lot of contentious issues involved in the matter and it was not going to adjudicate on them at this stage. It had also said that its observations were only prima facie and the single judge ought not to be influenced by them when pronouncing the order on Amazon's plea for enforcement of the EA award by SIAC restraining FRL from going ahead with the deal. FRL, in its appeal, had claimed that if the February 2 order was not stayed it "would be an absolute disaster" for it as the proceedings before the NCLT for approving the amalgamation scheme have been put on hold. It had contended that the single judge's status quo order will effectively derail the entire scheme which has been approved by statutory authorities in accordance with law. In its suit before the single judge for enforcing the EA award, Amazon has sought to restrain FRL from taking any steps to complete the transaction with entities that are a part of the Mukesh Dhirubhai Ambani (MDA) Group. Amazon has also sought detention of the Biyanis, directors of FCPL and FRL and other related parties in civil prison and attaching of their properties for alleged "wilful disobedience" of the EA order. After the SIAC's EA order, Amazon wrote to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi), stock exchanges and CCI, urging them to take into consideration the arbitrator's interim decision as it is a binding order. FRL thereafter moved the high court to restrain Amazon from writing to Sebi, CCI and other regulators about SIAC's order, saying it amounts to interfering with the agreement with Reliance. A single judge on December 21 last year had on FRL's plea passed an interim order allowing Amazon to write to the statutory authorities, but also observed that prima facie it appeared the US ecommerce giant's attempt to control Future Retail was violative of FEMA and FDI rules. Against the observation, Amazon moved an appeal before a division bench and during its pendency, it filed the suit for the enforcement of the EA award.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/future-reliance-deal-sc-to-hear-on-july-20-amazon-plea-against-hc-verdict-1006246.html
08-07-2021||National||Once romanticised, militancy again moves back to secrecy in Kashmir||Five years after the killing of Hizbul Mujahideen commander Burhan Wani, militancy in Kashmir has once again moved back to secrecy from the heydays of glamorisation on social media. It was in the spring of 2015 that young commander Burhan, face of tech-savvy militants in the valley, took to social media to influence the minds of youth in Kashmir and attract them towards militancy. Marking the arrival of new-age militancy in Kashmir, Burhan posed with 12 associates, carrying assault rifles and with faces unmasked. By posting pictures and videos of his outings in the woods with his coterie, he made militancy an attractive proposition for youngsters caught in the throes of abuse and perpetual violence, drawing more and more recruits. Till his killing on this day in 2016, Burhan uploaded dozens of pictures and videos to glamorise and attract youth towards militancy. The trend did not stop even after his killing as his successors, including Riyaz Naikoo, continued to use social media for recruitment and romanticising militancy. This paved the way for a popular wave where militants gained the status of societal leaders. Burhan’s funeral attracted thousands from across Kashmir and the region instantly slid into five-month long unrest and street protests in which nearly 100 protesters were killed. However, since the last year or so, Kashmir insurgency’s days in the sun are apparently over as the militants have again withdrawn into the shadows. They have abandoned a key tool in their arsenal: the social media that propelled them to the centre stage, captivating the public. On July 5, five Lashkar-e-Taiba militants, including its district commander, were killed in a gun-battle with security forces in Hanjin Rajpora area of south Kashmir’s Pulwama district. None of the five slain militants had featured in any viral videos or pictures. “In the first six months of this year, at least 40 local youths have joined militancy, while over 40 others remain missing, many of whom are suspected of having joined the militancy. But unlike the past, most of these new recruits have not announced their joining on social media,” a senior police officer told DH. He said from 2015 to 2019, announcing the joining of militancy on social media had become a signature style of local militants in Kashmir. “But as social media accounts have come on the radar of security agencies, militants have realised that they are being traced online which may have pushed them back into secrecy,” the officer added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/once-romanticised-militancy-again-moves-back-to-secrecy-in-kashmir-1006251.html
08-07-2021||National||Kiren Rijiju takes charge of Law Ministry||Kiren Rijiju on Thursday took charge as the new minister of Law and Justice. A prominent face from the northeast in the Modi government, Rijiju was on Wednesday elevated as a Cabinet minister in a major reshuffle and expansion of the Union Council of Ministers. Rijiju takes over the key ministry from Ravi Shankar Prasad, who has resigned from the government. The Law Ministry is responsible to defend the government in various courts through its law officers and help ministries draft bills and key documents. It also plays a role in transfer, posting and elevation of Supreme Court and high court judges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kiren-rijiju-takes-charge-of-law-ministry-1006255.html
08-07-2021||National||Law of land applies to all: New IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw warns Twitter||Amid a tussle between the Central Government and Twitter, newly sworn-in Information and Technology Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on Thursday said that all those who live and work in India will have to abide by the rules of the country. He was speaking to media persons after meeting BJP general secretary (Organisation) B L Santhosh at the party office in New Delhi. Vaishnaw, the MP from Odisha, assumed charge as Minister for Communication, Information and Technology Ministry and Railways on Thursday. On a question that Twitter was not adhering to IT rules, he said, whosoever lives and works in India will have to abide by the rules of the country. He said his focus will be on improving the lives of the last man standing in the queue. Twitter and the Government at loggerheads after the social media platform failed to comply with the new IT rules. With Twitter failing to comply with the rules, which came into effect on May 26, the government said the US-based company lost legal protection for third party content posted on its platform.   Earlier in Rajya Sabha, Vaishnaw had raised the issue of cyberbullying of Karnataka-based Rashmi Samant's resignation from the position of Oxford Student Union President in the United Kingdom and described it as a serious case of racism. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/law-of-land-applies-to-all-new-it-minister-ashwini-vaishnaw-warns-twitter-1006257.html
08-07-2021||National||Centre, Delhi seems to have adopted ‘my way or highway’ approach: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Thursday expressed its concern over repeated power tussle between Delhi and Union governments, saying they will have to walk hand-in-hand or at least side-by-side for better governance. “No governance model requiring such collaboration can work if either of the two sides take a ‘my way or the highway’ approach – which both seem to have adopted," a bench presided over by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said.   It said three key subjects, public order, police and land, are with the Centre while other sectors are with the Delhi government. The two powers, unfortunately, do not seek to recognise this aspect, and that is the bane of this structure requiring “collaboration and concurrence”, the bench added.   The bench said, since the Centre and Delhi government have not able to see eye to eye on governance issues in Delhi, this led to a spate of litigation.  “Despite repeated judicial counsel to work in tandem, this endeavour has not been successful,” it said. The court said some prior discussion and understanding could easily solve this problem instead of wasting large amounts of judicial time repeatedly arising from the failure of the two dispensations to have a broader outlook.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-delhi-seems-to-have-adopted-my-way-or-highway-approach-supreme-court-1006268.html
08-07-2021||National||Virbhadra Singh was one of Congress' tallest stalwarts, says Sonia Gandhi||Former Himachal Pradesh chief minister Virbhadra Singh was one of the Congress’ tallest stalwarts, party president Sonia Gandhi said on Thursday while condoling the death of the veteran leader. Singh died at a Shimla hospital in the early hours of Thursday after prolonged illness. He was 87. Expressing her deepest condolences, Gandhi said the veteran Congressperson leaves behind a legacy of nearly six decades of service to the people of Himachal Pradesh and the nation. A six-time chief minister and former Union minister, he had the opportunity of working with many stalwarts through different generations, she said. "Popular for his affable and grounded nature, he remained close to people brought about far reaching positive changes through his administrative acumen," she said in her condolence message. "He was one of the tallest stalwarts of the Congress Party and remained a dedicated Congressperson throughout," she said. The Congress chief underlined that Singh's contribution to the party, as indeed to the state and the country will be valued and cherished forever. Singh breathed his last at Shimla's Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) at 3.40 am, senior medical superintendent Dr. Janak Raj said. He had suffered from a heart attack on Monday and had been critical since then. He was put on ventilator support on Wednesday after he had breathing problems. The nine-time MLA and five-time MP is survived by wife Pratibha Singh and son Vikramaditya Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/virbhadra-singh-was-one-of-congress-tallest-stalwarts-says-sonia-gandhi-1006269.html
08-07-2021||National||India spurns OIC's proposal to send team to J&K, says bloc must not be used by vested interests||Even as the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) of late proposed to send a delegation to Jammu and Kashmir and offered to facilitate talks between New Delhi and Islamabad, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government advised the 57-nation-bloc not to allow Pakistan to subvert its forum for campaign against India. New Delhi’s envoy to Saudi Arabia, Ausaaf Sayeed, had a meeting with the OIC Secretary General, Yousef Al-Othaimeen, at the secretariat of the bloc in Jeddah on July 5 last. Othaimeen reviewed with Sayeed “a number of issues concerning the situation of Muslims in India, along with the Jammu and Kashmir dispute, and (the) relevant UN (United Nations) and OIC resolutions opposing any unilateral actions on the issue”, according to a press release issued by the general secretariat of the bloc. The OIC has been echoing Pakistan to oppose India’s August 2019 move to strip J&K of its special status and to reorganise the erstwhile state into two Union Territories. It has also been terming the move as a “unilateral action” by New Delhi. Othaimeen once again conveyed to Sayeed that the OIC general secretariat wanted to dispatch a delegation to the disputed territory in line with the relevant resolutions of the Council of Foreign Ministers of the bloc. The OIC Secretary General also discussed with New Delhi’s envoy to Riyadh about the possibility of talks between India and Pakistan, stating that the secretariat of the bloc stood ready to assist if it was requested to do so by the two parties. Sayeed, however, conveyed to Othaimeen that the OIC should “correct” some of its misperception about India. He also told the OIC Secretary General to make sure that its platform was not “subverted” by the “vested interests”. He told the OIC Secretary General that the bloc should refrain from commenting on internal affairs of India and should not issue biased or one-sided resolutions for running propaganda against India, Arindam Bagchi, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), told journalists in New Delhi. Bagchi said that Sayeed had met Othaimeen on July 5 in response to an earlier request made by the OIC Secretary General. The OIC has been echoing Pakistan to oppose India’s August 2019 move to strip J&K of its special status and to reorganise the erstwhile state into two Union Territories. It repeatedly termed the move as a “unilateral action” by New Delhi. India, unlike Pakistan, is not a member of the OIC, which calls itself the “collective voice” of 1.8 billion Muslims of the world. But, Sushma Swaraj, the then External Affairs Minister, had attended the 46th meeting of the OIC Council of Foreign Ministers in Abu Dhabi in March 2019 as a guest of honour on an invitation by the host of the conclave and her United Arab Emirates counterpart Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nayhan. The invitation had been seen as a major diplomatic success for New Delhi as Pakistan had always used the OIC as a forum to slam India on the issue of Kashmir, particularly on the alleged violation of human rights by security forces in Kashmir. The UAE had paid no heed to the protest from Pakistan and had arranged for the External Affairs of India to address the conclave. Shah Mahmood Qureshi, Foreign Minister of Pakistan, had boycotted the OIC meet to protest the invitation to his counterpart in New Delhi. But just a day after Swaraj’s address to the OIC foreign ministers, the bloc had again issued a statement, toeing Pakistan’s line and criticising India on the issue of J&K. The OIC has also been making statements against India at the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC). India has been rejecting the reference to the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir in the statement of the OIC. “It has no locus standi to comment on matters related to Jammu and Kashmir, which is an integral and inalienable part of India. It is regrettable that the OIC continues to allow itself to be exploited by Pakistan to indulge in anti-India propaganda,” New Delhi’s representative told the UNHRC on March 2 this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-spurns-oics-proposal-to-send-team-to-jk-says-bloc-must-not-be-used-by-vested-interests-1006270.html
08-07-2021||National||India's journey to become great sporting national will continue: Rijiju||Outgoing Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju on Thursday said the journey to make India a great sporting nation will continue after Anurag Thakur replaced him in the position with just a fortnight left for the Tokyo Olympic Games. Rijiju, who took charge of the sports ministry in May 2019, will hand over the responsibilities to Thakur, who is also the Information and Broadcasting minister in the reshuffled cabinet. Thakur is the first cabinet minister since Mani Shankar Iyer (2006-2008) to get the sports ministry's responsibility. Rijiju has also been promoted to the rank of a cabinet minister and will take charge of the Ministry of Law and Justice. "We tried everything to make India a great sporting nation. The journey will continue, it is a change of responsibilities," he told reporters at a farewell function organised by the Sports Authority of India (SAI) here on Thursday. "I am shifting to the Law and Justice Ministry but the efforts which are going on in the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports will continue and my best wishes to the team," he added. "The time which I had in the sports and youth affairs ministry has been extremely favourable as well as full of events and activities. From young to senior athletes I have met most of them and interacted with them. The journey of making India a great sporting nation will continue and will be fulfilled. Rijiju hailed his team at the sports ministry, saying it did everything in its capacity to fulfil the aspirations of the countrymen and the vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "I just met the sports ministry officials. Secretary Youth Affairs, Secretary Sports, Director General SAI and the entire team. We had a great team, we had a wonderful journey. We did everything to fulfil the vision of Hon'ble Prime Minister and the aspirations of the people." Rijiju was appointed as the minister of state for sports in May 2019, replacing Olympic silver-medallist Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore. Along with the Independent charge of the Sports and Youth Affairs, Rijiju also served as the minister of state for minority affairs before being given temporary charge of ministry of Ayush. More than 120 athletes have qualified for the Olympic Games which will open on July 23 amid strict health safety protocols due to the Covid-19 pandemic. During Rijiju's tenure, the sports ministry had decided against sending its delegation for the mega-event unlike past editions, saying that it would ensure wider presence of the athletes' support staff. Highlights of Rijiju's stint included an increase in prize money for national sports awards winners, prompt assistance for current and former athletes facing financial hardships and upgrade of infrastructure at various SAI facilities across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-journey-to-become-great-sporting-national-will-continue-rijiju-1006271.html
08-07-2021||National||India's education system has taken giant leap with introduction of NEP: Dharmendra Pradhan||India's education system has taken a giant leap with the introduction of the new National Education Policy (NEP), newly appointed Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said on Thursday. Pradhan was given the education portfolio in a reshuffle-cum-expansion of the Union Council of Ministers on Wednesday. Rajkumar Ranjan Singh, Subhas Sekhar and Annapurna Devi were appointed as Ministers of State for Education. In his first meeting as Education Minister, Pradhan said, "The Indian education system has taken a giant leap with the introduction of NEP, towards fostering an environment for creating a future-ready India. The policy has not only been welcomed in India but also foreign countries." "We are committed to making students and the youth the primary stakeholders in propelling India towards an equitable knowledge society," he said. The meeting presided over by Prime Minister Narendra Modi was attended by heads of centrally funded technical institutions, including IITs and IISc.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-education-system-has-taken-giant-leap-with-introduction-of-nep-dharmendra-pradhan-1006272.html
08-07-2021||National||Over 7 lakh deaths in India per year linked to abnormal temperatures: Lancet study||Nearly 7,40,000 access deaths in India annually can be attributed to abnormal hot and cold temperatures related to climate change, according to a study published in The Lancet Planetary Health journal. An international team, led by researchers at Monash University in Australia, found that globally more than 50 lakh extra deaths a year can be attributed to non-optimal temperatures. The study published on Wednesday found that deaths related to hot temperatures increased in all regions from 2000 to 2019, indicating that global warming due to climate change will make this mortality figure worse in the future. In India, the number of deaths per year linked with abnormal cold temperatures is 6,55,400, while as the number of deaths associated with high temperatures is 83,700, according to the researchers. The team looked at mortality and temperature data across the world from 2000 to 2019, a period when global temperatures rose by 0.26 degrees Celsius per decade. The study, the first to definitively link non-optimal temperatures to annual increases in mortality, found 9.43 per cent of global deaths could be attributed to cold and hot temperatures. This equates to 74 excess deaths for every 100,000 people, with most deaths caused by cold exposure. Global warming may "slightly reduce the number of temperature-related deaths, largely because of the lessening in cold-related mortality," said Professor Yuming Guo, from the Monash University. "However in the long-term climate change is expected to increase the mortality burden because heat-related mortality would be continuing to increase," Guo said. The data shows geographic differences in the impact of non-optimal temperatures on mortality, with Eastern Europe and Sub-Saharan Africa having the highest heat and cold-related excess death rates. Cold-related death decreased 0.51 per cent from 2000 to 2019, while heat-related death increased 0.21 per cent, leading to a reduction in net mortality due to cold and hot temperatures. Of the global deaths attributed to abnormal cold and heat, the study found more than half occurred in Asia, particularly in East and South Asia. Europe had the highest excess death rates per 1,00,000 due to heat exposure, according to the researchers. Sub-Saharan Africa had the highest death rates per 1,00,000 due to exposure to cold, they said. The largest decline of net mortality occurred in Southeast Asia while there was temporal increase in South Asia and Europe. Previous studies had looked at temperature-related mortality within a single country or region. "This is the first study to get a global overview of mortality due to non-optimal temperature conditions between 2000 and 2019, the hottest period since the Pre-Industrial era," Guo said. The researchers used data from 43 countries across five continents with different climates, socioeconomic and demographic conditions and differing levels of infrastructure and public health services. "The study had a large and varied sample size, unlike previous studies," Guo added. The mortality data from this study is significantly higher than the second-largest study published in 2015, conducted across 13 countries/regions, which estimated 7.7 per cent of deaths were related to cold and hot temperatures. "The importance of taking data from all points of the globe was to get a more accurate understanding of the real impact of non-optimal temperatures under climate change," Guo said. Understanding the geographic patterns of temperature-related mortality is important for the international collaboration in developing policies and strategies in climate change mitigation and adaptation and health protection, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-7-lakh-deaths-in-india-per-year-linked-to-abnormal-temperatures-lancet-study-1006282.html
08-07-2021||National||PM Modi interacts with directors of premier tech institutions, pitches for flexible education models||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday asked heads of top research institutes to develop a roadmap where the benefits of robotics, drones, online education technologies could be maximised and made popular. In his first public engagement with new members of the Union Cabinet, the Prime Minister interacted with heads of centrally-funded institutions such as IITs, IISERS, IISc, Bangalore among others in the presence of Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan and Minister of State Annapurna Devi. The Prime Minister stressed the need to adapt higher education and technical education to keep in tune with the changing environment and emerging challenges. “This requires the institutions to reinvent and re-evaluate themselves, develop alternative and innovative models in accordance with the present and future needs of the country and society,” he said. Modi emphasised that Indian higher educational and technical institutions need to prepare youth for continuous disruptions and changes, keeping in mind the fourth industrial revolution. He asked higher educational institutions to ensure that products associated with Artificial Intelligence, smart wearables, augmented reality systems, and digital assistants reach the common man. “We should focus on affordable, personalized, and AI-driven education,” Modi said. The Prime Minister emphasised that digitisation of higher education can play a big role in increasing Gross Enrollment Ratio, and students will have easier access to good quality and affordable education. He also lauded the various initiatives taken by the institutions to increase digitisation such as that of online bachelor and master’s degree programmes and stressed the need to develop an ecosystem of technological education in Indian languages and translate global journals into regional languages. Modi said the team from IISc, Bengaluru shared a presentation on their key R&D initiatives in areas such as robotics, efforts in education such as training maths/science teachers, Covid-19 work and emphasised the need to give importance to health in Aatmanirbhar Bharat vision. The team from IIT, Madras talked about Covid mitigation efforts such as setting up modular hospitals, hotspot prediction, multi-disciplinary research and online BSc in programming and data science.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-interacts-with-directors-of-premier-tech-institutions-pitches-for-flexible-education-models-1006283.html
08-07-2021||National||Prahlad Singh Patel, Bishweswar Tudu take charge as MoS in Jal Shakti Ministry||Prahlad Singh Patel and Bishweswar Tudu took charge as Ministers of State in the Jal Shakti Ministry on Thursday. The two MoS were greeted by Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat after they assumed their charge. Besides the Jal Shakti ministry, Tudu, a first-time MP from Odisha, is also the MoS in the Tribal Affairs ministry. Patel is also an MoS in the Ministry of Food Processing Industries. In a major Union Cabinet makeover, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday dropped 12 ministers and brought 36 new members to his government. Apart from 15 Cabinet ministers, 28 Ministers of State, comprising new faces and those elevated, were sworn in a ceremony which was held in the Darbar Hall of the Rashtrapati Bhavan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prahlad-singh-patel-bishweswar-tudu-take-charge-as-mos-in-jal-shakti-ministry-1006294.html
08-07-2021||National||Munjapara Mahendrabhai takes charge as MoS, AYUSH||Munjapara Mahendrabhai, a first-time Lok Sabha MP, took charge as the Minister of State in the AYUSH ministry on Thursday. He has also been appointed as the Minister of State for Women and Child Development. Prior to his political career, Mahendrabhai had a three-decade-long distinguished career as a cardiologist and professor of medicine in Gujarat. "There was a sizeable reduction of Covid patients due to 'kadha'. Homeopathy, Modi's yoga have a big role in saving patients from Covid. Opposition members take medicines from me," he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. The 52-year-old has done MD in general medicine and therapeutics from Gujarat University. Mahendrabhai is among the 36 new members inducted into the Union Council of Ministers on Wednesday. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/munjapara-mahendrabhai-takes-charge-as-mos-ayush-1006303.html
08-07-2021||National||NGT forms fresh committee, seeks report on pollution caused by slaughterhouses||The National Green Tribunal has formed a fresh committee and directed it to submit a report on pollution caused in the operation of slaughterhouses and tanneries in Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel noted various deficiencies in operation of the units, including illegal extraction of ground water in over exploited zone in Ghaziabad. “Accordingly, we constitute a four-member joint Committee of Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), State Pollution Control Board (SPCB), Central Ground Water Authority (CGWA) and District Magistrate, Ghaziabad which may visit the site within a month and prepare its report within one month thereafter. The SPCB will be the Nodal Agency for coordination and compliance.  “The report may indicate compliance status with reference to prescribed standards, mode of disposal of effluents, reasons for permitting discharge into Dasna drain which is connected to river Hindon, compliance with guidelines of CPCB if effluent is utilised for horticulture/irrigation, ground water permission considering that the Ghaziabad block is 'Over Exploited' and other incidental issues,” the bench said. The NGT said that the statutory regulatory authorities may, based on the facts found, take remedial action in terms of preventing pollution and fixing accountability for the past violations by way of environmental compensation, following due process of law.  “An action taken report may be furnished within three months with the Oversight Committee set up by this Tribunal for oversight of status of compliance of orders of this Tribunal in the State of UP, headed by Justice SVS Rathore, former Judge of the Allahabad High Court, stationed at Lucknow. “If the applicant or any other party is aggrieved, they will be at liberty to take their remedies as per law,” the bench said. The green panel said since the earlier reports do not show the latest status, it is necessary to ascertain the same. The earlier committee comprised officials from the CPCB, IIT Delhi and NEERI, Delhi. The tribunal was hearing plea filed by advocate Ashwani Kumar against pollution caused in the operation of slaughterhouses/tanneries operated by International Agro Food Factory, Sabu Sakir Meat Factory, Karan Frozen Foods, JMD Meat Factory, Al-Nafees Frozen Food Exports Pvt. Ltd., Eagle Continental Foods Pvt. Ltd. and Exclusive Leather/ Triyash Enterprises at Ghaziabad. The plea filed through advocate Sumeer Sodhi has been pending for almost five years in the NGT.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-forms-fresh-committee-seeks-report-on-pollution-caused-by-slaughterhouses-1006304.html
08-07-2021||National||New IT rules assault on freedom of speech: The Leaflet to HC||Digital news portal The Leaflet told the Bombay High Court on Thursday that the new Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021 were an "assault on the fundamental right of freedom of speech". The portal last week filed petition in the high court, challenging the new IT Rules as being violative of Articles 14 (right to equality), 19 (a) (freedom of speech and expression) and 19 (1) (g) (freedom to practice any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business). Senior counsel Darius Khambata, appearing for The Leaflet, on Thursday told a division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni that the rules had a “chilling effect on the fundamental rights guaranteed under the Constitution”. "They (rules) are an assault on the fundamental right of freedom of speech. The rules say if news organisations do not follow the code of ethics, then they are open to face prosecution," Khambata said. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, appearing for the Union government, told the bench that there are a total of 10 petitions filed in different high courts across the country. Hence, the Centre has filed a plea in the Supreme Court, seeking for all the petitions to be transferred to the apex court. "The SC is scheduled to hear the transfer petition on July 9," Singh said. The court then posted the petitions for hearing on July 16. Khambata argued that the rules are ultra vires to the Information Technology Act-2000, which does not provide for anything which either seeks to regulate or enable regulation of the ethics and digital content of online publishers. Senior journalist Nikhil Wagle has also filed a public interest litigation, challenging the rules on the ground that they were arbitrary and illegal. His petition will also be heard on July 16.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-it-rules-assault-on-freedom-of-speech-the-leaflet-to-hc-1006306.html
08-07-2021||National||Fuel prices rise to fresh high as Hardeep Singh Puri takes over as new Oil Minister||Petrol and diesel prices rose to fresh highs on Thursday as Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas saw a change of guard with Hardeep Singh Puri taking over from Dharmendra Pradhan. Petrol price was hiked by 35 paise per litre and diesel by 9 paise, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. This took fuel prices across the country to a fresh high. Soon after taking charge of the ministry, Puri said he would comment on the issue only after getting a full briefing from the officials. "Give me some time. I need to be briefed on the issues," he told reporters. "It will be very wrong for me to comment on it (fuel prices) when I have just stepped into this building." Petrol price, which has already crossed Rs 100 in over half of the country, rose to Rs 100.56 a litre in Delhi and Rs 106.59 in Mumbai. Diesel rate climbed to Rs 89.62 per litre in Delhi and Rs 97.18 in Mumbai. "My formal training is in an area where comments are not offered without full information," Puri, a former diplomat, said. A 1974-batch IFS officer, Puri comes into the oil ministry at a time when the country is reeling under a surge in fuel prices. Also, the country's reliance on imported oil is increasing as domestic oil and gas production, particularly from fields operated by state-owned oil firms, continues to be static. "As we transform towards a $5 trillion economy, energy availability and consumption will be of paramount importance," Puri said. "My focus will be on increasing domestic production of crude and natural gas." Along with Puri, Minister of State for Petroleum Rameswar Teli also took charge. Outgoing minister Pradhan, who has been given the ministries of human resource development and skill development in the cabinet rejig on Wednesday, was present when the new ministers took over.   Teli is the first Minister of State in the oil ministry during the seven years of the Modi government. Pradhan, who had been handling the ministry since the Modi government took office in May 2014, was the longest-serving oil minister in the independent India. Unlike his predecessors, he did not have a deputy. "The work of this ministry touches each and every citizen in the country directly or indirectly," Puri said. "The energy issues in this ministry have immense potential and several challenges. The need to adapt to changing times, adopt new technologies and to be in consonance with the energy transition taking place across the world, provides a fascinating opportunity." He said he would work towards the development of a natural gas-based economy in the country and increase the share of natural gas in the primary energy mix of the country to 15 per cent by 2030 from current 6.2 per cent. The Indian economy was a $2.89 trillion economy before Covid struck and it is in transition to becoming a $5 trillion economy. "I must confess that I am reluctant to go into substantive issues unless I am briefed," he said. Puri said he felt honoured by the trust reposed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "Dharmendra Pradhan ji's are big shoes to fill," he said. "In the last seven years, under the able guidance of my predecessor Pradhan, a number of path-breaking reforms and initiatives have been ushered in the sector. I would strive to take them forward, and fulfil the expectations of the Prime Minister, our people and the country." Petrol has crossed the Rs 100-a-litre mark in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Jammu and Kashmir, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Bihar, Punjab, Ladakh, Sikkim and Puducherry. Diesel, the most used fuel in the country, is above that level in some places in Rajasthan, Odisha and Madhya Pradesh. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as value-added tax (VAT) and freight charges. As much as 55 per cent of the retail selling price of petrol in Delhi is made up of taxes (Rs 32.90 a litre excise duty collected by the central government and Rs 22.80 VAT levied by the state government). Half of the diesel price is made up of taxes (Rs 31.80 central excise and Rs 13.04 state VAT). The hike on Thursday is the 37th increase in the price of petrol since May 4, when state-owned oil firms ended an 18-day hiatus in rate revision they observed during assembly elections in states like West Bengal. In 37 hikes, the price of petrol has risen by Rs 10.16 per litre. During this period, diesel rates have soared by Rs 8.89 a litre in 35 instances of the price rise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fuel-prices-rise-to-fresh-high-as-hardeep-singh-puri-takes-over-as-new-oil-minister-1006308.html
08-07-2021||National||Mankind Pharma gets DRDO nod to manufacture, market Covid drug 2-DG||Drug firm Mankind Pharma on Thursday said it had received the licence from the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) to manufacture and market oral 2-Deoxy-D-Glucose (2-DG), which is used for the treatment of Covid-19.  The drug was developed by the Defence Research and Development Establishment, Gwalior. The clinical trials were conducted by the Institute of Nuclear Medicine and Allied Sciences, a DRDO lab, in association with Dr Reddy's Laboratories, said Mankind Pharma in a statement.  The company would manufacture the product at its facilities in Visakhapatnam and Himachal Pradesh, the statement said. The office of the Drugs Controller General of India on May 1 had permitted the emergency use of 2-DG as an adjunct treatment for moderate to severe Covid-19 patients, Mankind Pharma said. The drug is found to help hospitalised Covid-19 patients recover faster and is known to reduce the supplemental oxygen dependency among Covid-19 patients, the company said. "Our objective behind this agreement is to ensure maximum reach of this medication to the deserving Indian patients suffering from the deadly pandemic," the company added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mankind-pharma-gets-drdo-nod-to-manufacture-market-covid-drug-2-dg-1006310.html
08-07-2021||National||FinMin releases Rs 9,871 crore grant to 17 states||The finance ministry on Thursday said it has released the fourth monthly instalment of post devolution revenue deficit grant of Rs 9,871 crore to 17 states. With the release of this instalment, a total amount of Rs 39,484 crore has been released to eligible states in current financial year. "The Department of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance, has released the 4th monthly instalment of Post Devolution Revenue Deficit (PDRD) Grant of Rs 9,871 crore to the states yesterday," an official statement said. The post devolution revenue deficit grant is provided to the states under Article 275 of the Constitution. The grants are released as per the recommendations of the 15th Finance Commission in monthly instalments to meet the gap in revenue accounts of the states post devolution.  The Commission has recommended PDRD grants to 17 states during 2021-22. The eligibility of states to receive this grant and the quantum of grant was decided by the Commission based on the gap between assessment of revenue and expenditure of the state after taking into account the assessed devolution for the financial year 2021-22. The Fifteenth Finance Commission has recommended a total Post Devolution Revenue Deficit Grant of Rs 1,18,452 crore to 17 states in the financial year 2021-22.  Out of this, Rs 39,484 crore (33.33 per cent) has been released so far in four instalments. The states recommended for this grant by the 15th Finance Commission are -- Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Punjab, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, Uttarakhand and West Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/finmin-releases-rs-9871-crore-grant-to-17-states-1006315.html
08-07-2021||National||Anurag Thakur takes charge as sports minister||Anurag Thakur on Thursday took charge as the country's 17th sports minister, succeeding Kiren Rijiju. The 46-year-old former Cricket Board President was given responsibility of sports and youth affairs along with the Information and Broadcasting ministry after he took oath as a cabinet minister on Wednesday. He comes into office at a time when the nation's athletes are in the final stage of their preparations for the Olympic Games from July 23. "Whatever good work that has been done so far under Kiren Rijiju will continue. I would like to take everyone along and work for betterment of Indian sports," he told reporters after taking charge. Thakur is the first cabinet minister since Mani Shankar Iyer (2006-2008) to get the sports ministry's responsibility. Nisith Pramanik has been made minister of state for sports and will be working under Thakur. Thakur was the president of the BCCI between May 2016 and February 2017. Before that, he was the secretary of the Board and also headed the Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association (HPCA). A Member of Parliament from HP's Hamirpur constituency, Thakur was serving as the minister of state for finance and corporate affairs under Nirmala Sitharaman before Wednesday's cabinet reshuffle. His brother Arun Dhumal is currently the treasurer of the BCCI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anurag-thakur-takes-charge-as-sports-minister-1006316.html
08-07-2021||National||G Kishan Reddy takes charge as Minister for DoNER||Union Minister G Kishan Reddy on Thursday said a lot of development has taken place in the Northeastern region in the seven years of the Narendra Modi government. Reddy said this after taking charge of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER) along with Union Minister of State B L Verma here. Reddy took oath as Union Cabinet Minister Wednesday evening. After taking charge, Reddy said the kind of transformation that has taken place in the Northeastern region in the last seven years in all spheres of life under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi is both "incredible and unprecedented". He said under the guidance of Modi, he will try to complete all the pending projects in the region within stipulated timeframe. He also thanked former DoNER Minister Jitendra Singh, who was present on the occasion, for his stellar role in the overall development of the Northeastern region. Union Minister of State for DoNER B L Verma said the whole country is aware of the kind of development that has taken place in the Northeastern region under PM Modi, particularly in the area of connectivity. He said under the guidance of Reddy and with the help of senior officials, the Ministry of DoNER will scale new heights in coming years. Verma said he will make all efforts to deliver on the responsibilities placed on him by Modi. Earlier, DoNER Secretary Inder Jit Singh and senior officials welcomed the ministers and made a brief presentation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/g-kishan-reddy-takes-charge-as-minister-for-doner-1006317.html
08-07-2021||National||Ajay Kumar, Nisith Pramanik take charge as MoS Home||Ajay Kumar and Nisith Pramanik took charge as Union Ministers of State for Home at their offices in North Block on Thursday. Kumar, 60, a Lok Sabha MP from Kheri in Uttar Pradesh, and Pramanik, 35, a Lok Sabha MP from Cooch Behar in West Bengal, were sworn-in as Union Ministers on Wednesday evening. Senior officials of the Union Home Ministry were present when Kumar and Pramanik took charge. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday had effected a major reshuffle in his government, dropping 12 ministers and bringing 36 new members. Apart from 15 Cabinet ministers, 28 Ministers of State, comprising new faces and those elevated, were sworn in a ceremony which was held in the Darbar Hall of the Rashtrapati Bhavan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ajay-kumar-nisith-pramanik-take-charge-as-mos-home-1006318.html
08-07-2021||National||India's power demand surges to all-time high; crosses 200 GW mark||Power demand in the country touched an all-time high and crossed the 200 GW mark on Wednesday amid many states witnessing high temperatures due to delayed monsoon, and easing of coronavirus-related restrictions. According to the latest power ministry data, peak power demand or the highest supply in a day touched an all-time high of 200.57 GW on Wednesday. On Tuesday, power demand was at a record high of 197.07 GW. Experts opined that high temperatures in many states due to delayed monsoon and easing of restrictions that were in place to curb coronavirus infections have led to a surge in power demand these days. Last month, peak power demand met or the highest supply in a day witnessed a growth of over 16 per cent at 191.51 GW (recorded on June 30) compared to 164.98 GW recorded in June 2020. The peak power demand was 182.45 GW in June 2019. As per the ministry's data, peak power demand had touched an all-time high of 192.16 GW on July 5, 2021. Then, the figure had surpassed the peak power demand of 191.51 GW recorded on June 30. "Today, All India peak demand met touched the all-time highest level of 197060 MW at 11:43 hrs. Looking forward to the demand touching 200000 MW in the near future," Power Minister R K Singh had said in a tweet on Tuesday. In January, Singh had tweeted that the power demand and supply surged to a new high of 1,88,452 MW at 9:42 am on January 28. "The rate at which we are going, we shall cross 2,00,000 MW very soon".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-power-demand-surges-to-all-time-high-crosses-200-gw-mark-1006321.html
08-07-2021||National||Caste, gender, economy: Is PM Modi's new team a reflection of 'sabka saath' motto?||Prime Minister Narendra Modi roped into his team 43 new Cabinet ministers, including 36 new faces on Wednesday evening, in a move that was met with both surprise and speculation. The announcement of the portfolios was preceded by high-profile exits, with Harsh Vardhan vacating the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Ravi Shankar Prasad resigning from the post of Union Law Minister, and Prakash Javadekar stepping down as the Union Minister for Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeITY). However, the saffron party has been cautious in not reshuffling the ministers heading Home, Finance, Defence, and Agriculture. Across states, the Centre inducted 27 ministers belonging to the OBC section, an affirmation of their large and more importantly, influential population, be it in Karnataka or Uttar Pradesh. Modi's 'sab ka saath, sab ka vikas' message was also seen from a geographical sense, with as many as 25 states and Union Territories being represented. A few party members were also awarded for their loyalty and services during previous Assembly polls – the likes of former Assam CM Sarbananda Sonowal and ex-Congress MP Jyotiraditya Scindia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/caste-gender-economy-is-pm-modis-new-team-a-reflection-of-sabka-saath-motto-1006324.html
08-07-2021||National||Ajay Bhatt takes charge as MoS in defence ministry||Ajay Bhatt, an MP from Uttarakhand, on Thursday took charge as Minister of State in the defence ministry. Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar and other senior officials welcomed Bhatt to the ministry. After assuming charge, he called on Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. In a tweet, Bhatt thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for giving him the responsibility, saying that he will strive to work towards a self-reliant India of the 21st century. Bhatt is the MP from Nainital-Udhamsingh Nagar constituency in Uttarakhand. He is also a member of several parliamentary committees. He had earlier served as Cabinet minister in the Uttarakhand government and held portfolios such as Parliamentary Affairs, Health and Disaster Management. He was also the leader of opposition in Uttarakhand assembly. Prime Minister Modi on Wednesday carried out a massive revamp of his Council of Ministers and Bhatt was one of the new faces inducted into it. Shripad Yesso Naik, who was holding charge of MoS in the defence ministry, has been made Minister of State in the Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways and Minister of State in the Ministry of Tourism.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ajay-bhatt-takes-charge-as-mos-in-defence-ministry-1006335.html
08-07-2021||National||India asks Pakistan to set its own house in order, instead of blaming others||India on Thursday asked Pakistan to set its own house in order and deny safe sanctuaries to terrorists in its territory instead of blaming others. New Delhi dismissed as baseless the recent statements by Prime Minister Imran Khan and his government blaming India’s external spy agency for a recent explosion at Lahore in Pakistan. “It is not new for Pakistan to engage in baseless propaganda against India,” Arindam Bagchi, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), said in New Delhi. The explosion near the house of the founder of the terrorist organization Lashkar-e-Taiba, Hafiz Saeed, on June 23 killed three persons and injured 24 others. Saeed is designated by the United Nations Security Council as a terrorist linked to Taliban and Al-Qaeda. New Delhi believes that he was the mastermind for the November 26-28, 2008 terrorist attacks in Mumbai. Khan on Sunday alleged that investigation into the June 23 explosion at Johar Town in Lahore revealed that it was planned and financed by India. He called upon the “global community” to “mobilize international institutions” against India’s “rogue behaviour” against Pakistan. “Pakistan would do well to expend the same effort in setting its own house in order and taking credible and verifiable action against terrorism emanating from its soil and terrorists who have found safe sanctuaries there,” Bagchi said in New Delhi on Thursday. The international community is well aware of Pakistan’s credentials when it comes to terrorism. This is acknowledged by none other than its own leadership, which continues to glorify terrorists like Osama Bin Laden as ‘martyrs’, said the MEA spokesperson.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-asks-pakistan-to-set-its-own-house-in-order-instead-of-blaming-others-1006344.html
08-07-2021||National||After petrol, CNG price up in Delhi, adjoining cities||After petrol, the price of CNG and piped cooking gas in the national capital and its adjoining towns was increased on Thursday in line with rising costs. Indraprastha Gas Ltd -- the firm that retails CNG to automobiles and piped gas to household kitchens in the national capital region -- raised CNG price by 90 paise per kg and cooking gas by Rs 1.25 per standard cubic metre. "CNG retail price in Delhi stands revised from Rs 43.40/kg to Rs 44.30/kg w.e.f 6 am on 8th July 2021," IGL said in a tweet. CNG retail price in Delhi stands revised from Rs 43.40/kg to Rs 44.30/kg wef 6 am today i.e. 8th July 2021. In the adjoining Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad, CNG price has been hiked to Rs 49.98 per kg from Rs 49.08. Rates differ from state to state due to local taxes. Piped natural gas (PNG) rate in Delhi was increased by Rs 1.25 per scm to Rs 29.66 per scm and to Rs 29.61 in Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad. "CNG would offer 68% savings as compared to petrol & 50% savings as compared to diesel on running cost at revised prices in Delhi," IGL said. CNG would offer 68% savings as compared to petrol & 50% savings as compared to diesel on running cost at revised prices in Delhi. The hike in CNG and PNG prices came amid an unrelenting surge in the retail selling price of petrol and diesel. Petrol price on Thursday was hiked by 35 paise per litre and diesel by 9 paise, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. This took fuel prices across the country to fresh highs. Petrol price rose to Rs 100.56 a litre in Delhi while diesel rates climbed to Rs 89.62 per litre. Petrol has crossed the Rs 100-a-litre mark in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Jammu and Kashmir, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Bihar, Punjab, Ladakh, Sikkim, Puducherry and Delhi. Diesel, the most used fuel in the country, is above that level in some places in Rajasthan, Odisha and Madhya Pradesh. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as value-added tax (VAT) and freight charges. Half of the diesel price is made up of taxes (Rs 31.80 central excise and Rs 13.04 state VAT). The hike on Thursday was the 37th increase in the price of petrol since May 4, when state-owned oil firms ended an 18-day hiatus in rate revision they observed during assembly elections in states like West Bengal. In 37 hikes, the price of petrol has risen by Rs 10.16 per litre. During this period, diesel rates have soared by Rs 8.89 a litre in 35 instances of price hikes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-petrol-cng-price-up-in-delhi-adjoining-cities-1006368.html
08-07-2021||National||Police register case after photos of Muslim women uploaded on app||A case has been registered by the Cyber Cell of the Delhi Police after it received a complaint about an unidentified group uploading photos of Muslim women on an app, police said on Thursday. The Delhi Commission for Women had issued a notice to the Delhi Police and sought a detailed action taken report in the matter. Delhi Police PRO, Chinmoy Biswal, said, "Acting on a complaint received on the National Cybercrime Reporting Portal regarding 'Sulli Deals' mobile application, a case under section 354-A of the Indian Penal Code has been registered on Wednesday and investigation taken up." He said notices have been sent to 'GitHub' app to share the relevant details. The notice issued to Deputy Commissioner of Police, Cyber Cell, Delhi Police had said, "The Delhi Commission for Women has taken suo-moto cognisance on media report of uploading of pictures of many girls on internet using a platform namely 'GitHub'. "It has been reported that photos of hundreds of Muslim women and girls were uploaded by an unidentified group on an app using GitHub – by the name of 'Sulli Deals' – on Sunday, July 4. Reportedly, Sulli is a derogatory term used to refer to Muslim women.". According to media reports, the app came to light when people started sharing their pictures with the term 'Sulli deal of the day' on Twitter, the panel had said. "Subsequently, many women had to leave social media platforms after their images got circulated. This is a very serious matter and constitutes cyber crime," the DCW had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/police-register-case-after-photos-of-muslim-women-uploaded-on-app-1006369.html
08-07-2021||National||Centre announces Rs 23,123 cr package to fight Covid-19||The Union Cabinet on Thursday approved a Rs 23,123-crore Covid-19 package to improve health infrastructure over the next nine months with a special focus on upgrading the medical facilities at 736 districts as the government gears up to tackle the third wave of the pandemic as and when it comes. Announced by the new health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, the package would involve augmenting 20,000 ICU beds in the public healthcare system, out of which 20 per cent will be paediatric ICU beds. Moreover, the scheme would entail creation of paediatric units in each of the 736 districts and seeks to establish paediatric Centre of Excellence in each state or Union Territory for providing tele-ICU services, mentoring and technical hand-holding to the district paediatric units. In addition, support would be provided to central hospitals and institutes of national importance like  AIIMS, PGI Chandigarh, NEIGRIHMS Shillong, and JIPMER Puducherry to repurpose 6,688 beds for Covid management. Mandaviya said under the new package, the Centre would provide Rs 15,000 crore, while states would contribute Rs 8,123 crore. The scheme would be implemented jointly in every district with an aim of improving medical infrastructure at primary and district health centres. The package comes at a time when several experts opined that a third wave would be inevitable, but it is difficult to anticipate its scale and timing. Several disease prediction models have predicted a third wave around November. The health minister said storage facilities for oxygen and medicines would be created at district level. Other components of the package would be adding 8,800 more ambulances, engaging undergraduate and post-graduate medical interns and final year MBBS, BSc and GNM nursing students for effective Covid-19 management. The Centre would support the states to carry out at least 21.5 lakh tests daily. Flexible support would be extended to the districts for meeting the requirement of essential medicines for Covid-19 management, including creation of district-wise buffer stock. "There are still 73 districts where the test positivity ratio is more than 10 per cent. In another 65 districts, the positivity is between 5-10 per cent. District-wise specific measures should be guided by the test positivity rate as much of public health response was guided by test positivity rate during the second surge,” Balram Bhargava, director general at the Indian Council of Medical Research had said earlier this week. The National Centre for Disease Control would be strengthened with new genome sequencing machines, besides having Scientific Control room and Epidemic Intelligence Services. For better information flow, hospital management information system will be implemented in every district hospital, whose hardware capacity would be augmented. Currently, the programme is operational in 310 district hospitals. The Sanjeevani tele-consultation platform would be upgraded to provide up to 5 lakh tele-consultations per day from the present 50,000 tele-consultations. Some of the experts, however, are of the opinion that the package would not be sufficient, given the poor condition of the healthcare system in small town and rural India. “In Covid-19 pandemic, the government announced a special package of Rs 23,000 crore for nine months (Rs 2,500 crore a month). This is grossly insufficient. The government can and should do more,” tweeted public health researcher Chandrakant Lahariya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-announces-rs-23123-cr-package-to-fight-covid-19-1006382.html
08-07-2021||National||CBI maintains conspiracy angle in 1994 ISRO espionage case||The CBI has maintained that the ISRO espionage case of 1994 was a concocted one and it could have been the outcome of a conspiracy to delay India's cryogenic technology development. The CBI filed a statement at the Kerala High Court on Wednesday opposing the bail pleas of the former police officials arraigned by it in the case registered recently to probe into the conspiracy angle behind the ISRO espionage case as per the directive of the Supreme Court. The CBI said that the false implication of ISRO scientist Nambi Narayanan in the concocted case initiated by the Kerala police and the Intelligence Bureau impacted development of the country's cryogenic technology. The CBI further stated that Narayanan was arrested without any evidence. The CBI strongly opposed the anticipatory bail pleas of the former police officials stating that the offence against them were of serious nature and since they were former senior officials the chances of tampering with evidence was high. The case is also of national interest. While former Kerala police officials S Vijayan and Tampi S Durgadutt approached the High Court seeking anticipatory bail, former DGP Siby Mathews who headed the investigation team that probed the case had moved Thiruvananthpuram principal session's court seeking anticipatory bail. A total of 18 former police and IB officials, including former Gujarat DGP R B Sreekumar, were arraigned by the CBI in the conspiracy case. The major contentions of the Kerala police officials was that they acted as per the instructions of the IB and Narayanan had planned to take voluntary retirement from service from ISRO before his arrest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-maintains-conspiracy-angle-in-1994-isro-espionage-case-1006397.html
08-07-2021||National||Delhi High Court again pulls up Twitter for failing to comply with IT rules||The Delhi High Court on Thursday pulled up Twitter for non-compliance with the new IT Rules, while once again emphasising that “no interim protection” will be given to the micro-blogging site and the Centre was free to take any action if it breached the Indian law. A single bench of Justice Rekha Palli questioned Twitter on using prefix “interim” in appointing Resident Grievance Officer, Chief Compliance Officer or Nodal officer. The court directed Twitter to file an affidavit within two weeks stating that these interim officials would be fully responsible for Twitter’s conduct under IT Rules and would take responsibility of the tasks assigned to them. It posted the matter for further hearing on July 28. During the hearing, the court noted that the social media giant was already in violation of the May 26 deadline to comply with IT Rules. Twitter had committed contempt of court by not filing a final affidavit despite having resolved to do so in the previous hearing, it pointed out. “Won't protect you if Centre takes any action against you…You're actually in contempt as you didn't follow what you said that day…You're already in violation of deadline,” the judge told senior advocate Sajan Poovayya. Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma submitted that no American court would've ever granted such leeway to pharma or an IT company. “If they are in defiance, you are free to take action. I have already made it clear if they want to work, they have to follow rules," Justice Palli told Sharma. Earlier in the day, Twitter filed a written document seeking eight weeks for the appointment of nodal and grievance officers to comply with Indian IT Rules. However, the social media giant said that it had a right to challenge the legality of the IT Rules, but maintained that it was striving to comply with Indian law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-high-court-again-pulls-up-twitter-for-failing-to-comply-with-it-rules-1006406.html
08-07-2021||National||Indian student applications for UK on rise despite pandemic constraints||New data released on Thursday from the UK’s centralised higher education application system shows a 30 per cent increase in the number of undergraduate applications from Indian students to study at British universities, despite the ongoing pandemic related travel constraints. The Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS) analysis for the period up to the June 30 deadline for applications for the new academic year found that 9,930 applications were made by Indian students, up from last year’s 7,640 applications. “The whole university community has shown incredible resilience this year. It is really encouraging to see Indian students continue to make plans to study in the UK and we look forward to welcoming students safely,” said Vivienne Stern, Director of Universities UK International (UUKi), which represents over 140 UK universities. “Thanks to UK government policy and the support structures that UK universities have put in place, we can prepare for the start of term with the flexibility students will welcome,” she said. India remains on the UK's red list for international travel, which requires any students with a valid visa to quarantine at a government-approved hotel for 10 days on arrival in the country. But all international students who arrive in the UK will be able to receive their Covid-19 vaccination from the National Health Service (NHS), free of charge. UCAS is predicting that increases in applications will see a record number of students starting university in the UK later this year as it logged overall growth of 14 per cent in undergraduate UK university applications from students globally. “Today’s numbers show the clear demand for undergraduate study and apprenticeships is growing, rising significantly during the pandemic,” said UCAS Chief Executive Clare Marchant. “Universities are ready to welcome more students onto courses this autumn and have worked hard to be flexible, enabling students to progress to their next level of study. Though not every student will find themselves in the position they had initially hoped for, they still have a wide range of options, including undergraduate courses and apprenticeships,” she said. The increase may be attributed to students looking to make the most of the UK’s new Graduate route, which opened for applications last week. It will allow Indian and other overseas students to stay to work in the UK after their degree for two or three years, depending on the nature of their course. The UK Home Office has also extended the deadline for students to be physically present in the country to be eligible for the new post-study work visa, to September this year for the 2020-21 cohort. Students beginning their course later this year or early next year will need to be in the UK by April 6 next year. UUKi advised students holding an offer for a UK university this year to contact their chosen university to find out more about arrivals and plans for September. The UK has recently also announced that students will have more flexibility in the way they begin their studies, including the option to start online and travel later if necessary, or arriving for the start of term and being supported through any necessary quarantine period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-student-applications-for-uk-on-rise-despite-pandemic-constraints-1006410.html
08-07-2021||National||India-Russia ties among 'steadiest' of major relationships in the world: EAM Jaishankar||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Thursday said that the bilateral ties between India and Russia have been among the "steadiest" of the major relationships in the world after the second World War, and New Delhi was looking forward to hosting President Vladimir Putin in the country for the annual bilateral summit. Jaishankar, delivering a speech on India-Russia ties in a changing world at the Primakov Institute of World Economy and International Relations here, said that this relationship is sometimes taken for granted. “The case for its constant nurturing” is powerful, he said. “There’s no doubt that relations between India and Russia have been among the steadiest of the major relationships in the world after the second World War,” he said. “The direction and progress of major relationships is very much dependent on our leadership,” he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin have met 19 times since 2014, Jaishankar said. “That itself speaks a lot,” he said. “We, of course, look forward to hosting the President (Putin) in India for the annual bilateral summit,” Jaishankar said. Speaking about the issue of terrorism, Jaishankar termed the menace as one of the bis issues of the present time. “The big issues of our time -- combating terrorism, addressing pandemics and acting on climate change. On all of these, India and Russia are unquestionably on the same page. “We have both been victims of fundamentalist thinking. I know well the dangers of radicalisation and extremes. As pluralistic societies, we must be especially on guard against the revival of such forces,” he said. Where global health is concerned, a history of scientific collaboration can today be repurposed to meet this new priority, Jaishankar said, referring to the Covid-19 pandemic. Commenting on vaccines against the coronavirus, Jaishankar said: “Collaboration can surely add to the options before the world as we have already seen in the case of vaccines. “If you are to continue influencing the direction of global developments positively, it is imperative that we always pay adequate attention to the constant strengthening of our bilateral cooperation”. Russia has always been a "dependable defence partner" of India, he said. “The enormous experience of past cooperation is today being applied to a more contemporary requirement, including the Make in India programme. “This transition can accommodate the interests of both sides and even lead to new areas of military technical collaboration. This needs to be accompanied by a greater focus on military-to-military ties, including in the maritime domain,” he said. On climate change, Russia can really be an indispensable partner as India transitions towards greater energy consumption and renewables. “Reforming multilateralism is also in our common interest and we value Russia's support for India's permanent membership in the UN Security Council,” Jaishankar said. Regional issues like Afghanistan and the Middle East have seen convergence previously. That may be mutually beneficial to continue, he said. On the political front, Jaishankar said it is essential for India and Russia to work together to ensure the stability and diversity of the world. “This includes insistence on honouring agreements and observing laws,” Jaishankar said, in an apparent reference to China, which has been behaving aggressively in the Indo-Pacific region and was engaged in a protracted military standoff with India. On the economic side, there is a growing realisation of the importance of resilient and reliable supply chains amidst the pandemic, he said. “Our relationship rests on the foundation of a more democratic and diverse international order -- one that is committed to sovereign equality of all states. “We are looking at a world where each pole has its own needs but its pursuit is to be moderated not by the balance of power, but by the balance of interest. This is not just a preference but a compulsion in a world that is more interdependent,” Jaishankar said. Changes to the capabilities and interests of major players naturally lead countries to reassess the global arena. Whether it is Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Eurasia, the Arctic or the Indo-Pacific, he said. “None of us can afford to be in denial of the shifting realities. After all, international relations can never be change-proof. If there are enhanced capabilities in some cases, or contractions in others, strategies and diplomats need to adjust their calculations accordingly,” Jaishankar said. In the last few decades, India and Russia may have pursued the national trajectories energetically. But at the same time, they have harmonised them well, both intuitively and as a policy. Related to this is the rebalancing of the global order -- economically, politically and even culturally, he said. “We have been respectful, we have been appreciative of each other's identities and interests because there is no burden of history nor an ideological agenda,” he said. “If our ties have been stable, this is not to say that we have remained static as nations and societies,” he said. In the last quarter century, India has become the sixth largest economy, a nuclear weapon power, an IT center, a reservoir of global talent and an "active shaper" of global debates, the minister said. “Our interests and influence have grown well beyond the subcontinent and we are often perceived as first responders in crisis situations,” Jaishankar said. Russia has, meanwhile, transitioned fully into the post-Soviet era and all that it implies, he said. “Its inherent strength as Eurasia and a Euro Pacific power and its longstanding global status whether as a P5... makes it unmistakably critical to the world order,” Jaishankar said. Equally important, Russia has regularly demonstrated an ability to influence outcomes across regions and issues, he said. “Indeed, both our nations have evolved even as our existence has become more globalised economically, connected virtually and driven technologically. “It is not just that India and Russia are a good fit, it is equally (important) that this continues dynamically even as both of them and the world itself undergoes continuous changes. Now as practitioners and analysts of international relations, it is not enough that we recognise or even appreciate trends,” Jaishankar said. Russians will surely recall the ups and downs in the ties with the US, Europe, China or Japan or Turkey and Iraq, the minister said. “On their part, objective Indians would also recognise that this was the case with them as well. “Where India-Russia bilateral ties are concerned, there have been many changes, even issues from time to time. But at the end of the day, the logic of geo-politics was so compelling that we barely remember these even as minor aberrations,” Jaishankar said. The undeniable reality of the exceptional resilience of India-Russia ties is surely a phenomenon that is worth analysing, he said. It is also natural in societies for people to have an image of their partners, Jaishankar said, adding that Russia has a unique landing at the Indian public and maintaining that sentiment is very much an asset for a relationship. “In the world of current diplomacy, ours is a particularly mature relationship. More than its contemporaries, it has withstood the test of time, finding new convergences with changing circumstances. Geopolitical compatibility, leadership trust and popular sentiment remain its key drivers. “History is very much in our favour. Something that cannot always be said for all relationships,” Jaishankar said, adding that drawing from the past, assessing the present and committing to the future, he has confidence that the two nations would continue to realise the full benefits of the special and privileged strategic relationship. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-russia-ties-among-steadiest-of-major-relationships-in-the-world-eam-jaishankar-1006413.html
08-07-2021||National||Will explain benefits of farm laws to farmers: Shobha Karandlaje||Newly sworn-in Minister of state for Agriculture Shobha Karandlaje on Thursday said that she will reach out to farmers across the country and explain to them about the benefits of three farm laws brought by the NDA Government. Trying to strike an emotional chord with the farming community, she said some people with vested interests were trying to mislead farmers for their political gain. "The Centre has passed three agriculture laws in the interest of the farming community. However, these laws are being opposed due to political reasons. We have a big responsibility to convince farmers about the benefits of these laws. I will travel to all states and convince farmers," Karandlaje said after assuming charge as the Minister. “Farmers will benefit a lot from new farm bills. Farmers will get good prices for their products and also they can move out from the clutches of middlemen,” she said. The 55-year-old Karnataka BJP leader said she has got a huge responsibility as agriculture minister to understand the problems of peasants and respond to them effectively. "I will respond to all problems faced by farmers, be it relieving farmers from debt or drought, working alongside senior minister Narendra Singh Tomar ji," she added. Insisting that agriculture is close to her heart as she belongs to an agricultural family, she said she knows their pain. Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Narendra Singh Tomar and Minister of State in the ministry Kailash Choudhary were also present when Karandlaje was taking charge. Shobha's mother, sister and other family members were present. She organised pooja at her office before assuming charge. Minister of State for Information Technology and Skill Development Rajeev Chandrasekar took charge and said he will work to improve the skill of youth and help them to get quality jobs. The Skill Development Ministry is a very important Ministry and I have an opportunity to show my performance by skilling youngsters, he said. Narayana Swamy, who assumed charge as Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment, said that he will popularise all welfare schemes of his ministry and will ensure it will reach all beneficiaries across the country. Bhagwanth Khuba also took charge as Minister of State Chemicals and Fertilizers and New and Renewable Energy. Speaking to media persons, he said he will work hard to ensure uninterrupted supply of fertilizer to farmers. "As a New and Renewable Energy Minister, I will try to promote clean energy in the country," he said. Khuba also organised special pooja in his office before taking charge as the Minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-explain-benefits-of-farm-laws-to-farmers-shobha-karandlaje-1006414.html
08-07-2021||National||Covid situation in India vastly improved, hope countries would ease travel restrictions: MEA||The Ministry of External Affairs Thursday said it hopes that with the Covid-19 situation in India vastly improved, foreign nations would ease travel restrictions from India, and asserted that it is taking up the issue with partners, including in the Gulf. MEA Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the government is actively trying to help Indians who need to travel back to various countries across the world. "As we have said earlier, we hope that with the vastly improved Covid situation in India, countries would ease restrictions for travel from India. We have been taking up this issue with foreign partners wherever possible," Bagchi said when asked about problems being faced by Indians in traveling to other countries, especially Gulf nations. He also said External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan recently held a meeting with Indian Ambassadors in Gulf countries. "Our Ambassadors were requested to take up with their host countries the issue of resumption of flights with India," he said, referring to the meeting. The external affairs minister has also raised this issue during bilateral meetings on the margins of the recently held G-20 ministerial meeting in Italy, Bagchi told an online media briefing. Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla has also raised with his counterparts the issue of normalisation of travel and mobility of students, professionals and enabling family reunions, he said. “So, in summary, we are actively trying to help Indians who need to travel back to various countries across the world," the MEA spokesperson said. On a question on the extradition of Mehul Choksi and Nirav Modi from Dominica and the UK respectively, Bagchi said he had no update to share on the legal proceedings underway in the cases and added that the ministry would continue to closely follow developments in this regard. Asked about Britain's Cairn Energy Plc securing a French court order to seize some 20 Indian government properties in Paris to recover a part of the $1.72 billion due from New Delhi following an arbitration panel overturning levy of retrospective taxes, Bagchi told the media to refer to the Finance Ministry statement on it. The Finance Ministry has said it has not received any order from any French court and will take appropriate legal remedies after it gets an order. On the criticism from some international quarters over the death of rights activist Father Stan Swamy, Bagchi said the MEA had issued a statement on it a couple of days ago and there was nothing to add to that. India had on Tuesday rejected such criticism and said the due process of law was followed in his case and that the authorities act against violations of law and do not restrain legitimate exercise of rights. Eighty-four-year-old Stan Swamy, who was arrested last year under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in connection with the Elgar Parishad case, died in a Mumbai hospital on Monday. Asked about the issue of French probe into the Rafale jets deal, Bagchi asked the media to refer to the Defence Ministry over the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-situation-in-india-vastly-improved-hope-countries-would-ease-travel-restrictions-mea-1006424.html
08-07-2021||National||RSS meet to begin at MP's Chitrakoot from July 9||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat would preside over a four-day meeting of the organization's `pracharaks' (full-time workers) at Chitrakoot in Madhya Pradesh from Friday. It will discuss the Sangh volunteers' response to the coronavirus pandemic and preparations to face a possible third wave among other things, said an RSS release here on Thursday. "Every year this meeting is held in July, but as it was not held last year due to the coronavirus situation in Chitrakoot, it is being held in the same town this time,” said the release issued by the RSS's all-India publicity chief Sunil Ambekar. Some of the participants will be present in person while others will take part virtually, the release added. On July 9-10, a meeting of pracharaks from 11 regions will take place and besides Bhagwat, Sarkaryavah (general secretary) Dattatreya Hosabale and all five Sah-sarkaryavah (joint general secretaries) will be present, it said. On July 12, pracharaks and sah-pracharaks of 45 `prant' (regional units) of the RSS will join in the meeting online. On July 13 all-India organization secretaries of various affiliated outfits will join in through the online mode. “Normally, this meeting focuses on organizational issues but this time it will also review the work done by RSS volunteers for helping those affected by the coronavirus crisis. It will also draw up an action plan to deal with a possible third wave of Covid-19,” the release said. The meeting is also expected to review the holding of RSS `shakhas' (daily meetings) in view of the `unlock' process underway across the country, it said. Training camps of the RSS, its various activities as well as new schemes will also be discussed, it said. Bhagwat and other senior RSS functionaries including Hosabale and Ambekar besides general secretary of the Ayodhya Ram temple trust Champat Rai have arrived in Chitrakoot, a local source said. Strict Covid-19 protocol would be followed during the meeting which will be held at Deendayal Research Institute, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rss-meet-to-begin-at-mps-chitrakoot-from-july-9-1006426.html
08-07-2021||National||Cabinet nod to APMCs availing finance from Rs 1 lakh crore agri-infra fund: Tomar||The Modi government on Thursday made a fresh appeal to the agitating farmers to end their seven-month-long protests by extending the Rs 1 lakh crore Agriculture Infrastructure Fund to further strengthen APMC markets. “The farmers believe that the three farms laws would eventually end APMC markets. The decision to extend AIF to strengthen APMCs will enhance their capacities and not shut them down,” Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar told reporters here. The Union Cabinet, at its first meeting after the expansion, on Thursday approved the proposal to modify the central sector scheme of financing facility under the AIF to allow APMC mandis to avail financial support to expand their capacity and provide better facilities to farmers. “After the Cabinet decision on APMC, the unions should now trust that APMC will not end. There is no such provision (to end APMC) in the laws. APMCs are set under the state laws,” Tomar said, renewing the appeal to farmers’ unions to end the protests. He said the financial facility under AIF has also been extended to state agencies, national and state federations, farmer producer organisations (FPOs) as well as federation of self-help groups (SHGs). So far, individuals, organisations, cooperatives, FPOs and agri-start ups and farmers organisations were eligible to avail subvention of 3% per annum for loans up to Rs two crore, he added. Among other changes in the scheme, Tomar said that currently, interest subvention for a loan up to Rs 2 crore in one location is eligible under the scheme. "In case one eligible entity puts up projects in different locations, then all such projects will now be eligible for interest subvention for loan up to Rs two crore," he said. For a private sector entity, there will be a limit of a maximum of 25 such projects. However, this limitation will not be applicable to state agencies, national and state federations of cooperatives, federations of FPOs and federations of SHGs, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-nod-to-apmcs-availing-finance-from-rs-1-lakh-crore-agri-infra-fund-tomar-1006427.html
08-07-2021||National||Centre to amend Coconut Development Board Act||In a bid to infuse professionalism, the government on Thursday decided to introduce the post of a non-executive chairman in the Coconut Development Board. The decision to have a non-executive Chairman to the Coconut Development Board will pave the way to appoint a professional person, instead of a government official, to the post, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said. He said the executive functions of the Board would now vest with the CEO. He said the government has also decided to increase the members to the Board from the current four to six, thus allowing Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh to send in their nominees. The changes would be brought in by amending the Coconut Development Board Act, Tomar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-amend-coconut-development-board-act-1006436.html
08-07-2021||National||AP CM Jagan's sister YS Sharmila launches YSR Telangana Party on father's birth anniversary||YS Sharmila, younger sister of Jaganmohan Reddy has launched her political party in Telangana, named after her father as YSR Telangana Party (YSRTP). The name and flag of the party were announced on Thursday in Hyderabad, on the occasion of the birth anniversary of her father late YS Rajasekhara Reddy, who was the chief minister of united Andhra Pradesh from 2004 to 2009. Sharmila had played a major role in taking her brother headed YSRCP into the people with her padayatra Maro-Prajaprasthanam in 2012-13, when Jagan was in jail for over a year in the Disproportionate Assets cases. Sharmila has also campaigned extensively for the YSRCP during the 2019 assembly and general elections, helping her brother become the Chief Minister with an astounding majority. However, Sharmila was not given any post or responsibility by Jagan unlike K Chandrasekhar Rao in Telangana, whose son KT Rama Rao and nephew Harish Rao are key figures in the TRS party and government. Rao's daughter Kavitha, who lost the Nizamabad Lok Sabha seat in 2019, became an MLC in 2020. On Friday, Sharmila launched an attack on CM Rao, saying that his family has become wealthy in the new state while the people are still living in misery, debts. Sharmila said that Covid-19 patients in Telangana suffered and their families were pushed into debts paying for private hospital treatment as Rao refused to include the virus infection under Arogyasri, a health insurance programme launched by YSR. “To bring back the welfare schemes of YSR here and to eliminate poverty is the agenda of YSR Telangana Party,” Sharmila said addressing a party meeting. In the past few months, Sharmila held meetings with various groups and has also toured in some districts interacting with the people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ap-cm-jagans-sister-ys-sharmila-launches-ysr-telangana-party-on-fathers-birth-anniversary-1006441.html
08-07-2021||National||Justice Rajan panel has no jurisdiction to decide on NEET: Centre to HC||The Centre on Thursday told the Madras High Court that a panel constituted by the Tamil Nadu government on the National Entrance cum Eligibility Test (NEET) has no jurisdiction to go into the issue. The ruling DMK had last month constituted the panel, headed by retired high court judge AK Rajan, to analyse if NEET had an adverse impact on students from backward classes and if so, the committee would recommend remedial measures to the government. In its reply-affidavit to a petition by BJP state general secretary K Nagarajan, which sought to quash the state government order constituting the panel, the Centre said a conjoint reading of the relevant provisions of the Constitution makes it abundantly clear the executive power of the State to set up such a commission is restricted to subjects within its legislative competence. It is limited in respect of subjects enshrined under List III of the Constitution. In respect of the same, such power of the State is subject to any law made by the Parliament upon the Union or authorities thereof, it said. This qualification was enacted to ensure that the Commission would be looking into affairs over which the appropriate government could actually act upon and thus would ensure that the constitution of the committee is not an act in futility. The terms of the commission set up by the state government relates to a matter falling under List 1 Entry 66 and therefore, the Commission so constituted is without jurisdiction, the counter claimed. The Supreme Court had already upheld the validity of NEET against the anvil of the equality code contained in the Constitution. It was held without a pale of doubt that the conduct of NEET examinations is not in contravention to Article 14 nor against the socio-economic polity of the country. In spite of the same, the term of reference of the committee seeks to question whether NEET is an equitable method of selection. This particular term of reference is not qualified as the same had been settled by the Supreme Court. This reference is not only a slight against the status and privilege of the top court but is also an exercise in futility as the law declared by it is binding on all functionaries by virtue of the Constitution, Centre said. The field of medical education was regulated statutorily under the Central legislation-- the National Medical Commission, 2019 Act. Accordingly, nothing inconsistent can stand legally. The state cannot constitute a high level committee to study the impact of NEET on medical admissions, the counter added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/justice-rajan-panel-has-no-jurisdiction-to-decide-on-neet-centre-to-hc-1006450.html
08-07-2021||National||Only 8 states have fully vaccinated more than 10% of their populations||Six months into the Covid-19 vaccination programme, only eight states have inoculated more than 10% of their target populations with two doses of the vaccine whereas Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand gave both doses to less than 5% of their targeted individuals. Only two large states -- Kerala (13.2%) and Gujarat (13.07%) -- are among the eight top performers as the rest are smaller and less populous Himachal Pradesh (14.66%), Uttarakhand (10.35%), Delhi (12.57%), Tripura (22.85%), Sikkim (23.6%) and Arunachal Pradesh (10.62%). A DH analysis of the Covid-19 vaccination records of every state shows most of them have given at least one shot to the target groups, but they are far short when it comes to fully vaccinate a resident with two doses. For instance, Himachal Pradesh administered the first shot to more than 62% of its target population of 54.79 lakh, but only 14.66% received both shots. In Karnataka, with a target population of 4.72 crore, the corresponding figures are 43.2% and 9.36% respectively. Karnataka is among the four states and union territories – the other three being Goa, Chhattisgarh and Jammu and Kashmir – that have vaccinated more than 9% of their target residents with two doses. “Recent vaccine effectiveness studies from India have shown that the risk reduction is associated with being fully vaccinated. Evidence of surges in Covid-19 cases in countries with low vaccine coverage is a worrying development as variants of concern like Delta are fuelling such surges,” Oommen John, a senior public health researcher at the George Institute for Global Health told DH. “With low levels of coverage, several states are at high risk for an impending surge in cases. Preparing the health systems in parallel while increasing the vaccine availability will be critical,” he noted. The majority of the states currently face a shortage in Covid-19 vaccine supplies, compelling them to shut down many vaccination centres. In the first eight days of July, the average daily vaccination stands at about 41 lakh doses, which is 23 lakh doses less than the average daily shots administered in the last week of June after the introduction of the new regime under which the Centre procures 75% of the vaccines from the manufacturers and distributes them to the states. Out of the eight days, the daily vaccination count crossed the 65 lakh mark only once. The numbers are in the range of 30 lakh plus in the last three days. A Health Ministry official said the states had been advised to plan their jab sessions based on the availability of vaccines. Advance information on vaccine availability has been made available to the states and Union Territories. “Since the vaccines are biological products, the process of manufacturing takes time. Once produced, the vaccines are tested for quality and safety. Thus, the manufacturing process and production of vaccines take time and do not translate into immediate supply,” the ministry said in a statement. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/only-8-states-have-fully-vaccinated-more-than-10-of-their-populations-1006451.html
08-07-2021||National||Covid-19 threat far from over, warns PM Modi||Addressing a meeting of the Union Council of Ministers, Modi said pictures and videos of crowded places and tourists roaming about without masks or social distancing were worrisome as a single mistake could weaken the fight against Covid-19. “This is not a pleasant sight and it should instil a sense of fear in us,” sources quoted the Prime Minister as saying while referring to photographs and videos of crowded tourist places. The Prime Minister said there should be no space for carelessness or complacency at a time when Covid warriors and frontline workers were leading the fight against the pandemic with “full vigour”. “A single mistake would have far-reaching impacts and weaken the fight to overcome Covid-19,” Modi was quoted as saying at the meeting of the council of ministers. He also expressed concern about the persistently high number of cases coming from Maharashtra and Kerala. Modi said people may want to venture out as the number of Covid-19 cases was lesser than what they were in the recent months “However, everyone must remember – the threat of Covid-19 is far from over. Many other nations are seeing surges in infections. The virus is also mutating,” the prime minister said. He said as ministers, their aim should not be to instil fear but to request people to keep taking all possible precautions so that the entire world is able to move beyond this pandemic in the times to come.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-threat-far-from-over-warns-pm-modi-1006453.html
08-07-2021||National||Govt registers BCCC as Level II self-regulatory body for non-news TV channels||The Broadcasting Content Complaints Council (BCCC) has been registered as a self-regulatory body for redressal of grievances against the non-news television channels under the Cable Television Network (Amendment) Rules, notified recently. The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting has registered the BCCC as the Level-II self-regulatory body for its member channels under the amended rules, which provide for a three-layer statutory mechanism for a time-bound redressal of grievances against the content aired by the television channels. "The BCCC shall perform all functions specified for a self-regulatory body in Rule 18 of the Cable Television Networks (Amendment) Rules, 2021," the ministry said in an official communication to the Indian Broadcasting Foundation (IBF) on Wednesday after registration of the BCCC as Level-II self-regulatory body. The BCCC, set up by the IBF in June 2011, is a self-regulatory body that examines content-related grievances against over 300 non-news channels in the country. While Justice (retd) AP Shah was the BCCC's founding chairperson, Justice (retd) Gita Mittal is the present chairperson of the Council. "It is a pleasant recognition of 10 years of very hard work done by the BCCC under its various learned chairpersons," the Council's general secretary Ashish Sinha told PTI when contacted for the BCCC's response. Under the amended cable television network rules notified by the Union government in May, self-regulatory bodies of television channels are required to be registered with the central government. The rules provide for a three-layer grievance redressal mechanism -- self-regulation by broadcasters, self-regulation by the self-regulating bodies of the broadcasters and an oversight mechanism by the central government. According to the rules, any person aggrieved by the content of a programme of a television channel will have to first file a complaint with the broadcaster. The broadcaster will then have to dispose of the complaint and inform the complainant of its decision within 15 days of the receipt of the complaint. The complainant can file an appeal with the self-regulatory body of the broadcasters if not satisfied with the decision of the broadcaster. The self-regulating body will dispose of the appeal within 60 days of receipt of the appeal, convey its decision in the form of guidance or advisory to the broadcaster, and inform the complainant of such decision within 15 days, according to the rules. The complainant can file an appeal with the central government if not satisfied with the decision of the self-regulating body.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-registers-bccc-as-level-ii-self-regulatory-body-for-non-news-tv-channels-1006454.html
08-07-2021||National||Russia can make its full contribution in strategically important Indo-Pacific: S Jaishankar||India on Thursday described the Indo-Pacific strategy as a further advancement of its Act East Policy and said Russia can make its full contribution in the strategically important region. "In many ways Russia is there. If Russia acts like Russia, it will make its full contribution," External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said while answering a question at the Primakov Institute of World Economy & International Relations in Moscow. Jaishankar, who described Russia as a Euro-Pacific power, was asked which role Russia could play in the Indo-Pacific - a region which has seen aggressive moves by the Chinese military. Indo-Pacific means that it is no longer practical to draw some line somewhere and say this side of the line is different and that side of the line is different, Jaishankar said, adding that in one way it's something new, in one way it's something old. "When I look at India 25 years earlier, we started Look East, it matured into Act East. Today Indo-Pacific is further advancement of it. What has changed in this period? Today our top trading partners include China, Japan, Korea, Russia of course, Australia, ASEAN,” he said. "Both our interests and our reach today extend well into the Pacific. Our major partners are located there, and indeed, cooperation with the Russian Far East is one notable example. The reality is that there is a vast global commons whose safety, security, ecology, environment and activities are increasingly a shared responsibility,” he said. "I think beyond a point we should not get caught up in these very semantic debates, terminological debates,” the minister added. "We need to move with the times of the day. This is a globalised world. We cannot divide the world into little bits and pieces and say some country will do something and other countries will not do other things. That's not the way the world works anymore,” he added. India advocates a rules-based Indo-Pacific with freedom of navigation, open connectivity, and respect for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of all states. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, who has been openly critical of the Indo-Pacific concept, in December accused the US-led West of attempting to "undermine" Moscow’s close partnership and privileged relations with India. Lavrov said the West is seeking to reinstate the unipolar world order that would include all states but for Russia and China with which it would deal later. The US, Japan, India and Australia had in 2017 given shape to the long-pending proposal of setting up the "Quad" or the Quadrilateral coalition to counter China's aggressive behaviour in the Indo-Pacific region. The US says Quad is not an alliance but a grouping of countries driven by shared interests and values and interested in strengthening a rules-based order in the strategically-important Indo-Pacific region. China is engaged in hotly contested territorial disputes in both the South China Sea and the East China Sea. China claims sovereignty over all of the South China Sea. Vietnam, Malaysia, the Philippines, Brunei and Taiwan have counterclaims. Beijing has also built up and militarised many of the islands and reefs it controls in the region. Both areas are stated to be rich in minerals, oil and other natural resources and are also vital to global trade. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/russia-can-make-its-full-contribution-in-strategically-important-indo-pacific-s-jaishankar-1006457.html
08-07-2021||National Politics||With 2 cabinet and 3 MoS berths, PM Modi rewards Northeast region handsomely||With two cabinet ministers and three ministers of state, the Northeastern region was on Wednesday handsomely rewarded by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the first reshuffle of his ministry in the second tenure. The BJP had won 14 out of the region's 25 Lok Sabha constituencies in the 2019 Parliamentary elections while its allies had bagged five. Among those who were administered oath Wednesday evening include Sarbananda Sonowal, who gracefully exited the post of Assam's chief minister even though his government was voted back to power in the assembly elections in March-April. Sonowal, 58, is currently an MLA in Assam's Majuli and is expected to come to Rajya Sabha when the election will be held to a vacant seat of the Upper House from the state. Sonowal was also twice elected to Lok Sabha in the past and was the sports and skill development minister in the first Modi government from 2014 to 2016 before becoming the chief minister of Assam. Union Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju, who was holding the charge of minister of state with independent charge, has also taken oath as a cabinet minister. Rijiju, 49, is a three-time Lok Sabha MP from Arunachal West constituency and was a minister of state for home in the first Modi government from 2014-2019. Lok Sabha MP from Tripura West, Pratima Bhoumik, has also taken oath as minister of state. The 52-year-old BJP leader was elected to the Lower House for the first time in 2019 and has become a union minister from Tripura after almost three decades. Rajkumar Ranjan Singh, who took oath as minister of state, is a first-time MP of the BJP from Inner Manipur seat. Sixty-eight-year-old Singh was a professor of geography for four decades before becoming a lawmaker of the saffron party two years ago. The Modi government also has a minister of state from Assam in Rameswar Teli. A two-term Lok Sabha MP, 50-year old Teli is so far holding the charge of the union minister of state for food processing industries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/with-2-cabinet-and-3-mos-berths-pm-modi-rewards-northeast-region-handsomely-1006111.html
08-07-2021||National Politics||Cabinet 2.0: All you need to know about Ashwini Vaishnaw, the new Railways and IT Minister||Two years ago, BJD could have blocked Ashwani Vaishnaw's entry into Rajya Sabha as it had the numbers to get its nominee elected but party supremo and Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik chose otherwise and responded positively to requests by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah. Patnaik, who surprises his political allies and opponents all the time, gave his nod for the unopposed election of BJP's bureaucrat-turned-technocrat-turned-politician candidate and the rest is history. Two years later, Modi gave an early birthday gift to the 51-year-old electronics engineer, who quit IAS to earn an MBA degree from Wharton University before turning an entrepreneur, to steer two crucial ministries -- Railways, which has domestic implications, Communications and Information and Technology that creates not ripples but waves in the country as well as internationally. Vaishnaw will turn 51 on July 18. Vaishnaw, who took charge of the ministries on Thursday, replaced dropped veteran BJP leader Ravi Shankar Prasad in Communication and Information and Technology ministries, and Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal in Railways. One of the main tasks for Vaishnaw will be to bring normalcy in the relationship between the government and social media giants while not giving much leeway to the latter. He wears his loyalty to Modi on his sleeves. When one opens his personal website, the first thing that greets you is a link to joining BJP as well as 'About BJP' and 'About Shri Narendra Modi', which leads to their websites, besides providing a link to Shah's website too. At the height of the Modi government facing criticism over the handling of the economy, Vaishnaw also defended the BJP vociferously in Parliament saying that the economic slowdown is cyclical in nature and not structural. Modi and Shaw had first got to know about Vaishnaw when he left the corporate world in 2012 to start two auto related companies -- Three Tee Auto Logistics and Gee Auto Components -- in Gujarat. However, those who know Vaishnaw are not surprised at his choice as a Cabinet Minister, as they believe that he is an "excellent and brilliant" person who could add value to Modi's revamped team. One who entered the civil services at the age of 24 before bagging a gold medal in BTech (Electronics and Communication) and then MTech from IIT Kanpur, the then Odisha cadre officer shot to fame for his work during the Super Cyclone in 1999. Vaishnaw, who was also the Collector of Balasore and Cuttack, regularly monitored the US Navy website to understand the development of the cyclone and informed the Chief Secretary's office helping them to design the relief work. He was also credited for his work in formulating the Public Private Participation framework for the infrastructure sector. In 2003, he moved to the Centre to serve as a Deputy Secretary in A B Vajpayee's PMO. He later became the former Prime Minister's Private Secretary after the BJP lost the 2004 Lok Sabha polls and two years later, he was Deputy Chairman of Mormugao Port Trust where he worked till 2008 before moving to Wharton for his MBA. He quit civil services soon and joined the corporate sector -- became Managing Director in GE Transportation and Vice President in Siemens Locomotives before quitting to turn entrepreneur and later to enter politics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cabinet-20-all-you-need-to-know-about-ashwini-vaishnaw-the-new-railways-and-it-minister-1006197.html
08-07-2021||National Politics||Cabinet Reshuffle: When Ravi Shankar Prasad faced Big Tech, beleaguered telecoms in his tenure||One of the most shocking casualties of the Cabinet Reshuffle by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday was former Electronics and Information Technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad. The IT minister of India for seven years, Prasad has been one of the most vocal supporters of the Modi government, making his exit all the more shocking. While focussing on furthering the government’s digitisation agenda, Prasad focused on Digital India and performance-linked incentive (PLI) scheme, among others, during his tenure. At the helm of MeITY, Prasad took on Big Tech on issues of fake news and misinformation, which often tangled him in the hotly-debated topic of privacy of internet users.  Twitter has been at loggerheads with the IT Ministry since the beginning of 2021 on issues of fake news and most recently, non-compliance of India’s controversial IT rules, that came into effect in May, highlighting Prasad’s insistence on “law of the land”. Under Prasad, the ministry dealt a tough hand to Facebook, and its messaging platform WhatsApp, when the circulation of wrong information on its platforms led to mass lynchings in India. His ministry also faced the Cambridge Analytica scandal and the Pegasus WhatsApp breach, wherein 121 users from India were exposed to an attack by an Israel-based NSO Group. The MyGov portal developed by MeitY under Prasad has been a resounding success. The platform enables ideation and conversations about government schemes. The DigiLocker app for storing official documents and eOffice have been other schemes under Prasad that gained praise. As Telecom Minister, Prasad had two big challenges ahead of him in 2019 — BSNL and MTNL. While the companies failed to kickstart India’s 5G internet revolution as promised by Prasad, he did manage to pass revival of the companies through the Cabinet, even as asset monetisation of the telecoms is yet to begin. Prasad changed his Twitter bio to “Member of Parliament from Patna Sahib Lok Sabha, Bihar. BJP worker” after he resigned from his post on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cabinet-reshuffle-when-ravi-shankar-prasad-faced-big-tech-beleaguered-telecoms-in-his-tenure-1006211.html
08-07-2021||National Politics||Cabinet Reshuffle: Who is Narayan Tatu Rane, the new MSME minister?||In the major Cabinet reshuffle by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Narayan Tatu Rane took oath as the new Minister of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME), which was previously held by Nitin Gadkari. Narayan Tatu Rane was the 13th Chief Minister of Maharashtra in 1999. In 2000, he was appointed Minister of Industry, Port & Employment, Maharashtra.  Rane has been a part of various parties, and launched his own party as well, to serve the public in his career spanning 35 years.  Before he joined the Congress, he was a part of Shiv Sena. Rane started his political career with Shiv Sena when he was in his early twenties. He was a local Shakha Pramukh in Chembur, Mumbai. In his long political career, he has been a six-term MLA and one-time MLC in Maharashtra. In 2017, Rane left Congress and launched his political party ‘Maharashtra Swabhiman Paksha’.  However, in 2019, he joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and merged his party into BJP. He has been a member of the Rajya Sabha since 2018 when he first showed his support for the saffron party. Previously, Rane worked in the Income Tax department from 1971 to 1984.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cabinet-reshuffle-who-is-narayan-tatu-rane-the-new-msme-minister-1006221.html
08-07-2021||National Politics||Parshottam Rupala takes charge as Minister of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry & Dairying||Senior Gujarat BJP leader Parshottam Rupala, who has been promoted as a cabinet minister, on Thursday took charge as Minister of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying. Rupala (66), who comes from the influential Kadva Patidar or Patel community in Gujarat, is in charge of the new ministry formed in 2019 in order to promote allied farm activities for enhancing farmers' income. The minister held a meeting with the department officials immediately after taking charge of the ministry. Earlier, Rupala was holding the charge as Minister of State for Agriculture in the Union Cabinet. He replaced his cabinet colleague Giriraj Singh, who has been shifted to the Ministry of Rural Development and Panchayati Raj. Addressing fodder shortage, high prices of fodder and development of infrastructure to encourage dairy and fishery processing are some of the challenges that the new minister would have to focus on after taking over the charge. Rupala will be assisted by two junior ministers -- Sanjeev Kumar Balyan and L Murugan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/parshottam-rupala-takes-charge-as-minister-of-fisheries-animal-husbandry-dairying-1006249.html
08-07-2021||National Politics||Munjapara Mahendrabhai, takes charge as the Minister of State for Women and Child Development||Munjapara Mahendrabhai, a first-time Lok Sabha MP, took charge as the Minister of State for Women and Child Development on Thursday. Prior to his political career, Mahendrabhai had a three-decade-long distinguished career as a cardiologist and professor of medicine in Gujarat. The 52-year-old is an MD in General Medicine and Therapeutics from Gujarat University. Mahendrabhai is among the 36 new inductees who were sworn in as part of the Council of Ministers on Wednesday. One of the main challenges lying ahead of him is the issue of malnutrition among children and women in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/munjapara-mahendrabhai-takes-charge-as-the-minister-of-state-for-women-and-child-development-1006256.html
08-07-2021||National Politics||Ram Chandra Prasad Singh assumes charge as Union Steel Minister||Ram Chandra Prasad Singh on Thursday took charge as the country’s new steel minister. He replaced Dharmendra Pradhan, who was allotted the Ministry of Education along with the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship in the latest Cabinet reshuffle of the Modi 2.0 government. Singh is a Janata Dal-United leader, representing Bihar in the Rajya Sabha. He is a retired IAS officer of the 1984 batch and has served over 25 years across various capacities. Singh was among those who were administered the oath of office and secrecy by President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday. Speaking to reporters, he said, "I am new…I will try to analyse and learn things, after which only I will able to tell better".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ram-chandra-prasad-singh-assumes-charge-as-union-steel-minister-1006263.html
08-07-2021||National Politics||Cabinet Reshuffle: Who is Dharmendra Pradhan, the new Education Minister?||Former minister of steel and petroleum and natural gas, Dharmendra Pradhan is set to handle the education and skill development after the Cabinet reshuffle on Wednesday, in which 36 new ministers were inducted. The Rajya Sabha MP was in charge of the petroleum ministry from 2014. He was the longest-serving minister of this department. He first joined as minister of state and, later in 2017, he was promoted to Cabinet rank.  Pradhan, also known as "Ujjwala Man", has been appreciated for launching Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana under the Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas during his tenure. This scheme helped in providing over eight million LPG connections to below poverty line (BPL) families in six years. Pradhan hails from the Talcher city of Odisha. He did a post-graduate degree in Anthropology from Utkal University in Bhubaneswar. The 52-year-old is the son of former MoS Debendra Pradhan.  After undertaking various roles in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), he became a member of the 14th Lok Sabha. He was elected to Rajya Sabha twice. He represented Bihar in 2012 and has been representing Madhya Pradesh since 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cabinet-reshuffle-who-is-dharmendra-pradhan-the-new-education-minister-1006264.html
08-07-2021||National Politics||Subhas Sarkar takes charge as Minister of State for Education||Subhas Sarkar took charge as the new Minister of State for Education on Thursday. A seasoned war horse of the BJP in West Bengal, Sarkar is an MP from Bankura. “With the grace of God and good wishes from all cross section of people of Bankura and West Bengal assuming charge of Minister of State, Ministry of Education today at Shastri Bhawan, Delhi to devote myself to fulfil the vision of Adroniya Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi ji," he said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/subhas-sarkar-takes-charge-as-minister-of-state-for-education-1006273.html
08-07-2021||National Politics||Angry over being left out in Cabinet rejig, Nishad Party threatens to rethink alliance with BJP in UP||Livid over being left out in Wednesday's Cabinet reshuffle, the Nishad Party, a BJP ally in Uttar Pradesh, has accused the BJP of 'betrayal' and threatened to 'rethink' its alliance with the saffron party in the upcoming Assembly polls, which is barely nine months away. ''It's a betrayal...BJP will have to face electoral consequences if it continues to ignore our community,'' founder of the Nishad Party Sanjay Nishad said on Thursday. "The Nishad community has already started deserting the BJP...it is disappointing that Praveen Nishad (Sanjay Nishad's son and MP from Sant Kabir Nagar district) was not inducted in the union ministry," he said. He said that the Nishads (boatmen and fishermen) formed 18 per cent of the electorate in UP and could influence the outcome of the elections in as many as 160 seats.  The leader said that he had already conveyed his party's feelings to the senior BJP leaders, including its national president J P Nadda. A few days back, Sanjay Nishad had threatened to walk out of the alliance if he was not assured of the deputy CM's post in the UP elections. ''If the BJP wants to return to power in UP after the 2022 Assembly polls, then it must project me as the deputy CM face,'' Sanjay Nishad had said. Incidentally, Sanjay Nishad's son Praveen Nishad, as a candidate of the Samajwadi Party(SP), had defeated the BJP candidate from Gorakhpur Lok Sabha seat in a bypoll in 2018 after Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath resigned from there following his anointment as the CM. In the 2019 LS polls, however, Praveen contested on the BJP ticket from Sant Kabir Nagar seat and emerged victorious. Since then, Nishad Party has been an ally of the saffron party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/angry-over-being-left-out-in-cabinet-rejig-nishad-party-threatens-to-rethink-alliance-with-bjp-in-up-1006312.html
08-07-2021||National Politics||Kiren Rijiju takes over as new law minister||Kiren Rijiju on Thursday took charge as the new law and justice minister and said the prime minster's vision of making an 'aatmanirbhar Bharat' (self-reliant India) also needs a robust legal system in the country. He said although he has a law degree, he does not have much experience about legal matters because he was never in the (legal) profession. "But everything can be handled with proper guidance, proper understanding of the subjects and application of right mind," he told reporters. "The prime minister's vision of making an 'aatmanirbhar Bharat' also requires a robust legal system in our country," he said, without elaborating. He said the ministry will always try to be transparent and approachable for the media so that it knows what the ministry is doing and how it is performing. Filling up of vacancies in the Supreme Court and the 25 high courts and ensuring that more judicial officers are recruited in the subordinate judiciary are two principal challenges before the new law minister. Improving the judicial infrastructure is another challenge before Rijiju. Successive law ministers have been trying to create an all-India judicial service where judicial officers are recruited for subordinate courts. But the move has faced opposition from certain states and high courts. Successive governments have also been trying to make India into a hub of international arbitration on the lines of Singapore and London. The new minister will have to take the process forward. A prominent face from the northeast in the Modi government, Rijiju was on Wednesday elevated as a Cabinet minister in a major reshuffle and expansion of the Union Council of Ministers. Rijiju takes over the key ministry from Ravi Shankar Prasad, who has resigned from the government. The law ministry is responsible to defend the government in various courts through its law officers and help ministries draft bills and key documents. It is also an important stakeholder in transfer, posting and elevation of Supreme Court and high court judges. Minister of State in the Law Ministry S P Singh Baghel also took charge of his portfolio.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kiren-rijiju-takes-over-as-new-law-minister-1006331.html
08-07-2021||National Politics||Yogi Adityanath's fight in Assembly polls is with widows, orphans: Asaduddin Owaisi||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s "fight" in the Assembly elections next year is with widows and orphans, said AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi on Thursday attacking the state government over the deaths during the second coronavirus wave. Owaisi said during the second wave of Covid, lakhs of people died "due to the UP government" as bodies of the poor were seen floating in the Ganga and dogs found dragging these on the river banks. “People were not getting oxygen and beds in hospitals,” he said addressing party workers while inaugurating its office in Bahraich city. "Yogi's fight in the coming elections will be with the women made widows and children left orphan by his government," he said, adding that mothers and sisters of UP have expectations from Om Prakash Rajbhar-led Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha, a coalition of smaller parties. The Hyderabad MP also called upon opposition parties to join the Morcha, saying, "We are entering the electoral fray with the resolve not to allow Yogi to become the chief minister again in the 2022 elections." Those (opposition parties) who are afraid of us today should not forget that we did not contest the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha elections, yet they could not defeat Narendra Modi,” he said. Owaisi further said they are going to contest the Assembly elections with a bigger motive. “We are fighting for our share in power and not to become mere vote bank. Now, we will send our representatives to the Legislative Assembly with our votes. We have also proved this by winning five Vidhan Sabha seats in Bihar,” he said in an apparent reference to the Muslim community. Owaisi said all political groups understand that there is no voice of the oppressed and minorities. “The drama of those who make us happy by feeding dates during iftars, organise mushairas and qawwali will now come to an end. We are not circus clowns. Instead of becoming a clown who dances at the behest of the ring master, we will now become the ringmaster and make them dance to our directions,” he said. Owaisi said the Uttar Pradesh government has so far administered coronavirus vaccine to only three per cent of the state population and called upon the people who attended the programme to get themselves vaccinated . The AIMIM had recently announced that it would contest on 100 seats in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls in alliance with Om Prakash Rajbhar-led Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) and the Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha, a front of smaller parties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/yogi-adityanaths-fight-in-assembly-polls-is-with-widows-orphans-asaduddin-owaisi-1006365.html
08-07-2021||National Politics||John Barla: From a tribal leader to a Union minister||From being a tribal leader to an Union minister, BJP MP John Barla has come a long way. He was sworn in as the Minister of State in the Ministry of Minority Affairs on Wednesday. Starting his political career as a leader of tea garden workers in the Terai-Dooars region of West Bengal, the 45-year-old Barla has switched his political allegiance several times, although never officially becoming a member of the party before joining the BJP ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Born in a tribal family, Barla has a formidable support base among the tea garden workers in North Bengal. His organizational skills first drew the attention of the CPI(M) when it was in power in Bengal. Although he was never an official member of the party, Barla and his followers had supported the Left Front several times. He officially started his political career as a member of the Akhil Bharatiya Adivasi Vikas Parishad (ABVP) in 2007. For a brief period, he toyed with the idea of joining the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) when they were agitating for the demand of the separate State of Gorkhaland. However, the possibility was nipped in the bud when he faced off against GJM chief Bimal Gurung in 2010 . At that time, Barla demanded that a separate state be carved out for the tribal and other backward communities of the Terai and Dooars region. However, after the Trinamool Congress (TMC) came to power in 2011, Barla switched his allegiance once again and supported the party. Ahead of the 2019 Assembly elections, he joined the BJP and became instrumental in the saffron party’s rapid spread in the districts of North Bengal. He won from the Alipurduar Lok Sabha constituency with a thumping margin. Recently, he courted fresh controversy by demanding that a separate Union Territory be carved out of the districts of North Bengal as the TMC government has been neglecting the region for years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/john-barla-from-a-tribal-leader-to-a-union-minister-1006372.html
08-07-2021||National Politics||Narayan Rane made Union minister only to target us: Shiv Sena||Narayan Rane was inducted in the Union cabinet only to attack the Shiv Sena, the party claimed on Thursday, also alleging that the purpose of creating a new ministry of cooperation was to ''harass'' the sector which has strong presence in Maharashtra. Rane, a former Sena leader who left the party over 16 years ago, took oath as minister in the Narendra Modi government on Wednesday. Sena's chief spokesperson Arvind Sawant said here that after taking charge of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) Ministry, Rane's first comments were against Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. ''He said nothing about his portfolio and what he proposed to do for the MSME sector,'' said Sawant, a former Union minister himself. Rane reportedly said that Thackeray, who heads the Sena, was not large hearted enough to congratulate him on becoming a Union minister. ''He has been inducted in the Union cabinet only to attack the Sena without fulfilling any other responsibility, '' Sawant said. In a dig at Rane's portfolio, Sawant said, ''For Maharashtra, this is improvement of sorts, from 'heavy' to 'micro'.'' Sena had handled the heavy industries portfolio when it was part of the BJP-led NDA. On a question about whether Rane can cause any harm to the Sena, Sawant said, “We defeated him twice in assembly polls, once in his stronghold of Malvan (in Konkan region) and in a by-poll in Mumbai (in Bandra). ''The BJP should keep it in mind that the Sena has very close relations with the people from Konkan.....they will not switch their loyalties,'' he said. On the creation of the new Union ministry of cooperation which has been allotted to home minister Amit Shah, Sawant said, “It is just to harass the cooperative sector as it has a strong network in Maharashtra compared to other states.'' Leaders of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition in the state, especially those from the NCP, are active in the cooperative sector, he pointed out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/narayan-rane-made-union-minister-only-to-target-us-shiv-sena-1006401.html
08-07-2021||National Politics||PM Modi tells new ministers to be cautious while making public statements||A day after the Cabinet expansion, newly-appointed ministers in the NDA government took charge of their portfolios and hit the ground running with specific direction from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to get acquainted with their respective ministries before the Parliament Session. The ministers have been asked to stay put in the national capital and resist the temptation of rushing to their respective constituencies for felicitation events. “We have been asked to get briefings from officials and prepare for the Parliament Session that begins from July 19,” a newly-appointed minister said. The Monsoon Session of Parliament begins on July 19 and will continue till August 13. Performance has been the key criteria for the selection of ministers and the prime minister is learnt to have conveyed to his council to focus on implementing the government’s programs and initiatives. The prime minister stressed India's fight against the pandemic is under way with full vigour with the vaccination programme going on steadily and testing numbers also consistently high. Modi told the ministers that the aim should not be to instill fear but to request people to keep taking all possible precautions so that the nation is able to move beyond this pandemic in the times to come. In the meeting, he expressed concern at the persistently high number of Covid cases coming from Maharashtra and Kerala, the sources said. He also asked his ministers to reach office on time and channelise all their energy into their ministerial work, saying their focus should be on helping the most deprived people. In a word of advice, he said it is the work that only matters and the ministers should not get trapped in the vicious circle of grabbing media attention. He said ministers should avoid making unnecessary statements. Ministers take charge Vaishnaw, who is also the minister of Electronics, IT, and Communications, sent out an unambiguous message to social media companies that the “law of the land was supreme” “The law of the land should be abided by everyone,” Vaishnaw told reporters when asked about Twitter’s refusal to appoint – chief compliance officer, nodal officer and grievance officer as mandated by the new IT Rules. The newly appointed ministers gave assurances about meeting the expectations of the people and measuring up to the confidence shown in them by the Prime Minister and senior leaders of the government and the party. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-tells-new-ministers-to-be-cautious-while-making-public-statements-1006438.html
08-07-2021||North and Central||'King of Hearts' six-term Himachal CM Virbhadra Singh no more||Six-term Himachal Pradesh chief minister and Congress veteran Virbhadra Singh breathed his last early Thursday battling post-Covid complications, plunging the hill-state into mourning. He was 87. Singh was admitted to Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) and the last rites are scheduled for Saturday. Popular as ‘Raja Sahib’, Singh ruled the hearts of Himachalis for over six decades and played a crucial role in developing health and education sectors, besides turning the hill-state into a popular tourism destination. “Despite belonging to the royal lineage, his strength was his easy access to the people,” former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said hailing Virbhadra Singh as among the “tallest” Congress leaders of the country. Singh was the titular Raja of the princely state of Bushahr from 1947 till 1971 when the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi abolished the privy purses and titles of the rulers of the princely states. “He was a leader who understood the needs and aspirations of his people, who had his ear to the ground and his finger on their pulse. No wonder he was so loved and revered in every corner of Himachal Pradesh,” Congress President Sonia Gandhi said. Singh was just 28 when he became an MP for the first time. Twenty years later, he became the chief minister of Himachal Pradesh in 1983 at the age of 48 succeeding Thakur Ram Lal, who was embroiled in the timbre smuggling scam. Singh’s political career was marked with rivalries within the party and he managed to trump his opponents who had had the blessings of the party high command. A nine-time MLA and five-time Lok Sabha member, Singh remained active in state and central politics throughout his life. He was elected from Arki Assembly seat in Solan district in the previous elections in December 2017. Such was his popularity among the masses that he rarely campaigned in his constituency after filing his nomination papers and yet registered comfortable wins. Singh began his political journey as a member of the Lok Sabha in 1962 when Jawaharlal Nehru was the prime minister and served as union minister in the governments led by Indira Gandhi and Manmohan Singh. Born on June 23, 1934, Singh was educated at Colonel Brown Cambridge School, Dehradun, St Edward’s School, Shimla, and Bishop Cotton School, Shimla. He graduated in English honours from St Stephen’s College in Delhi. Recently, Singh was being investigated by the CBI, Enforcement Directorate, and Income Tax Department in a disproportionate assets case.  Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/king-of-hearts-six-term-himachal-cm-virbhadra-singh-no-more-1006159.html
08-07-2021||North and Central||Four militants killed in separate gunfights in Kashmir||Reports said security forces launched a cordon-and-search-operation in Zodar village of Kulgam, close to Srinagar-Jammu national highway,, following information about the presence of militants in the area on Wednesday night. The operation turned into an encounter when the militants opened fire at the security forces. Kashmir police chief, Vijay Kumar said the two militants killed in the encounter were locals who were planning a big strike on Srinagar-Jammu national highway. “Two more local militants were killed in a similar gunfight in the Puchal area of Pulwama,” he said. In the previous years, separatists and militant organizations would issue strike calls in advance on July 8. However, since the abrogation of special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 in August 2019 and subsequent crackdown on separatists, no such strike calls are issued. Even the local media doesn't publish any statements coming from separatist and militant groups. Most of the separatist leaders have been jailed or gone into hibernation in the last two years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-militants-killed-in-separate-gunfights-in-kashmir-1006179.html
08-07-2021||North and Central||Striving to comply with IT rules, but reserve right to challenge their validity: Twitter to Delhi HC||Twitter on Thursday told the Delhi High Court it has been "striving to comply" with the 2021 Information Technology Rules, but it reserved its right to challenge their validity. In a response to the court, Twitter's counsel said it has appointed a resident of India as its interim Chief Compliance Officer on July 6, and made a job announcement for a nodal contact person and will fill this post within eight weeks. "Twitter has posted publicly a job announcement for a Chief Compliance Officer as a direct employee and is accepting applications at this time. Twitter will endeavor in good faith to make an offer of employment to a qualified candidate to fill this position within eight weeks," the document said. Similarly, it assured the court to make an appointment of a resident Grievance Officer within eight weeks. Until then, a Grievance Officer has been appointed to perform the statutory duties. The microblogging site also told the court it has provided a physical contact address at Bengaluru and the details regarding it has been updated on its website. "We are in the process of setting up a Liaison office in India, which will be our permanent physical contact address," it said. It also maintained that the company will file its compliance report by July 11 as per rules. "While Twitter is striving to comply with the 2021 Rules, Twitter reserves its right to challenge the legality, validity, and vires of the Rules, and Twitter’s submissions regarding compliance are filed without prejudice to its right to challenge the Rules," it said. On July 6, the Delhi High Court had pulled up Twitter for dilly-dallying on complying with new IT rules, saying the government was free to act against the microblogging site if it was in violation of the law. The court then sought information on Twitter's compliance with provisions of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 (IT Rules, 2021) by Thursday, July 8. The Union government, for its part, had said Twitter was given a three-month window by May 26 to comply with the IT Rules, notified on February 25, but they did not do so even after 40 days. On May 31, the Delhi High Court had issued a notice to the microblogging platform on a plea by advocate Amit Acharya.  The plea asked the High Court to issue directions to the Centre to pass necessary instructions to Twitter India and Twitter Inc to appoint a Resident Grievance Officer under Rule 4 of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 without any delay.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/striving-to-comply-with-it-rules-but-reserve-right-to-challenge-their-validity-twitter-to-delhi-hc-1006209.html
08-07-2021||North and Central||Ex-Himachal CM Virbhadra Singh to be cremated at Rampur on Saturday||The mortal remains of former Himachal Pradesh chief minister Virbhadra Singh will be cremated in Rampur here on Saturday, his family spokesperson said. The 87-year-old veteran Congress leader breathed his last after prolonged illness at the Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC), Shimla at 3.40 am on Thursday. The cremation will be held at Rampur on July 10 at 3 pm, spokesperson Yashwant Chhajta said. Singh’s body has been kept at his personal residence at Holly Lodge in Jakhu, Shimla. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur laid a wreath at his body as a mark of respect. Lone CPM MLA Rakesh Singha, several other political leaders and thousands of the former chief minister’s supporters also visited Holly Lodge to pay their homage. Singh’s body will be kept at Holly Lodge for the entire day on Thursday for ‘antim darshan’. On Friday, the body will be kept at Ridge Maidan for the public for ‘antim darshan’ from 9 am to 11.30 am, Chhajta said. Subsequently, it will be taken to state Congress office Rajiv Bhawan on Cart Road in Shimla where it will be kept from 11.40 am to 1 pm, he said. Thereafter, the body will be taken to Rampur by road at 1 pm and it is scheduled to reach Padam Palace Rampur at 6 pm, the family spokesperson said. On Saturday, the body will be kept at Padam Palace Rampur for ‘antim darshan’ from 8 am to 2 pm before the funeral at 3 pm, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ex-himachal-cm-virbhadra-singh-to-be-cremated-at-rampur-on-saturday-1006224.html
08-07-2021||North and Central||Internet snapped in Kashmir's Pulwama, Kulgam districts||Kashmir's Pulwama and Kulgam districts went dark on Thursday as mobile internet services were snapped in the regions. More details awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/internet-snapped-in-kashmirs-pulwama-kulgam-districts-1006243.html
08-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi Assembly panel can seek info from FB but can't act as prosecutor, SC rules||The Supreme Court on Thursday declared that the Delhi Assembly's Committee could seek information from Facebook and its official about its alleged role in the Delhi riots, saying the social media giant with vast power and outreach must remain accountable to whoever entrusted them.  The top court, however, clarified that the panel could not go into the issue of law and order and act as some kind of prosecuting agency. A three-judge bench presided over by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul termed as "premature" the apprehension of coercive action made by Facebook and its Vice President Ajit Mohan in view of the summons issued by the Delhi Assembly’s Peace and Harmony Committee headed by AAP MLA Raghav Chadha. In its 188-page judgement, the bench, also comprising Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy, noted the larger role played by a platform like Facebook with "ripple effects across the globe", threatening the very election and voting process in established democracies. Having 270 million registered users in the country, the bench said, "Such vast powers must necessarily come with responsibility. Entities like Facebook have to remain accountable." The court said the history of unity in diversity in India could not be disrupted at any cost or under any professed freedom by a giant like Facebook claiming ignorance or lack of any pivotal role.  The court said it was pre-emptory to see a clash of privilege powers and certain fundamental rights like free speech, silence, and privacy in the present case. The court, however, expressed displeasure with the public utterances of the committee chairman that Facebook should be treated as a co-accused in the February 2020 northeast riots. Putting "fetters" on the committee, the bench said that if it sought to traverse the path relating to the excluded subjects, i.e. law and order and policing, Facebook's representative would have a right to refuse to answer and this would not invite a privilege proceeding. Noting that 53 people had lost their lives in "unfortunate communal riots", the court said it could not be said that the Delhi government could not go into causal factors in order to recommend appropriate remedial measures. While highlighting Facebook's role in enabling free speech, the bench, at the same time, said they could not lose sight of the fact that it had simultaneously become a platform for disruptive messages, voices and ideologies. “These platforms are by no means altruistic in character but rather employ business models that can be highly privacy intrusive and have the potential to polarise public debates,” the court said.   Brushing aside Facebook's assertion that it was merely an intermediary, the court said it had to be noted that their platform had also hosted disruptive voices replete with misinformation. These had had a direct impact on vast areas of subject matter, which ultimately affected the governance. The court termed as unacceptable a contention by Facebook that they would only appear before any committee if it served their commercial and operational interests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-assembly-panel-can-seek-info-from-fb-but-cant-act-as-prosecutor-sc-rules-1006254.html
08-07-2021||North and Central||Mangubhai Patel takes oath as MP Governor||BJP leader and former Gujarat minister Mangubhai Chaganbhai Patel took oath as the governor of Madhya Pradesh on Thursday. He is the 30th governor of MP, Raj Bhawan sources said. Madhya Pradesh High Court Chief Justice Mohammad Rafiq administered the oath to Patel at a function in the Raj Bhawan here. Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel, who was holding the additional charge of Madhya Pradesh since June last year, was present on the occasion. MP Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Leader of Opposition in the state Assembly Kamal Nath were also present. Patel (77), a native of Navsari in south Gujarat and a well-known tribal leader of the BJP, was appointed as the governor of Madhya Pradesh by President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday. After the announcement, Patel had told reporters at his residence at Navsari in Gujarat that he will try his best to fulfil his new responsibility. "The BJP is a party which believes in taking along all communities. I thank President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and other leaders for giving me this new responsibility," Patel had said. He had been an MLA for six terms and earlier served as a minister in the Gujarat BJP government. He was also the Gujarat Assembly's Deputy Speaker in 2013. Patel started his political career as a member of the Navsari municipality in 1982, and went on to win the Assembly elections from the Navsari seat five times and once from Gandevi seat in 2012||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mangubhai-patel-takes-oath-as-mp-governor-1006261.html
08-07-2021||North and Central||Jaipur court approves collection of voice sample of Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat||A Jaipur court has directed that voice samples of Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and alleged middleman Sanjay Jain be collected in connection with audio clips leaked last year purportedly of conversations about toppling the Rajasthan government. The Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Jaipur-2 court issued the direction on Wednesday in response to an Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) application filed last week. The voice samples will be taken by the magistrate of the Rent Control Tribunal, which was authorised to issue the necessary notices, an ACB official said. Lokesh Sharma, OSD to the Rajasthan CM, had allegedly circulated the audio clips purportedly of conversation about toppling the state government between Shekhawat and Congress leaders amidst a rebellion against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot by his then deputy Sachin Pilot and 18 party MLAs supporting him. On the basis of the audio clips, Rajasthan government chief whip Mahesh Joshi had registered cases with the special operations group (SOG) and the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) of Rajasthan Police in July last year, but the FIR did not mention that "Gajendra Singh" referred to in the clip was Union Minister Shekhawat. The development comes close on the heels of the Delhi Police summoning Joshi in connection with an FIR filed by Union Minister Shekhawat in the phone tapping matter. Joshi did not appear, citing various reasons. Shekhawat had filed the FIR against Sharma. On June 3, a Delhi court stayed any coercive action by the Delhi Police against Sharma until further orders. Joshi was then summoned to record his statement by the crime branch of Delhi Police. Reacting to the development, Joshi said, "I welcome the court's decision. It would not be exaggerating if I say that God has fulfilled Gajendra ji's wish. From past several days, he has been saying that he has not received any notice and he is ready to give sample. Now, he should himself step forward without taking shelter of higher court and give sample." The SOG had ultimately closed the case after the Congress high command intervened to resolve the issues between Gehlot and Pilot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jaipur-court-approves-collection-of-voice-sample-of-union-minister-gajendra-singh-shekhawat-1006266.html
08-07-2021||North and Central||UP cops book Bengaluru Muslim cleric for forcible conversion||A Muslim cleric and head of a Bengaluru dargah (shrine) was booked by police in Lucknow for allegedly trying to lure women of another faith into religious conversion. The cleric, identified as Syed Hasnain Ashraf, headed the Khanqah-e-Ashrafia, a Bengaluru shrine. He was booked on a complaint filed by his wife Kulsoom, who claimed that her husband had been "pressuring" her to convert women from other faiths. The cleric's wife, a Lucknow resident, claimed that Ashraf had managed to get a woman of another faith to convert to Islam a few months ago and married her. "He thrashed me when I protested and refused to do his bidding," said Kulsoom in her complaint lodged at Ghazipur police station on Wednesday. Kulsoom, who married Ashraf two years ago, said that the cleric's mother was involved in 'Love Jihad' (Muslims seeking to deceive Hindu women through marriage and convert them to Islam). The cleric's wife said that Ashraf used to speak to her women friends and try to lure them into conversion. Police said that a case was registered under the state's newly enacted anti-conversion law and that the matter was being investigated. Earlier, a Muslim youth from Karnataka's Bijapur District had been booked under the anti-conversion law in UP's Gorakhpur District after he was accused of "luring" a Hindu girl. Dozens of cases tied to incidents of alleged 'Love Jihad' have been lodged in different parts of the state after the new law came into effect. In the courts, however, some cases have failed to pass the initial legal test and the accused have been given reprieves. The law provides for a maximum imprisonment of 10 years and a fine for religious conversion through deceit, force, allurement or any other fraudulent means for the purpose of marriage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cops-book-bengaluru-muslim-cleric-for-forcible-conversion-1006327.html
08-07-2021||North and Central||SC orders immediate release of 13 convicts languishing in Agra jail despite found as juvenile||The Supreme Court on Thursday ordered immediate release of 13 convicts, who have been languishing in Agra's jail for 14 to 22 years despite having been declared juvenile at the time of offence. A bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and V Ramasubramanian allowed a plea for their release on interim bail as the Uttar Pradesh government's counsel also submitted they may be enlarged for the time being. Advocate Rishi Malhotra, arguing on behalf of the convicts, submitted that it was a case of illegal detentions as the petitioners had established that they were juvenile at the time of offence. "It is not in dispute that the 13 petitioners have been held by Juvenile Justice Board to be juveniles at the time of the commission of the offence. They shall immediately be released on interim order bail on furnishing personal bonds," the bench said. The court put the matter for consideration after three weeks. Last week, the top court issued notice to the Uttar Pradesh government on the petition highlighting "unfortunate" and "sorry state of affairs". The plea contended despite clear and unchallenged rulings from the Juvenile Justice Board (JJB) that they were all below the age limit of 18 years, yet no steps have been taken to release them forthwith. According to the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) (Amendment) Act, 2006, the plea of juvenility can be raised at any stage and even after final disposal of the case. In their case, the JJB, through its orders between February 2017 to March 2021, categorically held that all these petitioners were below 18 years of age on the date of the alleged incident and were thus, declared juvenile, their petition claimed. However, in the instant case, the petitioners suffered prolonged incarceration amongst hardcore criminals thereby completely negating the purpose and objects of JJ Act, the petition contended. They asked the court to pass necessary orders for releasing them forthwith within the spirit of Article 21 (right to life and liberty) of the Constitution. Though in majority of the cases their statutory criminal appeal are pending before the High Court against their conviction under various IPC offences, but "the necessity and the need of hour is to direct release of these petitioners in view of the fact that not only they are declared juvenile but they have already undergone a maximum period of detention provided under the JJ Act, 2000, i.e., three years," their plea stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-orders-immediate-release-of-13-convicts-languishing-in-agra-jail-despite-found-as-juvenile-1006364.html
08-07-2021||North and Central||Heat wave sears north India, rains likely by July 10||North India sizzled under heat wave conditions on Thursday owing to a delay in the arrival of monsoon with the weather department forecasting rain-laden easterly winds covering the region by July 10. The national capital's fourth "heat wave day" of this month saw the mercury soaring to 41.8 degrees Celsius, five notches above normal. It had reeled under heat wave on July 1, July 2 and July 7 also. For the plains, a heat wave is declared when the maximum temperature is more than 40 degrees Celsius and at least 4.5 notches above the normal. The India Meteorological Department has forecast thunderstorms with rain in the city on Friday. Delhi's bordering city of Gurgaon in Haryana experienced a maximum temperature of 43.7 degrees Celsius, six notches above the normal as there was no let-up in the hot weather conditions in the state and neighbouring Punjab. Among other places in Haryana, Narnaul, Hisar, Rohtak and Ambala recorded their maximum temperatures at 43.3 degrees Celsius 42.8 degrees Celsius, 41.8 degrees Celsius and 40.8 degrees Celsius respectively. In Punjab, the maximum temperatures in Amritsar and Patiala settled at 40 degrees Celsius and 41.4 degrees Celsius, up to six notches above the normal. Bathinda recorded a high of 40.4 degrees Celsius. Amid the blazing heat, Haryana saw its peak power demand rise by 11.25 per cent from what it was last year. A top official in the electricity department said Haryana's power utilities have met the highest ever peak demand of 12,120 MW on July 7 by supplying 2,638 lakh units without imposing any power cut to any of the categories of consumers. However, Punjab witnessed unscheduled load shedding. The state is reeling under an unprecedented power shortage with the opposition blaming the Congress government for failing to ensure round-the-clock power to people. Heat wave conditions prevailed in parts of Rajasthan also as no rainfall was recorded in major districts of the state. Sriganganagar was the hottest place in the state with a maximum temperature of 44.3 degrees Celsius, followed by Pilani 43.2 degrees Celsius, Churu 43 degrees Celsius, Alwar 42.8 degrees Celsius, Dholpur 42.5 degrees Celsius and Pali 42 degrees Celsius. Heavy rains in parts of Uttarakhand led to the collapse of a concrete bridge on Thursday, cutting off Darma, Vyas and Chaudas valleys from the rest of the border districts in the state. The bridge was built over the Kulagar rivulet on the Tanakpur-Tawaghat national highway, close to the Indo-China border. According to the India Meteorological Department, moist easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal has started to establish over eastern India. It is likely to spread into northwest India covering Punjab and north Haryana by July 10. The southwest monsoon is likely to advance over the remaining parts of west Uttar Pradesh, some more parts of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan and Delhi around 10th July. Widespread rainfall is very likely in Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Odisha in the next five days. A low-pressure area is likely to form in the Bay of Bengal off north Andhra Pradesh-south Odisha coasts around July 11 which is likely to bring scattered to widespread rains over northwest India, including Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and east Rajasthan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/heat-wave-sears-north-india-rains-likely-by-july-10-1006440.html
08-07-2021||Oasis||True spirituality||I still recollect a spiritual gathering that I had attended some years ago. Swarms of people were squatted all over, speaking in strident tones about sundry subjects. A woman aside, who, zestfully was spouting of spirituality, suddenly had slid into slander mission against her supposedly mean sister-in-law, spewing venom in an unsavoury manner. Then, there was another woman, with a feisty spirit, forcibly was foisting her fusillade of views on others. Sounding like self-confessed 'stalwart of spiritual brigade', she sanctimoniously had started sermonising on several aspects of human vices and virtues. I wondered. "Would these folks follow even an iota of the same?" Or, do they deem, "Only preaching is for us, and it’s for others to practice the prized 'Gyan', provided by us." What intrigued me more was the men’s chat at another side. In that, an elderly man, with a highfalutin attitude, was hissing about the high points of being highly spiritual. Soon, his chat took a great detour, as he went gaga, gushing about the gorgeous anatomy of a film glitterati, who was of his grandchild’s age (Maybe, same words by some youngster wouldn’t have sounded all that weird and wacky). More horrifying was to hear another elderly, talk about a tattoo design, beheld by him, at the back of a teenybopper. I wondered again. Are these men, who let their minds and eyes rove all around the body of other females, sans a scintilla of respect, are the same ones, who worship pantheons of female Goddesses? And, will those female divinities be pleased with them? Moreover, can these aforesaid folks call themselves truly spiritual? Well then, what is actual spirituality? Certainly, spirituality doesn’t spell 'marathon prayers', which emphatically isn’t indicative of 'deep' intense devotion. Nor bowing before the Lord, with a pseudo beatific smile, signifies bountiful devotion. True spirituality is when one is able to conquer all vices like anger, envy, lust, conceit etc. Spirituality is synonymous with superlatively 'pure and noble' thoughts— Thoughts of spreading joy and peace, being super helpful etc. No wonder, it’s said, "pure thoughts from a pure heart is better than potent mantras".||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/true-spirituality-1006152.html
08-07-2021||Opinion||Dilip Kumar: An actor who rose to top by breaking conventions||With the death of Dilip Kumar, Indian cinema has lost its biggest ever star. I use the term ‘Indian cinema’ rather than ‘Hindi cinema’ here without implying the lower importance of MGR, NTR, Uttam Kumar or Rajkumar. All of them were huge in their appeal and were truly Indian but they essentially addressed local constituencies. Among the cinemas of India, only the mainstream Hindi film has addressed a pan-Indian audience, which is why it uses a non-literary Hindi understood across India, from Kerala to the Northeast, and even by audiences with a vocabulary of only a dozen Hindi words. Dilip Kumar attained prominence immediately after Independence when Indians did not really know what was ahead of them. He played an existential hero beset by doubt as in Babul (1950) and Jogan (1950). He used a kind of method acting uncharacteristic of Indian cinema in which characters are stereotypes. Dilip Kumar’s performances are revolutionary compared to those of Surendra and Ashok Kumar, reigning stars at the time. In SU Sunny’s Babul, he plays Ashok, who finds a job as a postmaster in a village where the daughter of a zamindar and the daughter of a postman (Nargis) court him. In a film in which everyone corresponds to type, Dilip Kumar is the only one who does not fit in. If ‘postman’ is read as working class, ‘zamindar’ as feudal India, and ‘postmaster’ as bureaucracy, Ashok’s uncertainty could represent the effect of contrary pulls on the officers of the state. The Hindi film sutured cultural differences from before 1947 and allegorised the social history of the nation, albeit covertly. If one is telling a story to a child, one peppers the story with references to the child’s own experience. In the same way, films draw audiences by what they have in common, which is the social experience of the time. The films may not be nationalistic or patriotic but they allegorise the topical. To give a startling example, Padosan is about a group of North Indians being anxious that their chosen Hindi-speaking woman has fallen under the influence of a bald South Indian. A friend asked me to interpret this after listening to my theories, and when I saw the date of the film (1968) it was in the period when Indira Gandhi, as prime minister, was seen to be under the influence of the Syndicate, with the bald Kamaraj at its helm! The thing about Hindi stars is that since their roles are so tied to an allegorical purpose, they need to reinvent themselves since the historical moment when the persona was created has passed. Dev Anand, Shah Rukh Khan and Salman Khan all went through this. Dilip Kumar must have faced this dilemma when India stabilised politically and the existential hero became irrelevant, although there were several more from this mould — like Footpath, Jogan and Deedar. But he still did Devdas for Bimal Roy in 1955 in which he honed the Babul role to meet the demands of a literary adaptation. Bimal Roy was not a maker of popular films and he was more interested in film as art. When he got Dilip Kumar to play Devdas, Dilip did it very differently from Saigal or P C Barua, who had done it earlier. The earlier Devdas characters were not weak men as much as emblems of male weakness — in tune with the cinema of the time, which also produced their converse, strong women, in Sant Tukaram and Hunterwali. Dilip Kumar played Devdas, not an emblem of weakness but a weak individual, perhaps one of the greatest roles in Indian cinema. After this, he was forced to change his acting style, and the ebullient rustic young man of Naya Daur (1957) and Ganga Jumna (1962) emerged. He had already played the extrovert role in Aan (1952). These characters are not individuals but types.   Among Dilip Kumar’s mature roles, the one that stays strongest in my mind is the police inspector from Ramesh Sippy’s Shakti, which I think is Sippy’s best film, and casting Dilip opposite Amitabh was a coup of sorts. That Amitabh came across reasonably speaks well of him because it was Dilip Kumar he had to upstage. Other roles like Subhash Ghai’s Saudagar (1991), while being ludicrous, still drew us because of him and Raaj Kumar. But I heard from a friend that on the sets of Saudagar, Dilip Kumar called a young actor — with higher education and Bollywood ambitions — aside and told him to stay away from acting. This could give the reader an idea of the trajectory of Hindi cinema’s national role in India.   (The writer is a well-known film critic)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/dilip-kumar-an-actor-who-rose-to-top-by-breaking-conventions-1006180.html
08-07-2021||Panorama||J&K delimitation: BJP’s plan for Hindu CM in state, and its benefits in 2024||After the recent meeting of J&K politicians with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi, the delimitation of Assembly constituencies has emerged as the first step to restoring the democratic process in the Union Territory (UT). J&K has been under central rule since June 2018, when the BJP withdrew from its coalition government with the PDP. Though since then panchayat, local body, parliament and district development council (DDC) polls have been held in the region, the BJP-led central government has not conducted Assembly elections in the erstwhile state. In April 2019, the Election Commission decided not to hold Assembly polls along with parliamentary elections in J&K due to “security reasons.” However, after the scrapping of the special status of J&K under Article 370 and bifurcation of the erstwhile state into two UTs, the Government of India has been constantly saying that the polls would be held only after the delimitation exercise is completed. And at the June 24 meeting, the Prime Minister assured the Kashmiri leaders that his government was in favour of holding early Assembly elections and restoring J&K’s statehood, but with a rider: delimitation exercise first. After the PM’s meeting, the delimitation commission has expedited its work and its members are visiting the UT from July 6 to July 9 to gather “first-hand” inputs on the ongoing process. During the visit, the commission’s members are expected to hold talks with various political parties and also the five associate members who are the five Lok Sabha MPs from the UT. Delimitation is the act of redrawing boundaries of an Assembly or Lok Sabha seat to represent changes in population over time. In March last year, the Centre had notified the constitution of the delimitation commission headed by former Supreme Court judge Ranjana Desai to redraw the Assembly and parliamentary constituencies of J&K as per the J&K Reorganisation Act, 2019. The commission got a one-year extension in March this year, as it couldn’t complete the exercise, apparently due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Assembly seats in J&K were delimited in 1963, 1973 and 1995. The last delimitation exercise was conducted in J&K under President’s Rule in 1995 by a panel headed by former judge K K Gupta. The next exercise was due in 2005, but in 2002, the then state government chose to freeze delimitation until after 2026 by amending the Jammu & Kashmir Representation of the People Act, 1957, and Section 47(3) of the Constitution of Jammu & Kashmir. The decision was in line with the pan-India freeze on delimitation of Lok Sabha constituencies till the first census after 2026. As the August 5, 2019, decision annulled J&K’s constitution, the freeze on delimitation till 2026 also became irrelevant. In fact, the J&K Reorganisation Act, which came into force on October 31, 2019, mandates delimitation of constituencies in the UT. However, in Kashmir, questions are being raised over the timing of the latest exercise. There is a fear in Muslim-majority Kashmir that it will be skewed in favour of Hindu-majority Jammu region where the BJP emerged as the single largest party in the 2014 Assembly election, securing 25 seats (out of 37). According to the last census (2011), the population of erstwhile J&K state was 12.5 million, with 6.89 million in Kashmir and 5.38 million in Jammu (Ladakh accounted for 274,289 people). This provided 46 seats to Kashmir, 37 to Jammu and four to Ladakh in the 87-member J&K Assembly, and 24 seats were reserved for Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir. However, some parties, including the BJP, have been arguing that in terms of geographical area, Jammu is about 26,293 sq km while Kashmir is 15,948 sq km and thus the fresh delimitation needs to take into account not only the population, but geographical area as well. And if the latest grapevine in the Valley is to be believed, the commission is going to increase Assembly seats of Jammu from 37 to 44 and in Kashmir from 46 to 48. The delimitation exercise will also lead to a number of reserved constituencies based on Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe settlements and will further tilt the balance in favour of Jammu. Kashmiri politicians argue that if the delimitation commission for Assam could be withheld and Assembly elections held there, then why not for J&K. They also demand restoration of statehood before Assembly polls are held. However, while they had earlier boycotted the meetings of the commission— calling the exercise “palpably unconstitutional”— several of them have now agreed to engage with the process. If the regional National Conference, PDP and other Valley-based political parties participate in the delimitation exercise, it will be the first sign from them of their acceptance of the post-August 5, 2019, reality of J&K. The NC and the CPI (M) have challenged in the Supreme Court the constitutionality of the 2019 Reorganisation Act that nullified J&K’s statehood and created two UTs. If they accept the PM’s roadmap of delimitation before polls, they will be abandoning their position. And if Jammu region gains more seats in the delimitation process, it may pave way for the fulfillment of the long-term ambition of BJP of having a Hindu chief minister in Muslim-majority J&K. According to the 2011 census, Muslims constitute 68.31% of the total population of the erstwhile state, the majority of which lives in Kashmir and in the Muslim belts of Jammu region. Hindus, who are mostly concentrated in four districts of Jammu, constitute 28.44% of the population. If the BJP succeeds in its plan to have a Hindu chief minister in the only Muslim majority state of the country, it will reap huge dividends for itself in the 2024 Parliament elections across India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/jk-delimitation-bjp-s-plan-for-hindu-cm-in-state-and-its-benefits-in-2024-1006143.html
08-07-2021||Panorama||How liberal are liberals?||For a while now, the term ‘liberal’ has been bandied about. The arrival of a right-wing government at the Centre has made some feel the necessity to wear their liberalism on their sleeves to differentiate themselves from those who are labelled blind in their loyalty to a man and the ideology that he professes. Can liberalism claim to be the sister of objectivity or is it a case of never the twain shall meet? Recently, a well-known social media flagbearer of Prime Minister Narendra Modi “corrected” the grammar in Rahul Gandhi’s tweet. She thought she knew best but Rahul was correct in his usage.  Immediately, the woman was trolled and asked to refer to Wren and Martin, the Bible of English grammar.  Whilst the woman did not exhibit common sense in what she did, the fact is that the way the “liberal” supporters of Rahul poked fun and trolled her, was anything but liberal. Speaking grammatically correct English is not something that is the privilege of all. India has its own diversity in languages that needs to be celebrated.  Whilst I was also guilty of enjoying the discomfiture of the woman, a habitual offender, being forced to delete the said tweet, it also occurred to me that there is a whole aspirational India, which might not necessarily have had the advantage to learn and speak grammatically correct English.  It is also possible that many among the non-English speaking lot may have voted Modi to power, outside of the communal agenda, simply because they saw in him a reflection of themselves— an outlier, who struggled and rose up the hard way.  It is up to the liberals to factor in this group and their aspirations, when they deal with them, rather than poke fun perhaps. Before what the liberals would like to call the silent Emergency of the last seven years, there was a real one imposed by Mrs Indira Gandhi, in which she did all in her power to muzzle institutions and the press, in much the same way as the present dispensation has been doing.  But try speaking of Mrs. Gandhi’s imposition of Emergency and you will find voices opposing, with mention of J P Narayanan having exceeded his brief, in asking government servants to revolt, leaving Mrs. Gandhi with little choice.  The fact remains that the Emergency was a blot on the history of this country and a slap to a citizen’s constitutional and democratic rights. If you are defensive about this, can you not be accused of being less liberal and sound suspiciously similar to those who defend the brute actions of the present government? The defence of Rahul on social media sometimes seems to border on the sycophantic. Agreed that he is a decent gentleman, well-read and prescient, in that he has called out this government, time and again, on their many bungles and been proved right when they have finally been forced to implement his suggestions. Many, BJP-supporters included, perhaps also know now that he has been demonised by the BJP’s IT Cell. But it is equally hard for me to understand this blind support to Rahul, as it is to understand similar support to Modi. Is there a point where the Right and the Centre converge to sound equally illiberal when they lift up one or the other to dizzying heights, from which you can only drop down, if Newton is to be believed philosophically?    A well-known historian and a self-professed liberal often speaks of the need to be objective when writing on history and yet the same gentleman attacks present-day scions of India’s famous political dynasty, in a manner that seems to go well beyond the objective. And then of course, you have liberals, who are fine with all things liberal, except feminism, which is just all about asking not to be differentiated against. Then again some who might say, I am okay with minority rights, as long as my child does not marry one, or a Pakistani, or worse still, proclaim that he is gay. The famous Communications Professor, Bella Mody, once told me that there is nothing called objectivity, not even in the media.  For a student of Communications, this sounded preposterous and unbelievable.  But the more I think about it now, the more I feel she was right.  A natural bias seems to colour all our thinking. To be a true liberal is real hard work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/how-liberal-are-liberals-1006150.html
08-07-2021||Right in the Middle||An illustrious police officer||Among the many illustrious police officers of Karnataka, P J Louise shines like a star. He was a committed and dynamic officer with outstanding leadership qualities. He fought for the country's freedom with the Indian National Army (INA) under Subhash Chandra Bose. He could defuse any explosive situation by sheer tact or exemplary intervention. He had his admirers and also detractors for a few weaknesses of his that were minor considering the times he lived in. The first time I met Louise, he was already the DIG of the sprawling Belgaum division and was well established as a competent officer who could deal with any situation in style.  He was a nightmare to criminals and violence-prone politicians such as the Maratha agitators of Belgaum. The talent of Louise to think and act fast was noticed during the Koyna tragedy. He could easily organise a village communication system to alert the danger of flood by the simple use of radio. A village volunteer system also came into existence simultaneously. Louise had a silver tongue which he could deploy very appeasingly or with disastrous effect if required. When the then minister B D Jatti told him to do something, his immediate response was "a whisper from you is a 'hukum' for us". That reply is part of a legend. On the other hand, there was a young IPS officer in one of the subdivisions under him. He had earned more bad reputation and name beyond his age and experience After many warnings he was summoned by Louise and admonished: "The stench that emanates from your activities travel through Bijapur and reaches my nostrils in Belgaum. If it reaches me again you will be taught a lesson." A famous story about Louise is how during his rounds at MG road in Bengaluru, he found out that the transit loss of scotch bottles was 10% at the Spencer's. Promptly, the accompanying police officer was told to remove the 10% of the bottles to his car. Only when the bottles disappeared from the shelf that the manager could wake up from his shock The incident may well be a story spun around him by his detractors to dent his reputation. I feel it was just apocalyptic. In fact, Louise himself was capable of creating such a story to add an aura of audacity around him during his after-dinner brandy sessions. Louise was a unique personality, admirable in many ways and also with his weaknesses and human failures. But they were forgivable. We will not easily find such an illustrious and multifaceted person in Karnataka Police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/an-illustrious-police-officer-1006151.html
08-07-2021||Second Edit||A legend of Indian cinema||Dilip Kumar, who died on Wednesday at 98, is one of the tallest legends in Indian cinema. In a career spanning 65 films and five decades, he delivered intense performances that set him apart from his contemporaries and earned him the moniker of ‘Tragedy King.’ The title does not take into account his talent for romance and comedy, but it does underline his enduring contribution to the genre of tragedy on the Indian screen. His brooding essays in Mughal-e-Azam and Devdas remain etched in the hearts of film buffs of an earlier generation. Curiously, Dilip Kumar did not set out to be an actor. Born in Peshawar (now in Pakistan) on December 11, 1922, he came to Bombay (now Mumbai) looking for a job, any job, when Devika Rani, the leading heroine of the era, asked him if he would act in a production she was involved in. It was at her suggestion that he changed his name from Mohammad Yusuf Khan to Dilip Kumar. His first film, Jwar Bhata (1944), did not do too well, and he had to wait for three years for his first big box-office success, Jugnu. His last film was Saudagar (1991). Critics often refer to Dilip Kumar as a method actor. Method acting is a Russian theatre style, popularised in Hollywood by Marlon Brando, and involves a close study of a character before it is taken up for portrayal. Dilip Kumar invested time and effort in understanding the psychological make-up of his characters, often simulating their state of mind in an attempt to get under their skin. This approach, which emphasises ‘experiencing’ over ‘representation’, contrasted with the more generic approach of his popular contemporaries Raj Kapoor and Dev Anand. Some roles, it is said, pushed Dilip Kumar to depression, and he had to consult a psychiatrist. He addressed the problem by taking on light-hearted roles and excelling at them.   Dilip Kumar ruled the Hindi film industry in the 1950s and 60s, before the advent of superstars such as Rajesh Khanna and Amitabh Bachchan. He also scripted and produced Ganga Jamuna (1961) and starred opposite the most talented heroines of his time. He made an emphatic comeback in the 80s, with such hits as Kranti, Shakti and Saudagar. Honoured with the Padma Bhushan and Padma Vibhushan, Dilip Kumar was also the recipient of a high Pakistani honour. He served as an MP between 2000 and 2006. In his passing, Indian cinema has lost a stalwart who defined its course.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/a-legend-of-indian-cinema-1006142.html
08-07-2021||South||Assembly polls performance propels TN BJP chief Murugan to Union Cabinet||With the BJP winning four assembly seats in Tamil Nadu in the recently-held polls after a gap of two decades, the party's state unit chief L Murugan appears to have earned his stripes as he was inducted in the union cabinet on Wednesday. When Murugan became the Tamil Nadu president of the saffron party in March 2020, he had his task cut out as he had barely a year to prepare the party to face the assembly polls the following year. Given the social milieu of Tamil Nadu, with the undertone of Dravidian ideology in every sphere of life, it is no easy task to lead a national party with a Hindutva mooring. But, Murugan unlike his predecessors, did not shy away from picking 'soft Dravidian' ideology if warranted, all along maintaining his party's nationalist vision. For instance, last year, on social reformer 'Periyar' E V Ramasamy's birth anniversary he said there was no second opinion that the late leader slogged for social justice. He had said the party had no hesitation in extending its greetings on the occasion. Political analyst M Bharat Kumar said Murugan was a good strategist who came up with the 'Vel yatra' (spear, a weapon of Lord Muruga) campaign last year that helped the BJP to galvanise its workers and it was a good initaitve to mobilise public opinion on an issue seen as sensitive. Defying government ban and opposition from groups like the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi, 'Vel yatra,' was held last year by the BJP. The matter also went to the Madras High Court. Dalit leader Murugan's elevation as BJP state unit chief, after Tamilisai Soundararajan, also showed that it honoured hard work and talent which helped it in its bid to reach out to more new voters, Kumar said. On Murugan's elevation, commentator and political analyst, Sumanth Raman said it appeared to have happened due to a combination of factors. A representation for Tamil Nadu in the Cabinet is one aspect, and "he worked extremely hard and that is a fact, which has helped BJP get four seats in the Assembly though he himself lost by a narrow margin", he said. BJP spokesperson Narayanan Tirupathi said, "Murugan is a hard worker, very active and an energetic young man, he took it as a challenge when he was entrusted with the state party leadership and he proved himself." A grass-roots level worker for over 20 years, Murugan was with the RSS and Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad before joining the saffron party and he is well known for his organisational skills. He lost the assembly polls from Dharapuram (Reserved) constituency by a narrow margin of 1,393 votes. As a DMK partner, the BJP had won four assembly constituencies in 2001 polls and after a hiatus of two decades, it managed to repeat it this year in alliance with the AIADMK. The 44-year old advocate, hailing from Tamil Nadu's western Namakkal district, has been the vice chairman of the National Commission For Scheduled Castes before he was appointed BJP state unit chief. He is expected to be elected to the upper house of Parliament from a BJP-ruled state. A post graduate in law, he did his doctorate in human right laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/assembly-polls-performance-propels-tn-bjp-chief-murugan-to-union-cabinet-1006123.html
08-07-2021||South||New lease of life for 'Periyar cow' facing extinction threat||An indigenous lesser known population of short cattle facing threat of extinction in a Kerala forest region are being pulled back from the brink, thanks to conservation efforts by a group of passionate cattle rearing farmers living on the banks of the famous River Periyar. Conservationists say thriving of the neglected Periyar cow, locally known as "Periyar Kullan" (Periyar dwarf), which produces tasty and nutritious milk with medicinal value, is certain as the Kerala State Livestock Development Board decided to adopt its pair of bulls for semen collection,giving them a chance to bring back older breeds, whose genetic stock was not easily available. Jose James, Managing Director of KLD Board, said the bulls, aged three and four years, were identified for semen collection. They were selected after conducting detailed examinations at the Centre for Advanced Livestock Genomics (CALG) and State Institute for Animal Diseases under the state government. The bulls, selected from the farm of conservationist Cose Kurien, hailing from Kodanad village in Ernakulam district, will be adopted on Friday, sources said. They will be returned to the farm after collecting 5,000 doses of semen from them. James said the project envisages production of 1,000 pure dwarfs in two years. Dr C K Shaju, subject expert on Animal Husbandry, Kerala Biodiversity Board, said semen collected from bulls can be preserved for many years. Kurien, who initiated steps for conservation of Periyar cows four years ago, said the the indigenous cattle is found along villages close to forest regions on the banks of the river Periyar like Kodanad, Kuttampuzha, Malayattoor, Kalady, Panamkuzhi, Panieli and Ayyampuzha. A custodian farmer rearing over a hundred such cows now, Kurian said he took up the initiative for its conservation in 2017, inspired by a report prepared by a group of students studying in the school owned by him in Kodanad village. He said initially a collective of farmers interested in rearing Periyar cows was formed. The cattle bore different names associated with places like 'Kuttampuzha dwarf' and 'Ayyampuzha dwarf.' It was famous veterinarian Dr Jayadevan Namboodiri, who had contributed enormously towards conservation of the famous "Vechur Cattle", who gave the lessons for conservation of the Periyar cow, organising a seminar a few years ago, Kurien recalled. Namboodiri had done enormous study on Periyar cows, but his vision for their classification materialised after Kurien and other custodian farmers took it as a mission in 2017. Talking to PTI, Namboodiri said Periyar cows could not be called as a "breed" as it is a lesser known population. Kurien said a detailed study is being conducted by the National Bureau of Animal Genetic Resources (NBAGR) in Karnal for conservation of the lesser known population of Kerala cattle on the basis of a project submitted by Namboodiri. Kurien, a gene saviour award winner and manager of Mar Augen High School, Kodandad, said scientists from NBAGR, which is under the Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR), visited his village Kodanad in 2019 to study the characteristics of the Periyar cows. "To undertake the study of indigenous varieties of cows, the scientists, led by Dr Anil Kumar Mishra and Dr K N Raja, travelled through various forest areas and collected blood samples for research. They conducted interviews with our students and local people. Again during November 2019 they visited and collected blood samples for further studies," Kurien told PTI. Namboodiri, Deputy Director of the state Animal Husbandry Department, said a regular follow-up is being done for getting the Periyar cows get the recognition of a cattle breed. "After the scientific study, we hope that there will be an eventual recognition of the Periyar breed of cattle, which will be the second breed in Kerala, after the famous "Vechur Cattle", he said. Namboodiri hailed the conservation efforts by Kurien. He said cattle having a height of 95 to 100 cm have got a very good characteristic, with a short sturdy body. Namboodiri said the heat tolerant Periyar cows can survive the adverse effects of climate change. It also has the ability to resist all diseases, he said. Dr Shaju said cow-based agriculture in agro biodiversity is very much necessary to help the farmers. He also suggested that farm schools be organised from custodian farmers with the object of propagation of ecological importance to the next generation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/new-lease-of-life-for-periyar-cow-facing-extinction-threat-1006217.html
08-07-2021||South||New digital app to be used for online classes: Kerala Minister||Kerala Education Minister V Sivankutty has said that all necessary steps have been taken to overcome the shortcoming in online education in the state in the ongoing academic year and a new digital application would be used for the purpose. In view of the continuing Covid-19 situation, the department took measures to further expand digital classes for school children, he said after launching the distribution of television for anganwadis in Kattakkada constituency here on Wednesday. "Live classes are being launched by creating a new application that helps students to interact with teachers directly," he said. With this, students and teachers would be able to see and interact with each other, the minister added. Soon after the digital reopening of schools in the state last month, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had assured internet connectivity and digital devices for all students in the state irrespective of their financial and geographical barriers to pursue online classes without any hassles during the Covid-19 era. Urgent steps would be taken to ensure internet free of cost or at a subsidised rate to needy children, he had told the Assembly when the opposition raised concern about the possible 'digital divide' among students in the southern state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/new-digital-app-to-be-used-for-online-classes-kerala-minister-1006252.html
08-07-2021||South||Will toe party line on ties with BJP: AIADMK's Shanmugam||AIADMK leader C Ve Shanmugam on Thursday said he was bound by the party leadership's decision on continuing the alliance with Assembly poll partner BJP. After the AIADMK brass asserted that the alliance formed by it with the BJP and others for the April 6 Assembly polls continued, Shanmugam, a former Minister, said he and others were bound by that decision of the leadership. Top leaders O Panneerselvam and K Palaniswami on Wednesday made the clarification following Shanmugam's remark that the tie-up with BJP led to AIADMK's debacle in the polls. Saffron party functionaries had joined issue with Shanmugam for his comment at an AIADMK meet on July 6. Shanmugam, reiterating that his view on AIADMK losing Assembly polls vis-a-vis the BJP was a 'personal comment,' told reporters that though leaders including him may air their individual views, they were eventually bound by the decision of the leadership. In a statement, AIADMK leaders had said, "there need not be any doubt that the alliance formed for the 2021 Assembly polls continues and that all of us will stand shoulder to shoulder and work for the growth of Tamil Nadu." The AIADMK won 66 seats, its allies PMK five and BJP four while DMK emerged victorious in 133 segments in the 234 member Assembly and captured power. DMK allies, Congress won 18 seats, VCK four and Left parties a total of four seats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/will-toe-party-line-on-ties-with-bjp-aiadmks-shanmugam-1006289.html
08-07-2021||South||Tamil Nadu Assembly getting ready for e-budget presentation||If all goes well, the newly-elected legislators of the Tamil Nadu Assembly will be glued to their desktop computers instead of looking into a booklet when Finance Minister P T R Palanivel Thiaga Rajan presents the first Budget of the DMK government later this month or early August. The legislators will have to scroll through the PDF document on their screens as Thiaga Rajan flips through the pages reading out his maiden Budget speech as the Tamil Nadu assembly takes baby steps in its ambitious journey towards turning paperless. Though the plan to move towards a “paperless assembly” has been in the offing for some time, the new DMK dispensation has fast tracked the process. Besides the desktop computers at the desks in the temporary assembly hall at the Kalaivanar Arangam, the MLAs will also be provided with tablet PCs on which they will receive all official communication from the Assembly, including reports. Sources said the Electronics Corporation of Tamil Nadu Ltd (ELCOT) has almost finalised a buyer for supplying 240 “all-in-one desktops” and 261 tablet PCs to the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly (TNLA). The work of installing desktop computers at the desks in the Assembly Hall will begin in the next few days. The sources said Chief Minister M K Stalin is keen on adapting technology to run the House without depending on paper, though he understands that many legislators will take time to get used to computers. They added that the plan is to present an e-budget this year, though the Assembly Secretariat has plans to print booklets in case any legislator asks for a hard copy. Confirming the move, Speaker M Appavu told Deccan Herald that efforts were on to present the Tamil Nadu Assembly’s first e-budget and acknowledged that many legislators would need training in handling the gadgets. “While the goal is to achieve paperless assembly, we cannot rush into things. We are planning to present an e-budget and take things from there. We will also provide training to legislators who need assistance on handling the gadgets. We hope to become a paperless assembly in every sense within the tenure of this assembly,” Appavu said. A senior government official said the Assembly Secretariat plans to send all communication and reports tabled in the House to the legislators electronically once the tablets are handed over to the legislators. “For the time being, we will provide the hard copy to lessen any inconvenience that may be caused to the legislators. But we will ensure that the transition is seamless,” the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-assembly-getting-ready-for-e-budget-presentation-1006378.html
08-07-2021||South||TN BJP chief Murugan may be elected to RS from Puducherry||As chief of the Tamil Nadu BJP unit, L Murugan ensured that party legislators entered the state assembly after two decades, he was rewarded with a Union Minister of State (MoS) despite not being a Member of Parliament (MP). Though the victory of the four MLAs has largely been attributed to the alliance with AIADMK, the BJP High Command felt Murugan, who was considered as a lightweight politician when he was appointed to the post in March 2020, played a crucial role in the run-up to the elections. The state BJP chief was instrumental in bringing two DMK MLAs to the party – one on the eve of elections – and ensured that the party stayed in the media limelight for about a year. He was the man behind Vetrivel Yatra – though it did not create much impact among the people but revitalised the cadre – apparently to avenge those who made derogatory remarks on Kandha Shasthi Kavasam, a collection of hymns dedicated to Lord Murugan. Murugan, who was vice-chairman of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (SC) before he was appointed as BJP chief, unsuccessfully contested the April 6 assembly elections from Dharapuram in western Tamil Nadu. He lost to DMK’s N Kayalvizhi Selvaraj by a slender margin – she is now the Minister for Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare in Tamil Nadu. With Murugan not being an MP, he should get elected to either Lok Sabha or Rajya Sabha within six months. Sources said the chances are bright for Murugan to enter the Rajya Sabha from nearby Puducherry where the lone member, N Gokulakrishnan of the AIADMK, retires in October. “I think he will represent Puducherry in the Rajya Sabha. This will help the party in both Tamil Nadu and the tiny Union Territory. If Murugan is elected to RS from some other state, it would stoke a row as a question would arise on which state he represents. With Puducherry, there will be no such questions,” a BJP leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-bjp-chief-murugan-may-be-elected-to-rs-from-puducherry-1006390.html
08-07-2021||South||'Ondriya Arasu' to replace 'Madhiya Arasu' in Tamil Nadu textbooks||Textbooks printed by the Tamil Nadu Textbook Corporation will “very soon” begin to refer to the Union Government as 'Ondriya Arasu' in Tamil in place of ''Madhiya Arasu'' (Central government). The newly-appointed chairman of the corporation ‘Dindigul’ I Leoni announced on Thursday after a meeting with Chief Minister M K Stalin. The move comes amidst a debate over the usage of the term 'Ondriyam' by the new DMK government in the state. While the DMK maintains that 'Ondriya Arasu' is the apt translation for Union Government, the Tamil Nadu BJP unit has taken objection to the term accusing the ruling party of bringing a change in the nomenclature with an “ulterior motive.” With the DMK normalising the term in daily discourse, Leoni, who was appointed as chairman of the textbook corporation that prints over 3 crore books a year, said the term 'Madhiya Arasu' will be replaced with 'Ondriya Arasu' in textbooks very soon.  “People have begun using the word Ondriya Arasu to refer to the Union Government. Ondriyam is a beautiful word that signifies that India is a Union of States. Since people have begun using the term, our textbooks will also use the word Ondriya Arasu in the future. The change will be effected very soon,” Leoni told reporters here. While responding to a question in the Assembly, Stalin had said his government would continue to refer to the Union Government as “Ondriya Arasu” as the term signifies federalism. Leoni’s appointment to the post has stoked a row with many pointing to his “distasteful” election speeches against women. Many people took to social media to condemn Lenoi’s appointment to the crucial post and opined that Stalin could have chosen a better person. PMK M P Anbumani Ramadoss condemned the move and demanded that Stalin remove Leoni and appoint “someone else” to the post. Responding to the controversy over his appointment, Leoni said only opposition parties like BJP and PMK have been raking up the issue, and there was “no protest even from women.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ondriya-arasu-to-replace-madhiya-arasu-in-tamil-nadu-textbooks-1006395.html
08-07-2021||South||First Zika virus case reported in Kerala||A 24-year-old woman in Kerala was found to be infected with Zika virus, while 13 more were suspected to be infected. State Health Minister Veena George said that Zika virus has been reported in Kerala for the first time. Native of Thiruvananthapuram, the infected person was pregnant and she delivered on Wednesday. Though she had not traveled outside Kerala in the recent past, she was residing near the Tamil Nadu border. Of the 19 other samples tested, 13 were suspected to have Zika infection. The samples were sent to NIV Pune for confirmation. The minister said that though no medicines for Zika infection is available now, the fatality due to the infection was very rare. The infection spreads mainly through Aedes mosquitoes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/first-zika-virus-case-reported-in-kerala-1006400.html
08-07-2021||South||Ex-IPS Annamalai appointed Tamil Nadu BJP chief||Less than a year after he joined the party, former Karnataka-cadre IPS officer K Annamalai was on Thursday night appointed as the new President of the Tamil Nadu BJP, underlining the saffron outfit’s concerted efforts to make inroads in the state still rooted in Dravidian politics. Annamalai replaces L Murugan, who was inducted into the Union Cabinet as a Minister of State (MoS) on Wednesday. BJP General Secretary Arun Singh said in a statement that Annamalai, a Karnataka-cadre officer who quit IPS in 2019, is being appointed as President of the Tamil Nadu unit. He added that the appointment comes into effect immediately. Annamalai, 37, is probably the youngest chief of the Tamil Nadu BJP and faces an uphill task to strengthen the party at the grassroots and take on a resurgent DMK, which has captured Fort. St. George, the state government’s seat of power, after a decade. The BJP High Command feels Annamalai, who hails from the dominant Gounder community, will be able to woo youngsters to the party and strengthen it at the grassroots level. By projecting Annamalai as its face, the BJP feels it can garner the support of the Gounder community that holds sway in the Western region. The BJP has been focussing on the western belt, where its ally AIADMK is also strong, for the past few years and appointing Murugan was also keeping an eye on expanding its base in the region. Annamalai, who unsuccessfully contested the assembly elections from his native Aravakurichi constituency, will have to take along several factions with him as he takes over as the state unit chief. He will also have to handle allies like the AIADMK, which is beset with internal problems, and PMK, considered a tough alliance partner. His appointment also comes close on the heels of a senior AIADMK leader, C Ve Shanmugham, laying the blame for the party’s defeat in the assembly elections at the BJP. Though O Panneerselvam and Edappadi K Palaniswami asserted that the alliance with BJP was intact, the faultiness have begun to appear.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ex-ips-annamalai-appointed-tamil-nadu-bjp-chief-1006408.html
08-07-2021||South||Bouquets and brickbats for Kerala on Covid management||While the Kerala High Court on Thursday expressed serious concerns over the crowding of people in front of liquor outlets in the state even as the Covid cases in Kerala remained high, a central team that reviewed the situations in Kerala reportedly expressed satisfaction over the treatment and vaccination measures. Hearing a public interest litigation on the over crowding in front of the liquor outlets, Justice Devan Ramachandran said that at least one metre distance needed to be maintained among people to avoid spread of Covid. But it was not being followed as people could be seen crowding in front of the liquor outlets. The court also observed that arrangements should be made for customers at the outlets so they can purchase the liquor of their choice in a civilised manner without waiting in roads for hours. The court also sought the response of the state Excise department and the Kerala State Beverages Corporation that runs the retail outlets. Meanwhile, Kerala Health Minister Veena George said that the central team that reviewed the Covid management of Kerala expressed satisfaction on the treatment of Covid patients, vaccination drive and steps taken to avoid oxygen shortage and ICU bed management. The state requested the Centre to ensure adequate Covid vaccine supply. The Covid test positivity rate in Kerala continued to remain above 10.83 per cent on Thursday also. With 13,772 more fresh cases being reported on Thursday, the total number of Covid active cases in Kerala reached 1.10 lakh. Varun HK||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bouquets-and-brickbats-for-kerala-on-covid-management-1006428.html
08-07-2021||South||Minor girl drugged and sexually abused for two years in Kerala; two held||A minor girl was sexually abused after being drugged and blackmailed at Palakkad in Kerala. The incident that happened in 2019 came to light now after the mother of the victim approached the police. While two youths were held in this connection, one was absconding. According to the complainant, one of the accused lured the girl by promising to marry her when she was 16. He took her to various places and gave her drugs and liquor, and raped her along with his friend. Later another youth also raped her. The girl's mother came across this after she happened to notice some pictures on her mobile phone. While the police nabbed two accused identified as Abhilash and Noufal, another accused, Muhammed, was absconding. Cases under POCSO Act were registered against the accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/minor-girl-drugged-and-sexually-abused-for-two-years-in-kerala-two-held-1006430.html
08-07-2021||South||Want cordial relations with Telangana but will draw our rightful share of Krishna waters, says Jagan||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has asserted that his state would draw its rightful share of river waters in the interest of farmers, while maintaining that his government wants cordial relations with neighboring states. Reddy's comments came amidst the standoff between Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, with both states accusing each other of building unauthorised lift irrigation schemes dependent on the Krishna waters. The issue precipitated with Telangana using the river waters to generate power following Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao's orders last month. On Thursday, Reddy participated in the Rythu Dinotsavam celebrations in Anantapuram district, organised to commemorate the birth anniversary of his late father and former CM Dr YS Rajasekhara Reddy. “Water issues should not be politicised as farmers of all places are the same. We want to maintain cordial relations with all our neighbouring states - Telangana, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. We do not intend to interfere in their affairs but some Telangana ministers and legislators have been talking tall of late,” Reddy said. Reddy said that when the state was united, allocations of Krishna waters to the three regions of Rayalaseema, Coastal Andhra, and Telangana were clearly earmarked. “And after the bifurcation, there was a tripartite agreement signed by the Centre, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana on June 19, 2015 with clear earmarking of river water allocations.” The AP CM said that their Pothireddypadu project would not be helpful unless the Srisailam reservoir level rises to its full capacity of 885 feet. “Setting aside the previous two years, during the past two decades, waters reached that level hardly for 20 to 25 days. When we cannot draw water unless the level is 881 feet, in Telangana, Palamuru Ranga Reddy, Dindi and Kalwakurthy projects are drawing water even when the reservoir level is 800 feet. And they are even generating hydel power at 796 feet.” “When Telangana could draw water at 800 feet, what is wrong if Andhra Pradesh does the same by claiming its rightful share of water through lift?,” Reddy questioned. In his various letters to the Centre in the past few days, Reddy has sought the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and union water resources minister Gajendra Shekhawat to resolve the Krishna water issues with Telangana.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/want-cordial-relations-with-telangana-but-will-draw-our-rightful-share-of-krishna-waters-says-jagan-1006437.html
08-07-2021||South||Aisha Sultana quizzed again by police||The Kavaratti police on Thursday quizzed Lakshadweep actor Aisha Sultana in connection with the sedition case registered against her. A police team reached her flat in Kochi and sought certain clarifications regarding her contacts and transactions. They were also learnt to have examined her computer. She was earlier summoned to Kavaratti police station and was quizzed for several days. The case was registered against her based on a BJP leader's complaint over her remark during a TV channel discussion where she said that Covid surge in Lakshadweep was a 'bio weapon' of the BJP. The HC had earlier granted anticipatory bail to her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aisha-sultana-quizzed-again-by-police-1006445.html
08-07-2021||State||Karnataka's Rajeev Chandrasekhar, Narayanaswamy, Karandlaje get Union ministry berths||Tech entrepreneur Rajeev Chandrasekhar, Dalit leader A Narayanaswamy and Shobha Karandlaje, all from Karnataka, Wednesday found a place in the Union ministry. Rajeev Chandrasekhar Rajeev Chandrasekhar, a tech entrepreneur and a BJP Rajya Sabha member from Karnataka, has worked on areas such as urban governance and veteran and armed forces issues. Serving his third term in the Upper House, the 57-year-old son of a former Air Force officer, entered politics in 2006. In the previous two terms, he was an independent. Chandrasekhar founded BPL Mobile in 1994. He, however, exited the cellular sector in 2005, with BPL valuing at $1.1 billion at the time. In 2005, he founded Jupiter Capital, an investment and financial services firm. Jupiter Capital, which was established with an initial investment of $100 million, today has investments and managed assets of over $one billion ranging from technology to transportation, logistical services to hospitality and entertainment, sources close to him said. Chandrasekhar served as the youngest President of industry chamber FICCI in 2008-09. Born on May 31, 1964, he holds Bachelors in electrical engineering, and Masters in Computer Science from Illinois Institute of Chicago. On completing Masters in 1986, he worked at Intel as Senior Design Engineer and a CPU architect on the "80486 and Pentium Microprocessors" till 1991. Also a philanthropist, his "Flags of Honour Foundation" looks after the families of Armed Forces martyrs, and the "Namma Bengaluru Foundation" partners with city residents and works at grass-roots to highlight and improve the civic and administrative conditions of Bengaluru, according to sources. Chandrasekhar had also approached the courts to intervene on behalf of citizens in the case of Sec 66A, Aadhaar privacy issues and voting rights for Armed Forces, they said. A Narayanaswamy A Narayanaswamy, a first time MP who was denied entry into a village in his constituency nearly two years ago as he was a Dalit, on Wednesday found a berth in the Union cabinet. A Lok Sabha member from Chitradurga (SC) constituency, he belongs to the Madiga sect of Dalit community, and has served as MLA from Anekal segment for four times- 1998, 1999, 2004 and 2008. Narayanaswamy had also served as the Chief Whip of the BJP Legislative Party in the Karnataka assembly in 1998 -1999, and was minister in the BJP government from 2010 to 2013. As an MP, he is currently serving as a Member of the Committee on Welfare of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, Standing Committee on Water Resources, and Consultative Committee, Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment. Narayanaswamy is considered close to BJP National General Secretary (Organisation) B L Santosh, and his induction is seen in some political quarters as part of the party's strategy to further consolidate its "Dalit Left vote base". Born on May 16, 1957 in Anekal, he is a BA graduate from Government Arts College, Bengaluru. In a shocking incident of untouchability, he was prevented from entering Pemmanahalli village, a Gollarahatti (settlement of Golla/Yadavs), in Tumakuru district, which falls under his Lok Sabha constituency, in September 17, 2019 when he had gone there for some development-related work. Shobha Karandlaje  An outspoken politician who does not mince words on issues she strongly feels about, Shobha Karandlaje, once considered as a close confidant of state BJP strongman and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, was a surprise pick in the Union cabinet expansion Wednesday. A two-time Lok Sabha member from Udupi-Chikmagalur, she is also the state BJP vice president. With an RSS background, she has grown through the ranks. Incidentally, Karandlaje is from the politically-influential Vokkaliga community in southern Karnataka, to which Sadananda Gowda who resigned from the union cabinet today, also belongs to. As someone who had wielded a considerable amount of influence during the previous BJP rule under Yediyurappa, 54-year-old Karandlaje has by and large remained in her constituency in recent times, and there was an element of surprise in her induction. Born on October 23, 1966, at Puttur in Dakshina Kannada district, her educational qualification includes M.A. (Sociology) and Master of Social Work. She is unmarried. Karandlaje was MLC from 2004 - 2008, MLA from 2008 - 2013, and served as Minister for Rural Development & Panchayati Raj, Power, and Food and Civil Supplies during the previous BJP government. Under attack from dissident MLAs then, led by the mining baron Reddy brothers, for her being accorded "prominence" by chief minister Yediyurappa and her "interfering" with the functioning of other ministries, Karandlaje was forced to resign as minister in November 2009, as the dissidence threatened the stability of the then BJP government. She was, however, inducted back into the cabinet by Yediyurappa in September 2010. Karandlaje followed her mentor when Yediyurappa quit the BJP and floated the KJP in 2012 and was appointed its working president. She had unsuccessfully contested the 2013 assembly election from Rajajinagar. However, she along with Yediyurappa returned to BJP fold, and contested the 2014 parliamentary election from Udupi-Chikmagalur constituency as the party's candidate and won. Interestingly, unlike last time around, Karandlaje is not seen among the inner circles of Yediyurappa in the present government, amid reports about soured relationship between the two, and the chief minister's younger son B Y Vijayendra's growing influence. She was quite vocal on issues such as religious extremism, 'love jihad', and alleged killing of Hindu activists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnatakas-rajeev-chandrasekhar-narayanaswamy-karandlaje-get-union-ministry-berths-1006132.html
08-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Doctors see rise in Avascular Necrosis cases in recovered Covid patients||48-year-old Vikram Reddy, a businessman, had contracted Covid in September last year and two months later developed back pain. An MRI revealed Avascular Necrosis (AVN), a disease that results from the temporary or permanent loss of blood supply to the bones. When blood supply is cut off, the bone tissue dies and the bone collapses. DH spoke with several city orthopaedic surgeons who confirmed Covid patients post recovery facing this problem, and have warned against excessive use of steroids. Another reason is that since the clotting tendency of the body generally increases due to Covid, blood supply to some areas stops in some patients who have also taken steroids. Treatment with bisphosphonates tablets stalled worsening of Vikram's condition, but it still persists. Standing up for long hours leads to pain and his daily routine has been hampered due to activity restriction. This is the first time he has developed an orthopaedic problem in his life. To treat his Covid last year, he had no choice but to be administered with steroids, which his treating doctor believes is the reason for him getting AVN. His wife Sangeetha Reddy, 45, who also recovered from Covid but did not develop AVN, told DH, "We took a few steroids because the CORAD (Covid-19 Reporting and Data System) score increased from four to nine in five days. When it was spreading rapidly, the pulmonologist took a call to give steroids. "Maybe AVN was a complication due to steroids but at that point of time what choice did we have? From our experience, I suggest recovered Covid patients to watch out for back and joint pain at least for a year. Second wave's complications are worse compared to the first wave." Dr Raghu Nagaraj, specialist in knee and shoulder surgery, who treated Vikram, said, "I have seen two AVN patients so far. Both had Covid in October and had back pain three months down the line. "In grade one and two of AVN, we do core decompression where we drill multiple holes into the head of the femur (ball). Hip joint is a ball in a socket. In AVN, the ball becomes dead. The blood supply to the ball stops. So the soft nature of the ball becomes hard. The smooth, round nature of the ball becomes mush," the doctor said. Core decompression is a surgical procedure that involves surgical drilling into the area of dead bone near the joint. This reduces pressure, allows increased blood flow, and slows or stops bone or joint destruction. Dr Deepak S, former president of Bangalore Orthopaedic Society, and Special Officer, Trauma and Emergency Care Centre, said, "Cases are slowly creeping up. What we are seeing now are patients who have taken steroids in the first wave. But steroids are the most important drugs to save lives from Covid. So it is inevitable for some minimal percentage of cases to have AVN."  Dr Ranjith SDI, an expert in hip reconstruction, who runs Swarnarani Orthopaedic clinic in Vidyaranyapura, said, "AVN can occur in many bones, hip bone being one of them. There are many causes of AVN too, one of them being steroid intake. During this pandemic, many Covid patients have consumed steroids with or without prescriptions."  "High doses can cause AVN. Surgery is indicated in some, not all, depending on whether it is the late stage. If the ball has deformed and is causing wear and tear (arthritis), then the only option is a hip replacement. For younger patients we do a high performance hip replacement, for older ones routine replacement is done," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/doctors-see-rise-in-avascular-necrosis-cases-in-recovered-covid-patients-1006112.html
08-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to waive off crop loans of farmers who died due to Covid-19||Karnataka Cooperation Minister S T Somashekhar announced Thursday that the state government will write off loans borrowed by farmers who died due to Covid-19.  Speaking to reporters, Someshekhar said that the government will compile the list of such farmers for the waiver. "A decision on this will be taken in the next two to three days," he said. The waiver will be applicable for loans borrowed from cooperative banks.  Data on the outstanding loans by farmers in cooperative banks are being compiled by the Department. However, there is no information on the number of farmers who died in the pandemic yet, the minister said. The government will collate the relevant data and waive off loans at the earliest, Somashekar added. He hailed the formation of the new Ministry of Cooperation saying that it would provide impetus to the cooperatives sector. "This won't affect the Cooperation Departments run by state governments. Some of the amendments enacted by the Centre were not being implemented by the States. This led to confusion, which will be addressed by the new ministry," Somashekhar said, maintaining that powers of the State with respect to cooperatives will not be hampered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-waive-off-crop-loans-of-farmers-who-died-due-to-covid-19-1006258.html
08-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Faction supporting Karnataka CM B S Yediurappa to take grievance to Delhi||The bickering between factions of the ruling BJP unit is all set to reach the party high command in the national capital once again. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s political secretary M P Renukacharya said that a delegation of MLAs will travel to New Delhi and file a complaint on the continued attack by disgruntled BJP members against the state government. "We will meet national leaders in Delhi and press for the expulsion of such legislators," Renukacharya told reporters after meeting Yediyurappa. The development came after BJP MLA Basangouda Patil Yatnal and Tourism Minister C P Yogeeshwar resumed their criticism of the Yediyurappa administration and the alleged interference of CM’s son BY Vijayendra in the government, fueling speculation over change in leadership. Renukacharya said that the comments on leadership change and attacks on Yediyurappa cannot be tolerated. "Anyone making such statements can do so after resigning as a legislator...Talking against Yediyurappa is like talking against the party," he said. "We are warning them. Repeatedly issuing statements to embarrass Yediyurappa is not right," Renukacharya said, adding that they would meet the national leaders during the upcoming Lok Sabha session. Another MLA MP Kumaraswamy dared those critical of the CM to resign and face elections again. "The party leadership has warned them already," he noted. Renukacharya and Kumaraswamy along with MLAs M Chandrappa, Arunkumar Pujar and others met Yediyurappa at his official residence, earlier in the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/faction-supporting-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediurappa-to-take-grievance-to-delhi-1006274.html
08-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 crisis: Sputnik V flies off the shelves in Bengaluru||With supplies of Covid-19 vaccines falling short in the past few weeks and increased clamour to get a jab after unlocking, citizens are ready to take any vaccine available in the city. Vaccination slots for Sputnik V, which was launched less than 10 days ago, are totally booked in all the four vaccination sites in Bengaluru where they're being offered. Sputnik's 21-day interval between doses, which is shorter compared to Covishield and Covaxin, is also leading to its increased uptake. In Vydehi Hospital, Whitefield, Address Health clinic, Hulimavu Gate, Tenet Diagnostics and United Hospital, both in Jayanagar, vaccination slots for Sputnik V are totally booked. Though Manipal Hospital's available slots do not show up on the Co-WIN portal, the hospital said Sputnik V stock is still available with them after administering 3,500 doses from June 29 till date. Dr Satyanarayana Mysore, HOD, Pulmonology, Manipal Hospital, Old Airport Road, said, "Since June 29, more than 3,500 Sputnik V doses have been administered. The Sputnik vaccine's efficacy is good. We have not seen any side effects. Also, the duration between the vaccine doses is shorter and that is an advantage." Unlike other vaccines, Sputnik comes with two different vaccines for doses 1 and 2 and it is highly recommended to be administered with an interval of 21 days in between. Dr Shanthakumar Muruda, Executive Director, United Hospital, said, "Out of 2,400 Sputnik V doses which we had received, more than 1,200 doses have already been administered. We have also ordered an additional 12,000 doses of Sputnik V, which is expected to arrive on the afternoon of July 8 from Dr Reddy's Laboratories Ltd." Explaining the reasons for its quick uptake, Muruda said, "Sputnik is more than 90% effective against Covid-19. Dose 1 and dose 2 have to be administered in 21 days. Also, dose 2 is reserved for the person getting dose 1. With early completion of vaccination, individuals develop immunity against Covid-19 in a shorter span of time. Also, its effectiveness is second best against Delta variant of the Covid virus among available vaccines in the world."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-crisis-sputnik-v-flies-off-the-shelves-in-bengaluru-1006351.html
08-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||SC notice to CBI on ex Minister's plea in murder case of BJP worker||The Supreme Court on Thursday issued notice to the CBI on a plea by former Karnataka Minister and senior Congress leader Vinay Kulkarni, questioning the validity of sanction granted to prosecute him in 2016 murder of a BJP worker in Dharwad. A bench of Justices U U Lalit, Ajay Rastogi and Aniruddha Bose sought a response from the CBI on a separate petition filed by Chandrashekhar Indi, challenging lodging of the FIR, a second one in the case. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Kulkarni, contended that all key accused in the matter were on bail. Why should the petitioner be put under custody, he asked. The main accused as per the state police, which first investigated the case, and the CBI, which subsequently took over the matter, were released on bail. The court, however, asked him about the phone calls purportedly linking the main accused with Kulkarni. To this, the counsel said he was a political persons and received hundreds of calls in a day. The court asked the CBI to file a response and put the matter for consideration on July 26. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the CBI, questioned the maintainability of the petition. The court, however, asked him to place the objections in the affidavit before it. Senior advocate K T S Tulsi and advocate Rajesh Inamdar appeared for Indi, co-accused in the case. Yogeshgouda Goudar, 26, a member of district Panchayat, was hacked to death on June 15, 2016 at his gym in Saptapur in Dharwad on being immobilised with chilli powder, thrown on his face. The victim's family members suspected role of former Minister and Congress leader Kulkarni into the murder. The B S Yeddyurappa government had on September 6, 2019 ordered the CBI probe, within a couple of months of assuming of the charge. The top court had earlier on February 21, 2020 stayed the Karnataka High Court's order of November 21, 2019 that suspended the probe by the central agency into matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sc-notice-to-cbi-on-ex-ministers-plea-in-murder-case-of-bjp-worker-1006354.html
08-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka house owners may soon be barred from demanding more than two months rent as advance||Karnataka Revenue Minister R Ashoka on Thursday said the state government was considering adopting the Centre’s Model Tenancy Act in order to end the relentless tenant-owner disputes and revitalise the rental housing sector.  The government's intention to adopt the Act comes a month after the Union Cabinet approved it for circulation to all the states.  “We are simplifying the current tenancy act,” Ashoka said. “Earlier, the government had a role in fixing the rent. However, we now propose that the rent should be fixed by both the parties -- owner and tenant -- and after reaching an agreement, they need to finalise it legally and upload it onto the government’s portal,” he explained.  Most house owners, especially in Bengaluru, ask tenants to cough up 5-10 months of rent as advance. If the new tenancy law is adopted, owners cannot collect more than two months’ rent as advance. The Act gives supremacy to the rental agreement and stipulates the formation of a Rent Authority to address disputes.  “In case of any dispute, the concerned officials will resolve it in under 60 days. We’re planning that the disputes should be settled within 60 days and even if anyone plans to postpone the hearing, there won't be more than three chances,” Ashoka said.   Wary of disputes, many owners keep their houses vacant without renting them. “Currently, around 2-3 lakh houses are vacant in Bengaluru alone. We hope that once this Act is implemented, owners will get their tenants while the rents may also come down,” Ashoka said.  “This is just a proposal and we’re expecting feedback from the public before officially introducing this in the state,” he said.  Goodbye to regional commissioners?  The government has plans to abolish the post of all four regional commissioners, Ashoka said. This was one of the recommendations made by the Karnataka Administrative Reforms Commission-II recently.  “I’ve been thinking of this for the last six months. The regional commissioners’ offices have become white elephants. We’ve been spending crores of money on them, and they don’t have much work to do,” Ashoka said, adding that each of these offices had over 125 staff and all four regional commissioners received only 250 petitions or appeals so far. “It’s nothing but a waste of resources.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-house-owners-may-soon-be-barred-from-demanding-more-than-two-months-rent-as-advance-1006391.html
08-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Centre hikes allocation to Karnataka under Jal Jeevan Mission||The Central Government on Thursday said it has increased the central grant to Karnataka under the Jal Jeevan Mission in the year 2021-22 to Rs 5,008.79 crore. Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat while approving an increase in the allocation assured full assistance to the State for making provision of tap water supply in every rural home in Karnataka by 2023. In 2020-2021, the Central grant under the scheme was Rs 1,189.40 crore. The Centre launched Jal Jeevan Mission in 2019 to provide piped drinking water to every household by 2024. In Karnataka, out of 91.19 lakh households, 29.96 lakh households (32.86%) have been provided with tap water connections. On August 15, 2019, at the time of the launch of Jal Jeevan Mission, 24.51 lakh (26.88%) households had tap water supply. In 22 months, only 5.44 lakh households in the State have been provided tap water connections. Karnataka has planned to provide tap water connections to 25.17 lakh households in 2021-22, 17.93 lakh tap water connections in 2022-23 and the remaining 19.93 lakh tap water connections in 2023-24 to achieve tap water supply for every rural household. In his letter to Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has assured 100% coverage with tap water connection to every household of the State by 2023. “With this enhanced central allocation, opening balance of Rs 177.16 crore, and State’s matching share of Rs 5,215.93 crore, a total outlay of Rs 10,401.88 crore under Jal Jeevan Mission is available for water supply work in the State for 2021-22,” said a statement from the Jal Shakti Ministry. “In 2021-22, Rs 1,426 crore has been allocated to Karnataka as 15th Finance Commission tied grant for water & sanitation to Rural Local Bodies/PRIs. There is assured funding of Rs 7,524 Crore for the next five years i.e. up to 2025-26. This huge investment in rural areas of Karnataka, will accelerate economic activities and also boost the rural economy. It will create new employment opportunities in villages,” said the statement. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/centre-hikes-allocation-to-karnataka-under-jal-jeevan-mission-1006435.html
08-07-2021||West||Maharashtra: Teachers of civic schools take classes to homes of students in Aurangabad||In a bid to ensure children are not deprived of education amid the Covid-19-enforced closure of schools and lack of online studying resources, nearly 200 teachers of 72 civic schools here in Maharashtra have literally taken the classes to the doorsteps of students, an education official here said. As part of the initiative, the teachers, of Urdu and Marathi medium schools run by the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation, visit the homes of students and teach them individually, the official told PTI on Wednesday. In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, schools here are closed to prevent the spread of viral infection. Many children also do not have mobile phones and other resources to join classes online and there is a fear of students missing out on their education in such a scenario, he said. Hence, the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation has chalked out a plan to reach out to students wherever they are staying, the official said. Humera Anjum, a teacher from Garkheda Urdu School here, said, "Last year (after Covid-19 outbreak), we printed some workbooks for our students and tried to reach out to them as much as possible to take their classes. This year, the initiative has been extended to all schools of the municipal corporation." Anjum said teachers are also involved in the survey of the spread of Covid-19 and she herself is involved in the vaccination drive against the infection. "But, I visit around 40 students of Classes 1 and 2 every alternate day. We sit anywhere, on an elevated platform or any other place available, and make the children study," she said. Anjum said they have so far succeeded in ensuring no student misses out on education. "No student from our school has dropped out as we are in touch with them. As of now, we are not worried about the syllabus, but want to ensure children study and do their homework," she added. Sanjeev Sonar, the headmaster of the city-based Priyadarshini School, said the concept of visiting the homes of students to teach them has also helped in increasing the involvement of parents in their children's education. He also said that nearly 75 per cent of these children do not have their own mobile phones and so, they cannot opt for the online mode of education. "Hence, the initiative to visit the homes of students is helping us in ensuring they do not miss out on their education," he said. The city civic body's education officer Ramnath Thore said at present, around 200 teachers from 72 schools have been visiting the homes of students to take their classes. "The teachers involved in activities like Covid-19 survey and other related works will also come back to take classes soon," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-teachers-of-civic-schools-take-classes-to-homes-of-students-in-aurangabad-1006188.html
08-07-2021||West||NCP leader Khadse appears before ED in money laundering case probe||Former Maharashtra revenue minister and NCP leader Eknath Khadse on Thursday appeared before the Enforcement Directorate here in a money laundering case investigation, a day after his son-in-law was arrested by the federal agency. Khadse, 68, told reporters outside the Enforcement Directorate (ED) zonal office in Ballard Estate area of south Mumbai that the probe in the case is "politically motivated". "I will cooperate with the agency...today also I have come for the same. This is a politically motivated case and entire Maharashtra and the country is seeing this." "Enquiry has been done five times in this case. How many times will they do it?" he said. The agency had summoned Khadse to depose and record his statement after it arrested his son-in-law Girish Chaudhari on Wednesday in this case that is linked to a 2016 instance of an alleged government land grab case in Pune. The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader who left the BJP to join the Sharad Pawar-led party last year has been once questioned by the ED in this case in January this year. The ED case stems from a Pune police anti-corruption bureau (ACB) FIR filed against Khadse, his wife Mandakini and Chaudhari in April 2017. The agency claimed that alleged irregularities in the land deal caused a loss of Rs 61.25 crore to the exchequer "by fraudulently entering into a sale deed". The plot, owned by state-run MIDC, under the scanner is located in the Haveli Taluka of Bhosari, a suburb of Pune district and it bears the survey no 52/2A/2. The ED had issued a statement on Wednesday to describe the alleged role of Chaudhari in the deal, saying "with the connivance of others, he knowingly entered into a sale deed to acquire the said land despite the land belonging to the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) to avail a compensation more than 2.5-3 times of the actual value of land". "The land was registered at a much lower rate of only Rs 3.75 crore against the prevailing value of Rs 31 crore," it had claimed. The ED said the probe found that the accused "claimed the source of fund to purchase the said property as loan from some companies". "However, it is revealed that these funds were layered and routed through shell companies, which are either dysfunctional or struck off (from the government record books) later on," it alleged. Khadse, the then state revenue minister, had resigned from the former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis-led Maharashtra cabinet in 2016 after facing allegations regarding the same land deal and some other issues. It was alleged that he misused his official powers to facilitate this deal. Khadse had denied any wrongdoing saying that the state police ACB as well as the Income Tax Department had given him a clean chit in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncp-leader-khadse-appears-before-ed-in-money-laundering-case-probe-1006226.html
08-07-2021||West||Conspiracy to defame me: Eknath Khadse on ED probe against him||As veteran Maharashtra politician Eknath Khadse appeared before the Enforcement Directorate once again, he said that he and his family members are being targeted politically. Khadse (68), who has been politically sidelined for nearly five years, left the BJP following differences with the leader of opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and joined the NCP. “The case is a politically-motivated case… My family members and I are being targeted politically,” Khadse. “I will cooperate. Entire Maharashtra is witnessing what is happening... Inquiry has already been done 5 times. It is being done again now. ACB has given a report that there is no evidence,” he said. "It's a conspiracy against me," he added. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/conspiracy-to-defame-me-eknath-khadse-on-ed-probe-against-him-1006227.html
08-07-2021||West||Gujarat CM inaugurates Amazon's digital centre in Surat||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Thursday virtually inaugurated a 'Digital Kendra' of the e-commerce giant Amazon in Surat city. The company in a release said it is the first such centre by Amazon in India and has been launched to provide guidance to MSME (micro, small and medium enterprise) units about various aspects related to online trade, such as shipping, logistics, digital marketing, taxation and third party services. In his virtual address, Rupani thanked Amazon for choosing Surat for starting their first 'Digital Kendra' in the country. Rupani expressed confidence that the centre would prove beneficial for around 41,000 MSMEs operating in Surat city. He said small and medium units engaged in textiles, diamond and embroidery business in Surat would now get a global platform with the help of this centre. Noting that the coronavirus has adversely affected business activities in the state, Rupani said it is in the genes of Gujaratis to bounce back, and such centres would help them in reaching out to the world market. Rupani also exuded confidence that the digital centre would open new avenues of opportunities for locally made handicraft and other traditional products made by tribals. On the occasion, Amazon India's Country Head Amit Agarwal informed the audience that the company has already digitised 25 lakh MSME units and helped in creating around 10 lakh employment opportunities in India till now. "The 'Digital Kendra' at Surat is one more step by the company to fulfil its commitment to digitise 10 million (one crore) MSME units of the country, for which the company would invest $1 billion," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-cm-inaugurates-amazons-digital-centre-in-surat-1006229.html
08-07-2021||West||Jagannath rath yatra to be held in Ahmedabad on July 12 with curbs||The Gujarat government on Thursday gave its nod for the 144th rath yatra of Lord Jagannath in Ahmedabad on July 12 with restricted participation and strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols and guidelines. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the state government has made it clear that except for three chariots and two other vehicles, no other vehicle, singing troupes, akhadas, elephants or decorated trucks will be allowed during the procession this time. To stop people from gathering along the route for a glimpse of the deity, a curfew will be imposed on the entire yatra route from early morning till afternoon, Minister of State for Home Pradeepsinh Jadeja told reporters in the state capital Gandhinagar. Last year, only a symbolic rath yatra was organised in the premises of the Lord Jagannath temple in Jamalpur area here after the Gujarat High Court denied permission for the usual public procession in the wake of the pandemic. Traditionally, the procession, led by chariots, would start early at around 7 am from the 400-year-old temple and return by 8 pm. Before the Covid-19 outbreak last year, lakhs of people used to gather along the route on 'Ashadhi Beej' every year to catch a glimpse of the decorated elephants and tableaux moving around in some 100 trucks. The procession used to come back to the Lord Jagannath temple after covering a distance of 19 km in about 12 hours, which included an hour-long lunch break at Saraspur. "This time, we have planned to complete the yatra in four to five hours. There will not be any large gathering in Saraspur for the lunch break. The curfew on the route will be lifted as soon as the chariots return in the afternoon," Jadeja said. Since people from other districts and those living in western parts of the city also flock the route to watch the procession, Jadeja said police will regulated traffic movement on all bridges to stop people from reaching near the route. "Instead of crowding the yatra route, we request people to watch the live telecast of the event on Doordarshan and other channels. We recently experienced the second wave of coronavirus. We must be very careful now and make sure this festival does not escalate the situation," the minister said. As per the tradition, youth from the Khalasi community pull the chariots. This time, only 60 youths, 20 for each of the three chariots, will be given permission to pull the chariots on the route. While a negative RT-PCR test certificate has been made compulsory for the Khalasis to take part in the event, those who have taken both the doses of vaccine against Covid-19 will be given priority, the minister said. Effectively, no one except those 60 youths along with some priests on each chariot, chief priest Mahant Dilipdasjee and trustees of the temple will take part in this year's rath yatra, he said. Everyone involved in the procession and at the temple will be required to wear masks and maintain social distancing, he said. Jadeja also said Union Home Minister Amit Shah would perform the 'mangla aarti' at the temple on July 12 morning before the idols of deities are taken out for the yatra. He further said the Covid-19 situation has improved significantly in Gujarat and on Wednesday, only 65 new cases were found and no death was reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/jagannath-rath-yatra-to-be-held-in-ahmedabad-on-july-12-with-curbs-1006359.html
08-07-2021||West||NIA court allows ED to quiz Sachin Vaze in Anil Deshmukh case||A special court on Thursday allowed the Enforcement Directorate to question dismissed Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze in an alleged money-laundering case registered against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh. Vaze was arrested by the National Investigation Agency in March in the case of explosives-laden SUV found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence in south Mumbai, and the subsequent murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran. He is now in judicial custody. The ED has been allowed to question Vaze for three days at Taloja Jail in Navi Mumbai where he is lodged, a defence lawyer said. The ED has so far arrested two aides of Deshmukh -- his personal secretary Sanjeev Palande and personal assistant Kundan Shinde -- in the money-laundering case against the NCP leader. The central agency claimed that the arrested duo confessed that Vaze had collected Rs 4.70 crore from orchestra bar owners in Mumbai and handed it to Shinde in two installments. While seeking permission from the special NIA court to quiz Vaze, the ED said it wanted to confront Palande and Shinde with the former assistant police inspector of the crime branch. IPS officer Param Bir Singh, after he was removed from the post of Mumbai police commissioner in the aftermath of Vaze's arrest, had alleged in a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray that Deshmukh, then home minister, had asked Vaze to collect over Rs 100 crore per month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. Deshmukh denied the charge. The ED case followed after the CBI registered a case against Deshmukh on the orders of the Bombay High Court under the Prevention of Corruption Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nia-court-allows-ed-to-quiz-sachin-vaze-in-anil-deshmukh-case-1006385.html
08-07-2021||West||Under NPA threat, Goa Minister Michael Lobo writes to PM, FM for relief package||A day after he was warned by a nationalised bank of his account being classified as an NPA, Goa's Rural Development Minister Michael Lobo on Thursday shot off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman urging them to provide financial relief for businessmen who are hit by the second Covid wave. Lobo, who is a hotelier by trade, also said that if he could be on a bank's radar for defaulting on a loan, the small businessmen in the state would be severely impacted if their bank accounts were classified as NPAs. "If a bank manager can call me and inform me that my account will be declared as an NPA, what about the common man? What about people who live hand-to-mouth and run small businesses? How will they pay installments? This is an issue which is plaguing people in Goa as well as the rest of India," Lobo told reporters at a press conference in his assembly constituency of Calangute on Thursday. Lobo also said that not coming to the aid of businesses affected by Covid would increase unemployment in the state and country. "I am also a businessman. I am getting calls from banks from which I have taken loans. A manager of a bank told me yesterday (Wednesday) that if I do not pay my loan installment by tomorrow (Thursday), it will be declared NPA," the cabinet minister also said. Lobo said that Sitharaman should direct the Reserve Bank of India Governor to issue a notification asking all banks to go easy on businesses who had to suffer the brunt of the second Covid wave. "There is a need for a decision on this. The Finance Minister should take a decision and instruct all banks," Lobo said. The Minister also said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should take steps to offer another moratorium on EMIs on loans, a step which was taken by the central government when the first Covid wave hit the country last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/under-npa-threat-goa-minister-michael-lobo-writes-to-pm-fm-for-relief-package-1006392.html
