09-07-2021||First Edit||Military brass should avoid public spats||There is an unfortunate controversy over the relative roles of the three wings of the armed forces in the proposed integrated theatre commands. Last week, there was a public airing of differences between the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), Gen Bipin Rawat, and the Air Force Chief, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria, over the relative roles of the army and the air force in the new set-up. Explaining the nature of the new structure at a seminar, Gen Rawat said that the IAF was a “supporting arm” of the army. But the air chief, who spoke later at the same seminar, said: “It is not a supporting role alone. Air power has a huge role to play. In any of the integrated battle areas, it’s not an issue of support alone.’’ It showed the air chief contradicting the CDS on a major matter concerning the forces. It also showed that there was no agreement between stakeholders of the country’s biggest military reform. The need for theaterisation has been agreed upon and was being pursued seriously. Gen Rawat had announced last year that the process would be completed by January 2021. But the matter is still being publicly debated. Theaterisation involves integration of the capabilities of the army, the navy and the air force under unitary command in the proposed military theatres. At present, the army and the air force have seven commands each and the navy has three. The proposed theatre model envisages the setting up of six new integrated commands in place of the 17 single service commands. There is one tri-service command already existing in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The new structure is expected to increase the efficiency of the forces.  While the army and the navy do not seem to have substantial disagreements, the air force is thought to have concerns over matters relating to the leadership of the commands, division of assets and nomenclature. Other areas of concern may be the powers of the service chiefs and budgetary allocations. There was enough time to sort out the issues and address the concerns. Instead, the top leaders of the forces are seen in open disagreement. Gen Rawat’s statement was itself inappropriate because it is wrong to describe the air force as a support force. The role of each force depends on several factors. It is known that inter-services competition, rivalries and ego clashes exist in the forces. Competition can even be positive but public contestations like last week’s can do no good. Gen Rawat acted more like a political person than a professional even when he was the army chief. If there are disagreements, he should strive towards a consensus, not aggravate them. Public arguments should be avoided.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/military-brass-should-avoid-public-spats-1006510.html
09-07-2021||Hubballi-Dharwad||New twist in ZP member murder case: Vinay Kulkarni’s PS Nyamagouda arrested||In a major twist to ZP member Yogeeshgouda Goudar murder case involving former minister and Congress leader Vinay Kulkarni as one of the key accused, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) officials on Thursday arrested KAS officer Somu Nyamagouda. Nyamagouda was Vinay Kulkarni’s personal secretary when the latter was a minister. The CBI picked up Somu Nyamagouda, who is now APMC secretary at Byadagi and in-charge of Gadag and Tiptur APMCs, from his house in Gadag and brought him to suburban police station in Dharwad. After subjecting Nyamagouda to Covid 19 test and general health check up at the district hospital, the CBI officials brought him to the police station for questioning. Nyamagouda is the first government officer to be arrested by the CBI in the murder case. Meanwhile, the CBI also interrogated Basavaraj Mutagi, the main accused in the murder case, former ZP vice-president Shivanand Karigar, KPCC secretary Nagaraj Gowri, Yogeeshgouda’s wife Mallamma, and Vivek, who worked as trainer at Uday Gym, at the suburban police station on Thursday. Sources in the CBI said, the Congress leaders were brought face to face and questioned by the sleuths. The CBI sources said, Somu Nyamagouda was confronted with documents and questioned him about the money transaction related to the murder. He had allegedly produced documents that Vinay was in Delhi on the day Yogeeshgouda was murdered. The CBI questioned him about the minister’s travel programme. Former minister Vinay Kulkarni, who was arrested by the CBI on November 5, 2020, has been lodged in Hindalga Central Prison in Belagavi, while his relative Chandrashekhar Indi, who was arrested on December 17, 2020, on charges of supplying arms to the assailants of Yogeeshgouda, is lodged in Dharwad Central jail. Bail plea adjourned Meanwhile, the Supreme Court which took up Vinay Kulkarni’s plea on Thursday seeking quashing of FIR against him in the murder case, adjourned the hearing to July 26. The Karnataka High Court, and lower courts had earlier rejected Vinay’s bail plea. Yogeeshgouda Goudar, a ZP member from Hebballi representing BJP, was brutally hacked to death on June 15, 2016, at his gym in Saptapur of Dharwad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/new-twist-in-zp-member-murder-case-vinay-kulkarni-s-ps-nyamagouda-arrested-1006495.html
09-07-2021||In Perspective||The Left rises in Latin America||News about Latin America is rarely in Indian media, but the current resurgence of the Left is worth noting. The victory of socialist schoolteacher Pedro Castillo in Peru is the latest in a wave in a region where the free-market doctrine dominated in recent decades. In a close election, Castillo won against far-Right Keiko Fujimori, who faces money laundering accusations and is challenging Castillo’s indigenous and mixed-race majority. Backed by youth alienated by inequality, poverty and corruption, but with no political experience, Castillo’s Free Peru Party confronts a Right-wing in parliament that will challenge his economic plans. Chile has elected a liberal Constituent Assembly to replace its ultra-Right Pinochet-era constitution. The region's wealthiest nation per capita is notorious for high inequality levels. The Right led by President Sebastian Pinera is discredited and the next polls may see a Left-leaning party win. Unrest swept Colombia after President Ivan Duque Marquez's Centre-Right government raised taxes and introduced austerity measures. Colombia’s Right is fractured while poverty affects over 40% of the population, unemployment is high and Covid-19 has devastated the economy. The protests, demanding universal basic income and free college education for the lowest taxpayers, were met with considerable force, which backfired, forcing the government to roll back the austerity measures. Colombia is the only Nato partner in Latin America and is backed by Washington to contain revolutionary dissidents in longstanding conflicts. The Left-wing candidate, Gustavo Petro, leads in polls for next year’s presidential election. Brazil Supreme Court’s ruling last March overturned former leftist President Lula da Silva’s (2003-10) conviction for corruption and should allow him to contest next year’s election. Polls show Lula leading President Jair Bolsonaro, labelled ‘Trump of the Tropics’, who is losing support, with Brazil registering half a million Covid-19 deaths, the second-highest worldwide. Brazil is a regional heavyweight. Moderate leftist governments under Lula and his successor Dilma Rousseff of Workers’ Party (PT) lifted millions out of poverty. Record growth funded social investments that halved wealth inequality. Brazil supported the more radical Left in Ecuador, Bolivia and Venezuela. The Union of South American Nations (UNASUR-2008) and Community of Latin American and Caribbean States (CELAC-2011) that sought greater integration of the region could not have materialised without PT’s backing. Brazil under Lula was also key to building BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa) as an alternative politico-economic pole to G-7 (Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the UK and US). Lula's return would re-energise BRICS, reviving the promise of a multi-polar world. Moreover, for the first time in many years, Latin America’s three largest economies— Argentina, Mexico and Brazil— could operate with some degree of concert and challenge the stance of the US-controlled Organisation of American States and the Lima Group that oppose regimes in Venezuela, Cuba and Nicaragua. Luis Arce was Vice President of Evo Morales, a popular indigenous, Left-wing leader ousted in 2018 by the Right aided by the military. After Arce’s election as president in 2020, he restored Bolivia’s membership of CELAC, UNASUR, and Left-wing Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America (ALBA, founded by Venezuela and Cuba in 2004). CELAC is the only pan-American organisation minus the US and Canada; UNASUR encompasses all South America, and ALBA aims to promote cooperation within Latin America free of US influence. The coming elections may enable the Left to rejuvenate these groupings. Castillo, Lula and Arce— along with Presidents Lopez Obrador (Mexico) and Alberto Fernandez (Argentina)— reject the neoliberal economic order which has led to unequal wealth distribution, economic stagnation and high unemployment, provoking popular disillusionment. Latin America has suffered from prolonged political instability and development, investment and growth have suffered. The global economic downturn exacerbated the problems of the primarily commodity-driven economies. The privatisation of assets, erosion of industrial and technological base and the creation of a super-rich oligarchy was the result and lack of local opportunities led to migration to North America. Leftist movements in Latin America are not driven by geopolitical competition, nor the influence of Russia, China or Cuba, but by the failure of most governments to adapt to capitalism by consolidating adequate regulatory institutions. It will be instructive to see how US policy reacts to the current leftist wave, which is viewed as anti-American. Washington cannot ignore these events, despite its stated emphasis on Asia and the Indo-Pacific. Focus for India India has maintained relations with the political spectrum in Latin America, with varying success on the Left. Given the economic emphasis on our relations with the region and our agnostic political attitude, India should take note of the political developments and welcome the democratic success of the Left, which is gaining significant ground. (The writers are former Indian ambassadors)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/the-left-rises-in-latin-america-1006515.html
09-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||630 gram panchayats to get Aadhaar centres||The state government will set up centres in rural areas for citizens to update their Aadhaar details and get children below five years of age to register.  This is being done as there is a huge demand in rural areas for mobile number-Aadhaar linkage, which is a requirement for the Covid-19 vaccination, according to Rural Development & Panchayat Raj (RDPR) principal secretary L K Atheeq’s letter to zilla panchayat chief executive officers. Till date, more than 2.46 crore citizens have received the Covid-19 vaccine doses. In the first phase, the centres will be established in 630 gram panchayats. The panchayat officials will be given handheld devices (tablets) for this. Atheeq has asked officials to make sure citizens are not charged anything more than Rs 50 for every updating service. Enrolment of children for Aadhaar will be free.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/630-gram-panchayats-to-get-aadhaar-centres-1006485.html
09-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: Shivamogga wedding turns into ‘superspreader’ event||Sixteen people were infected over the course of two days at the wedding which was held between June 27 and 28. Among them are four residents of Bengaluru’s BTM Layout’s 6th Stage. Two of the Bengaluru infected are an 18-year-old woman, and her father, a 61-year-old man. Ameen e Mudassar, a member of the Emergency Response Team (ERT), a conglomeration of citizen volunteers, IAS officers and doctors, said that the infections came to light on Wednesday night, when members of the wedding party began to develop symptoms.  “Symptoms of the disease first began to manifest themselves in the father and daughter duo, when they came back to Bengaluru by train on July 1. Upon their return, they also infected two more people in the household - the son and the mother. Since then symptoms began to escalate, aggravated, in part, by panic. On Wednesday night, the 61-year-old was put in ICU care at Jayanagar General Hospital in the city after his Spo2 level began to fluctuate between 88 and 92. His daughter and wife are patients in the general ward of the same hospital,” Mudassar said. He added that the incident highlights the fact that people should not underestimate the chances of transmission even though the second wave has declined in intensity. Shivamogga DHO Dr Rajesh Suragihalli said, “Although project development officers, urban local bodies and corporators have the responsibility of ensuring that weddings follow Covid guidelines, it is extremely challenging to monitor indoor activities". In Bengaluru Urban, Col (Retd) Rajbir Singh, BBMP's chief marshal, said although a special force of marshals exists to ensure adherence of Covid appropriate behaviour at marriage halls, there is often little information about the weddings. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-shivamogga-wedding-turns-into-superspreader-event-1006491.html
09-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Two sisters die of Covid-19 in Shivamogga||Two sisters from Hosanagar town died of Covid-19 in a gap of a few hours in district McGann teaching general hospital in Shivamogga. Seven members of a family had tested positive for Covid-19 some days ago. Among them, two sisters, Vyany Gonswalis (59) and Appi Gonswalis (52), were suffering from respiratory disorders. They were admitted to taluk general hospital in Hosanagar town and were later shifted to McGann hospital in Shivamogga as their conditions were critical. However, both of them died in the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-sisters-die-of-covid-19-in-shivamogga-1006617.html
09-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Visvesvaraya Technological University to hold exams from July 26||Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) has informed that the theory (pending papers) and practical examinations for the first semester of undergraduate courses and the theory and practical examinations of first semester postgraduate courses will commence from July 26, 2021. The detailed timetable will be announced shortly. Registrar Dr A S Deshpande, in a circular issued, informed that theory (pending papers)/ practical examinations for first semester of B E /B Tech/B Arch/B Plan, and theory/practical examinations of first semester M Tech./M Arch/MBA/MCA will commence from July 26. Project/seminar examinations of final year students are to be conducted through online mode. Project/seminar reports are to be accepted in soft form (CD) only. Preparatory holidays for the first semester undergraduate and postgraduate examination will commence from July 19 onwards, he said.  Classes of second semester will resume immediately after practical examinations. Colleges have to make arrangements to clarify doubts of the students regarding final year undergraduate programmes. Colleges are requested to bring content of the circular to the notice of all concerned, he stated. Dr Deshpande also informed that except for the project/seminar examinations of final year students of undergraduate programmes, all other semester-end examinations (SEE) mentioned shall be conducted in offline mode only. "This is also to inform that as per the decision of the Executive Council, the forthcoming even semester examinations of 2021, will be conducted with open choice question papers for the regular and backlogs subjects as a onetime measure to cope up with the difficulties faced by the students during the present situation of Covid-19 pandemic," he said. "Principals/ Directors of Engineering Colleges/ School of Architecture are requested to bring the content of the circular to the notice of all concerned. The content of this circular is also applicable for all the autonomous colleges under the ambit of the university," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/visvesvaraya-technological-university-to-hold-exams-from-july-26-1006620.html
09-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Monsoon picks up pace in Dakshina Kannada||After a brief lull, Monsoon picked up pace in Dakshina Kannada on Friday morning. The district has been experiencing rainfall since Thursday night and it continued on Friday morning as well. The sky remained overcast. Paddy farmers, who were waiting for the transplanting of paddy seedlings, were relieved with rains lashing the region. The IMD has sounded an orange alert in the coastal districts. According to the IMD warning, Dakshina Kannada district is likely to receive 64.5 mm rainfall on Friday and rainfall between 64.5 mm to 115.6 mm from July 10 to 13. Owing to the heavy rainfall warning, traditional fishermen too have decided not to venture out for fishing. Waterlogging was reported on a few roads in Mangaluru because of the ongoing works.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/monsoon-picks-up-pace-in-dakshina-kannada-1006626.html
09-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka State Eligibility Test exams on July 25||University of Mysore (UoM), the nodal agency that conducts the Karnataka State Eligibility Test for Assistant Professorship, has decided to conduct the examination on July 25. The varsity had postponed the exams twice for April 11 and April 25 due to Covid-19. The tests were scheduled for 41 subjects as per UGC guidelines. The examination was planned at 11 nodal centres across the state. More details are available at http://kset.uni-mysore.ac.in.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-state-eligibility-test-exams-on-july-25-1006654.html
09-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Tiger dies of injuries in Bandipur Tiger Reserve||A five-year-old male tiger died of injuries in Suttanahalli, under Gundre range, Hediyala sub-division, Bandipur Tiger Reserve, on Friday. Upon spotting a tiger with injuries, during a patrol on Thursday, the employees of Gundre range alerted the Special Tiger Protection squad. The tiger had suffered injuries on its left limb and eyes, in a fight with another tiger, officials said. The squad resorted to rescue the injured tiger, by placing a cage. As the tiger could not be trapped, they decided to use tranquilisers to capture the wild cat. Veterinarian Dr Wasim Mirza darted the tiger on Friday and captured it. It was provided first aid and was being shifted to Bannerghatta Zoo for further treatment when it succumbed to the injuries en route, said Bandipur Tiger Project Director S R Natesh, in a press release. The tiger was captured on a camera trap at Antharasanthe wildlife division in 2020. Wildlife warden Krithika Alanahalli, Assistant Conservator of Forest M S Ravikumar and Range Forest Officer Shashidhar were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tiger-dies-of-injuries-in-bandipur-tiger-reserve-1006825.html
09-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Monsoon gathers steam; coastal dists, Malnad on red alert||With southwest monsoon gaining steam, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has put coastal districts and Malnad region on red alert from July 11 to 13. Seven districts - Uttara Kannada, Udupi, Dakshina Kannada, Shivamogga, Kodagu, Hassan and Chikkamagaluru - are very likely to record heavy rainfall for three days starting Sunday. The coastal districts are likely to receive heavy showers on Saturday too. With wind speeds touching 60 kmph, fishermen are warned not to venture into rough sea, the weather department said. After a brief dry spell, monsoon picked up pace in Dakshina Kannada on Friday morning. Mangaluru and many parts of the district have been experiencing heavy showers since Thursday night. The compound wall of a house was damaged following a minor landslide at Lingappayana Kadu. Five electricity poles, along with a transformer, were uprooted at Chelyaru colony in Haleyangadi, affecting the power supply in the area. Udupi and Uttara Kannada districts also received good rainfall in the day. Meanwhile, Raichur district continued to receive sharp spells of showers. Downpour affected normal life in Raichur city, Kavital, Manvi, Lingasugur and Hutti towns on Friday. Heavy rain flooded the busy Gunj road and Mahavir road in Raichur causing hardships to commuters. With heavy rain forecast till July 15, a control room has been set up at Tahsildar’s Office in Raichur to address the rain-related issues.A portion of Hutti-Mallapur road caved in following the relentless rain. A spell of heavy rain turned Manvi bus stand into a slush field. Following a heavy rain forecast for next three to four days, the authorities may release water from Maski reservoir into Hirehalla stream anytime. The reservoir is just six-feet short of reaching its full reservoir level. The authorities have warned the villagers not to enter the downstream. The overnight rains poured misery on Kolar and parts of the district. Horticulture crops on vast tracts of farmland have been rotting because of the wet weather. Vegetable and mango growers in the district are worst hit with ready-for-harvest crops wilting due to heavy rainfall. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/monsoon-gathers-steam-coastal-dists-malnad-on-red-alert-1006850.html
09-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mangalore University assistant professor who was caught taking bribe declared guilty||An associate professor of Mangalore University's Sociology Department, who was caught red-handed while receiving bribe from her PhD student, was declared guilty and sentenced to undergo three years of simple imprisonment by Third Additional District and Sessions Court on Friday. In 2012, Prof Anitha Ravishankar, on the pretext of paying bribe to the external examiners, to evaluate their research proposals, had collected initially Rs 10,000, Rs 4,000 and later Rs 16,800. On December 4, 2012, then Lokayukta Inspector Umesh J Shet had set a trap and Ravishankar was caught re-handed while collecting an advance of Rs 5,000 from the complainant researcher. During the trial, as many as nine witnesses had been examined. Ravishankar also had pleaded for leniency as her daughter's wedding had been arranged. Third Additional District and Sessions Court B B Jakati, while upholding the arguments of Lokayukta Special Prosecutor K S N Rajesh, sentenced Ravishankar to undergo simple imprisonment for two years and to pay a fine of Rs 15,000 for the offence under Section 7 of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. The Judge ordered Ravishankar to under simple imprisonment for three years and to pay fine of Rs 15,000 for offence under Section 13(1)(d) r/w 13(2) of PC Act, 1988. Both sentences shall run concurrently, the judge declared. Ravishankar, who will retire in 2023, had been serving as Principal of University Degree college in Konaje. Mangalore University Prof P L Dharma neither responded to messages or calls from DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangalore-university-assistant-professor-who-was-caught-taking-bribe-declared-guilty-1006879.html
09-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Will try to convince farmers about benefits of farm laws: Karandlaje||Newly sworn-in Minister of State for Agriculture Shobha Karandlaje on Thursday said that she will reach out to farmers across the country and explain to them about the benefits of three farm laws brought by the NDA Government. Trying to strike an emotional chord with the farming community, she said some vested interests were trying to mislead farmers for their political gain. “The Centre has passed three agriculture laws in the interest of the farming community. However, these laws are being opposed due to political reasons. We have a big responsibility to convince farmers about the benefits of these laws. I will travel to all states and convince farmers,” Karandlaje said after assuming charge as the Minister. “Farmers will benefit a lot from new farm bills. Farmers will get good prices for their produce and also they will be liberated from the shackles of middlemen,” she said. The 55-year-old Karnataka BJP leader said she has got a huge responsibility as agriculture minister to understand the problems of peasants and respond to them effectively. “I will respond to all problems faced by farmers, be it relieving farmers from debt or drought, working alongside senior minister Narendra Singh Tomar ji,” she added.         Insisting that agriculture is close to her heart as she belongs to an agricultural family, Karandlaje said she knows their pain. Shobha organised puja at her office before assuming charge. Her mother, sister and other family members were present.  Minister of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Narendra Singh Tomar and Minister of State in the ministry Kailash Choudhary were also present when Karandlaje assumed the office. Rajeev Chandrasekar assumed the charge of Minister of State for Information Technology and Skill Development on Thursday. “The Skill Development Ministry is a very important Ministry and I have an opportunity to show my performance by skilling youngsters,” he said. Chitradurga MP A Narayanaswamy, who assumed charge as Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment, said that he would popularise all welfare schemes of his ministry and ensure that the scheme reached all beneficiaries across the country. Bhagwanth Khuba took charge as Minister of State Chemicals and Fertilizers and New and Renewable Energy on Thursday. Khuba said that he would work hard to ensure uninterrupted supply of fertilizer to farmers. “As a New and Renewable Energy minister, I will try to promote clean energy in the country,” he said.   Khuba also organised a special puja in his office before taking charge as the minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/will-try-to-convince-farmers-about-benefits-of-farm-laws-karandlaje-1006489.html
09-07-2021||Main Article||Cabinet reshuffle: From minimum govt to jumbo cabinet||From the time he took the oath of office of Prime Minister for the first time on May 26, 2014, Narendra Modi's 45-member Union council of ministers promised to break away from the patterns of governance adopted during the previous 25 years of coalitions. They believed it was their mandate to reshape the civilisational idea of India in a short time. To explain the seemingly frenetic pace of actions and decisions of the country's first non-Congress majority government since 1977, Arun Jaitley would frequently quote Otto Von Bismarck. "Politics is the art of the possible," he would say. The subtext, under the veneer of cooperative federalism, was that an ideologically committed majority government will expand possibilities to accomplish its agenda. The BJP's majority in the Lok Sabha, the PM's popular appeal, and his sway within the BJP made it possible for the government to embrace a more determined decision-making. It exalted its muscular governance as the "new normal" and pilloried the preceding UPA coalition as wracked by "policy paralysis". This 'art of the possible' meant Modi could maintain a lean council of ministers, merge key ministries, and run an all-powerful Prime Minister's Office to try to deliver "better days" through maximum governance, minimum government. Jumbo cabinets were for "weak" Manmohan Singh. Moreover, technocrats, especially those with academic degrees from western universities, were to be avoided. The PM said hard work was more potent than a degree from Harvard. The Modi government scrapped the UPA era 'group of ministers' mechanisms, pushed through decisions, such as demonetisation, without consultations within the government and against expert advice. Critics of the government were brushed aside as the "Khan Market gang". Even as the economy kept going down, none of this impeded the BJP's march to a second successive Lok Sabha majority in 2019. The mandate emboldened Modi 2.0 to deliver on the Sangh Parivar's core agenda of abrogating Article 370, constructing the Ram temple in Ayodhya, and enacting a law that began the country on the path of the Nuremberg Laws on citizenship. However, developments since May 2 suggest a shift in politics that has followed a set pattern for the last seven years. That day, the Election Commission announced the results of the Assembly polls in four states and a Union Territory, including West Bengal. On July 7, the PM inducted 36 new ministers into the Union council of ministers. The composition of the council confirmed that the PM is awake to the challenges ahead. After seven years at the helm, Modi’s newly reshuffled and expanded cabinet could be evidence that the BJP's top leaders have acknowledged that they need the art of political consensus, accommodation and the patience to heed criticism to run a country as diverse and heterogeneous as India. It is a moot point whether this awareness could have happened without the sustained anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests, anti-farm laws agitation, electoral reverses in Bengal, and concerns about the polls in Uttar Pradesh. The result is that at 77 members, Modi's council of ministers is now nearly as big as the ones that Atal Bihari Vajpayee and “weak” Manmohan Singh had headed. The government has shown it is alive to criticism, both on the economy and the mismanagement of the Covid-19 situation. The Union health ministry stands revamped. Harsh Vardhan and Ashwini Kumar Choubey have taken the fall for decisions taken elsewhere. The integration of health and family welfare portfolio with chemicals and fertilizers and handing it over to a trusted Gujarati hand, Mansukh Mandaviya, is intriguing. Modi has inducted bureaucrats, technocrats, defectors, and allies in another significant shift, while sacking Sangh Parivar veterans. It suggests a congruence in the objectives of the top RSS leadership and the PM in the run-up to crucial Assembly polls and the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. Modi has dropped several ministers with roots in the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh and Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), like Ravi Shankar Prasad, Prakash Javadekar, DV Sadananda Gowda and Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank'. He has promoted to cabinet rank former bureaucrats Hardeep Puri and RK Singh, inducted technocrat Ashwini Vaishnav as a cabinet minister with the heavyweight portfolios of railways, communications, and electronics and IT. Another former bureaucrat to join the Union cabinet is Janata Dal (United)'s RCP Singh. Defectors Jyotiraditya Scindia and Narayan Rane, both with experience in running ministries, have vital portfolios. Bhupendra Yadav, liked across party lines for his consensual approach, is now the country's labour and environment minister. The north-eastern states have seldom received the representation that they have now in the Union cabinet. The north-eastern states now have five ministers, including cabinet rank ministers Kiren Rijiju and Sarbananda Sonowal. The BJP had performed creditably in the 25 Lok Sabha seats in the north-east and would hope to consolidate not only in the next Lok Sabha but retain power in Manipur and Tripura in the Assembly polls in these two states. The increased representation to Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh has to do with the Assembly polls in these two states in 2022. From UP, Modi has inducted OBC and Dalit MPs and accommodated allies. A more intriguing plan is the better representation of Maharashtra, Odisha and West Bengal. Together these three states send 111 MPs to the Lok Sabha. The BJP and Shiv Sena fought Maharashtra's 48 Lok Sabha seats in an alliance. Now that Sena might not return to the NDA fold, the BJP is preparing to contest all 48 seats in the state. In Odisha, it hopes to build on its surprisingly good show in 2019 since it believes the state would naturally fall into its lap once an ageing Naveen Patnaik retires from active politics. The four appointments from West Bengal will keep the party's morale up after the loss in the Assembly polls and signal to communities— the Matuas and tribals— to keep their faith with the BJP. The revamped Modi cabinet still lacks adequate representation of India's most significant minority. However, if the government's intent to heed public opinion and learn lessons from its electoral defeats is not short-lived, who knows, someday even that might happen. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/cabinet-reshuffle-from-minimum-govt-to-jumbo-cabinet-1006517.html
09-07-2021||National||DH Toon | Cabinet ministers take charge before Monsoon Session||A day after the Cabinet expansion, newly-appointed ministers in the NDA government took charge of their portfolios and hit the ground running with specific direction from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to get acquainted with their respective ministries before the Parliament Session.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-cabinet-ministers-take-charge-before-monsoon-session-1006514.html
09-07-2021||National||43,393 new infections, 911 fatalities: India's single-day Covid cases seen plateauing||India on Friday reported 43,393 new Covid-19 cases as the daily infections in the country continued to remain above 40,000. In the last 24 hours, 911 new fatalities took the death toll to 4,05,939. Except for three instances when single-day infections dropped below the 40,000-mark, daily cases have mostly remained between the 40,000 and 50,000 level since third week of June. The death toll has climbed to 4,05,939 with 911 fresh fatalities. The active cases comprise 1.49 per cent of the total infections and the national Covid-19 recovery rate stands at 97.19 per cent,  the data updated at 8 am showed.    A decrease of 1,977 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 17,90,708 tests were conducted on Thursday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 42,70,16,605, while the daily positivity rate  was recorded at 2.42 per cent. It has been less than three  per cent for 18 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to  2.36 per cent, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,98,88,284, while the case fatality rate  stands at 1.32 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 36.89 crore under the Nationwide Vaccination Drive.    India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7,  30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.  (with inputs from agencies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/43393-new-infections-911-fatalities-indias-single-day-covid-cases-seen-plateauing-1006552.html
09-07-2021||National||Zydus Covid-19 vaccine for 12- to 18-year-olds from September: Expert panel head||He also said that vaccination for the same age group with Covaxin is likely to begin soon after (September-end). Covaxin is currently conducting phase III trials for the 12-18 year age group. "I think sometime in the third quarter or by early January-February we should be able to give it (Covaxin) to 2 to 18-year-olds,"  Arora told the TV channel. If approved, ZyCoV-D will be the world's first DNA vaccine. It makes use of a portion of the genetic code - DNA or RNA - in the SARS-CoV-2 virus to stimulate an immune response against its spike protein. DNA vaccines differ from other approved Covid-19 shots, which are based on new mRNA technology such as in those from Pfizer and Moderna, and established technology like viral vectors, as with AstraZeneca. Dr Arora's remarks come as India gears for a third wave of Covid-19 that some experts believe will adversely affect children. "The issue of school opening and other things are very important and those are being discussed actively,” he said noting that vaccination for children is key as the pandemic has been a big deterrent in the education and development of school-going childen. Apart from vaccines, states — such as Kerala — have already implemented ways to improve and increase paediatric care in hospitals. Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Thursday unveiled the second phase of the Emergency Response and Health System Preparedness Package that will be implemented over the next nine months till March 2022. This came as the prime minister chaired the first meeting with his new Council of Ministers Under the new package, the Centre would provide Rs 15,000 crore and states Rs 8,123 crore, and the plan would be implemented jointly by them across all the 736 districts to improve medical infrastructure at primary and district health centres. An official statement said states and UTs would be supported to create paediatric units in all 736 districts and to establish Paediatric Centre of Excellence in each state and UT (either in medical colleges, state government hospitals or central hospitals such as AIIMS, INIs, etc) for providing tele-ICU services, mentoring and technical hand-holding to the district paediatric units. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/zydus-covid-19-vaccine-for-12-to-18-year-olds-from-september-expert-panel-head-1006562.html
09-07-2021||National||Only 50 tourists allowed in Kempty falls at a time||Only 50 tourists will be allowed to bathe at Mussoorie's famous Kempty falls with a maximum permissible time of 30 minutes. The district administration has taken the decision in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, District Magistrate Iva Ashish Shrivastava said. "There will be a time limit of 30 minutes for each bather, she said, adding an air horn will be used to signal the exit time. The decision came a day after viral videos showed a large number of tourists bathing at the falls without wearing masks or maintaining social distancing norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/only-50-tourists-allowed-in-kempty-falls-at-a-time-1006572.html
09-07-2021||National||PM Modi speaks to Kalyan Singh's grandson to enquire about his health||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday spoke to the grandson of ailing BJP leader Kalyan Singh to enquire about his health, and said countless people across the country are praying for his speedy recovery.  In tweets, Modi also recalled his long association with the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister.  "I was deeply touched to know that during his conversation with @JPNadda Ji, Kalyan Singh Ji remembered me. I also have many memories of my interactions with Kalyan Singh Ji. Several of those memories came back to life. Talking to him has always been a learning experience," he said.  Nadda, accompanied by UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and other BJP leaders, had visited a Lucknow hospital to meet the 89-year-old Singh on Thursday night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-speaks-to-kalyan-singhs-grandson-to-enquire-about-his-health-1006573.html
09-07-2021||National||Kalyan Singh's health showing consistent improvement: Hospital||The condition of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, who is admitted to intensive care unit (ICU) of Sanjay Gandhi Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences here, is "better" and showing "consistent improvement", the hospital said on Friday. Singh was admitted to the ICU on the evening of July 4 due to an infection and reduced consciousness levels. "The condition of Kalyan Singh, who is admitted in ICU of Critical Care Medicine (CCM), is better. He is hemodynamically stable. He is showing consistent improvement and his vital parameters are stable," the hospital said in a statement. "He is communicative and is being treated by senior faculty of CCM, Cardiology, Neurology, Endocrinology and Nephrology," it added. Earlier, the former chief minister was undergoing treatment at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences here. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday spoke to the grandson of Singh to enquire about his health, and said countless people across the country are praying for his speedy recovery. On Thursday, BJP president J P Nadda had visited the hospital and enquired about Singh's health.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kalyan-singhs-health-showing-consistent-improvement-hospital-1006574.html
09-07-2021||National||PM Modi to interact with Tokyo-bound athletes on July 13||Prime Minister Narendra Modi took stock of India's Olympic preparations on Friday and also announced an interaction with the country's Tokyo-bound sportspersons on July 13, three days before the first batch departs for the Japanese capital. The interaction with the athletes will be held virtually owing to the Covid-19 situation. "Reviewed preparations for facilitation of India's contingent at @Tokyo2020. Discussed the logistical details, their vaccination status, the multi-disciplinary support being given," Modi tweeted. "On behalf of 130 crore Indians, I would be interacting with the Olympics bound athletes on 13th July to wish them luck. Let us all #Cheer4India," he said. The earlier announcement of his July 13 engagement with athletes was made on government's citizen engagement platform, MyGovIndia's twitter page. The first batch of India's Olympic-bound athletes will depart for Tokyo in a charter Air India flight on July 17. More than 120 athletes are bound for the Games, even though the Indian Olympic Association is yet to officially divulge the strength of the contingent. In view of the raging Covid-19 cases, the Tokyo Olympics will be held under a state of emergency in Japan without spectators from July 23 to August 8.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-interact-with-tokyo-bound-athletes-on-july-13-1006576.html
09-07-2021||National||Localisation of SDGs imperative to achieve 2030 Agenda: India at UN||Stressing on the need for localisation of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to achieve the 2030 SDG agenda, India has said that there is no "one size fits all" approach but countries can certainly share experience and learn from each other. Speaking at the High Level Political Forum (HLPF) on "How can localisation of SDGs contribute to Leaving no one behind?”, India's Permanent Representative to the United Nations Ambassador T.S. Tirumurti said that due to the localisation efforts, the path to implement the 2030 Agenda will be relatively smooth even in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic. "For the 2030 Agenda to succeed in big countries like India with a population of 1.3 billion, SDG localisation is an imperative," he said on Thursday. Tirumurti said that breaking down goals and implementation to sub-national and local levels is the only way to succeed in achieving SDG targets. Localisation also allows developing local solutions to local challenges by empowering provincial and local levels of government. "There is no 'one size fits all' approach for localisation, but we can certainly share experience and learn from each other," he said. Tirumurti said that the global pandemic is threatening to disrupt the “Decade of Action”. "It goes without saying that we need to work together collectively to ensure that all countries, especially vulnerable ones, stay their course on the 2030 SDG Agenda," he said. He said that the overall coordination for implementation of SDGs in India is handled by the National Institution for Transforming India or NITI Aayog, which is driven by the mandate to work in a spirit of cooperative and competitive federalism and has been extensively engaging with governments at national and local levels as well as civil society organizations. NITI Aayog has assisted in developing SDG vision documents at sub-national and local levels. The fact that our Government has given a pride of place to digital governance, especially to make them people-centric, has paved the way for citizen-friendly localisation, Tirumurti said. Institutional structures at the state and local levels, such as nodal SDG department, dedicated SDG teams, and district-level structures, help dissolve a silo-based functioning. After the fiscal decentralisation, the government took forward in 2015-16 the implementation of local development plans by local government integrating SDGs into them, he said. The ‘SDG India Index’, spearheaded by NITI Aayog since 2018, plays a pivotal role in SDG localisation by measuring performance by using globally-accepted methodology and ranking them accordingly. It is being brought out annually since 2018. The 2021 edition of the Index covers all 17 Goals, 70 targets, and 115 indicators. The Index offers valuable insights to policymakers on the remaining distance to travel, gaps, and data and statistical challenges. The utility of the Index extends beyond progress monitoring - it has implemented cooperative and competitive federalism in the true spirit of democracy and good governance, he said. Tirumurti said that India’s second VNR (Voluntary National Review) entitled, “Decade of Action: Taking SDGs from Global to Local”, at the 2020 HLPF, adopted a “whole of-society” approach. He said that SDG localisation process is not limited only to government interventions, but also includes civil society organisations. "In spite of the pandemic, we have seen remarkable progress in some crucial goals, for example in Goal 3 (Good Health and Well-Being), Goal 6 (Clean Water and Sanitation), Goal 7 (Affordable and Clean Energy), Goal 11 (Sustainable Cities and Communities) and Goal 12 (Responsible Consumption and Production)," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/localisation-of-sdgs-imperative-to-achieve-2030-agenda-india-at-un-1006582.html
09-07-2021||National||WhatsApp puts privacy policy on hold till data protection bill||Facebook-owned WhatsApp on Friday told the Delhi High Court that it would put its updated privacy policy on hold until the Data Protection Bill came into force. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for WhatsApp submitted before a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Jyoti Singh that the company has "voluntarily agreed to put update on hold". He said the Union government felt that the WhatsApp Privacy Policy was against Information Technology (Reasonable Security Practices and Procedures and Sensitive Personal Data or Information) Rules 2011. "We replied to the notice by Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology seeking a response, saying that WhatsApp will not limit functionality for some time and continue to show users the update," he said. "We will maintain this approach until Data Protection Bill comes into force. We have voluntarily agreed to put update on hold till then," Salve added. The counsel was arguing against a single judge bench order refusing to interfere with the investigation by the Competition Commission of India into WhatsApp's updated policy. He said the challenge to privacy policy and that to CCI order for probe were different. He said the vacation bench had refused to stay a June 4 notice of the Competition Commission of India (CCI) seeking more information about the WhatsApp's new privacy policy. On June 20, they said no injunction is granted, please file your reply. We filed a partial reply and wrote back on July 5 asking for more time to reply, he said. "The government has asked to shut down the policy. We have said we will not enforce it till Data Protection Bill comes out. That is open-ended because we dont know when the Bill is going to come out," he said. "We have said we will not do this for a while. Suppose the Bill allows me to do it, we will have completely different ramifications," he added. Last month, the court has refused to stay notice issued by the Competition Commission of India, asking the Facebook's owned WhatsApp to furnish certain information in relation to the probe being ordered in March on the instant messaging app's new updated privacy policy. The CCI had on March 24 ordered probe into the updated privacy policy of WhatsApp for breaching the antitrust law. “CCI is of prima facie opinion that the ‘take-it-or-leave-it’ nature of privacy policy and terms of service of WhatsApp and the information-sharing stipulations mentioned therein, merit a detailed investigation in view of the market position and market power enjoyed by WhatsApp,” the CCI order stated. The CCI in January had on its own decided to look into WhatsApp's new privacy policy on the basis of news reports related to sharing of users data with the parent company.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/whatsapp-puts-privacy-policy-on-hold-till-data-protection-bill-1006585.html
09-07-2021||National||Jyotiraditya Scindia takes charge as Civil Aviation Minister||Jyotiraditya Scindia on Friday took charge of the Civil Aviation Ministry. Scindia, a prominent leader from Madhya Pradesh, was sworn in as a cabinet minister on Wednesday. He joined BJP in March 2020 and is a Rajya Sabha member. General V K Singh also took charge as the Minister of State for Civil Aviation. Scindia has taken over the charge of the ministry at a time when the civil aviation sector is facing strong headwinds due to the coronavirus pandemic which has impacted overall demand and has also resulted in financial woes for the industry players. The government is also moving ahead with the disinvestment process for the national carrier Air India. Scindia has served as a Minister of State for Communications, Commerce and Industry and power during the Congress-led UPA government. The scion of the former royal family of Gwalior was inducted into the UPA government in 2007 and remained a part of the Union Cabinet till 2014. He resigned from Congress and joined BJP in March 2020. His move triggered a chain of events that finally culminated in the collapse of the Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh and paved the way for the saffron party to assume power which it lost towards the end of 2018. Born on January 1, 1971, and educated in Harvard and Stanford institutions, Scindia has traversed a long way after contesting his maiden election as a Congress candidate in 2002, a bypoll in the Guna Lok Sabha constituency, which was held because of the sudden death of his father, Madhavrao Scindia, in a plane crash.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jyotiraditya-scindia-takes-charge-as-civil-aviation-minister-1006588.html
09-07-2021||National||India's Hetero seeks emergency use nod for Merck's Covid-19 drug||India's Hetero Labs said on Friday it sought emergency use nod from the local regulator for Merck's Covid-19 drug molnupiravir, after interim data from a late-stage trial showed it helped reduce hospitalisations and speed up recovery in mild cases. Molnupiravir is an antiviral drug being developed by Merck & Co and Ridgeback Biotherapeutics for the treatment of non-hospitalised Covid-19 patients. Merck tapped several Indian generic drugmakers between March and April, including Cipla and Dr Reddy's Laboratories, to expand the drug's production and conduct trials, hastening its availability in India to address a second wave of infections. The partnerships gave these companies licence to make and supply molnupiravir to India and more than 100 low- and middle-income countries after approvals or emergency authorisations by local regulatory agencies, Merck said in late April. Hetero said the late-stage trial of molnupiravir, conducted at Covid-19 dedicated hospital sites across India, looked at the drug's efficacy and safety in patients with mild Covid-19. The data showed the antiviral drug resulted in statistically significant fewer hospital admissions, faster recovery time and early negative SARS-CoV-2 RT PCR results. Coronavirus cases in India have declined from a devastating peak in April and May. However, health experts have said the country should brace for a third wave by October. Molnupiravir is currently being tested in a global late-stage study by Merck and partner Ridgeback, with the trial data expected in the fall of 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-hetero-seeks-emergency-use-nod-for-mercks-covid-19-drug-1006595.html
09-07-2021||National||No coercive steps against NBA members over non-compliance of new IT rules: Kerala HC tells Centre||The Kerala High Court on Friday directed the Centre not to take any coercive action against the members of News Broadcasters Association (NBA), which represents several news channels, over non-compliance of the new IT rules. Justice P B Suresh Kumar also issued notice to the Centre and sought its stand on the plea by NBA which has contended that the new IT Rules give government authorities "excessive powers" to "unreasonably and impermissibly restrict" the freedom of speech and expression of the media. Senior advocate Maninder Singh, who appeared for the NBA, said that under the new IT rules, a Joint Secretary would be heading the oversight mechanism which would supervise the self-regulatory body headed by a retired judge. Under the rules, media companies or their associations have to form self-regulatory bodies which would be headed by a retired judge of the Supreme Court or High Courts or an eminent person. Singh contended that as a result a Joint Secretary would be supervising orders of a retired judge. In its petition, filed though advocate Nisha Bhambhani, the NBA has said the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines & Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, are ultra vires to the Information Technology Act, 2000 apart from being violative of Article 14 (equality before law) and 19(1)(g) (right to freedom to practise any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business) of the Constitution. It has challenged Part III (Code of Ethics and Procedure and Safeguards in relation to Digital Media) of the IT rules on the ground that they create an "oversight mechanism giving the executive unfettered, unbridled and excessive powers to regulate content of digital news media". "The grievance redressal mechanism created and the powers delegated have a 'chilling effect' on the content of the media. The writ (petition) also states that the executive by creating such a structure, has made inroads into judicial power and vested itself with powers reserved exclusively for the judiciary and such exercise of power is without jurisdiction," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-coercive-steps-against-nba-members-over-non-compliance-of-new-it-rules-kerala-hc-tells-centre-1006596.html
09-07-2021||National||J P Nadda pays tributes to departed Congress leader Virbhadra Singh in Shimla||BJP president J P Nadda on Friday paid last respects to former Himachal Pradesh chief minister Virbhadra Singh who passed away on Thursday. Accompanied by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, Nadda laid a wreath on Singh's mortal remains at the Ridge Maidan. The BJP president reached Shimla in a helicopter from Delhi to pay his last respects to the departed leader. Earlier on July 5, Nadda had enquired about Singh's health during his visit to the hill state. The 87-year-old veteran Congress leader breathed his last after prolonged illness at Shimla's Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) at 3.40 am on Thursday. Singh's body was kept at his residence, Holly Lodge, here for the entire day on Thursday for "antim darshan". On Friday, the body was kept at Ridge Maidan for the public to pay their last respects from 9 am to 11.30 am. Then, it will being taken to the state Congress office where it will be kept from 11.40 am to 1 pm. Thereafter, the body will be taken to Rampur by road at 1 pm and it is scheduled to reach Padam Palace there at 6 pm, a family spokesperson said. On Saturday, the body will be kept at Padam Palace from 8 am to 2 pm before the funeral, he added. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi is scheduled to pay his last respects to the departed leader at the state Congress office -- Rajiv Bhawan -- the party''s working committee member Rajeev Shukla said. A delegation of Congress leaders will represent party president Sonia Gandhi at his cremation on Saturday, Congress general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said. The delegation will comprise Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel and Congress treasurer Pawan Kumar Bansal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/j-p-nadda-pays-tributes-to-departed-congress-leader-virbhadra-singh-in-shimla-1006600.html
09-07-2021||National||Over 1.70 crore unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses still with states, private hospitals: Centre||More than 1.70 crore balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states, UTs and private hospitals to be administered, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. Over 38.18 crore vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far through all sources and a further 23,80,080 doses are in the pipeline. Of this, the total consumption including wastage is 36,48,77,756 doses, the ministry said. The new phase of universalisation of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from June 21.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-170-crore-unutilised-covid-19-vaccine-doses-still-with-states-private-hospitals-centre-1006601.html
09-07-2021||National||Delhi High Court bats for Uniform Civil Code||The Delhi High Court has stressed the need for a Uniform Civil Code in respect of marriage, divorce, succession, etc, so that settled principles, safeguards, and procedures can be laid down and citizens are not made to struggle due to the conflicts and contradictions in various personal laws. "The hope expressed in Article 44 of the Constitution that the State shall secure for its citizens Uniform Civil Code ought not to remain a mere hope," it said. A single judge bench of Justice Pratibha Singh said in modern Indian society, which is gradually becoming homogenous, the traditional barriers of religion, community, and caste are slowly dissipating.   The youth of India belonging to various communities, tribes, castes, or religions who solemnise their marriages ought not to be forced to struggle with issues arising due to conflicts in various personal laws, especially in relation to marriage and divorce, the court said. It also pointed out the need for a Uniform Civil Code as envisioned under Article 44 of the Constitution has been reiterated from time to time by the Supreme Court.  "The Supreme Court had in 1985 directed that the judgment in Ms Jordon Diengdeh to be placed before the Ministry of Law to take appropriate steps. However, more than three decades have passed since then and it is unclear as to what steps have been taken in this regard till date," the bench said. The court directed the copy of its judgement should be communicated to the Secretary, Ministry of Law and Justice, Government of India, for necessary action as could be deemed appropriate. The High Court passed its judgement while setting aside a trial court's order, which dismissed a divorce petition filed by a man on his wife's assertion that both of them belonged to 'Meena' community, a notified Scheduled Tribe, and the Hindu Marriage Act would not apply to them. The court noted that in the instant case, the marriage had taken place as per Hindu customs and rites. "If members of a tribe voluntarily choose to follow Hindu customs, traditions and rites, they cannot be kept out of the purview of the provisions of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955," the court said.  "Codified statutes and laws provide for various protections to parties against any unregulated practices from being adopted. In this day and age, relegating parties to customary courts when they themselves admit that they are following Hindu customs and traditions would be antithetical to the purpose behind enacting a statute like the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-high-court-bats-for-uniform-civil-code-1006613.html
09-07-2021||National||Muslim rulers, social reform given excessive attention in NCERT, Kerala history textbooks: Report||History textbooks issued by the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) give "disproportionate attention" to Mughal rulers, a research report by a think tank presented before the Parliamentary Committee on education has claimed. The research also criticised NCERT and the Kerala textbooks for greater emphasis to accounts of Muslim chroniclers like Ibn Batuta, along with social reform movements and reformers, at the cost of ignoring the works of Chanakya, Bodhayan, Bhaskaracharya, Aryabhatta and the works of social reformers such as Swami Dayanand Saraswati and Swami Vivekananda, the report said. The think tank also claimed that the Kerala textbooks "black out" references to ancient India and Rig Veda, amplify the caste of saints who led the Bhakti movement and "downplay their philosophy and teachings". On the other hand, the research report praised the Gujarat government's approach to history, wherein it "underplayed the caste system, valourised Rajput women and talked about the role women in ancient India played in society". The research criticised NCERT textbooks for “excessive use of words such as gotra, jati, and varna” and said, “Gujarat textbooks, while mentioning the four varnas have not gone into their details, and have chapters on different temples of the country and how they survived assaults by invaders, an account missing in Kerala and NCERT textbooks. Kerala history textbooks, according to the research, has just a few passing references to the 1857 uprising, while NCERT makes it centred around Mughal emperor Bahadur Shah Zafar, as opposed to Gujarat textbooks that have highlighted the role of Rani Laxmibai of Jhansi, Tatya Tope and Nanasaheb", the report said. It also claimed that textbooks of classes eight to twelve, in their chapters about modern India, gave prominence to Mahatma Gandhi and Jawaharlal Nehru, while leaders such as Sardar Patel, Bhagat Singh, Surya Sen and Khudiram Bose were rarely mentioned. The think tank recommended that desecration of be taught, particularly in the cases of Somnath temple, Quwwat-ul-Islam mosque, Adhai Din Ka Jhonpra and others, and highlight stories of Hindu kings such as Raja Dahir, maratha and Rajput rulers such as Tanhaji, Rani Durgavati and Rani Kiran Devi Rathore in the textbooks, the report said. The education panel is expected to come up with its own report on redesigning the curriculum shortly, even as the Centre mulls changes to textbooks, ET said, citing people in the know.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/muslim-rulers-social-reform-given-excessive-attention-in-ncert-kerala-history-textbooks-report-1006616.html
09-07-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccine coverage exceeds 36.89 crore: Centre||India's cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage has exceeded 36.89 crore, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. Cumulatively, more than 11.18 crore doses have been administered in the age group of 18-44 years, it said. The ministry said over 40 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the last 24 hours. On Day-174 of the vaccination drive (July 8), out of the total 40,23,173 vaccine doses that were given, 27,01,200 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 13,21,973 beneficiaries received the second dose of vaccine. As many as 20,31,634 vaccine doses were administered as first dose and 1,79,901 vaccine doses given as second dose in the age group 18-44 years on Thursday. Cumulatively, 10,84,53,590 persons in the age group 18-44 years across all states and UTs have received their first dose and total 33,79,213 have received their second. Eight states-- Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra -- have administered more than 50 lakh first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in the age group of 18-44 years. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-coverage-exceeds-3689-crore-centre-1006629.html
09-07-2021||National||PM Modi reviews progress of oxygen augmentation, availability across country||More than 1,500 PSA (Pressure Swing Adsorption) oxygen plants are coming up across the country, the government said on Friday as Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed the progress of augmentation and availability of the life-saving gas. The Prime Minister's Office (PMO), in a statement, said Modi asked officials to ensure that these plants are made functional at the earliest and also told them to work closely with state governments in this regard. These upcoming oxygen plants include those being built with the contribution from the PM CARES fund as well as from various ministries and PSUs, it said. PSA oxygen plants contributed by the PM CARES fund are coming up in all states and districts of the country, and Modi was told that they will support more than 4 lakh oxygenated beds once functional, the PMO said. "PM asked officials to ensure there is adequate training of hospital staff on operation and maintenance of oxygen plants. He also directed officials to ensure that each district has trained personnel available," it said. The prime minister was informed by officials that a training module prepared by experts is in place, and they are targeting training of around 8,000 people across the country. Modi also asked them to deploy advanced technology like IoT to track the performance and functioning of these oxygen plants at the local and national level. He was informed by officials that a pilot exercise is being done using IoT for monitoring the performance of the oxygen plants, the PMO said. Officials also informed the prime minister that they are in regular touch with officers from state governments regarding fast-tracking the oxygen plants, it said. With many places complaining of oxygen shortage in hospitals during the peak of the second Covid-19 wave in April-May, the Union government has been taking measures in coordination with states to boost the production and supply of the life-saving gas. Modi has been holding a number of meetings in this regard amid apprehensions of a third wave of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-reviews-progress-of-oxygen-augmentation-availability-across-country-1006635.html
09-07-2021||National||SC to consider on July 16 Centre's plea to transfer matters related to regulating digital media||The Supreme Court on Friday refrained from passing any order a plea by the Union government to transfer multiple petitions ---questioning validity of 2021 IT rules for Over The Top platforms and digital media --- from various High Courts to the top court. A bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar said the court would annexe the instant matter with a pending case and direct it to be put before the appropriate bench on July 16. "We are not passing any other orders except tagging it and directing to list the same before the appropriate bench. Let the same come up on July 16," the bench said. The court ordered that the matter would be considered along with a pending case of 'Justice for Rights Foundation'. In its plea, the Union government said the issue of regulating the OTT platform was pending before the top court. The government has promulgated the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 which pertained to regulation of the OTT platforms.  "The said rules have already been placed on record of this court by the petitioner and their adequateness, validity and other cognate issues are pending consideration before this court," it pointed out. However, three different petitions before the Delhi High Court and one before the Kerala High Court and others have been filed. "In order to avoid prolixity, multiplicity of proceedings and divergent judicial views, the petitions before the High Courts may be withdrawn and transferred to the top court," it said. The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 have been notified and published in the Official Gazette on February 25, 2021 and have come into effect since then.  The Rules have been challenged on the ground that it enables the government to virtually dictate content to digital news portals, among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-consider-on-july-16-centres-plea-to-transfer-matters-related-to-regulating-digital-media-1006647.html
09-07-2021||National||Ratha Yatra celebrations begin in Puri without devotees; strict restrictions imposed||The celebrations for Lord Jagannath's annual Ratha Yatra began in Puri on Friday with the 'Naba Jauban Darshan' of the sibling deities, during which they are worshipped in their youthful appearances after spending 14 days in 'Anasara Ghara' or quarantine. As the celebrations began, the state government announced the imposition of curfew in Puri town from July 11 onwards. The curfew will be imposed at 8 pm on July 11, a day before the Ratha Yatra, and continue till 8 am on July 13, as per a notification issued by the Special Relief Commissioner's office. This year, Ratha Yatra will be held on July 12. All the entry points to Puri town will be sealed, officials said, adding that the restrictions are being imposed to keep devotees at bay in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The restrictions may be further extended in the town, said Sub-Collector Bhabataran Sahoo. The weekend shutdown, imposed in 10 coastal districts with high test positivity rates till July 16, will be eased for Puri town, as per the notification. "Now, in view of imposition of curfew in Puri town from 8 pm of 11.07.2021 to 8 pm of 13.07.2021 by the district administration for Ratha Yatra and in the interest of the general public, the said shutdown order is partially modified exempting Puri town from the shutdown on 10.01.2021 (Saturday)," it said. The Trinity -- Lord Jagannath, Lord Balabhadra and Devi Subhadra -- during the 'Naba Jouban Darshan' reappeared after spending 14 days in the 'Aasara Ghara'. However, devotees missed the rituals as no one was allowed entry into the shrine due to the pandemic. The state government has appealed to the people not to visit Puri during the festival, and instead watch the live broadcast of the Ratha Yatra on TV. Usually, around 10 lakh people gather in Puri during Ratha Yatra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ratha-yatra-celebrations-begin-in-puri-without-devotees-strict-restrictions-imposed-1006666.html
09-07-2021||National||New Law Minister Kiren Rijiju meets predecessor Ravi Shankar Prasad||Newly appointed Law Minister Kiren Rijiju met his predecessor Ravi Shankar Prasad here on Saturday. Rijiju was given the law and justice portfolio on Wednesday and elevated to the Cabinet rank in a major rejig of the Union Council of Ministers. Prasad, who was holding the portfolio, besides the information technology and communications ministries, had resigned from the government on Wednesday. "Called on my senior colleague and predecessor as Union Law & Justice minister  Ravi Shankar Prasad ji. Sought his guidance to take forward the vision of Hon'ble Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji to build a new India," Rijiju tweeted. He also shared a picture of the meeting. Prasad also tweeted about his meeting with Rijiju.   "I wished him the best and all the success in taking the vision of PM @narendramodi forward," Prasad said. At the first meeting of the Union Council of Ministers on Wednesday evening  after the rejig, the prime minister had said the new ministers can learn from the experience of their predecessors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-law-minister-kiren-rijiju-meets-predecessor-ravi-shankar-prasad-1006672.html
09-07-2021||National||Road ministry to seek Cabinet nod for townships alongside highways: Gadkari||The Road Transport and Highways Ministry will seek the Cabinet's approval for allowing construction of smart cities, townships, logistic parks and industrial clusters along the national highways, Union minister Nitin Gadkari said on Friday. Addressing a virtual event, Gadkari said his aim is to construct world-class highway networks and the road transport and highways ministry has chalked out a plan for monetising existing highways projects for infra capital generation. "And now we have prepared a cabinet note for approval... for making roadside townships, smart cities, logistic parks, industrial clusters," he said. "We are making 400 roadside amenities," Gadkari added. The minister said that his ministry is planning to construct tunnels worth Rs 2.5 lakh crore. Gadkari also said that the use of steel and cement should be reduced in road construction without compromising on quality through innovation and research. He said CNG, LNG and ethanol should be used for the road equipment machinery. The minister emphasised import substitution, cost-effective, pollution-free and indigenous methods and development of alternative fuel. Gadkari said India with about 63 lakh kms of road network is the second largest road network in the world. The government is investing 1.4 trillion dollars i.e. Rs 111 lakh crores in infrastructure development through National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP), he added. The government has also increased year on year infrastructure capex by 34 per cent to Rs. 5.54 lakh crore this year, he said. Increased investment in infrastructure would help create employment during the Covid-19 pandemic, he added. The minister said his aim is to construct a 60,000 km world-class national highway at the rate of 40 km per day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/road-ministry-to-seek-cabinet-nod-for-townships-alongside-highways-gadkari-1006689.html
09-07-2021||National||Covid-19 crisis | Second wave is not over, crowded tourist spots pose a new risk, says Health Ministry||Even after a ten-fold drop in daily new infections, India is not out of its Covid-19 worries as the daily count of new cases has not fallen since the past two weeks with half of them coming from only two states – Maharashtra and Kerala. “We are nowhere close to the baseline, which should be below 10,000 new cases for each day for three consecutive weeks," VK Paul, NITI Aayog member, said on Friday. Since the last week of June, the number of new cases has stagnated between 35,000 to 48,000, which is more than one-third of the first wave’s peak of 97,894. While it looks small when compared against the second peak of 4,14,188 infections in a single day, in absolute terms the daily count is still high. Last week, 53% of the cases came from Kerala (32%) and Maharashtra (21%). As many as 66 districts have more than a 10% test positivity rate, of which ten are in Rajasthan, eight in Kerala and two each in Maharashtra and Odisha. In addition, the numbers are on a rise in almost every northeast state. "While the infection is more visible in two states and in the northeast, the war against Covid-19 is far from over. As long as the virus is there, we are not safe,” said Paul, appealing to the people to follow the Covid-19 appropriate behaviour while venturing out to tourist spots and getting engaged in religious programmes. On people thronging the hill stations without wearing a mask and giving the distancing norms a go-by, a senior health ministry official said such behaviour was tantamount to an open invitation to the virus to infect. “The relaxations on restriction don’t mean the second wave is over. We are still dealing with it and the tourist spots pose a new risk,” said Lav Agarwal, a joint secretary in the ministry. As photos and videos of such irresponsible behaviour at Mussoorie, Shimla and Manali surfaced on social media, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday told at the Council of Ministers meeting that it was not a pleasant sight and it should instil a sense of fear. Paul said the local administration must take responsibility to enforce Covid-appropriate behaviour at the tourist spot. At the press conference, Agarwal showed the Kempty Falls video asking people not to follow such behaviour. Following the criticism, the Uttarakhand government has now restricted tourist entry at Kempty Falls, limiting it to only 50 tourists at a time. The tourists can't stay at the spot beyond half an hour and a check-post would be set up to monitor the tourists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-second-wave-is-not-over-crowded-tourist-spots-pose-a-new-risk-says-health-ministry-1006704.html
09-07-2021||National||Param Bir Singh summoned by ED in money laundering case||The ED is soon expected to question and record the statement of former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh in a money laundering case linked to his allegation of a Rs 100 bribery-cum-extortion racket in the state police establishment that led to the resignation of former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, officials said on Friday. They said 59-year-old Singh has been issued summons to appear before the investigating officer of the case in Mumbai and the senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer has sought some time to depose apparently owing to an health issue. The summons has been issued to Singh sometime ago as part of the investigation into the case involving him and Deshmukh, they said. Singh, a 1988-batch IPS officer, is currently the director general of Maharashtra Police home guards unit. He was removed as the Mumbai Commissioner of Police (CP) after multiple investigations were launched into an instance of security scare that was reported from near the Mumbai house of Reliance Industries chairman Mukesh Ambani in the capital city of Maharashtra. The investigation in the alleged bribery case gathered pace after the ED late last month raided the premises of Deshmukh, 72, and his aides in Nagpur and Mumbai and later arrested two of his staffers. The former home minister was also summoned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) thrice but he skipped the dates. Deshmukh, some days ago, moved the Supreme Court seeking protection from any coercive action by the ED in this money laundering case. The ED case against Deshmukh and others was made out after the CBI booked him in a corruption case related to allegations of at least Rs 100 crore bribery made by Singh. In his letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray after he was removed from the police commissioner's post, Singh had alleged that Deshmukh had asked suspended Mumbai Police assistant police inspector Sachin Waze to extort over Rs 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. Deshmukh had to resign from his post in April following the allegations and he has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing. The ED has questioned Waze in this case twice at the Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai and it is expected that it may grill him again on Saturday after it obtained a court permission to record his statement for three days.  Waze is in jail after he was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with a case related to parking of an explosives laden SUV near the residence of Ambani and the murder case of businessman Mansukh Hiran. He had also told the ED that he attended a meeting at the official residence of the former home minister Deshmukh wherein he was given a list of bar and restaurant owners and asked to "collect Rs 3 lakh per month" from each of these businesses in Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/param-bir-singh-summoned-by-ed-in-money-laundering-case-1006710.html
09-07-2021||National||MSN Labs enters into licence agreement with DRDE for Covid drug 2-DG||Drug firm MSN Laboratories on Friday said it has entered into a licence agreement with the Defence Research & Development Establishment (DRDE) for the manufacturing, distribution and marketing of 2-Deoxy-D-Glucose (2-DG), used for the treatment of Covid-19. Developed by DRDO, 2-DG has been granted permission by the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for emergency use as adjunct therapy in moderate to severe Covid-19 patients, MSN Labs said in a statement. The company has entered into a licence agreement with DRDE and the Institute of Nuclear Medicine and Allied Sciences (INMAS) establishments of DRDO for the manufacturing, distribution and marketing of 2-Deoxy-D-Glucose (2-DG) in India, it added. MSN labs will be launching the 2-DG as a twice-a-day product in sachet form under the brand name MSN 2D in strength of 2.34 g, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/msn-labs-enters-into-licence-agreement-with-drde-for-covid-drug-2-dg-1006711.html
09-07-2021||National||SC refuses to entertain plea seeking clarification on declaration of loan accounts as NPA||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to entertain a plea seeking clarification of its verdict of March 23 by which it had vacated the stay on declaration of loan accounts as non-performing assets (NPAs) by the banks. The top court said that these are policy decisions and it cannot interfere in such issues. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah, was hearing a miscellaneous application filed by advocate Vishal Tiwari that clarification should be given that period of declaring any account as NPA shall be done after 90 days of the date of verdict that is March 23. “You cannot file miscellaneous application in a disposed of matter and it is only filed for the purpose of correction of names or any factual mistake in the order. What you have sought is substantial relief. Sorry we cannot entertain this,” the bench said. Tiwari then sought to withdraw the application, which was allowed by the court. On March 23, the top court giving a major relief to borrowers had directed that no compound or penal interest be charged for the six-month moratorium announced last year amid the Covid-19 pandemic and the amount already recovered is to be refunded or adjusted in the next instalment of loan account. While refusing to extend the period of moratorium, the apex court had said there is “no justification” to charge interest on interest or compound interest for the period during the moratorium once the payment of instalment is deferred by last year's March 27 notification. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had on March 27, 2020 issued the circular allowing lending institutions to grant a moratorium on payment of instalments of term loans falling due between March 1 and May 31 of last year due to the pandemic. The moratorium was extended by three months till August 31. It vacated the interim relief granted earlier not to declare the accounts of respective borrowers as NPA. On September 3, in a relief to stressed borrowers who are facing hardship due to impact of Covid-19 pandemic, the top court had said that accounts which were not declared as non-performing assets till August 31 last year, shall not be declared NPA till further orders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-to-entertain-plea-seeking-clarification-on-declaration-of-loan-accounts-as-npa-1006721.html
09-07-2021||National||'Speaker decides internal disputes of the House': Delhi HC dismisses Chirag Paswan's plea||The Delhi High Court on Friday declined to entertain a plea by Lok Janshakti Party MP Chirag Paswan, challenging the Lok Sabha Speaker's decision recognising Pashupati Paras as the floor leader of the party. "The right to decide the internal disputes of the House rests with the Speaker," Justice Rekha Palli said. The plea contended that change in leader of Lok Sabha was the 'prerogative of the party', and action of the Secretary General of Lok Sabha was contrary to Rules of the House and the principles of natural justice. The court, however, did not see any merit in the averments and also pointed out that petition was a way to settle scores.  Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, submitted that the petition was 'blissfully vague' in the context of basic constitutional issues. Mehta said that out of six elected MPs, five were not with the petitioner. Maintaining that this dispute cannot be a subject matter of judicial review, Mehta said “The prayer is to implement the constitution of the party." Petitioner’s counsel submitted that the decision of naming Pashupati Paras as the party floor leader in Lok Sabha and removing Paswan's name was arbitrary and contrary to the party's constitution. He argued that the decision has to be taken by the parliamentary board. Senior Advocate Rajshekhar Rao cited June 13, letter written by the Chief Whip of LJP, Pashupati Paras. He submitted the Speaker has dealt with someone who had the authority being the Chief whip. If they, other MPs are deemed to be expelled, the Election Commission will deal with it, he added. After hearing arguments in the matter, the court refused to consider plea by Chirag, son of late Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan.  The LJP is part of the National Democratic Alliance and has six MPs in Lok Sabha. In a recent Cabinet rejig, Paras was made a Union minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/speaker-decides-internal-disputes-of-the-house-delhi-hc-dismisses-chirag-paswans-plea-1006723.html
09-07-2021||National||Maharashtra, Kerala reported 53% of India's total Covid-19 cases last week: Centre||Maharashtra and Kerala recorded more than half of the Covid-19 cases registered in India last week, the Centre said on Friday as it stressed that the pandemic is far from over and there is no room for complacency. In a press conference, a senior official said, "The country is still dealing with the second wave and we need to introspect if we can afford misplaced belief that Covid-19 is over." The government said visuals from tourist spots and the way people are mingling without following Covid protocols is "a serious cause of concern" and that such negligence will increase the risk of virus spread. Joint secretary in the health ministry Lav Agarwal referred to recent spikes in cases in some countries, including Russia and the UK, to caution people against lowering their guard. He pitched for strictly following Covid-19 protocols such as wearing of mask and maintaining of physical distancing. He said more than half of the Covid-19 cases reported in India last week were from two states -- Maharashtra (21 per cent) and Kerala (32 per cent) -- and stressed on following containment measures. The official said 80 per cent of the new Covid cases in India are reported from 90 districts in 15 states and union territories, which indicates the need for focussed attention in these areas. He also said 66 districts across 17 states and UTs reported Covid-19 positivity rate of more than 10 per cent in the week ending July 8. The government said no case of Lambda variant of Covid-19 has been reported in India. India logged 43,393 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of cases to 3,07,52,950, while the active cases have declined to 4,58,727, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll has climbed to 4,05,939 with 911 fresh fatalities. NITI Aayog member (Health) V K Paul said Covid-19 in pregnant women can increase certain risks like pre-term delivery, that is why it is important for them to take vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-kerala-reported-53-of-indias-total-covid-19-cases-last-week-centre-1006728.html
09-07-2021||National||Vaccine Matters: Delta mars preparations for third wave||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaccine-matters-delta-mars-preparations-for-third-wave-1006734.html
09-07-2021||National||35% of India's tiger ranges are outside protected areas: Report||Thirty-five per cent of India's tiger ranges are outside protected areas and human-animal conflict affects over 75 per cent of the world's wild cat species, according to a new report. The study, which has been done by WWF and the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) with contribution from 155 experts from 40 organisations based in 27 countries, also stated that human-wildlife conflict is the greatest threat to animals. "Currently, 35 per cent of India's tiger range, 40 per cent of the African lion range and 70 per cent of the African and Asian elephant ranges are outside protected areas," said the report -- 'A future for all-The need for human-wildlife coexistence'. "Marine species, such as turtles and whales, that travel thousands of kilometres annually, are also increasingly interacting with people. With so much overlap, effective HWC (human-wildlife conflict) management becomes increasingly necessary," it said. The report said that human-wildlife conflict -- when struggles arise from people and animals coming into contact -- often leads to killing of animals in self-defence or as pre-emptive or retaliatory, which can drive species to extinction. "Marine and terrestrial protected areas cover only 9.67 per cent of the globe, and most of these protected areas are disconnected from each other. Therefore, many species depend on human-dominated spaces for their survival, and shared landscapes where both humans and wildlife exist outside protected areas play an increasingly important role for the survival of key species such as large predators and herbivores," the report said.   It said that many other terrestrial and marine carnivore species such as polar bears and Mediterranean monk seals and large herbivores such as elephants are also getting affected due to HWC. "In India, data from the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change indicates that over 500 elephants were killed between 2014-2015 and 2018-2019, most related to human-elephant conflict. During the same period, 2,361 people were killed as a result of conflict with elephants," the report said. According to it, India faces an increasing challenge of human-wildlife conflict, which is driven by development pressures.  "With the world's second-largest human population along with the largest wild populations of tigers, Asian elephants, One-horned rhinos, Asiatic lions, and other globally threatened species, India faces urgent problems of human-wildlife conflict that must be addressed to achieve a socially just form of conservation. India's elephants probably embody the problem the best," it said. Elephants in India are restricted to just three-four per cent of their original habitat, with their remaining range plagued by deforestation, invasive species, and climate change. This is pushing elephants to seek resources outside of forests and protected areas, the report said. "As a result, marginalised people face the brunt of elephants' increasing reliance on crops. As many as 500 people are killed by elephants, and thousands of families face crop and property loss to elephants annually," it said. Margaret Kinnaird, Global Wildlife Practice Leader at WWF said the global wildlife population has fallen by an average of 68 per cent since 1970. "Within a human lifetime, we have already seen extraordinary and unparalleled changes to our planet. Global wildlife populations have fallen an average of 68 per cent since 1970. Human-wildlife conflict, in combination with other threats, has driven the significant decline of species that were once abundant, and species that are naturally less abundant have been pushed to the brink of extinction," Kinnaird said.  Unless urgent action is taken, this devastating trend will only worsen, wreaking detrimental and, in some cases, irreversible impacts on ecosystems and biodiversity, Kinnaird said. According to Director of UNEP's Ecosystems Division Susan Gardner this report is a clarion call to elevate the problem of HWC and give it the attention it deserves in national and international processes. "It is a call for the adoption of approaches that identify and address the deeper, underlying causes of conflict while developing systemic solutions with affected communities as active and equal participants in the process. As demonstrated in many of the case studies in this report, coexistence is both possible and attainable," she said. The report said that "while people the world over reap the benefits of maintaining flourishing wildlife populations - healthy ecosystems that allow us to survive, provide food and enable livelihoods - catastrophic impacts such as injury and death and the loss of property and livelihoods put tremendous stress on those who live alongside wildlife, often in developing nations rich in biodiversity, leading to financial insecurity and poor physical and mental health".  It said completely eradicating human-wildlife conflict is not possible but that well-planned, integrated approaches to managing it can reduce conflicts. "An example of this can be seen in Sonitpur District, Assam, where large-scale deforestation and degradation were driving increases in elephant crop-raiding that led to accidental human deaths and retaliatory killings of elephants," it said. WWF India during 2003-2004 developed the Sonitpur Model by which community members were connected with the state forest department and given training on how to work with them to drive elephants away from crop fields safely and human habitations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/35-of-indias-tiger-ranges-are-outside-protected-areas-report-1006737.html
09-07-2021||National||No case of Lambda Covid variant found in India yet: Centre||No case of the Lambda variant of SARS-CoV-2 has been found in India so far, the government said on Friday. Responding to a question at a press briefing, joint secretary in the health ministry, Lav Agarwal, said Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) is closely monitoring the variant. "Lambda was the seventh variant of interest identified by the WHO (World Health Organisation) on June 14 and it has been detected in 25 countries," he said. "In our country, no cases have been reported and INSACOG is monitoring it and we are watchful. In Peru, 80 per cent infections were from this variant. It has also been found in South American countries and also in the UK and European countries, and any public health impact will be monitored," Agarwal said. NITI Aayog Member (Health) Dr V K Paul said the Lambda variant is a variant of interest so its total significance is still being explored. "As far as we know it has not entered our country, we have not detected this variant in our country. Our surveillance system INSACOG is very effective and it will detect it if it happens to enter our country because when you do sequencing, all this will be picked up. So we should watch for that," he said. Paul said the Lambda strain is a variant of interest which means its public health significance is being watched but it has not been proven for excessive transmissibility, for impact on excess severity or any other public health issues like those related to vaccines. "We should be watchful for these variants because the virus is under pressure and when it goes under pressure then it tends to pick up characteristics that tend to help it in survival but as of now we should be watching such variants for their presence in our country but as of now we have no evidence that this has been detected in any part of our country," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-case-of-lambda-covid-variant-found-in-india-yet-centre-1006752.html
09-07-2021||National||SAD promises govt job to kin of farmers who died during protests||Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday promised government jobs to the kin of farmers who died during the agitation against the Centre’s farm laws if the coalition led by his party comes to power in the state. The SAD president also assured free education to children and grandchildren of the farmers who lost their lives during the protest. The SAD is contesting the 2022 Assembly polls in the state in alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP). “Today, I assure Punjabis: Immediately after forming the govt in 2022, SAD-BSP will honour the martyrs of Kisan Andolan with one govt job per family, free education to their children & grandchildren till post-graduation & health insurance cover to the entire family,” said Badal in a tweet. In a video posted on his Twitter handle, Badal said for the past seven months, farmers have been camping at the Delhi borders, demanding repeal of the “black” farm laws brought by the Modi government at the Centre. He said more than 550 farmers have “laid down” their lives during this agitation. If the SAD-BSP alliance comes to power, its first decision will be to provide government jobs to a family member of the each farmer who died during the agitation, Badal said. He also hoped that farmers would be victorious in their agitation against the three farm legislations. Farmers mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have been camping at Delhi borders since November last year, demanding that the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee minimum support price for crops. However, the government has maintained that the laws are pro-farmer. Several rounds of talks between farmers and the government have failed to break the deadlock over the three laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sad-promises-govt-job-to-kin-of-farmers-who-died-during-protests-1006759.html
09-07-2021||National||Delhi's Gaffar, Naiwala markets to close for two days for violation of Covid norms||The Delhi government on Friday ordered the closure of the popular Gaffar Market and Naiwala market in Karol Bagh here for two days over violation of Covid protocols. It also ordered the closure of another market in Rohini for flouting Covid norms. The closure will come into effect from 10 pm on July 9 and will stay in place till 10 pm on July 11, the order said. The DDA Market in Rohini's Sector 13 will remain closed till July 12, it said. "... market shopkeepers , thiyawallahs / Vendors , and general public in Gaffar Market and Naiwala, Karol Bagh are not following the Covid-appropriate behaviour. Due to large footfall, market association and shopkeepers are not able to ensure Covid protocols in the aforesaid markets in last three days.  "The guidelines / directions of Covid Protocol are being contravened in the Gaffar Market and Naiwala which may cause super - spreading of the coronavirus," the order said. The order also stated that the Market Welfare Association of Gaffar Market and Naiwala have "failed to ensure the strict compliance of the guidelines of Covid-19". The order for closure of markets in Karol Bagh also noted that it is "necessary to take an immediate and stringent action to curtail the spread of the virus and not to let develop any such place as super spreader in larger interest of public". Delhi was under lockdown from April 19 to May 30 during the second wave of the Covid pandemic. Restrictions are being eased in a phased manner, and markets were allowed to open from June 7. The Lajpat Nagar, Laxmi Nagar market, Kamla Nagar, Sarojini Nagar and parts of Sadar Bazar were among those shut in recent weeks by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) for violation of Covid-19 norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhis-gaffar-naiwala-markets-to-close-for-two-days-for-violation-of-covid-norms-1006763.html
09-07-2021||National||NGT asks states to complete District Environment Plans by October 31||The National Green Tribunal has directed the chief secretaries of all the states and Union Territories (UTs) to ensure the completion of District Environment Plans (DEPs) by October 31. The Principal Bench of the NGT headed by its Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said there is a dire need for compiling information on vital environmental issues and planning to address the gaps in compliances. It is the Constitutional obligation of the states/UTs to ensure compliance with the environmental mandate as a clean environment is part of the right to life, the NGT observed. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Shree Nath Sharma which was originally filed before the Rajasthan High Court for direction to check pollution of Sujanganga River at Bharatpur. The High Court directed taking of remedial measures - removing encroachment, preventing dumping of waste and fixing accountability of the concerned officers for failing to protect the environment. The tribunal said it is unhappy to note that all the states/UTs have not taken the matter as seriously as the subject requires. The DEPs may contain data on each environmental issue covering each city, town and village and they must show the extent of the gap in compliance with laid down norms. “The DEP must give timelines for the accomplishment of tasks backed up with budgetary support and the officers entrusted with the job, with contact details of the nodal officer at various levels in the District. All the states may accordingly consolidate the DEPs and prepare their respective State Environment Plans and upload the same on their respective websites, the tribunal said. “The existing machinery should be able to meet the challenge and should be revamped from time to time. As repeatedly observed by this Tribunal, degradation of air, water and soil cause a large number of deaths and diseases, apart from the loss of livelihood.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-asks-states-to-complete-district-environment-plans-by-october-31-1006772.html
09-07-2021||National||Bankers working in sensitive positions to get surprise leaves of at least 10 days||Bankers working in sensitive positions, including treasury operations and currency chests, will get a surprise holiday of at least 10 working days or more in a single spell every year under the modified risk management guidelines of the Reserve Bank. In a communication to lenders, including rural development banks and cooperative banks, the RBI asked them to put in place a 'mandatory leave' policy as part of the prudent risk management measure. During the mandatory leave, the bank employee will not have access to any physical or virtual resources related to the work responsibilities, with the exception of internal/ corporate email which is usually available to all employees for general purposes. "As a prudent operational risk management measure, the banks shall put in place a 'mandatory leave' policy wherein the employees posted in sensitive positions or areas of operation shall be compulsorily sent on leave for a few days (not less than 10 working days) in a single spell every year, without giving any prior intimation to these employees, thereby maintaining an element of surprise," the RBI communication said. The RBI, in its earlier guideline on the issue in April 2015, had not clearly specified the number of days for the mandatory surprise leave, though it said it could be "a few days (say 10 working days)". The central bank has updated the 'mandatory leave' policy for the employees posted in sensitive positions or areas of operation, and repealed the circular dated April 23, 2015. Banks, as per a board-approved policy, have been asked to prepare a list of sensitive positions to be covered under 'mandatory leave' requirements and also review the list periodically. RBI has asked banks to comply with the revised instructions within six months. As per the April 2015 circular, sensitive positions or areas of operations covered under the 'mandatory leave' policy include treasury, currency chests, risk modelling, and model validation. As per a circular of 2011 on 'Findings of Forensic Scrutiny- Guidelines for prevention of frauds', banks were advised to immediately put in place 'staff rotation' policy and policy for 'mandatory leave'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bankers-working-in-sensitive-positions-to-get-surprise-leaves-of-at-least-10-days-1006786.html
09-07-2021||National||Working actively with Moderna to figure out India availability: Centre||The government said on Friday that it is working actively with Covid-19 vaccine manufacturer Moderna to see how its vaccine can be imported and made available in the country. Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine was granted emergency use authorisation last month. Responding to a question at a press briefing, NITI Aayog member (Health) Dr V K Paul said, "Moderna vaccine is under emergency use authorisation. The government is working actively with the manufacturers to see how to make this vaccine available in the country, importing it into the country, those efforts are on the process that has to be gone through is being actively pursued." In response to another question on the vaccine of drug firm Zydus Cadila, Paul said the company had submitted its third phase trial results to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) last week. "Zydus Cadila has submitted its phase-3 trial results to the DCGI last week and scientific evidence is being probed and the process of exchange of information is actively going on," he said. In this trial, Paul said children were also included and "we are hoping that after all this data gets evaluated through scientific process then recommendations will be followed, and if there is enough evidence to support vaccination by this vaccine for children between 12-18 years then that will also be provided at that time depending upon the robustness of the data and scientific evidence". "We should wait for that process to be over and for a decision to be made by the scientific system in the DCGI," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/working-actively-with-moderna-to-figure-out-india-availability-centre-1006787.html
09-07-2021||National||Gujarat govt allows opening schools, colleges from July 15||With daily coronavirus cases significantly decreasing, the Gujarat government on Friday announced the reopening of schools for class 12, polytechnic institutes and colleges from July 15 with 50% of their capacity. The government said that students' attendance will be voluntary and that too with their parent's permission. The decision was taken by a core committee led by state education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama, chief secretary Anil Mukim and several other officers. The decision comes after daily coronavirus cases fell below 100 over the past several days. On Thursday the state reported 62 new positive cases in 24 hours and no casualty after nearly 120 days.  "We believe that in most of these institutes students must have been vaccinated or will be vaccinated in the coming days.  Besides, we can shut them back if we see the cases resurging again," said a senior official. Earlier in February, the state government had permitted schools to reopen after nearly 11 months since the pandemic broke out. A month later in March, as the cases started rising, the government ordered shut down.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-govt-allows-opening-schools-colleges-from-july-15-1006789.html
09-07-2021||National||Judges must not behave like emperors, don’t unnecessarily call public officers to court: Supreme Court||Maintaining that public officers shouldn’t be called to court unnecessarily, the Supreme Court on Friday said judges must know their limits and they must have modesty and humility, and not behave like emperors. "A practice has developed in certain High Courts to call officers at the drop of a hat and to exert direct or indirect pressure," a bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta said. The court said in fact the line of separation of powers between judiciary and executive was sought to be crossed by summoning the officers and in a way pressurising them to pass an order as per the whims and fancies of the court. “Summoning of officers frequently is not appreciable at all. The same is liable to be condemned in the strongest words," the bench said. The top court's strong observations came in a judgement on an appeal by the Uttar Pradesh government against the Allahabad High Court's order concerning back wages of a medical officer. The HC had, in the case, issued summons to secretary, medical health department. Deprecating the practice, the top court said summoning of the officer is against the public interest as many important tasks entrusted to him gets delayed, creating extra burden on the officer or delaying the decisions awaiting his opinion. "Public officers of the executive are also performing their duties as the third limbs of the governance. The actions or decisions by the officers are not to benefit them, but as a custodian of public funds and in the interest of administration, some decisions are bound to be taken," it noted. The court cited its judgment reported as Divisional Manager, 'Aravali Golf Club and Anr vs Chander Hass and Anr', where it was stated that judges must know their limits. They must have modesty and humility, and not behave like emperors. The bench said the dignity and majesty of the court is not enhanced when an officer is called to court. “Respect to the court has to be commanded and not demanded and the same is not enhanced by calling public officers. The presence of public officer comes at the cost of other official engagement demanding their attention," the bench pointed out. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/judges-must-not-behave-like-emperors-don-t-unnecessarily-call-public-officers-to-court-supreme-court-1006797.html
09-07-2021||National||Loss of liberty of driver on same pedestal as affluent person, SC tells Bihar govt||“Loss of liberty of humble person like a driver and of an affluent person is on the same pedestal,” the Supreme Court said on Friday, dismissing an appeal of Bihar government against a Patna High Court order directing it to pay compensation of Rs 5 lakh to a driver who was detained for 35 days by police without any FIR. The top court also took note of the fact that the driver of a milk van was detained last year during the nationwide lockdown without any “rhyme and reasons” and said it appears “Police Raj is going on in State of Bihar”. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah at the outset said that Bihar government should not have filed the appeal against the Patna High Court order of December 22 last year. Advocate Devashish Bharuka, appearing for Bihar, said the state has taken action against the Station House Officer and disciplinary proceedings are going on. He said that his only limited point is that he was a driver and Rs 5 lakh compensation may not be payable to him. The bench then observed, “Loss of liberty of a humble person like a driver and of an affluent person is on the same pedestal." It said that the driver was detained without any “rhyme and reasons” and without even registering any FIR, which is evident from the report filed by the DIG in the case before the High Court. “What is this going on? Absolutely Police Raj is going on in state of Bihar”, the bench said. “The person was detained for days without any FIR being registered. How can you justify this,” the bench said, after Bharuka submitted that the driver was there of his volition. It said that Rs 5 lakh compensation is good enough and dismissed the appeal filed by the state government. The high court order had directed Bihar government to pay compensation of Rs 5 lakh to the detenue driver Jitendra Kumar for violation of his fundamental right under Article 21 of the Constitution and said the amount shall positively be paid within a period of six weeks. It directed appropriate disciplinary action/ disciplinary proceedings be initiated against the erring police officers and positively concluded within a period of three months. The high court said, “Torture, either mental or physical, represents the worst violations of individual human personality, an outright and premeditated attack on human dignity. It has no place in the governance of the State and its legitimate use of force”. It had directed the DGP to ensure that appropriate action for sensitizing the entire police force, especially, the constabulary in Bihar, with special focus on safeguarding the fundamental rights of citizens is taken. The high court had said that truck drivers are faced with a great deal of high stress and pressure as part of their job and additional hassle and trauma, perpetuated by the authorities, through the use of hostility and torture is akin to grave human injustice. “Such practices are a clear violation of the human rights guaranteed to every citizen of the world. With the failure of the State to protect its citizens, it becomes the responsibility and duty of the Judiciary to intervene in aid of these most downtrodden and helpless individuals,” it had said. The high court had noted that on April 29 last year, a milk tanker was seized in the jurisdiction of Parsa Police Station of Saran district. It said that according to the petitioner, the tanker was taken to a nearby dairy for milk to be extracted and thereinafter detained at the police station where the detenue was detained in extra-judicial custody. It said that the facts of the case indicate “a grim state of affairs where the police officials have acted in contravention and violation of the procedure established by law” and the vehicle and detenue were detained and kept in police custody for more than 35 days without either filing of FIR or following any other procedure of arrest prescribed in law, ensuring constitutional protections to all persons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/loss-of-liberty-of-driver-on-same-pedestal-as-affluent-person-sc-tells-bihar-govt-1006798.html
09-07-2021||National||Committed to ensuring time-bound implementation of National Education Policy: Dharmendra Pradhan||Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Friday said his focus will be on achieving the objectives of the new National Education Policy (NEP) in a time-bound manner. Pradhan, along with three newly appointed Ministers of State (MoS) for Education Annapurna Devi, Subhas Sarkar and Rajkumar Ranjan Singh, reviewed the progress in implementation of NEP. The ministers also interacted with senior officials of the ministry and the heads of autonomous institutions like the University Grants Commission (UGC), All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan(KVS). "After 34 years, a new education policy has been introduced. NEP is the result of the promises our government made in 2014. Today our primary agenda is to take to the ground...," Pradhan told reporters after the meeting. "Today, we discussed way forward for ensuring a bright future for the 30 crore-plus students across the country and in achieving the objectives of the NEP in a time-bound manner. I am committed to implement the policy on ground and take forward the measures already taken by my predecessors," he added. The NEP approved by the Union Cabinet last year at a meeting presided by Prime Minister Narendra Modi replaces the 34-year-old National Policy on Education framed in 1986 and is aimed at paving the way for transformational reforms in school and higher education systems to make India a global knowledge superpower. Pradhan said that he is thankful for being entrusted with one of the most important ministries, "which was led by people like Maulana Abul Kalam Azad". "There is not a single household in the country for which education is not important and this office has the big responsibility to give direction to the sector. India will play a significant role in the Industrial Revolution 4.0. In the next two years, India will be 100 per cent internet connected and riding on the NEP 2020 the country will achieve 'sab ka saath, sab ka vikas and sab ka viswas'," he said. Pradhan also holds the skill development and entrepreneurship portfolio, while Rajkumar Ranjan Singh is also the MoS for External Affairs. "Education and external affairs have a strong link and Singh's (MoS) involvement at the MEA will be beneficial for both the ministries and students,” said Pradhan, while explaining that the Indian youth can be categorised in three categories -- in formal education, anganwadi system and those who could be part of the skill force.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/committed-to-ensuring-time-bound-implementation-of-national-education-policy-dharmendra-pradhan-1006799.html
09-07-2021||National||Amit Shah to meet CMs of NE states on July 17; border disputes likely to be discussed||Union Home Minister Amit Shah will chair a meeting with CMs of northeast states on July 17, during which he is likely to take up the matter of interstate border disputes among other issues, Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad K Sangma said on Friday. The meeting will also be attended by chief secretaries and the director-general of police of these states, he said. "The Union Home Minister has informed us that he will be chairing a meeting with all chief ministers of NE states at the Convention Hall here, tentatively on July 17," Sangma told reporters. He said the Centre has expressed desire that interstate issues among states should be resolved before the 75th Independence Day on August 15. "For 50 years, we could not find a solution to the vexed border problems At present, there is a political understanding among the states in the northeast. We can discuss this matter at a higher level," Sangma said. Shah, during his two-day visit to Meghalaya, will also hold a meeting at the North Eastern Space Applications Centre (NESAC) headquarters near here, he said. The Union minister will inaugurate a few projects in the state, too, the chief minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-to-meet-cms-of-ne-states-on-july-17-border-disputes-likely-to-be-discussed-1006808.html
09-07-2021||National||BJP faces electoral challenge, RSS comes to rescue||Months before polls in six states, at a time when BJP faces massive public outrage due to pandemic, RSS is set to hold four-day deliberations of the organisation's 'pracharaks' (full-time workers) in Madhya Pradesh from Friday. RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat — who stirred the political pot last week with his remarks that those lynching people in the name of cows are against Hindutva and are "oppressors" who should be tackled legally — is likely to use the occasion to shed further light on the issue in the meeting, which is the first general meeting with RSS workers this year. The meeting, which is generally apolitical in nature, could see some of the Kshetra Pracharaks from BJP ruled states, including Madhya Pradesh, raising people's concerns. In a statement, RSS's all-India publicity chief Sunil Ambekar said, "Every year this meeting is held in July, but as it was not held last year due to the coronavirus situation in Chitrakoot, it is being held in the same town this time.” The four-day meeting in Madhya Pradesh will discuss the Sangh volunteers' response to the coronavirus pandemic and preparations to face a possible third wave among other things, the RSS statement said. The conclave this week begins at a time when Covid-19 handling and concerns about a probable third wave pose a huge electoral challenge before the BJP. The meeting will see participation both online and in person. The general secretary of the Ayodhya Ram temple trust Champat Rai has also arrived in Chitrakoot to attend the meeting. The interaction of 'pracharaks' from 11 regions with Bhagwat, Dattatreya Hosabale and all five joint general secretaries will be held between July 9-10, which will be followed up by a meeting of 'pracharaks'and 'sah-pracharaks' of 45 'prant' (regional units) of the RSS on July 12. A meeting of all-India organisation secretaries of various affiliated outfits is scheduled for July 13. “Normally, this meeting focuses on organisational issues but this time it will also review the work done by RSS volunteers for helping those affected by the coronavirus crisis. It will also draw up an action plan to deal with a possible third wave of Covid-19,” the release said. With the unlock process already underway in various states, the meet could also take a view on the holding of RSS 'shakhas' (daily meetings), training camps and other activities. Earlier on April 24, RSS general secretary Dattatreya Hosabale had acknowledged the "dreadful challenge" of Covid-19 before the nation, asking 'swayamsevaks' to chip in with social, religious organisations and trade bodies to get involved in addressing deficiencies if any act promptly to resolve people's problems.  Hosabale had also held meetings with leaders in RSS and BJP in politically crucial Uttar Pradesh for four consecutive days, seeking feedback from functionaries in the state on issues like the public perception of Covid-19 handling in the state In the first week of June, the RSS top brass including Bhagwat had held closed-door deliberations for three days in the national capital at a time when internal divisions in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh were making headlines, prompting RSS to step in.   Meanwhile, in the backdrop of an ongoing tussle between the Government and Twitter, the RSS on Friday joined Twitter rival Koo to connect with people in Indian languages. A number of leaders from the BJP have already joined the platform. "The new prominent entrant to the community is the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), which on Wednesday, began to engage with people on Koo, the Indian micro-blogging and social networking platform, using the handle @RSSOrg. With over 5 million members, RSS is the progenitor and leader of a large body of organisations with a presence across various facets of Indian society," the company said in a statement. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-faces-electoral-challenge-rss-comes-to-rescue-1006810.html
09-07-2021||National||Mansukh Mandaviya takes charge as chemicals and fertilizers minister||Mansukh Mandaviya took charge as the chemicals and fertilizers minister on Friday. Mandaviya, a BJP leader from Gujarat's Saurashtra region, replaced D V Sadananda Gowda, who was dropped from the Council of Ministers in the cabinet reshuffle on Wednesday. On Thursday, Mandaviya had taken charge as the health and family welfare minister. "Mansukh Mandaviya took over as the Union Minister for Chemicals & Fertilizers here today. The Minister was welcomed by the Secretaries and senior officials of the Ministry," an official statement said. Mandaviya was on Wednesday elevated to the Cabinet rank from minister of state (MoS). He was holding the independent charge of the Shipping Ministry and was MoS for the Chemicals and Fertilizers Ministry. The Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers has three departments -- Department of Chemicals and Petrochemicals; Department of Fertilizers; and Department of Pharmaceuticals. Controlling prices of DAP and other non-urea fertilizers, implementation of direct benefit transfer (DBT) of subsidy to farmers, revival of sick urea plants, and reducing India's dependence on imports of crop nutrients are some of the challenges that Mandaviya will have to focus on immediately. The role of pharmaceutical department has become more important as the pandemic continues to affect the health and economic activities in the country. He will have his hands full in ensuring the continuous and uninterrupted supply of essential medicines, raw materials and medical devices. Expanding the network of Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Kendras in the country is another key focus area of the Modi government Mandaviya has been an important young face in the Narendra Modi government. He was first inducted in the Union cabinet as MoS for Road Transport and Highways, Shipping and Chemicals and Fertilizers on July 5, 2016. On May 30, 2019, he was again sworn in as MoS for Chemicals and Fertilizers, with independent charge of Ports, Shipping and Waterways.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mansukh-mandaviya-takes-charge-as-chemicals-and-fertilizers-minister-1006814.html
09-07-2021||National||Very amusing that state is coming to SC against Centre in PIL: Supreme Court to Delhi govt||The Supreme Court on Friday declined to entertain the Delhi government’s PIL seeking closure of 10 power plants in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, claiming they contributed majorly to pollution in the national capital. "We find it very amusing state is coming to SC against the Union of India in a PIL," a bench of Justices Navin Sinha and R Subhash Reddy said. Refusing to entertain the PIL, the bench asked the Delhi government to intervene in an air pollution case pending before the top court. The court said there was no need for Delhi to file PIL against the Centre.  The matter comes a day after the top court expressed concern on the ongoing political tussle between the Centre and Delhi government, said for better governance, both will have to "walk hand-in-hand or at least, side-by-side". However, on Friday, the Delhi government insisted on hearing the PIL.  On this, the bench told senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, appearing for the Delhi government, “We have a lot of questions to ask you. We are giving you the option (to withdraw the PIL)”.  "If we ask all the questions, we do not which way the case will move. So, it’s better for the Delhi government to intervene in the pending matter,” the bench added. Gonsalves, for his part, submitted pollution was a serious concern for the state government, as it severely affected the health and also caused the death of the people. “Power plants contribute 80 per cent of sulphates etc. Control of sulphur dioxide and nitrogen dioxide has to be there. These are the killer gases”, he added. He cited that it was stated by Central Pollution Control Board in its report that the Flue Gas Desulphurization (FGD) will be installed by 2019. The bench pointed out that now the deadline is 2022. Gonsalves replied that it makes a mockery of the entire thing and pollution is becoming worse now; the deadline should be closer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/very-amusing-that-state-is-coming-to-sc-against-centre-in-pil-supreme-court-to-delhi-govt-1006818.html
09-07-2021||National||Over 37 crore vaccine doses administered in India so far: Govt||The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 37 crore, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. Of these, more than 27.86 lakh vaccine doses were administered on Friday, according to a provisional report at 7 pm. The ministry said 13,28,636 vaccine doses were administered as first dose and 1,24,570 as the second dose in the age group of 18-44 years on Friday. Cumulatively, 10,98,62,585 persons in the 18-44 age group have received their first dose and 35,08,932 their second dose since the start of phase-3 of the vaccination drive. Eight states -- Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra -- have administered the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine to more than 50 lakh people in the 18-44 age group. Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 10 lakh beneficiaries of the age group 18-44 years for the first dose, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-37-crore-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-so-far-govt-1006823.html
09-07-2021||National||Kharif crop sowing to pick up with wider monsoon coverage||Sowing of kharif crops, including paddy is 10.43 per cent less at 499.87 lakh hectare so far but is expected to gain pace with monsoon anticipated to cover all areas, the agriculture ministry said on Friday.           Till July 9 of the ongoing 2021-22 kharif season, sowing has been completed in almost 45 per cent of the total kharif area of about 1,000-1,100 lakh hectare (ha). The progress of monsoon in July is crucial for planting of paddy, pulses and other kharif crops.         In the year-ago period, kharif crops were covered in 558.11 lakh ha, while the total coverage stood at 1,121.75 lakh ha at the end of the 2020-21 kharif season.         According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), southwest monsoon between June 1 to July 7 was below normal but would revive from this week onwards and cover all areas after July 10.     According to the ministry, sowing of kharif crops in Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Haryana and Punjab has been lower so far in the ongoing 2021-22 kharif season due to erratic rains and less coverage by monsoon rains.         The coverage was less even in Southern Peninsula, Bihar and Jharkhand due to excess soil moisture.       While the planting of most kharif crops remains lower so far, the ministry asserted that "at present there is no point of concern for achieving the normal area coverage in the country."       As per the ministry's data, paddy sown area is down at 114.82 lakh ha so far in the 2021-22 kharif season as against 126.08 lakh ha in the year-ago period.         Less coverage of paddy was reported from Bihar (2.74 lakh ha), followed by Chhattisgarh (2.18 lakh ha), Assam (1.37 lakh ha), Haryana (1.31 lakh ha), West Bengal (0.91 lakh ha), Andhra Pradesh (0.80 lakh ha), Manipur (0.74 lakh ha), and Odisha (0.66 lakh ha).       Similarly, area under pulses remained lower marginally at 52.49 lakh ha from 53.35 lakh ha in the year-ago period.         Sowing of coarse cereals was down at 73.07 lakh ha as against 88.21 lakh ha, while area sown to oilseeds remained lower at 112.55 lakh ha as against 126.13 lakh ha in the said period.       Among cash crops, area sown to cotton was lower at 86.45 lakh ha so far this kharif season as against 104.83 lakh ha in the year-ago period.       However, area sown to sugarcane was higher marginally at 53.56 lakh ha as against 52.65 lakh ha in the said period. And so do the coverage of jute and mesta crop at 6.93 lakh ha as against 6.87 lakh ha, the data showed.       The ministry said IMD has forecast that monsoon rains are expected to cover almost all areas, triggering kharif sowing in full swing in the coming days.       Southwest monsoon is critical for Indian agriculture as nearly 60 per cent of the farmland do not have irrigation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kharif-crop-sowing-to-pick-up-with-wider-monsoon-coverage-1006835.html
09-07-2021||National||Route files through junior ministers: PM Modi to Cabinet Ministers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has asked his cabinet ministers to route all official files through ministers of state to ensure that all the junior ministers get acquainted with the work and are up-to-date with key issues. This means that any official matters pertaining to the government, once cleared by the Secretary of the Department, will have to be sent to the Minister of State. The Cabinet Minister will give a final opinion on the matter after the notings made by the Minister of State. In the earlier scheme of things, a file would go directly to the Cabinet Minister after the Secretary's opinion. The Prime Minister also asked the Cabinet Ministers to ensure the presence of Ministers of State at official briefing in the Department whether it is by Secretary level officers or junior officials. Modi’s instructions came following complaints from the many Ministers of State that their post is just ceremonial and limited to approving written answers in Parliament. At the meeting of the Council of Ministers on Thursday evening, the prime minister asked newly appointed ministers to learn from senior ministers and also take advice from those who have dropped from the cabinet. Meanwhile, the new Railways Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw has ordered officials and staffers in his office to work in two shifts. The first shift will start at 7:00 am and end at 4:00 pm while the second shift will start at 3:00 pm and end at midnight. According to DJ Narain, Railway Ministry spokesman, the order to work in shifts has been issued only for the Minister of Railways Cell (minister's office) and not for other staff members. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/route-files-through-junior-ministers-pm-modi-to-cabinet-ministers-1006838.html
09-07-2021||National||Delhi passes colour-coded Covid-19 response action plan||Hotels and lodges will stay open, while cinema and banquet halls will remain closed during all the four-level of alerts as part of the colour-coded response action plan passed by the DDMA to deal with a possible third wave of Covid-19, officials said on Friday. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) passed a colour-coded Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) on Friday under which curbs will be implemented in accordance to the severity of the Covid-19 situation here. The colour codes based on positivity rate (on two consecutive days), cumulative number of new Covid cases (over a week) and average oxygenated-bed occupancy (for a week) will designate four levels of alerts, the officials said. The 'Yellow' (Level-1) alert will be sounded when the positivity rate crosses 0.5 per cent or new cases increase to 1,500 or oxygenated bed occupancy reaches 500. The corresponding response will involve operation of restaurants at 50 per cent capacity between 8 am to 10 pm and bars with 50 per cent capacity between 12 noon to 10 pm, opening of hotels and lodges with curbs on banquets and conferences, closure of cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes, banquet halls, auditoriums, assembly halls or similar places, barbers shop, salon, beauty parlour, spas and wellness clinics, gyms and yoga institutes, entertainment parks and similar places. Only outdoor yoga will be allowed under the Level-1 alert. The next level of alert coded with 'Amber' colour (L-2) will come into force if the positivity rate rises above one per cent or new cases number 3,500 or oxygenated bed occupancy reaching 700. 'Amber' alert will invoke the same responses as 'Yellow' one except that outdoor yoga, which was allowed during the yellow alert won't be allowed, while only home delivery and takeaway will be allowed for restaurants. The 'Orange' or L-3 alert will be the next stage, which will kick-in if the positivity rate crosses two per cent or new cases number 9,000 or oxygenated bed occupancy becomes 1,000. The 'Red' alert (L-4) will be the highest level and will come into force if the positivity rate crosses five per cent or new cases rise to 16,000 or oxygenated bed occupancy reaches 3,000. The corresponding response to Orange and Red alerts will remain the same as 'Amber' one.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-passes-colour-coded-covid-19-response-action-plan-1006839.html
09-07-2021||National||42% Cabinet ministers declared criminal cases against them: ADR||Of the 78 ministers in the Cabinet, 42 per cent have declared criminal cases against them with four having cases related to attempt to murder, according to a report by poll rights group ADR. As many as 15 new cabinet ministers and 28 ministers of state were sworn in on Wednesday, taking the strength of the council of ministers to 78. Of all the ministers analysed, 33 (42 per cent) have declared criminal cases against themselves, said the Association for Democratic Reforms report citing their poll affidavits. About 24 or 31 per cent of ministers have declared serious criminal cases including cases related to murder, attempt to murder, robbery etc. Nisith Pramanik from Cooch Behar constituency who has been appointed as the Minister of State for Home Affairs has declared a case related to murder (IPC Section-302) against himself. At 35, he is also the youngest minister in the Cabinet. Four ministers have declared cases related to attempt to murder (IPC Section-307). They are -- John Barla, Pramanik, Pankaj Choudhary and V Muraleedharan. Out of the ministers analysed, 70 (90 per cent) are crorepatis and the average assets per minister is Rs16.24 crore.  Four ministers have declared more than Rs 50 crore worth of assets. They are Jyotiraditya Scindia, Piyush Goyal, Narayan Tatu Rane and Rajeev Chandrasekhar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/42-cabinet-ministers-declared-criminal-cases-against-them-adr-1006847.html
09-07-2021||National||Manipur arrests: Govt sources dismiss media reports, say two individuals habitual offenders||Dismissing media reports about two men having been jailed in India for saying cow urine and dung do not cure Covid-19, government sources on Friday said the two individuals have been "habitual offenders" of inciting enmity in society, and that some foreign media outlets have presented a "distorted, pernicious and one-sided perspective" on the issue. The clarification followed news reports that two men have been "arrested in India for saying cow urine and dung do not cure Covid-19". The reports claimed that the pair have been held in Manipur for 45 days so far for dispelling a politician's claim. In a strong rebuttal of these reports, including in a British newspaper, the government sources said they presented a "distorted, pernicious and one-sided perspective" about the two individuals involved in the case, and about the action taken by the government of Manipur in this regard. The report has not presented the perspective of the complainants, thereby giving a lop-sided narrative about the related incidents, the government sources said. The sources further said one of the persons mentioned in the report labelled as an activist, in the past, has been involved in multiple anti-social activities which have risked disturbance of social harmony, loss of public tranquillity, and impacted cordiality of relations between various social sections in society. In the present case, the person’s statements on social media were alleged to bring hatred, outrage religious feelings and sentiments, and thereby disturbing the public order in society. On a complaint received by the local police, he was arrested as per the due procedure of law, and was remanded to police custody for four days vide order dated May 14 by the court of Chief Judicial Magistrate, Imphal West, Manipur, the sources said. A similar position exists in the matter related to the other person mentioned in the news reports, they added. The sources said the two men are "habitual offenders" causing fear and alarm to the public, with their actions and statements having a potential to incite any class or community or person to commit offences against other class or community thus promoting enmity. "What has been conveniently ignored is the profile of these individuals, who have committed anti-social activities in the name of social activism and made a deliberate attempt to destroy social harmony and bonhomie between various communities in the Indian State of Manipur," a government source said. "We regret that the report completely neglects the ground reality and presents sensational journalistic accounts of matters pertaining to India, which has of late become a tool to gain visibility in the media space and eye-balls among the non-Indian audience," the source said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/manipur-arrests-govt-sources-dismiss-media-reports-say-two-individuals-habitual-offenders-1006855.html
09-07-2021||National||Now, Coconut Development Board can appoint growers as its chairman||As part of the Centre's plan to boost the production and productivity of coconuts, the government has decided to make the post of Coconut Development Board chairman non-executive. "In future, the government can appoint coconut growers or field experts as the chairman of the Board. The Board would have a CEO with executive powers," newly appointed Minister of State for Agriculture Shobha Karandlaje told reporters on Friday. "Until recently, only officials could head the Board while growers could be appointed as members. Now, the government has made the post of chairman non-executive while the Chief Executive Officer will have an executive role,' she said. "The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi took this decision on Thursday," she said. Among other changes, Shobha said the Centre will nominate six members in the Board, a change from the current practice of nominating four members from four states. She said that two more members from Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat will be appointed to the Board. The minister said the Board can undertake activities outside the country also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/now-coconut-development-board-can-appoint-growers-as-its-chairman-1006859.html
09-07-2021||National||Taliban takeover in Afghanistan will lack legitimacy: India tells Russia||If Taliban takes over power in Kabul by violent means, it will lack legitimacy, India on Friday conveyed to Russia, which, however, appeared to be content with the assurance of the Sunni Muslim insurgents that they would limit military advances within the borders of Afghanistan. The difference in the approach of India and Russia came to the fore even as the Taliban claimed that they had now occupied 85% of the territory of Afghanistan. He said that New Delhi was concerned over the situation in Afghanistan, as it would have “implications for regional security and stability”. Lavrov, however, said that while Russia too was concerned over the recent surge in violence in Afghanistan, it would not step in as long as it did not have a spillover effect on its partners in the region. “As for the continued military action in the absence of the political process, then the events in Afghanistan’s territory concern us exclusively from the point of view of a possible spillover of troubles in to the territory of our allies,” Russian Foreign Minister said. “The fact that the Taliban have occupied border posts on the border with Iran, on the border with Tajikistan... while this is happening on Afghanistan’s territory, we’re not going to undertake any measures except for our insistent calls for the political process, which all Afghans have said they support, to happen as soon as possible.” Jaishankar and Lavrov were addressing media persons after the meeting. The External Affairs Minister was in Moscow just a day after the Russian Government hosted a delegation of the Taliban. Russia’s special envoy for Afghanistan, Zamir Kabulov, had a meeting with the leaders of Taliban. He conveyed to them Moscow’s expectation that escalation of violence in Afghanistan in the wake of the withdrawal of the United States troops would not have any spillover effect beyond the borders of the conflict-ravaged nation. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Government later said that the Taliban leaders had assured that the militants would not violate Afghanistan’s borders with the Central Asian countries and would also ensure security of the foreign diplomatic and consular missions in Kabul. Jaishankar also discussed the situation in Afghanistan and its implications for India and other nations in the region with his counterpart in the Iranian Government Javad Zarif during a brief stopover in Tehran on Wednesday. Zarif too had hosted a delegation of the Taliban just the day before Jaishankar arrived in Tehran.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/taliban-takeover-in-afghanistan-will-lack-legitimacy-india-tells-russia-1006875.html
09-07-2021||National||CPI(M) says police may create fake evidence against Aisha Sultana||The ruling CPI(M) in Kerala on Friday slammed the Centre over the sedition case and related probe against filmmaker Aisha Sultana and claimed there are 'apprehensions' that police may create fake evidence against her by planting documents in a seized laptop. Dubbing the case and investigation against her as an attempt by the BJP government to muzzle voices of dissent, the Marxist party said Lakshadweep police was trying to 'jail' Sultana in the 'fake case'. In a resolution, the party said police could not arrest her as the Kerala High Court had granted her anticipatory bail and she was questioned by police for two days. On July 8, though Kavaratti police raided her residence they 'failed' to find any evidence against her. "However, they took into custody the laptop of her brother. There are apprehensions that the police may plant documents in the laptop and create fake evidence against her," the party resolution said. The Left party alleged that fake evidence was created against innocent people, arrested by the NIA, in the Bhima Koregaon case. "We cannot dismiss the concern that the Lakshadweep administration and the police, which harbour hatred against Aisha Sultana, may create fake evidence. These are the examples of attempts by the BJP government to muzzle the voice of dissent," the CPI(M) said. Talking to reporters after she was questioned, Sultana had alleged that a five-member police team that searched her flat at nearby Kakkanad and which seized her brother's laptop had sought information about his bank accounts. She alleged that she was being troubled by the police in the name of investigation into the case. Earlier, the police had seized her mobile phone when she was summoned to Kavaratti to join the investigation. The allegation is that the filmmaker, while participating in a debate telecast by a Malayalam news channel on June 7, had said the Centre used biological weapons against the people of Lakshadweep. The island residents are seeking repeal of the proposed Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation (LDAR), the Lakshadweep Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Regulation (PASA or the Goonda Act), and the Lakshadweep Animal Preservation Regulation (LAPR).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cpim-says-police-may-create-fake-evidence-against-aisha-sultana-1006880.html
09-07-2021||National||Court grants bail to accused in Republic Day violence case||A Delhi court on Friday granted bail to a man who was allegedly involved in the violence and vandalism at the Red Fort during the farmers' protest rally on Republic Day this year, taking the number of accused granted the relief to 18. Additional Sessions Judge Kamini Lau admitted accused Gurjot Singh on bail on furnishing a personal bond to the tune of Rs 50,000 with one local surety of like amount. Absconding for over five months, Singh had a reward of Rs one lakh on his head and was arrested by Delhi Police Special Cell from Amritsar in Punjab on June 28. “With today's bail order, all the 18 persons arrested so far in the Red Fort case have been granted regular bail,” advocate Jasdeep S Dhillon, representing the accused, said. Earlier this week, the court admitted three accused -- Boota Singh, Maninder Singh, and Khempreet Singh on bail in the case. Actor-activist Deep Sidhu, who is accused of being the key conspirator of the violence, was granted bail on April 17. Till the filing of the charge sheet in May, 13 arrested accused were granted bail. On January 26, protesting farmers had clashed with police during the tractor rally against three farm laws and stormed into the Red Fort, hoisting religious flags on its domes and injuring scores of policemen.   An FIR was registered under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, Arms Act, Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, Epidemic Act, and Disaster Management Act. In June, the court took cognizance of the charge sheet in the case and summoned all the accused on July 12.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/court-grants-bail-to-accused-in-republic-day-violence-case-1006885.html
09-07-2021||National||India will administer 67 crore Covid vaccines before September: Ministry of Finance report||A Finance Ministry report on Friday estimated that over 67 crore Covid vaccine doses will be administered before the festive season beginning September and said the emergence of a third wave could be significantly buffered by expanding vaccination and a quick bridging of healthcare infrastructure gaps in rural and urban areas. “At the current inoculation pace, it is estimated that India will administer over 67 crore doses before the festive season begins in September. A significant coverage by the vaccine could provide a crucial boost for domestic demand,” the report said. It, however, said that certain states including Uttar Pradesh need to ramp up the vaccination drive. “An analysis of the state-wise proportion of population vaccinated relative to its share in total population indicates that Assam, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Jharkhand need to ramp up their vaccination drive. Vaccination remains the key guard against any prospective future waves and the coverage of the population needs to be enhanced across all states,” it said. The report also said that resilient tax collection of the central government and sustained momentum in capital expenditure, particularly in the road and rail sector augurs well for continued economic recovery driven by capital expenditures. It said the recently announced economic relief package was expected to further oil the wheels of the capital expenditure cycle via implementation of the production-linked incentive scheme and streamlining of processes for public-private partnership projects and asset monetisation. Last month, the government had announced eight economic measures amounting to Rs 6.29 lakh crore to provide relief to individuals and businesses reeling under the impact of the second wave of the pandemic. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-administer-67-crore-covid-vaccines-before-september-ministry-of-finance-report-1006895.html
09-07-2021||National Politics||UP police stopping people from joining farmers stir at Delhi borders: Tikait||The Uttar Pradesh police is stopping people of the state from joining the farmers' protest against three central farm laws at Delhi's borders, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait claimed on Thursday. The farmer leader levelled the charge during a press conference at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border where he has been leading the protest with hundreds of supporters since November 2020. He alleged that several people from Purvanchal area in eastern part of the state were either not getting public transport to reach Delhi or were being stopped by the local police. "Trains are not running. If people are found wearing caps or carrying flags (of protesting farmers unions), they are stopped from proceeding to Delhi borders," Tikait claimed. "In UP, people from Purvanchal cannot reach here because regular trains are not in service. If somebody somehow gets a reservation in a train but the information reaches the police, they stop the person from travelling," he alleged. "Today, the situation is such that people cannot come to Delhi to participate in the farmers' movement," he claimed. Tikait also announced at the press conference that the BKU would be intensifying its protest at district level in Uttar Pradesh from August 1 to highlight the problems being faced by the farming community. “We shall be taking this cause directly to the people at district level now,” Tikait said. Farmers at three border points of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur in Delhi are camping since November 2020 with a demand that the Centre withdraw the three new contentious farm laws and make a new one guaranteeing minimum support price (MSP) for crops. The government, which has held multiple rounds of official meetings with the protestors, maintains that the laws are pro-farmer. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/up-police-stopping-people-from-joining-farmers-stir-at-delhi-borders-tikait-1006486.html
09-07-2021||National Politics||Home Minister Amit Shah calls on President Ram Nath Kovind||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday met President Ram Nath Kovind and the meeting was described as a courtesy call. Shah called on the president two days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi effected a major reshuffle of his ministry. "I have made a courtesy call to honourable President Shri Ram Nath Kovind today," Shah tweeted in Hindi, along with a picture of him and the president. In the reshuffle, effected on Wednesday, the prime minister dropped 12 ministers, brought in 36 new members and redistributed the portfolios. Kovind administered the oath of office and secrecy of all new ministers. The newly created Ministry of Cooperation has been allocated to Shah, in addition to his responsibility of the Ministry of Home Affairs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/home-minister-amit-shah-calls-on-president-ram-nath-kovind-1006669.html
09-07-2021||National Politics||Mahendra Nath Pandey takes charge as heavy industries minister||Union minister Mahendra Nath Pandey on Friday took charge of the heavy industries ministry and said he would work to promote the growth of the industry. "We are committed for the development of public sector units under the ministry," Pandey said in a tweet. Minister of State for Heavy Industries Krishan Pal also took charge. The ministry recently extended the second phase of FAME India scheme by two years till March 31, 2024, for faster adoption of electric mobility and development of its manufacturing ecosystem in the country. The second phase of FAME (Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Electric Vehicles) India scheme focuses on supporting electrification of public and shared transportation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mahendra-nath-pandey-takes-charge-as-heavy-industries-minister-1006670.html
09-07-2021||National Politics||Karad’s induction in Union cabinet aimed at ending Pankaja’s political career, alleges Sena||The Shiv Sena on Friday alleged that the inclusion of BJP’s Rajya Sabha member Bhagwat Karad into the Union council of ministers, instead of late leader Gopinath Munde’s daughter and two-time MP Pritam Munde, was a plan to finish off the political career of her sister Pankaja Munde, a former Maharashtra minister. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday carried out a major revamp of the Union Cabinet, as part of which Karad on took charge as the new Minister of State for Finance. Karad, 64, a doctor by profession from Maharashtra, is a first-time Member of Parliament (MP) from the Rajya Sabha. There was a speculation Pritam Munde would be included in the new council of ministers, but she failed to find any place in it. In an editorial in party mouthpiece ‘Saamana’, the Shiv Sena said, “Bhagwat Karad has been made a minister of state. This is a move aimed at finishing off the (political career) of Pankaja Munde. Karad, who grew up in the shadow of BJP leader late Gopinath Munde, was made a minister instead of (Pankaja’s sister) Pritam Munde. There is room to doubt whether the move is aimed at creating a division in the Vanjara community (to which Munde and Karad belong) and to each Pankaja Munde a lesson.” Also, the induction of Bharti Pawar and Kapil Patil into the council of ministers was like rubbing salt on the wounds of BJP loyalists, it said. “Both- Pawar and Patil-had recently quit the NCP to join the BJP. This is the real shock treatment,” the ruling party in Maharashtra said. Maharashtra leader Narayan Rane has also found a place in the new cabinet is a good thing. Even he is not originally from the BJP as he was earlier with Shiv Sena and Congress, the Uddhav Thackeray-led party said. Rane has been given the charge of the MSME ministry. He has to take steps considering the present situation of this sector. The country’s commerce and industry has suffered setbacks. The small units are finding it tough to survive. So what measures Rane takes remains to be seen, it added. “All eyes were set on the expansion of the Union cabinet. This has been done before the monsoon session of the Parliament begins. It has been carried out as if it is a panacea to the problems like crumbling economy, the health crisis created by the coronavirus pandemic, chaos in education sector, inflation and unemployment,” the Sena said. Except for Rajnath Singh and Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, all other ministers are new. Most of them are originally not from the BJP or the Sangh Parivar. The new cabinet lacks the essence of the BJP or the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), the party said. This exercise has been termed as a “mega surgery”. If it was really a surgery, then the Finance Minister and the External Affairs Minister would have been the first to be dropped. The present failure on the economic and foreign policy fronts was seen never before. Removing senior ministers Prakash Javadekar and Ravi Shankar Prasad from the cabinet is a blow to them. We pray that they get strength to recover from this shock, it said. When Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ was given the education portfolio in the earlier cabinet, the entire sector was on tenterhooks. In the past, this department had been handled by veterans like P V Narsimha Rao, Arjun Singh, Murli Manohar Joshi. Allotting the HRD ministry to Pokhriyal was a political mistake, it said. Now, he has been replaced with Dharmendra Pradhan, under whose tenure as Petroleum Minister, the fuel prices skyrocketed and the petrol prices crossed Rs 100 per litre. Now what he does in education sector remains to be seen, the Sena said. The party also said that it is being alleged that with the formation of new Union Co-operation Ministry, the Centre was trying to encroach upon the state’s rights as co-operation is a state subject. “This shouldn’t happen and the federal system shouldn’t be impacted,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/karad-s-induction-in-union-cabinet-aimed-at-ending-pankaja-s-political-career-alleges-sena-1006677.html
09-07-2021||National Politics||Fruit Diplomacy: Tripura CM to send across pineapples as return gift to Sheikh Hasina||Not to be left behind in the game of 'fruit diplomacy', Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb, plans to gift Queen variety of pineapples, the state fruit, to Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina Wazed as a return gift. The pineapples, whose consignment will weigh a little more than double the weight of packets of the famous Haribhanga mangoes which Sheikh Hasina sent, will be sent on Saturday as a return gift. A huge consignment of 300 kgs of mangoes was handed over to Deb on Monday by the Assistant High Commissioner of Bangladesh here, Md. Jubaid Hossein. Haribhanga mango is a well-known breed of mangoes grown in Rangpur district of Bangladesh, which is much prized in export markets. In return "some 100 packets of queen pineapples weighing 650 kgs would be sent to the Indian High Commission in Dhaka to be handed over to Bangladesh Prime Minister", an official in the Chief Ministers office said. Tripura played host to over a million refugees from Bangladesh in 1971, outnumbering its own population at the time. Since the election of Sheikh Hasinas government, Bangladesh has made special efforts to connect with the Northeastern state increasing land, rail, and energy connectivity with Tripura. The pineapples which are being gifted were collected from Ampi block in Gomati district, famous for growing the state fruit, officials said. The pineapples are being packed in good bags after thorough checking which would be sent through Agartala-Akhaura Integrated Check Post (ICP) to Indian High Commission in Dhaka and would be handed over to Sheikh Hasina on Sunday. In Tripura, an estimated 1.30 lakh MT pineapples are grown every year across 8,800 hectare of orchards in all the eight districts of the state, which are also exported to foreign countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/fruit-diplomacy-tripura-cm-to-send-across-pineapples-as-return-gift-to-sheikh-hasina-1006685.html
09-07-2021||National Politics||BJP’s caste calculations reason behind making Bengal MPs Union Ministers||The induction of four BJP MPs from West Bengal into the Union Cabinet seems to be aimed at getting the caste calculation right in the state, with the saffron party keeping an eye on the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. The newly-appointed ministers are from the Rajbanshi, Matua and ST communities. The decision of making Cooch Behar MP Nisith Pramanik a Minister of State (MoS) for the Department of Home Affairs is an attempt to strengthen BJP’s support base among the Rajbanshi community - Hindu refugees from Bangladesh, to which he belongs. It also seems to be aimed towards creating pressure on the Mamata Banerjee government regarding issues of post-poll violence and law and order situation in the state. The move to make Alipurduar MP John Barla an MoS in the Ministry of Minority Affairs is aimed at wooing the tribal population in North Bengal and the tea garden workers, among whom Barla wields considerable influence. However, his demand of curving out a separate Union Territory out of districts of North Bengal and his following induction in the Union government has given the Trinamool Congress (TMC) an opportunity to allege that the Centre was giving his demand a covert stamp of approval. BJP MP Santanu Tahkur’s elevation to an MoS in the Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways is a clear bid to woo the Matua community. The Matuas, belonging to the SC community,, are Dalit Hindus from Bangladesh who came over to India in large numbers during Partition. The nearly 3-crore Matuas in Bengal make them a formidable vote base for any party. There is severe discontent among Matuas regarding delay in implementation of the CAA. "The move of making Thakur a Union minister seems to be aimed at pacifying the Matuas," a senior state BJP leader said. The induction of Bankura MP Subhash Sarkar in the Union government will help woo the tribal population of Bankura and adjoining districts. Speaking to DH, political observer and author Snighdehndu Bhattacharya said, “The BJP has performed well in the Assembly seats in the constituencies of all the four MPs who have been made Union ministers. Most crucial is Pramanik being made MoS in the Home Ministry, which seems to be a means to create pressure on the TMC regarding post-poll violence.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-s-caste-calculations-reason-behind-making-bengal-mps-union-ministers-1006727.html
09-07-2021||National Politics||No regrets about being dropped from Union Cabinet: Sadananda Gowda||Former Union Minister D V Sadananda Gowda said on Friday that he has no regrets in being dropped from the Narendra Modi Cabinet, reminding that the BJP has given him a number of positions. In his first reaction after he was removed from the Cabinet, Gowda told DH, "from being Chief Minister to Union Minister, I have served in a number of posts in the party as well as in the government. What more one can expect from anybody! I have no regret about being dropped from the Union Cabinet." When asked the reason for his resignation, he said, “perhaps Prime Minister Narendra Modiji wanted to give more opportunity to young leaders. As a loyal worker, I will appreciate the PM's decision.” Gowda, who was Union Chemicals and Fertilizer Minister till July 7, said it is time that more youngsters come to positions of power. "Let many youngsters come to the post and get an opportunity to serve the nation," the 68-year-old leader, who represents Bengaluru North Lok Sabha seat, said. He also said he would be ready to work for the party both at the state as well as national level. "Whatever the task is to assign me the party, I will do it with dedication," he said, adding that he would soon meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah for thanking them for giving him an opportunity to serve as the Union Minister. "I will engage myself to strengthen the party in the state as it will face assembly elections in the next two years," he said. To a question whether he would expect any position in the state or national level, he said, "I never expect anything. I am a loyal worker." Gowda last week brought an injunction from the Bengaluru court preventing media houses from publishing any defamatory news on him. To a question why he brought the injunction, he said," some vested interest people are trying to defame me. To prevent this, I have to go to court." However he refused to elaborate much about this. Though different Departments, which Gowda was represented in the Modi cabinet, had emerged as one among the top three Ministries in the Central Government in their performance ranking, his resignation surprised many in the Delhi political circle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-regrets-about-being-dropped-from-union-cabinet-sadananda-gowda-1006776.html
09-07-2021||National Politics||Youth Congress chief makes 'for sale' jibe at Scindia; BJP hits back||Congress' youth wing chief Srinivas B V on Friday took a jibe at BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia on being appointed as the civil aviation minister with a meme showing Air India mascot telling Scindia "we are both for sale", drawing a sharp reaction from the BJP which said it reflected the opposition party's frustration. The meme was first shared from the social media account of the Congress' Madhya Pradesh unit but it gained a lot of traction after it was shared by the Indian Youth Congress (IYC) chief. Srinivas shared the meme which showed Air India Mascot 'Maharaja' telling Scindia, "Aiyye Maharaj, hum dono bikau hain (Come Maharaja, we are both for sale)", and added the caption, "Rab Ne Bana Di Jodi..". Last night, the Madhya Pradesh Congress shared the meme and wrote, "Bikau ko bechne ka kaam mila, Gaddari ka use kuch yu inaam mila (One who is up for sale has been given the job of selling, got a reward for being a traitor)." Hitting out at Srinivas' post, BJP spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia said the Congress stooping to such levels to target a "young and enterprising" leader like Scindia shows its frustration. "The message is very clear that the BJP is a party which taps talent, which knows how to recognise people of merit and substance. In Congress, the mantra is that if anybody has more potential than the so-called prince of the Congress then don't let him rise and keep him in the shadow of Rahul Gandhi," he told a TV channel. Slamming the Congress for using the term 'Bikau', Bhatia said this comes from people who are out on bail on corruption charges. There were also several social media posts taking a dig at Scindia and also many in which the Congress was slammed for targeting him. Scindia (50) resigned from the Congress and joined the BJP in March last year and his move triggered a chain of events which finally culminated in the collapse of the Kamal Nath government just 15 months after its formation, paving the way for the saffron party to assume power which it lost towards the end of 2018. On joining the BJP, he was made a Rajya Sabha member, while Shivraj Singh Chouhan came back as the chief minister. The scion of the former royal family of Gwalior had started showing signs of restlessness after the Congress high command chose veteran Kamal Nath over him to take over as the chief minister in December 2018. Things came to a head when Scindia warned of "hitting the streets" against his own party-led government if promises made to people in the manifesto were not fulfilled. The then chief minister Kamal Nath's retort that Scindia was free to carry out his threat to launch an agitation, finally proved his undoing.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/youth-congress-chief-makes-for-sale-jibe-at-scindia-bjp-hits-back-1006783.html
09-07-2021||National Politics||Jyotiraditya Scindia steps into his father's shoes 30 years later||Jyotiraditya Scindia on Friday assumed charge of the Civil Aviation Ministry, three decades after his late father Madhavrao Scindia held the portfolio, but at even more turbulent times in the Covid-hit airline sector. Scindia, a Congressman-turned-BJP Rajya Sabha member, resolved to discharge the duties assigned to him with “earnestness” at a brief function at the ministry headquarters in Delhi, in the presence of outgoing minister Hardeep Singh Puri. “Delighted to take the baton of the Ministry of Civil Aviation from Shri Hardeep S Puri. I resolve to discharge my duties with earnestness & continue the good work undertaken by him,” Scindia said on Twitter. Former Army chief and two-term BJP Lok Sabha member Gen V K Singh (retd) also assumed office as Minister of State for Civil Aviation. In 1991, Scindia’s father Madhavrao too faced a rocky tenure with his clashes with the employees' unions of the then Indian Airlines. Madhavrao is credited with setting the ball rolling for the entry of private airlines in the civil aviation sector. “Jyotiraditya has adorned the same post that gave wings to my elder brother. This is an opportunity to take the dreams of Srimant Madhavrao Scindia to newer heights,” Jyotiraditya’s aunt and Madhya Pradesh Minister Yashodhara Raje said after he is appointed Civil Aviation Minister. Scindia, the scion of the Gwalior royal family, will have to preside over the sale of Air India, which has been set in motion by the government. Scindia’s detractors did not lose the opportunity to take a dig at him as he assumed the new role. “Aaiye Maharaj, hum dono hi bikau hai (Welcome Maharaj, we both are saleable),” Youth Congress chief Srinivas B V said posting a caricature of Air India mascot ‘Maharaj’, in tatters, welcoming Scindia. Scindia’s predecessor Puri has on more than one occasion said that Air India will have to be shut down if not privatised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jyotiraditya-scindia-steps-into-his-fathers-shoes-30-years-later-1006794.html
09-07-2021||National Politics||Rajnath Singh speaks to Israeli defence minister||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday held a telephonic conversation with his Israeli counterpart Benjamin Gantz and conveyed that he looks forward to advancing the strategic partnership between the two countries. In the talks, Singh congratulated Gantz on assuming the charge of deputy prime minister and defence minister in the new Israeli government headed by prime minister Naftali Bennett, according to the defence ministry. "Rajnath Singh held a telephonic conversation with deputy prime minister and minister of defence of Israel Lt Gen (Res) Benjamin Gantz," the ministry said in a statement. In a tweet, Singh said he looks forward to working closely with Israel to deepen defence cooperation. "Congratulated Lt Gen (Res) Benjamin Gantz on taking charge as Dep PM & Min of Defence, Israel and thanked him for all the assistance by Israel during the Covid-19 pandemic. Look forward to working closely to deepen Defence Cooperation & advance strategic partnership with Israel," Singh tweeted. Congratulated Lt Gen (Res) Benjamin Gantz on taking charge as Dep PM & Min of Defence, Israel and thanked him for all the assistance by Israel during the COVID-19 pandemic. Look forward to working closely to deepen Defence Cooperation & advance strategic partnership with Israel. India is the largest buyer of Israel's military hardware and the latter has been supplying various weapon systems, missiles and unmanned aerial vehicles over the last few years but the transactions have largely remained behind the curtains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajnath-singh-speaks-to-israeli-defence-minister-1006817.html
09-07-2021||National Politics||Successful implementation of PMFBY helps Bhagwanth Khuba become Minister||Ensuring successful implementation of the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) in Bidar district has resulted in Bhagwanth Khuba becoming the Prime Minister Modi headed government, sources in the government said. PMFBY, a crop insurance scheme launched by the NDA Government in 2016, was one of the pet projects of the PM. In 2016-17 crop year, Bidar received appreciation for maximum coverage. Khuba was credited with taking special initiatives to ensure maximum enrollment by farmers in the district. Bidar received Rs 149 crore as compensation for crop loss due to excess rain against Rs 13.5 crore premium paid by them in 2016-17. A total of 1.73 lakh farmers enrolled for the crop insurance scheme and 1.21 lakh farmers benefitted from it, Khuba had said earlier. Success of Bidar district model also received appreciation from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the then-Agriculture Minister Radha Mohan Singh. The PM also mentioned the success of Bidar district in his Mann Ki Baat radio address and hailed contributions from local MP Khuba. The PM even gave an example of Khuba's works when he interacted with different state MPs to ensure the centrally-sponsored schemes reaches the common man. Khuba, a second-time MP from Karnataka was a surprise choice as the Minister of State in the Modi-headed government when rejig took place on July 7. The PM had liked Khuba for the PMFBY work and rewarded him with the Central Minister's post. By inducting Khuba, the PM also gave representation to the Lingayat, a major community of the state, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/successful-implementation-of-pmfby-helps-bhagwanth-khuba-become-minister-1006824.html
09-07-2021||National Politics||Samajwadi Party to protest irregularities in UP panchayat polls on July 15||The Samajwadi Party will hold demonstrations at all tehsil headquarters across the the state on July 15 to protest alleged irregularities in the elections to the posts of district and block panchayat chiefs. On the directives of Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav, partymen will protest against the “murder of democracy” by the BJP government, a release issued here said. The party will also submit a memorandum to Governor Anandiben Patel over issues of inflation, law and order, unemployment, agricultural laws and health services, it said. Meanwhile, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav accused the BJP of damaging democracy in the state. “First to win the elections of the zila panchayat chairpersons and now the block chief posts, the BJP has displayed open hooliganism in the entire state. The district administration and police acted like BJP workers,” he said, warning that a list of officers involved in it is being prepared and action will be taken against them if his party came to power in the Assembly polls next year. “The Samajwadi Party will not forget this atrocity,” Yadav told party workers, alleging that the State Election Commission failed to do its duty. The former chief minister said the BJP claims to be a disciplined party but has come down to such a low that it did not desist from misbehaving with women. “They have committed the sin of tarnishing the honour of women,” he said. He alleged that in Lakhimpur Kheri, BJP workers misbehaved with party candidate Ritu Singh and her proposer Anita Yadav, pulling their “sarees”. He also alleged that a similar incident took place in Siddharthnagar district while a woman candidate was thrashed in Kannauj’s Haseran block.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/samajwadi-party-to-protest-irregularities-in-up-panchayat-polls-on-july-15-1006828.html
09-07-2021||National Politics||BJP to contest all 117 assembly seats in Punjab: Party leader B L Santhosh||The BJP will contest all 117 assembly seats in the 2022 Punjab polls and will form government in the state, BJP national general secretary (organisation) B L Santhosh said on Friday. Elections in the state are due early next year. Santhosh was here to attend a meeting of the BJP's Punjab unit. He also held meetings with the party's state leaders and others, and had a detailed discussion on Punjab politics. Addressing a gathering of party workers, he said that the entire opposition is trying to adopt every trick to remove Prime Minister Narendra Modi from power and added that the BJP is the largest party in the world. The false propaganda of the opposition against the farm laws would soon collapse as farmers have realised that these laws will bring prosperity, Santhosh said. Farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at Delhi's borders against the three central laws enacted in September last year and demanding that they be withdrawn. Santhosh said that Modi has always been a supporter of farmers and the interests of the agriculture sector are paramount for him and his government. He said the Modi government has taken many steps to double the income of farmers. The BJP leader said that there is a wave of the party in the country and the people of Punjab also want a BJP government in the state, Santhosh said. He called upon party workers to take the policies of the central government to the people. Santhosh said the BJP will fight elections on all 117 seats on its own and will win the elections with public support in Punjab in 2022. BJP national vice president Saudan Singh said people are fed up with the Congress-led government in Punjab and they want to get rid of this “corrupt regime”. He said people want a change in the regime in Punjab and they are looking at the BJP as an alternative. On this occasion, party's national general secretary Dushyant Gautam, Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma and other leaders were also present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-to-contest-all-117-assembly-seats-in-punjab-party-leader-b-l-santhosh-1006843.html
09-07-2021||National Politics||With eyes on polls, Congress likely to carry out reshuffle soon||Congress President Sonia Gandhi is expected to carry out a reshuffle in the organisation by naming a couple of vice presidents of the AICC besides changing the state unit chiefs in a few states. Discussions have been held in the party for carrying out changes in the states where assembly elections are due next year, including in Punjab and Uttarakhand, besides naming poll committees in Uttar Pradesh and Goa. Changes are also expected in West Bengal and Bihar – two states where the Congress fared poorly in the assembly elections and Gandhi is likely to name successors to Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and Madan Mohan Jha respectively. At the AICC level, Gandhi is expected to name a couple of vice presidents to accommodate the disgruntled leaders from among veterans and the youth, while in Parliament Shashi Tharoor is learnt to be the front runner for the post of the Leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha. However, a section of the party leaders are opposed to having AICC vice presidents and contended that an advisory panel set up to assist the Congress President already exists and the same could be revamped. Gandhi is also expected to announce changes in Punjab where Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and bete noire Navjot Singh Sidhu are still locked in a war of words. A reshuffle of the council of ministers in Rajasthan too is long over due and Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has agreed to accommodate supporters of arch rival Sachin Pilot in the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/with-eyes-on-polls-congress-likely-to-carry-out-reshuffle-soon-1006856.html
09-07-2021||National Politics||Jairam Ramesh accuses PM Modi of dividing India into BJP, non-BJP states in Covid vaccine distribution||He cited the example of Congress-ruled Rajasthan and said even though it has the capacity to administer 15 lakh vaccine doses a day, it has been allocated only 49 lakh doses for the entire month. "Rajasthan has put in place capacity to administer 15 lakh doses a day, and has already done 10 lakh doses a day. But the Modi government has allocated only 49 lakh doses to Rajasthan for the entire month of July," he said. "How will we vaccinate India if PM divides India into BJP and non-BJP states," he said on Twitter. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot wrote to Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, saying that the state has built a capacity of 15 lakh doses a day, but is being provided with only 1.75 lakh doses of the vaccine. He claimed that 42 per cent of the state's people above 18 years have been administered the first dose and all adults can be vaccinated before December. "But the way the vaccine supplies are made by the Centre, we are concerned over it. I have written to the new health minister to provide adequate supply of vaccines to Rajasthan," Gehlot said on Twitter. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has also said that the state is left with no supplies of Covishield and only one day of stock of Covaxin. He has asked for more supplies of the vaccine from the Centre. The Congress has alleged discrimination with non-BJP-ruled states by the central government in providing Covid vaccines. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jairam-ramesh-accuses-pm-modi-of-dividing-india-into-bjp-non-bjp-states-in-covid-vaccine-distribution-1006900.html
09-07-2021||North and Central||Gunbattle underway between militants and security forces in J&K’s Kulgam||An encounter broke out between security forces and militants in Kulgam district of Jammu and Kashmir on Friday, police said. Security forces launched a cordon and search operation in the Redwani area of Kulgam, in south Kashmir, during the night after receiving specific inputs about the presence of militants there, a police official said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter after militants fired at security forces. The security forces retaliated and the exchange of firing was going on, the official said, adding further details are awaited. This is the second gunfight in Kulgam district and the third in south Kashmir in the last two days. Four militants were killed in two encounters with security forces in south Kashmir on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gunbattle-underway-between-militants-and-security-forces-in-jk-s-kulgam-1006556.html
09-07-2021||North and Central||DDMA nod to Delhi's Graded Response Action Plan to deal with possible third Covid wave||A 'Graded Response Action Plan' prepared to deal with a possible third wave of coronavirus was passed in the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) meeting on Friday, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said. A Delhi government panel on managing the possible third wave of Covid has devised a colour-coded mechanism which prescribes a graded response, including the closure of most economic activities at the highest 'Red' level alert.  "The 'Graded Response Action Plan' was passed in the DDMA meeting today. No doubts will remain about when the lockdown will be imposed or when it will open. In the meeting, there was also discussion about the Delta plus variant. We have to stop this variant from spreading in Delhi, for which the government is taking all necessary steps," Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi. आज DDMA बैठक में 'Graded Response Action Plan' पास किया गया। कब लॉकडाउन लगेगा और कब क्या खुलेगा, इसे लेकर अब संशय की स्थिति नहीं रहेगी। बैठक में कोरोना के Delta+ वेरिएंट को लेकर भी बात हुई, इस वेरिएंट को हमें दिल्ली में फैलने से रोकना है जिसके लिए सरकार हर ज़रूरी कदम उठा रही है। The colour codes based on positivity rate (on two consecutive days), cumulative number of new cases (over a week) and average oxygenated-bed occupancy (for a week) will designate four levels of alerts. The graded response will involve restricting economic activities as per the level of alert linked with the severity of the pandemic. Shops and establishments of essential goods and services will be allowed to open during all the four levels of alerts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ddma-nod-to-delhis-graded-response-action-plan-to-deal-with-possible-third-covid-wave-1006619.html
09-07-2021||North and Central||Set up separate paediatric wards at all hospitals to deal with third Covid wave: Uttarakhand CM||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami has said there should be separate paediatric wards at all district hospitals, CHCs and PHCs besides adequate oxygen, ICUs and ventilators in the state to deal with a possible third wave of Covid-19. Reviewing the state's preparedness in view of a possible third wave of the pandemic, Dhami said all these arrangements should be in place by the end of July. Maximum vaccination and increased testing are a must to build a protective mechanism against Covid-19, he said. The CM also asked officials to pay heed to the maintenance of medical equipment and tools provided to the state under the PM CARES Fund and corporate social responsibility (CSR) contributions from companies. Apprising the Chief Minister on the status of arrangements, Health Secretary Amit Negi said there is enough oxygen in the state and it ranks fifth in the country in terms of vaccination. Apart from doctors, paramedics have also been trained to deal with Covid cases, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/set-up-separate-paediatric-wards-at-all-hospitals-to-deal-with-third-covid-wave-uttarakhand-cm-1006623.html
09-07-2021||North and Central||Recent local elections remind one of 'gross misuse of official machinery' during SP rule: Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Friday said the elections for the district panchayat chairpersons and blockheads in Uttar Pradesh were reminiscent of the "gross misuse of official machinery, money power and violence during the Samajwadi Party's rule". "Gross misuse of official machinery, money power and violence by the BJP during the election of district panchayat chairperson and now the blockheads have brought back many such memories of SP rule. That is why the BSP decided not to contest both these indirect elections," Mayawati said in a series of tweets in Hindi. "Now, when the UP Assembly elections are near, the verbal opposition and aggression that the SP is showing against the BJP government is very deceiving and unbelievable because the SP regime was known for all these abuses of power for winning elections at all costs. People have not forgotten anything," she said. The former UP chief minister questioned why the SP remained silent on issues facing the poor and farmers. Apart from these issues, she claimed the SP did not raise their voice against unemployment, injustices, atrocities and violence happening here on the Dalits, backward and Muslim community.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/recent-local-elections-remind-one-of-gross-misuse-of-official-machinery-during-sp-rule-mayawati-1006631.html
09-07-2021||North and Central||J&K delimitation to be based on 2011 Census: Delimitation Commission||While assuring that redrawing of assembly constituencies in Jammu and Kashmir will be done in a transparent manner, the Delimitation Commission on Friday said its final report would be based on the 2011 Census. “The delimitation process of J&K is a very complex issue and not a mathematical exercise. The process will be completed in a very transparent manner and the draft report will be put in a public domain for objections and queries,” Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra said, after the three-member panel completed its four-day consultation tour of J&K. He said though the population forms the base for delimitation, “the Commission shall take into account constituencies’ practicality, geographical compatibility, topography, physical features and means of communication available.” However, he clarified that 24 seats reserved for Pakistan occupied Jammu and Kashmir (PoJK) would not be delimited in this process. The BJP has been demanding de-freezing of one-third of seats reserved for the PoJK for the refugees living in Jammu. The Chief Election Commissioner said the commission will also specify the number of seats to be reserved for the SC (Schedule Caste) and the ST (Schedule Tribe) in J&K Assembly. It will be for the first time that seats will be reserved for the ST in J&K. He said in the past four days, the Commission met 290 groups in Srinagar, Pahalgam, Kishtwar and Jammu comprising 800 people. “There was an overwhelming response and people travelled from long distances to meet us. A draft report will be prepared and after that it will be in the public domain for a consensus. Only after that, the final draft will be prepared,” he said. Asked about PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti’s allegation that delimitation was already a pre-planned exercise and the final report was ready, the Commission head Justice (retd) Ranjana Prakash Desai assured that the exercise will be transparent in nature and there should be no fears and doubts. Assembly seats in J&K were earlier delimited in 1963, 1973 and 1995. The last delimitation exercise was conducted in J&K under President’s rule in 1995 by the retired Justice K.K. Gupta Commission. The next exercise was due in 2005, but in 2002, then state government chose to freeze delimitation until 2026. The decision was in line with the pan-India freeze on delimitation of Lok Sabha constituencies till the first census after 2026. However, as the August 5, 2019 decision annulled J&K’s constitution, the freeze on delimitation till 2026 also became irrelevant. In fact, J&K Reorganisation Act, which came into force on October 31, 2019, mandates delimitation of constituencies in the UT.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-delimitation-to-be-based-on-2011-census-delimitation-commission-1006656.html
09-07-2021||North and Central||Kappa variant of Covid-19 detected in Uttar Pradesh||Two cases of the Kappa variant of Covid 19, which was declared as a "variant of interest" by the World Health Organisation (WHO), were detected in Uttar Pradesh, according to official sources on Friday. The health officials said one of the patients, who was in his sixties and a resident of the neighbouring Sant Kabir Nagar district, in which the Kappa variant was detected, had died in the hospital. ''The patient had tested positive for Covid 19 on June 13... he died two days later,'' said a district health official in Gorakhpur. Head of the Microbiology department at the Gorakhpur-based BRD Medical College, Dr Amaresh Singh said the Kappa variant was detected for the first time in UP. ''The travel history of the patient and his family members is being gathered so that they, and those who had come into contact with them, can also be tested,'' said a senior health official. The Kappa variant was detected during genome sequencing of as many as 109 samples at the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology in Delhi. Dr Singh said the Kappa variant spread faster, but was less dangerous than the Delta Plus variant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kappa-variant-of-covid-19-detected-in-uttar-pradesh-1006663.html
09-07-2021||North and Central||IMFL, shown as medicine consignment, smuggled into MP from Delhi in superfast train; 3 held||Three men have been arrested for allegedly smuggling Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) in large quantity from Delhi to Bhopal by booking a parcel bogie in a superfast train after showing it as a consignment of medicine, police said on Friday. The accused were arrested on Wednesday after they were found illegally bringing 350 litres of IMFL, worth Rs 5.50 lakh, by booking the parcel bogie of Shaan-e-Bhopal Express after paying Rs 90,000 fees, Bhopal crime branch's Additional Superintendent of Police Gopal Dhakad told PTI. They secretly brought this stock of IMFL to Bhopal two days ago, he said, adding that since June 25, it was their sixth consignment that they brought to the Madhya Pradesh capital. The accused, Gajendra Rathore (36), Mukesh Mehra (32) and Subhash Soni (32), who were arrested following a tip-off, used to get these consignments from some persons in Delhi. The stock would be brought to MP in four- layered packing with ‘medicines’ written on the boxes, he said. Mehra used to sell the smuggled IMFL at his liquor shop at Panchavati area of Bhopal. Besides that, the three accused would also sell this alcohol to their customers individually, Dhakad said. The accused were produced in a local court on Thursday, which remanded them in judicial custody, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/imfl-shown-as-medicine-consignment-smuggled-into-mp-from-delhi-in-superfast-train-3-held-1006680.html
09-07-2021||North and Central||Stubble burning: Delhi govt plans third-party audit of Pusa bio-decomposer tech||The Delhi government has written to a consultancy firm of the Union Ministry of Jal Shakti, asking it to conduct an audit of the use of Pusa bio-decomposer, which the Arvind Kejriwal dispensation had hailed as a new, cost-effective solution to stubble burning last year. The decision comes against the backdrop of some "negative" comments from farmers in Punjab and "positive" feedback from Haryana following the use of the technique, which uses a microbial solution for fermenting stubble into manure, officials in the Delhi Environment Department told PTI. Former Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar had last year said that Pusa bio-decomposer will be tried out in some areas of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh and if the technique is found successful, it will be expanded to more areas. "We have written to WAPCOS to conduct an audit of Pusa bio-decomposer in Delhi. They will take feedback from the farmers who sprayed the solution in their fields last year," A P Saini, Joint Director, Agriculture Department, said. "We have already released the results of the efficacy survey conducted last year. Now, we are looking to get Pusa bio-decomposer validated by a third party (WAPCOS). The audit is likely to start next week," the official said. KPS Malik from WAPCOS confirmed that the Delhi government has approached them to conduct an audit, but said they are "yet to receive a formal go ahead". "We will hold a meeting with officials of the Delhi government soon and ask them to provide area-wise lists of beneficiaries," he said. Officials said the firm will try to ascertain if the use of Pusa bio-decomposer gave them enough time to prepare their field for the next crop. "We will also try to find out the impact of the solution on the soil quality," an official said. Farmers say there is a small window of 10-15 days between paddy harvesting and sowing of wheat and they burn stubble as it is a cheap and time-saving method to manage the straw and prepare their field for the next crop. Scientists at the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Pusa, who developed Pusa bio-decomposer, say it can turn crop residue into manure in 15 to 20 days and therefore, can prevent stubble burning, which is one of the main reasons behind high levels of pollution in the capital in October and November. The solution was sprayed free of cost in 2,000 acres of non-basmati rice fields in Delhi starting October 13 last year. The Delhi government later set up a 15-member impact assessment committee to ascertain its effectiveness. In November, Chief Minister Kejriwal said that the solution decomposed 70 to 95 per cent of crop residue in 24 villages in the capital. He had also said the Delhi government would submit the impact assessment report of the bio-decomposer technique to the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) and urge it to direct all state governments to implement it. Last year, the share of stubble burning in Delhi's PM2.5 pollution had risen to 40 per cent on November 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/stubble-burning-delhi-govt-plans-third-party-audit-of-pusa-bio-decomposer-tech-1006684.html
09-07-2021||North and Central||Farmers reject Narendra Singh Tomar's offer for 'conditional talks'||Farmers agitating against the farm laws on Friday turned down Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar’s appeal to call off their seven-month-long protests and join talks with the government. “Government wants conditional talks. We do not want to talk on these terms,” Rakesh Tikait, the leader of the Bhartiya Kisan Union told DH here. He said the agitating farmers cannot accept the Modi government’s appeal to the farmers to give up the demand for repeal of the three farm laws that were passed by Parliament in September last year. On Thursday, Tomar had announced that Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee markets would now be eligible to access funds from the Rs one lakh crore Agriculture Infrastructure Fund (AIF). Tomar said the AIF loans could be used to upgrade state-regulated APMC markets, which the farmers fear would be shut down after the passage of the three farm laws by Parliament. Home Minister Amit Shah said the decision was a reflection of the Modi government's resolve to further strengthen the APMC system. However, Tikait refused to buy the government’s argument and contended that the APMCs will not get much business as the private markets – which will not levy any tax – could attract more trade over the state-regulated markets. “There are 38 APMCs in Madhya Pradesh that have not procured a single quintal of wheat this season,” Tikait said and claimed that many APMC markets do not have money to pay the salaries of employees. He said over the next few years the APMC markets could face closure as private markets would flourish due to lower taxes. Farmers’ unions have been protesting on the borders of the national capital since November 26 last year. Through the winters, the three protest sites at Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri borders attracted a huge number of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana. Over the past couple of months, the crowds at the protest sites have thinned as farmers returned to the villages for harvesting the rabi crop. Farmers are now busy preparing for the summer crop, leaving little time for protests in the national capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-reject-narendra-singh-tomars-offer-for-conditional-talks-1006701.html
09-07-2021||North and Central||UP block panchayat polls: BJP candidate's supporters try to 'abduct' BDC member, one killed||A brother-in-law of a block development committee member was killed here as he resisted an alleged attempt to abduct his relative by a BJP candidate’s husband and supporters ahead of the polls for the block panchayat head. The incident took place on Thursday night at Dinapurwa village when BJP candidate Sarita Yagyasaini's husband Sudhir Yagyasaini, along with her supporters and a gunner, reached block development committee (BDC) member Yadurai Devi's house. They tried to abduct her to get her vote in the polls scheduled for July 10, local residents alleged. BDC members are eligible to vote in the elections. When Yadurai Devi's brother-in-law Mayaram (60) resisted the attempt, he was hit with the butt of a gun and died on the spot, police said. Superintendent of Police Sujata Singh said an FIR has been registered against 10 people, including Sudhir Yagyasaini and the gunner deployed for the security of his wife Sarita. Police have arrested two of the accused--Ram Bhulawan Shukla and Jitendra Kumar -- and teams have been formed to arrest the others involved in the act, she said. The matter has been taken seriously and elaborate security arrangements have been made, the SP said, adding the stringent National Security Act will be invoked against the accused. Samajwadi Party’s district president Ramharsh Yadav alleged that police are working as an "agent" of the BJP due to which its members are indulging in such acts. Meanwhile, in Kaushambi district's Sirathu block, a police team raided the residence of an independent candidate, finding 18 BDC members present there. They were taken to the Saini police station and later released after the intervention of BJP MLA Shitla Prasad Patel. When asked, Circle Officer Yogendra Krishan Narain said he had got information that independent candidate Dileep Patel had held 18 BDC members hostage in his house. Acting on it, police reached there and brought all 18 members to the police station, where the BDC members said they willingly went there and were not forced. Later, all of them were set free.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-block-panchayat-polls-bjp-candidates-supporters-try-to-abduct-bdc-member-one-killed-1006709.html
09-07-2021||North and Central||Punjab lifts weekend, night curfew, eases Covid-19 curbs||The Punjab government on Friday lifted the weekend and night curfew and eased Covid-19 curbs.  It allowed the gathering of 100 people in an indoor space and 200 people in an outdoor setting. The government also allowed bars, gyms, cinema halls, restaurants, spas to reopen with staff and visitors having taken at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. Punjab lifts weekend and night curfew, allows gatherings of 100 indoors and 200 outdoors. Punjab registered 162 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the infection tally to 5,97,347 on Friday, while the death toll rose to 16,168 after eight more patients succumbed to the disease, according to a medical bulletin. Two deaths were recorded in Bathinda, while one each in Ferozepur, Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Ludhiana, Sangrur and Tarn Taran. The death toll also includes three fatalities which were not reported earlier. The number of active cases stand at 1,809. Of the fresh cases, Bathinda reported 19 infections, followed by 17 in Amritsar and 14 in Jalandhar, among others. With 259 recoveries in the past 24 hours, the number of cured persons in the state reached 5,79,370, the bulletin said. A total of 1,12,91,779 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. Meanwhile, Chandigarh reported eight new cases of Covid-19,pushing the infection tally to 61,811. With no new fatality in the Union Territory, the death toll stood at 809. There are 101 active cases in the state, while 60,901 people have recovered from the infection. A total of 5,81,225 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 5,18,145 tested negative while reports of seven samples are awaited, the bulletin added.   (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-lifts-weekend-night-curfew-eases-covid-19-curbs-1006713.html
09-07-2021||North and Central||Air Pollution: AAP withdraws from SC plea regarding 10 thermal power plants||Delhi government on Friday withdrew from the Supreme Court its petition seeking directions to 10 coal-fired thermal power plants in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana, which allegedly contributes to air pollution in the national capital, to immediately cease operations till Flue Gas Desulphurization technology is installed to reduce harmful emission. “We find it very amusing that a state has come in with a PIL (public interest litigation) against the Union of India,” a bench of Justices Navin Sinha and R Subhash Reddy observed while hearing the plea. Senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, appearing for Delhi government, said that sulphur dioxide and nitrogen dioxide are the “killer gases” and the matter relates to health of the citizens who are affected by pollution. “Your case is that they (Centre) had made some statement before this court and now they are deviating,” the bench said, adding, “If the Centre has done something contrary to what they had stated before this court, then you can go and inform the court about it in that case”. “We have many questions to ask,” the top court said, adding, “You have filed a writ petition. We are considering whether we should entertain this writ petition or not.” Gonsalves, who argued that the bench can issue notice on this petition and tag it with the pending case, later said he would withdraw the plea and intervene in the pollution matter. During the hearing, Gonsalves told the bench that deadline for complying with emission norms should be closer as the problem of pollution is getting worse. The plea, filed through advocate Satya Mitra, claimed that these 10 power plants contribute to about 5 per cent in air pollution of Delhi and despite many interventions by the apex court and the National Green Tribunal, there has hardly been any progress in controlling this. The petition sought quashing of October 16, 2020 directions issued by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to nine thermal power plants extending the deadline for installation of FGD. The plea also sought setting aside of March 31 this year notification issued by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEF&CC) amending/extending the timelines for complying with emission norms by coal-based power plants. It said in 2016, IIT Kanpur had published a Comprehensive Study on Air Pollution and Greenhouse Gases in Delhi pointing out that 13 power plants in the radius of 300 km of Delhi, which also includes these 10 coal fired thermal power plants, are expected to contribute significantly to air pollution in the city. The plea also sought a direction to power plant operators and regulatory authorities, like CPCB and State Pollution Control Boards, to provide online continuous emission monitoring data in public domain. It said owing to the increased environmental concerns, Delhi Government had directed shutting down of IP power plant in 2009, Rajghat power plant in 2015 and Badarpur power plant in 2018 in its jurisdiction. “Time and again the Delhi Government had asked the concerned authorities to close down the units which have failed to comply with the emission norms and have resultantly caused excessive pollution in the capital region,” it said. “Delhi is undergoing an unprecedented health emergency due to rising levels of air pollution, the major contributors of which are the 10 coal fired power plants which operate within the 300 km radius of the capital region,” it said, adding, “A large number of deaths are attributed to the emissions from thermal power plants.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/air-pollution-aap-withdraws-from-sc-plea-regarding-10-thermal-power-plants-1006719.html
09-07-2021||North and Central||Condition of ex-UP CM Kalyan Singh better, vital parameters stable: Hospital||The condition of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) of Sanjay Gandhi Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences here, is better and his vital parameters are stable, the hospital said on Friday. "He is responding to simple commands and trying to communicate with the staff involved in his care," said a health bulletin issued by the SGPGIMS. Senior faculty members of critical care medicine, cardiology, neurology, endocrinology and nephrology are supervising his care. Director, Prof. R K Dhiman is monitoring Singh's treatment on a daily basis, the bulletin added. Singh was admitted to the ICU on the evening of July 4 due to an infection and reduced consciousness levels. He was previously undergoing treatment at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences here. In a tweet, Modi recalled his long association with the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister.  "I was deeply touched to know that during his conversation with (BJP president) J P Nadda Ji, Kalyan Singh Ji remembered me. I also have many memories of my interactions with Kalyan Singh Ji. Several of those memories came back to life. Talking to him has always been a learning experience," he said. On Thursday night, Nadda, accompanied by UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and other BJP leaders, visited the Lucknow hospital to meet the 89-year-old Singh and enquire about his health.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/condition-of-ex-up-cm-kalyan-singh-better-vital-parameters-stable-hospital-1006724.html
09-07-2021||North and Central||Gadkari says he wants to make Auli a tourist attraction across world||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Friday said he wants to make Auli, a hill station situated in Uttarakhand, an attraction for tourists across the world. Addressing a virtual event, Gadkari also said he is planning to develop a landscape between the 18-km-stretch of Zojila tunnel in Ladakh and Z-Morh tunnel in Jammu & Kashmir like the world-famous Davos in Switzerland. "We want to develop Auli in Uttrakhand near Badrinath and Kedarnath as an attraction for tourists across the world," he said. The small-yet-picture-perfect town of Auli is India's premier ski resort destination. Originally developed as a paramilitary base, Auli's skiing slopes are popular among tourists and professionals alike. In winter, Auli hosts several snow adventure events. Standing at around 2,800-metre height, and surrounded by acres of oak and coniferous forests, Auli offers panoramic views of some of India's highest peaks, including the second-highest in the country, Nanda Devi (7,816m). Davos, a town in the Swiss Alps, is a popular ski resort and hosts the annual World Economic Forum meeting. Zojila Pass is situated at an altitude of 11,578 feet on the Srinagar-Kargil-Leh National Highway and remains closed during winters due to heavy snowfall. Gadkari in October last year launched the construction work on Zojila tunnel, and exuded confidence that the strategic project, which will provide all-year connectivity between Srinagar valley and Leh, will be completed ahead of schedule before the next Lok Sabha elections. The project has a completion schedule of six years. Once completed, the tunnel, projected as Asia's longest, would reduce the travel time from 3 hours to 15 minutes with avalanche-free travel on the Srinagar-Leh section of NH-1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gadkari-says-he-wants-to-make-auli-a-tourist-attraction-across-world-1006751.html
09-07-2021||North and Central||SC refuses to restrain high courts from hearing pleas on challenge to digital media rules||The Supreme Court on Thursday refused to restrain various high courts from dealing with petitions questioning validity of The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. The top court refrained from passing any order a plea by the Union government to transfer multiple petitions from various high courts like Delhi, Kerala and others, to the top court. A bench, presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar, said the court would annexe the instant matter with a pending case and direct it to be put before the appropriate bench on July 16. "We are not passing any other orders except tagging it and directing to list the same before the appropriate bench. Let the same come up on July 16," the bench said. The court ordered that the matter would be considered along with a pending case of 'Justice for Rights Foundation'. In its plea, the Union government said the issue of regulating the OTT platform was pending before the top court. The government has promulgated the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 which also pertained to regulation of the OTT platforms. "The said rules have already been placed on record of this court by the petitioner and their adequateness, validity and other cognate issues are pending consideration before this court," it pointed out. However, three different petitions before the Delhi High Court and one before the Kerala High Court and others have been filed. "In order to avoid prolixity, multiplicity ofproceedings and divergent judicial views, the petitions before the High Courts may be withdrawn and transferred to the top court," it said. The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 have been notified and published in the Official Gazette on February 25, 2021 and have come into effect since then. The rules have been challenged on the ground that it enabled the government to virtually dictate content to digital news portals, among others. The petitioners before the high courts also alleged that the rules do not meet the requirements of placing restrictions on freedom of speech and expression and, therefore, are unconstitutional and liable to be struck down.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-refuses-to-restrain-high-courts-from-hearing-pleas-on-challenge-to-digital-media-rules-1006760.html
09-07-2021||North and Central||Case against Rajasthan BJP leader, nine others for promoting enmity||Police here booked former Ramgarh legislator Gyandeo Ahuja and nine others on charges of criminal intimidation and promoting enmity between two groups after a 12-year-old girl’s alleged gangrape in Rajasthan’s Alwar. The complaint against the BJP leader and the others was lodged by advocate Aas Mohammad Khan, alleging that they threatened to evict the Meo community from Naharpura Kalan village and gave an inflammatory speech to disturb communal harmony. Ahuja has announced a mass gathering in Bahadurpur on July 25 as a show of strength, the complaint said. "An FIR has been registered against Gyandeo Ahuja and others on the basis of the complaint. It will be our effort that law and order situation is maintained," Alwar SP Tejaswini Gautam told reporters. Ahuja said the action is being taken under political directions. "I do not fear any FIR. I do not have any charges of taking commission or any case lodged by any woman. I have spent my life with honesty. People will give a reply to the chief minister and officials working on his directions," Ahuja said. On June 29, a minor girl was raped by three men in the Ramgarh police station area. The girl had gone feed the cattle when her neighbours Azad Khan, Jafar Khan and Wasim Khan took her to a field and raped her, police said. Two accused were arrested and the third is still absconding, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/case-against-rajasthan-bjp-leader-nine-others-for-promoting-enmity-1006764.html
09-07-2021||North and Central||Police lathi-charge protesting BJYM workers in Jaipur||Police resorted to lathi-charge to disperse a group of BJYM activists staging a sit-in here on Friday in protest against increasing atrocities on people belonging to Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribe (ST) communities in the Congress-ruled state. Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) activists clashed with police personnel as they tried to disperse the protesters and resorted to lathi-charge, and four to five people suffered minor injuries in the melee, an officer said. Four people have been arrested, Jaipur Police Commissioner Anand Srivastava said. According to the protesters, atrocities on people belonging to SC and ST communities have been on the rise in the Congress-ruled state. Himanshu Sharma, state president of the BJP youth wing BJYM, was part of the protest. BJP state president Satish Poonia visited the injured at the Trauma Centre of Sawai Man Singh Hospital and enquired about the health condition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-lathi-charge-protesting-bjym-workers-in-jaipur-1006765.html
09-07-2021||North and Central||All Rajasthan districts to have medical colleges: Ashok Gehlot||All Rajasthan districts will have medical colleges and the state government has fulfilled all necessary conditions for it, said Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday. "It is a matter of pride for us. It is our endeavour that the medical facilities in the state should be even better. For this, medical infrastructure is being strengthened continuously from cities to villages," Gehlot said in a statement. Rajasthan is a state which is moving fast in the direction of setting up medical colleges in all districts, the CM said addressing a virtual foundation stone laying event of intensive care units at 17 hospitals in 11 districts. Rajasthan has fulfilled the necessary conditions with full preparation due to which our steps can be taken towards the establishment of medical colleges in the government sector in 30 districts, he said. "We are making efforts to get government medical colleges approved in the remaining three districts," he said. Gehlot also claimed that Rajasthan is emerging as a pioneer in the field of health services with the continuous efforts of the state government. People from other states of the country are coming to Rajasthan to take advantage of our medical facilities, he claimed. Health Minister Raghu Sharma said taking lessons from the harsh experiences of the second wave, the state government is working fast on the plan to increase oxygen production and paediatric units. "We are moving towards achieving the capacity of producing 1,000 metric tonnes of oxygen in the state," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/all-rajasthan-districts-to-have-medical-colleges-ashok-gehlot-1006779.html
09-07-2021||North and Central||SC asks UP govt not to act on earlier notices to CAA protestors for recovering damages||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Uttar Pradesh government not to take action on earlier notices sent to the alleged protestors by district administration for recovering losses caused by damage to public property during the anti-CAA agitations in the state. The apex court stated however that the state can take action as per the law and in accordance with new rules. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said, “Don’t take action as per the earlier notices. All action should be taken in accordance with new rules”. Senior additional advocate general Garima Prashad, appearing for Uttar Pradesh, said the state has proceeded since the last date of hearing and has constituted tribunals and framed all the requisite rules. The bench asked Prasad to file a counter affidavit giving details of rules and tribunals constituted and posted the matter for further hearing after two weeks. The top court was hearing a plea filed by Parwaiz Arif Titu seeking quashing of notices sent to alleged protestors by district administration for recovering losses caused by damage to public properties during the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) agitations in Uttar Pradesh and asked the state to respond to it. The plea has alleged that such notices have been sent in an "arbitrary manner" against a person, who had died six years ago at the age of 94, and also to several others including two people who are aged above 90. On January 31 last year, the top court had issued notice to the state government and asked it to respond to the plea. Titu had contended that these notices were based on an Allahabad High Court judgement delivered in 2010 which "is in violation of the guidelines" laid down by the top court in a 2009 verdict, and re-affirmed in a 2018 order. He submitted that the state government has appointed additional district magistrate to deal with the process of notices for recovering damages for loss of public property during protests against the CAA whereas the guidelines laid down by the apex court stipulated that retired judges should deal with the matter. The plea has sought stay on these notices claiming they have been sent to persons who have not been booked under any penal provisions and no details of FIR or any criminal offences have been made out against them. "The contradiction is that while the Supreme Court in 2009 put the onus of assessment of damages and recovery from the accused on high courts of every state, whereas the Allahabad High Court had issued guidelines in 2010 judgement that let the state government undertake these processes to recover damages, which has serious implications," said the plea, filed through advocate Nilofar Khan. "The judicial oversight/judicial security is a sort of safety mechanism against arbitrary action. This means that there is every chance that the ruling party in the state could go after its political opponents or others oppose to it to settle scores," it said. It also sought a direction to the Uttar Pradesh government to follow the procedure as per the 2009 and 2018 guidelines of the apex court while claiming damages to recover the losses caused to public property during such protests. The plea sought setting up of an independent judicial inquiry to probe into the incidents which happened during the protests against the amended citizenship act and the National Register of Citizens in Uttar Pradesh, as has been done by the Karnataka High Court. It claimed that the BJP-led Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh is "moving ahead on the chief minister's promise of avenging loss to public property" by seizing assets of protestors in order to "take revenge for political reasons from one community who is in minority". The plea further alleged that around 925 people, who have been arrested so far in connection with the violent protests, may not get bail easily in Uttar Pradesh till they pay up for the losses as they have to be given "conditional bail" only after they deposit the amount. "The government of Uttar Pradesh and its administration and police are no longer behaving like the arm of a democratic government as it cracked down on protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019/NRC. The police on the instructions of the Uttar Pradesh administration used disproportionate force and denied public accountability," it alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-asks-up-govt-not-to-act-on-earlier-notices-to-caa-protestors-for-recovering-damages-1006780.html
09-07-2021||North and Central||LeT militant held in Jammu and Kashmir's Bandipora||Security forces on Friday arrested a Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militant from Bandipora district of Jammu and Kashmir, a police spokesperson said. On specific input regarding the movement of terrorists in Hajin town, a joint check point was established by police, army and the CRPF in Gundjahangeer area of Hajin, the spokesperson said. During checking, one person behaving in a very suspicious manner was apprehended. "He has been identified as Muzammil Sheikh alias Abu Maviya, a resident of Chandergeer, Hajin. During his personal search, incriminating material, arms and ammunition including one Chinese pistol along with live rounds, were recovered from his possession," the spokesperson said. The arrested person had joined the proscribed LeT recently and was tasked with carrying out subversive activities in and around Hajin town, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/let-militant-held-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-bandipora-1006813.html
09-07-2021||North and Central||UP block panchayat chief polls: 349 candidates declared elected unopposed||As many as 349 candidates for the block panchayat chief polls in Uttar Pradesh were declared elected unopposed on Friday, the last day for the withdrawal of nomination papers. Now, the elections will be held for 476 posts on Saturday. In a statement, State Election Commissioner Manoj Kumar said 1,778 nomination papers were received for 825 posts of the block panchayat chief, of which 68 were cancelled and 187 withdrawn. As a result, now 1,710 candidates will go into the elections on Saturday, he said. Kumar said the polling will be held from 11 am to 3 pm and the counting will take place after that.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-block-panchayat-chief-polls-349-candidates-declared-elected-unopposed-1006815.html
09-07-2021||North and Central||J&K terror funding: Court orders framing of charges against four Hizbul Mujahideen members||A Delhi court on Friday ordered framing of charges against four alleged members of Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) after “prima facie” finding that they received funds from Pakistan for carrying out terrorist activities in Jammu and Kashmir. Special Judge Parveen Singh noted that in the case, also involving HM commander Syed Salahuddin, the terror outfit had created a frontal organisation in the name of JKART (Jammu Kashmir Affectees Relief Trust) and the purpose of the trust was to fund terrorist activities. The court framed charges against Mohd Shafi Shah, Talib Lali, Muzzafar Ahmad Dar and Mushtaq Ahmad Lone for “prima facie” entering into a larger conspiracy (section 120-B of IPC) of waging war against India (section 121-A of IPC). They were also charged for the offences of raising funds and distributing it for terrorist acts (sections 17 and 40 of UAPA), being a member of proscribed terrorist organization (section 20 of UAPA) and other offences.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-terror-funding-court-orders-framing-of-charges-against-four-hizbul-mujahideen-members-1006816.html
09-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi Metro, intrastate buses to run at 50% seating capacity during yellow alert: GRAP||The Delhi Metro and intrastate buses will run at 50 per cent seating capacity when yellow alert is sounded in the city, recommends a graded response action plan approved by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Friday in anticipation of third wave of coronavirus. The plan has been divided into four colour-coded levels based on positivity rate (on two consecutive days), cumulative number of new cases (over a week) and average oxygenated bed occupancy (for a week), the officials said. The yellow (level 1) alert will be sounded when positivity rate crosses 0.5 per cent or new cases increase to 1,500 or oxygenated bed occupancy reaches 500. The next level of alert, amber (level 2), will come into force if the positivity rate rises above one per cent or new cases number 3,500 or oxygenated bed occupancy reaches 700.  Amber alert will invoke the same response as yellow alert except that the Delhi Metro will run at 33 per cent of its seating capacity.  According to government officials, during yellow and amber alerts intrastate buses will play with 50 per cent seating capacity for exempted category people, and the number of passengers will be limited to two in auto-rickshaws, e-rickshaws and cabs. "The movement of the Delhi Metro will remain closed during orange and red alerts. However, the movement of intrastate buses and auto, taxis will be allowed... buses will ply with 50 per cent seating capacity for transportation of only exempted category people and only two passengers will be allowed in e-rickshaws, autos and cabs," a government official said. The orange (level 3) alert stage will kick-in if the positivity rate crosses two per cent or new cases number 9,000 or oxygenated bed occupancy becomes 1,000. The red alert (level 4) will be the highest level alert and it will come into force if the positivity rate crosses five per cent or new cases rise to 16,000 or oxygenated bed occupancy reaches 3,000. As per the graded response plan, no standing passengers will be allowed either in metro or intrastate buses during any of the alerts. Five passengers will be allowed in a maxi cab, while 11 in an RTV bus across all types of alerts.  "There will be no weekend curfew during yellow alert. However, weekend curfew will be observed during amber and orange alerts from Friday to Monday between 10 pm to 5 am. Night curfew will also kick in between 10 pm and 5 am in yellow, amber and orange alerts. There will be a total curfew when red alert is imposed," an official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-metro-intrastate-buses-to-run-at-50-seating-capacity-during-yellow-alert-grap-1006826.html
09-07-2021||North and Central||Haryana to reopen schools for Class 9-12 from July 16||The Haryana government on Friday announced to reopen schools for Classes 9 to 12 from July 16, saying students will be allowed to join schools with the permission of their parents. Besides, students of Classes 6 to 8 will also be able to come to schools with effect from July 23, said an official spokesperson.           However, he said it would not be mandatory for the students to come to school as online classes will continue. Social distancing and other rules will be applicable for the students coming to the schools, said the spokesperson. No decision has been taken yet to open school for students of Classes 1 to 5. Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday had said that a plan should be made to reopen the educational institutions subject to the strict adherence of the Covid-19 protocols.           “Given the decline in the number of Covid-19 cases, a plan should be made to reopen the schools at the earliest,” Khattar had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-to-reopen-schools-for-class-9-12-from-july-16-1006829.html
09-07-2021||North and Central||Monsoon likely to reach Delhi on Saturday, 13 days after usual date of June 27||Monsoon is likely to reach the national capital on Saturday, 13 days after the usual date of June 27, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Friday. This will be the most-delayed monsoon in Delhi in the last 15 years, according to officials.  "Conditions are favourable for further advance of the southwest monsoon over Delhi; remaining parts of West Uttar Pradesh; some more parts of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan during next 24 hours," the IMD said in a statement. As a result, light to moderate rainfall is likely over Delhi and nearby regions in the next five to six days. According to Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, monsoon had reached the capital on July 7 in 2012 and July 9 in 2006. In 2002, Delhi received its first monsoonal showers on July 19. The city had recorded the most-delayed monsoon arrival on July 26 in 1987, he said. After arriving two days late in Kerala, monsoon had raced across the country, covering eastern, central and adjoining northwest India seven to 10 days earlier than normal. But then, with conditions remaining unfavourable for its advance, monsoon weakened and entered a “break” phase. The meteorological office had earlier predicted that the wind system may reach Delhi by June 15, which would have been 12 days early. Normally, monsoon reaches Delhi by June 27 and covers the entire country by July 8. Last year, the wind system had reached Delhi on June 25 and covered the entire country by June 29. Delhi has received 44.1mm rainfall against the normal of 104.2mm so far – a deficiency of 58 percent, since the monsoon season started on June 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/monsoon-likely-to-reach-delhi-on-saturday-13-days-after-usual-date-of-june-27-1006830.html
09-07-2021||North and Central||Traffic snarls at Delhi borders due to RFID system glitches||Delhi's border points witnessed traffic snarls during the peak morning hours Friday as commercial vehicles entering the national capital faced difficulty paying toll fees online at booths for a third consecutive day, taxi and commercial vehicle association said.  General public also faced traffic jams. The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has implemented Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) tags at all 124 entry points to the city. The civic body had already announced that effective July no commercial vehicle was to be allowed in without RFID tags. This order was implemented from Wednesday at all 124 toll plazas except for the 11 where farmers are protesting. "Toll operators have been directed to collect toll fee through RFID only and not to accept cash. Traffic snarls are just initial hiccups which will be addressed as our teams are constantly working to ease the process," an SDMC official said. Sanjay Samrat, president Delhi Taxi Tourist Transport Association, said that long queues are seen at border toll plazas which is leading to jams and also loss to commercial establishments. "Today too there were jams on border points. It is mainly because SDMC's RFID sensors many times fail to read the tag and hence create problems," he said. "We have met the SDMC authorities and demanded that the RFID system should be made mandatory only from September 30 instead of July 1," Samrat said. According to civic officials nearly 5 lakh RFID tags have been sold so far. Commuters also complained of traffic congestion at borders. "It usually takes me 45 minutes to reach my office in Chanakya Puri from Noida but today it took me over one-hour-and-a-half to reach my destination. It is the public which faces hardships due to jam only the reason behind it changes," said Priyansh, who was stuck at DND on his way to office.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/traffic-snarls-at-delhi-borders-due-to-rfid-system-glitches-1006831.html
09-07-2021||North and Central||New Zealand national accuses Indian govt of denying entry, MHA cites violation of visa rules||A New Zealand national has accused the Indian government of denying him entry without specifying any reasons leading to his "separation" from his Indian wife, a charge the Home Ministry rejected saying he was barred due to violation of visa conditions. Karl Edward Rice, who claims to be a content creator, appealed to New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern and also approached the Delhi High Court for the withdrawal of the Indian government's decision to "blacklist" him. He also launched an online petition to gather public opinion in his support. "Dear @jacindaardern, the Govt. of India has blocked me from entering India separating me from my wife & family in Delhi. They blacklisted me without telling me, giving reasons, or letting me reply. Please watch my struggle https://t.co/dq0Z98SCFw @NZinIndia," he tweeted from a handle @iamkarlrock along with a video of his life story. He claimed that his wife Manisha Malik hails from Haryana and they married in 2019. He also claimed that he was Covid-19 positive last year and after his recovery he donated plasma twice in Delhi to help people recover from the virus. When contacted, Union Home Ministry officials said the New Zealand national has been restricted from entering India till the next year for violating terms and conditions of his visa. He was found to be doing business activities on a tourist visa and also violating other visa conditions, they said without specifying. In the video, Rice claimed that about eight months ago, when he was about to leave for Dubai and Pakistan, he was told at the airport that his Indian visa has been cancelled. Since then he has approached MHA officials and Indian High Commission officials in New Zealand seeking reasons for the visa ban. However, he said, he has not received any reply from anyone so far. Rice said that he has approached the Delhi High Court seeking remedies and reversal of the government decision of banning his entry. He said that he has visited every Indian state and Union Territory -- from Mizoram to Lakshadweep -- and that India is his "passion". "It is very difficult for me to be away from my family," he said in the video and appealed people to sign the attached online petition in his support. Describing the Indian government "very, very tough", the New Zealander said it was “very wrong” of India to “exile” him from his family. He said he had undergone "separation trauma" and "panic attack" in the past and was very unhappy with the life. He also said he would fight back the government's decision and hoped to visit India again.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/new-zealand-national-accuses-indian-govt-of-denying-entry-mha-cites-violation-of-visa-rules-1006837.html
09-07-2021||North and Central||Marriages, funerals to be allowed with limited number across all grades of Delhi's Covid action plan||Marriages and funerals will be permitted in Delhi with a limited number of attendees across all four grades under the colour-coded action plan approved by authorities on Friday to deal with a possible third wave of the coronavirus pandemic. The four colour codes in the increasing severity order - 'Yellow', 'Amber', 'Orange' and 'Red',  based on positivity rate (on two consecutive days), the cumulative number of new cases (over a week) and average oxygenated-bed occupancy (for a week) will designate four levels of alerts, officials said. According to the proposed action plan, marriage and funeral functions will continue during all four levels of action, with crowd size ranging from 20 (yellow and amber) to 15 (orange and red) for both the social activities. Religious places will open but with no visitors across the four graders of the action plan. Other gatherings and congregations of social, religious, political nature, entertainment-related events and festival gatherings will not be permitted in any of the four categories of the plan that may come into force in future. Schools, colleges, libraries, educational training and coaching institutions will also be closed if the plan comes into force, in any of the colour-coded categories, the proposed plan said, adding, business-to-business exhibitions will not be permitted across the four categories of the action plan. Public parks, gardens, and golf courses will operate under the 'Yellow' category but will be closed in the remaining there ones. Sports complexes, stadia and swimming pool facilities will closed, except for national or international sporting events, across all four categories -- yellow, amber, orange and red, the plan says. The 'Yellow' (Level-1) alert will be sounded when the positivity rate crosses 0.5 per cent or new cases increase to 1,500 or oxygenated bed occupancy reaches 500.  The corresponding response will involve allowing construction, manufacturing activities and the opening of shops and establishments of essential goods.  The next level of alert coded with 'Amber' colour (L-2) will come into force if the positivity rate rises above one per cent or new cases number 3,500 or oxygenated bed occupancy reaching 700.  The 'Orange' or L-3 alert will be the next stage which will kick-in if the positivity rate crosses two per cent or new cases number 9,000 or oxygenated bed occupancy becomes 1,000. The 'Red' alert (L-4) will be the highest level and will come into force if the positivity rate crosses five per cent or new cases rise to 16,000 or oxygenated bed occupancy reaches 3,000. However, shops and establishments of essential goods and services will be allowed to open during all the four levels of alerts, as per the draft action plan. The colour-coded response action plan was passed on Friday during a DDMA meeting with Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal to deal with a possible third wave of coronavirus, under which curbs will be implemented in accordance with the severity of the Covid-19 situation here. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Health Minister, among others attended the meeting. "The 'Graded Response Action Plan' was passed in the DDMA meeting today. No doubts will remain about when the lockdown will be imposed or when it will open.Discussion also held about the Delta plus variant. We have to stop this variant from spreading in Delhi, for which the government is taking all necessary steps," Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi. As per the draft action plan, central government offices will operate as per the directions of the Union government, when any of the four-level plan comes into force. For various government departments, PSUs, autonomous bodies, local bodies of Delhi, "all government offices with attendance of staff (GR-I DASS/S.O. & above and equivalent) with 100 per cent attendance and remaining staff with 50 per cent attendance," for the 'Yellow' and 'Amber' category. For the 'Orange' category, it will be 33 per cent for the remaining staff, and for the 'Red' category, only government offices providing emergency and essential services will be permitted to function with 100 per cent staff attendance. However, all government offices which are providing essential and emergency services will operate with 100 per cent staff attendance in the first three categories of the action plan as well. Private offices will be allowed to function upto 50 per cent of staff attendance between 9 AM to 5 PM (offices falling under exempted category are allowed with 100 per cent) under the 'Yellow' and 'Amber' levels action plan. And, for 'Orange' and 'Red' levels, only those falling under exempted categories shall be permitted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/marriages-funerals-to-be-allowed-with-limited-number-across-all-grades-of-delhis-covid-action-plan-1006851.html
09-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt frames guidelines for domestic travellers ahead of possible third Covid wave||The graded action plan approved by the Delhi government on Friday in anticipation of a third Covid wave has recommended guidelines for people entering the city, including for travellers from states with over five per cent positivity rate and those which have reported mutant strains. For international travellers arriving in Delhi, central government guidelines will be followed, the plan states. The colour-coded plan was approved during a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) attended by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal among others. The graded action plan has four levels of alerts based on the positivity rate or number of new cases, oxygen or bed occupancy. The first level (L-1) is yellow coded, second (L-2) is 'Amber', third level (L-3) is 'Orange' and the highest level (L-4) is 'Red' that denotes over five per cent positivity or number of new cases reaching 16,000 during a week or 3,000 oxygen-bed occupancy. The plan states that there are three types of situations in which restrictions will be put in place in respect of domestic travel. The restrictions will come into force when a 'Red Alert' (Level 4) has been enforced in Delhi and people are coming by air into the city (including transit passengers) from other highly infected states and Union Territories where positivity rate is more than five per cent, the plan states.  The second condition of restrictions will involve people coming into Delhi by air, trains, buses, cars, trucks from other highly infected states or Union Territories where positivity rate is over 10 per cent, it says. The third condition for the restrictions is when people coming to Delhi through different modes of transport from other states or Union Territories where a new mutant of virus is detected, it added. Such restrictions were imposed on travellers from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh where a mutant of coronavirus was found in May this year. People arriving in Delhi during implementation of graded action plan will require to produce a certificate of successful vaccination of two doses of Covid-19 vaccine or a negative RT-PCR report not more than 72 hours old. Those failing to do so will require to undergo a 14-day mandatory institutional or paid quarantine stay, stated the action plan document.  Officials, including district magistrates, deputy commissioners of police, municipal deputy commissioners among others will ensure strict compliance of Covid-appropriate behaviour, it added. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-frames-guidelines-for-domestic-travellers-ahead-of-possible-third-covid-wave-1006858.html
09-07-2021||North and Central||BCD suspends lawyer for showing fake Covid report to get financial help||The Bar Council of Delhi (BCD) Friday temporarily suspended the licence of an advocate for allegedly submitting a false Covid-19 positive report to seek financial assistance. The BCD said this not only amounts to misconduct but also forgery and cheating and asked him to file response within seven days to a notice issued to him in this regard. It also asked him to appear before the disciplinary committee on July 19, failing which it will proceed ex-parte and take appropriate action. The BCD said the Covid-19 report submitted by advocate Sonu Yadav was sent to the laboratory for verification and it was confirmed that no such report was issued in his name. "It is apparent that Covid report submitted by you (Yadav) is fake and claiming financial help on the basis of fake report not only amounts to misconduct but also forgery and cheating," the bar body said in the show cause notice to him. Seeing the gravity of the issue the BCD chairman has ordered for constitution of a Special Disciplinary Committee comprising of three members to "immediately investigate the issue to save the dignity and credibility of the institution", it said. "Ramesh  Gupta, Chairman, while considering the gravity of the issue and to uphold the dignity and honor of the legal fraternity, exercised his special powers conferred under.... the Advocates Act, 1961, referred the issue to the Special Disciplinary Committee, and as an interim measure, considered it necessary and appropriate to suspend your licence to practice until the finding and conclusion by the Disciplinary Committee," the suspension of enrolment-cum-show cause notice said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bcd-suspends-lawyer-for-showing-fake-covid-report-to-get-financial-help-1006860.html
09-07-2021||North and Central||Security situation in Jammu and Kashmir totally under control: Manoj Sinha||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha said on Friday that the security situation in the union territory was totally under control and nobody will be allowed to disrupt peace in the valley. "The security situation is totally under control," Sinha told reporters after visiting Bemina Woolen Mills here. He also said the security forces have an upper hand and "nobody will be allowed to mess with the security" in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/security-situation-in-jammu-and-kashmir-totally-under-control-manoj-sinha-1006873.html
09-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt integrating public transit systems with Google to reduce wait for buses: Gahlot||The Delhi government is integrating all public transit systems with Google to create a multi-modal transit planner so that people won't have to wait for long for public buses, said the city's Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot on Friday. With this integration, people will be able to trace buses for live location on Google map and plan their travel from next week, officials said. "The service is expected to be launched next week starting with Cluster buses. It will cover DTC buses afterwards, said a senior Transport department officer. "Delhites can very soon plan their bus journeys to the minute. We're at the final lap of integrating all our public transit systems into @GoogleIndia platform, which will utilise Open Transit Data of Delhi Govt and live data of buses to create a reliable Multi-Modal Transit planner," Gahlot said in a tweet. In response, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted, "The Delhi government is working hard to make Delhi's transport system user friendly using technology." The transport minister held a review meeting with Google and officials of the transport department over real-time data integration. The department is also going to re-launch its 'One Delhi' app that integrates transport-related information and services on a single platform. Curently, all the DTC and cluster buses come with GPS facility. Trial of e-ticketing system is also underway in these buses. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-integrating-public-transit-systems-with-google-to-reduce-wait-for-buses-gahlot-1006897.html
09-07-2021||Oasis||Responsibilities of a high position||Why are celebrities sought out for endorsing consumer products? Basic human psychology is at play here. "If this famous person uses this product, then it must be good enough for all others too" is the unstated message being conveyed. Whether it is celebrities or others in high positions, humans tend to imitate them. When we try to keep up with the Joneses’, we are subconsciously trying to keep pace and possibly outpace them in their lifestyle. It is about this fundamental human trait that the Bhagavad Geeta speaks of in its chapter on Karma Yoga.  “People follow and do what men in positions of authority do. What is declared correct by such persons is accepted by all others too and is followed”.  This means highly placed people must be very careful in what they do and talk since society tends to do as they do. The context in which this statement is made in the Geeta has to be understood. Lord Krishna, the expounded of the Geeta is speaking to the Pandava Prince Arjuna on the battlefield of Kurukshetra and reminding him of his duty and responsibility, when Arjuna hesitates to enter into war with his brethren, who have deviously usurped their rightful share of the Kingdom. “If you shy away from fighting this injustice, giving lame excuses, then it will be construed by the people that you are condoning such evil and nefarious acts, even if it means forsaking one’s honour and dignity. Remember, every action of your’s is being observed and will influence society. So, do not neglect your duty”, says the Lord. In support of this argument, Lord Krishna continues: “Look at me. I am the supreme being, Lord of all the three worlds. There is nothing I need to do. There is nothing that I have not achieved so far or anything that I have to achieve in future. Yet, I am constantly engaged in action, regulating the workings of this universe. There is perfect order and harmony in all aspects of nature. There is no room for any discordance. What will happen in case I neglect my duties? Chaos and destruction will result. So, take my example and carry out your duty sincerely, with all faith in me”. Indeed, a lesson for all, whether highly placed or not, to remember that their actions serve as examples to others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/responsibilities-of-a-high-position-1006506.html
09-07-2021||Opinion||Cabinet reshuffle: The BJP-Sena gulf widens||When Narayan Rane left the Shiv Sena in 2005, party chief Bal Thackeray wrote a blistering editorial in his newspaper Saamna, tracing the origins of his former blue-eyed boy to the "Harya-Narya" gang (Narya - short for Narayan) of the suburb of Chembur, and later, taunting him as "kombdi chor" (chicken thief). The reason for Thackeray's vicious attack on the man he had appointed CM in 1999 was Rane's open criticism of the growing clout in the party of heir-apparent Uddhav Thackeray. Hence, Wednesday's Union Cabinet reshuffle, where the Maratha from Konkan was the first of the new ministers to take oath, puts the final seal on the rift between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Uddhav Thackeray-headed Shiv Sena. In the fortnight leading up to the reshuffle, the two erstwhile allies were seen to be making up. Both former CM Devendra Fadnavis, constantly on the offensive against the Sena, and Sena spokesman Sanjay Raut, known for his acid one-liners against the BJP, had suddenly turned doveish. It was even reported that the Cabinet reshuffle was delayed to accommodate the Sena. But it was the Sena who sent the first signal of the reunion being off, with the suspension of 12 BJP MLAs for a year, after they abused and misbehaved with the Speaker on the first day of the Maharashtra Assembly session on Monday. The next day, Uddhav Thackeray couldn't have been blunter when he dismissed talk of a reunion by pointing out that 30 years in the alliance hadn't resulted in them coming together, so what could happen now. It was back to business as usual on Wednesday when the Enforcement Directorate (ED) arrested the son-in-law of Eknath Khadse, the former BJP Maratha leader who'd been expected to become chief minister in 2014 after Gopinath Munde's sudden death. Number two in the Fadnavis ministry, his career came to an abrupt end after he was forced to resign over a series of allegations, all of which turned out to be untrue. A six-term MLA, Khadse failed to get a ticket from his party for the 2019 Assembly elections and last year joined the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). A Maratha from Konkan, Rane headed the committee set up by the Congress-NCP government in 2014 that recommended 16 per cent Maratha reservation, now rejected by the Supreme Court, leaving the influential community angry. With his new clout as a Union cabinet minister, he will undoubtedly make life difficult for the Maha Vikas Aghadi government. But Rane is not the strongman he once was. His influence helped his son win, and the BJP gain entry into Konkan, a Sena base, in the 2019 Assembly polls. But Rane himself lost the seat that he had represented six times in 2014 and could not win in the bypoll held a year later. Both times, the Sena defeated him. Not everyone in the BJP would be happy with Rane's induction. In 2017, ex-MP Kirit Somaiya had wanted the ED to investigate his alleged scams. It never did. Like Rane, two of the other three Maharashtrians inducted into the cabinet are also turncoats from the NCP and Sena. The Cabinet reshuffle was the climax of a packed week in Maharashtra politics and signalled the start of an intensified attack on the MVA government. But for at least one section of citizens, the week's developments spelt relief. For Muslims, who constitute 10 per cent of the state's population, the spectre of the BJP back in power was not a pleasant one. Though Devendra Fadnavis' five-year regime had turned out to be a pleasant surprise - apart from the beef ban - given the former CM's RSS background, there was no guarantee that another stint of BJP rule would be as smooth, seeing the way the party had gone about implementing its core agenda since it got re-elected in 2019. But it was not just fear of the BJP that had seen Muslims - and indeed, other Hindutva-opponents - keep their fingers crossed over the last fortnight. It was also a desire to see the government headed by Uddhav Thackeray continue. Even 19 months after taking over, the son and political heir of the demagogue known for his anti-Muslim rhetoric, who built up his party as a lumpen force against Muslims and "outsiders", remains the complete opposite of his father. Notwithstanding their discontent about the CM's refusal to relax Covid-19 restrictions for the second consecutive year for Bakr-Id, or the failed promise of 4 per cent Muslim reservation (part of the coalition's Common Minimum Programme), Muslims in Maharashtra feel a sense of security unknown to their compatriots in BJP-ruled states. Giving up on other demands is a small price to pay.    (Jyoti Punwani is a Mumbai-based journalist)   Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/cabinet-reshuffle-the-bjp-sena-gulf-widens-1006597.html
09-07-2021||Opinion||Rafale deal: Could French investigations turn up a Bofors?||A judicial probe has been ordered in France into the corruption surrounding the Rafale fighter jet deal with India. In India, the Supreme Court and the Comptroller and Auditor General have already given a clean chit to the Narendra Modi government in the deal. The Parquet National Financier (PNF) responsible for tracking down complex economic and financial crimes in France has referred the case to a Judge Investigator (juge d’instruction). The French Judge Investigator has sweeping powers to summon witnesses, seize evidence, freeze assets and even order wiretaps. If a money trail is established, the political fallout could be far-reaching. The Judge Investigator is an institution unique to France and a few other European countries. Complex economic crimes are referred to the independent and powerful Judge Investigators. Such references are rare - in 2000, only seven per cent and in 2010, only four per cent of criminal investigations were carried out by Judge Investigators. The PNF took note of a complaint by an anti-corruption NGO, Sherpa, alleging corruption, favouritism, influence-pedalling, money-laundering and undue tax waivers in the Rafale deal. The complaint was based on investigative reports by the news portal Mediapart. An earlier complaint was dismissed by the then head of PNF, Elain Houlette, for “preserving the interests of France”. However, Houlette’s successor Jean-François Bohnert decided to refer the case to a Judge Investigator based on an updated complaint, including further revelations by Mediapart. Most Indians found it difficult to understand why the Modi government had overnight agreed to pay Rs 58,000 crore for just 36 Rafale jets when the previous government had negotiated Rs 54,000 crore for 126 jets. Or, why an Indian company with no experience in aeronautical manufacturing belonging to a businessman in dire financial difficulties (who has since declared bankruptcy) was forced on the manufacturer of Rafale, Dassault, as its Indian partner to receive up to 50 per cent of the cost of contract as an investment (off-set) in India. The Judge Investigator will examine the role of former French president Francoise Hollande, of the then finance minister and current French President Emmanuel Macron and the then defence minister Jean Yves Le Drian, now Foreign Minister. He is also likely to scrutinise whether Dassault chose to partner with Anil Ambani to buy political influence. Hollande, in an interview, revealed that the Indian off-set partner of Dassault was appointed at the behest of India. Dassault, however, denies this. Suspicions have also been raised at Reliance Entertainment funding (Euro 1.6 million), a film co-produced by President Hollande’s partner, actress Julie Gayet barely months prior to the Rafale deal. Macron is accused of waiving Euro 143 million in tax for the French subsidiary of Anil Ambani group. Ambani, Mediapart reports suggest, had prior knowledge of the new Rafale deal for 36 aircraft overruling previous negotiations. In fact, he signed his first Memorandum of Understanding with Dassault on March 26, 2015, two weeks before the deal was inked. Mediapart also revealed that in 2017, Ambani and Dassault created a joint venture called Dassault Reliance Aerospace Limited (DRAL) in which Dassault agreed to pay Euro 159 million for 49 per cent equity while Ambani would pay only Euros 10 million for the majority equity stake of 51 per cent. Apparently more than the investment, Dassault valued the political influence that Ambani brought to the table. In France, investigations of scandals of the outgoing regime are common. President Jacques Chirac faced trial after retirement and received a two year suspended sentence for misusing public money as Mayor of Paris. This year, former President Nicholas Sarkozy received a partially suspended jail sentence of three years for influence-peddling. Opposition parties in India will have to take the lead from the French investigation to hold the government accountable. That the government on its own is not going to oblige them is evident. The Enforcement Directorate recovered evidence from arms dealer Sushen Gupta arrested in March 2019 in the Augusta Westland chopper deal. It showed that he had received kickbacks in “other defence deals”. Gupta, an agent for Dassault, had quite presciently provided information to Dassault of the Modi government’s intention to buy 36 aircraft for Euros 7.8 billion in January 2019 itself. The ED charge-sheet in AugustaWestland, ignored these facts saying they were “not a subject matter of the present investigation”. In the wake of the French investigation, the CPI (M) and the Congress have demanded a probe by a Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC). The demand may gain momentum in the Monsoon session of Parliament. Experience of the Bofors JPC suggests that it might be a futile exercise as the ruling party would control it. However, a JPC would still bring hitherto unknown facts into the domain of Parliament. Its political fallout would depend on the speed of the French investigation and the deftness of the Opposition and the Indian media to join the dots. (The writer is a journalist based in Delhi) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/rafale-deal-could-french-investigations-turn-up-a-bofors-1006645.html
09-07-2021||Panorama||A tightrope walk for RBI||A great deal of literature in economics is devoted to determining the relative importance of fiscal policy vis-a-vis monetary policy. John Maynard Keynes, whose path-breaking Keynesian economics propounded the use of fiscal measures, once believed that monetary policy or stability of prices was sufficient for the stability of the economy until he saw the prolonged periods of unemployment or the Great Depression, which led him to advocate strongly for fiscal measures. On the face of it and rightfully so, the Covid-19 pandemic has led us to believe that fiscal policy has a far greater role as compared to monetary policy, in mitigating the after-shocks. For more than a year now, we are witnessing that RBI doesn’t have the bandwidth to intervene beyond a point. It can’t reach the informal sector directly which is worst affected by lockdown restrictions. It is also incapable of targeting assistance to especially hard-hit sectors of the economy or specific geographic regions. For the past 13 months, the RBI has kept the repo rate at 4%, so as to sustain and revive the GDP growth on a durable basis. World over, the central bankers have kept the stance accommodative in addition to undertaking large scale asset purchases and supporting the small-scale business through discounted lending facilities. India has been no outlier. The onus for ameliorating Covid-19-induced losses lies largely on the fiscal policy, partly because the intervention if designed effectively, can reach without any lag and is more targeted. We have seen how fiscal measures being implemented in India since March 2020 are coming to the rescue of millions. Examples abound, In-Kind transfers in terms of distribution of food grains free of cost or at subsidised rates, disbursal of urea-based fertiliser at statutorily fixed MRP and non-urea based fertilisers at subsidised rates are already operational. Recently, the finance minister announced a slew of measures that aim to push credit off-take in priority areas such as Health, Tourism, MSMEs etc. by providing interest rate concessions. Further, to provide relief to the MSME sector, an additional Rs 1.5 lakh crore for the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee scheme was announced. All these direct and indirect measures are aimed, not only at ending the miseries of the affected people but also to spur the economy back into action before it can start healing on its own. However, it would be incorrect and untimely to conclude that monetary policy or the RBI’s role has hit the ceiling. The inflation figures are already seeing a worrying trend with fuel prices leading the pack. India’s CPI inflation rate, for May 2021, though provisional, points to a figure over 6%, up from 4.3% in April 2021. If the status quo is not altered, it won’t be feasible for the RBI to retain the accommodative stance and keep the repo rate unchanged. Post Covid-19, the ball is once again entering the court of RBI. The debt of the households has aggravated over time. Many small businesses are already facing a liquidity crunch and are operating on the brink. Banks or in general financial institutions are in no good position either. Being saddled with the NPAs, banks’ balance sheets are even more stressed. An innovative design of deferred payments, moratoriums, easing of interest rates and liquidity support might be required to lighten the burden of the individuals, businesses and financial institutions alike. There is certainly an uphill task for the RBI ahead. In effect, Covid-19 has made the task for RBI, even more onerous. On one hand, it has to ensure that banks provide the necessary credit to the affected parties and at the same time, ensure that bad loans do not balloon up. Similarly, there is no scope to loosen the measures which have been taken earlier to strengthen the governance of banks or else we stand to repeat the history. Additionally, the RBI has to lift up thousands of medium and small scale businesses in the country through discounted lending facilities, some of which have closed operations. If this was not enough, the RBI has to honour the monetary policy mandate of keeping the retail inflation at 4% with a margin of 2% on either side irrespective of the growth rate pressures. As the new deadly mutants of Sars-CoV-II are emerging on the horizon, the task of bringing the economy back on track might take a hit if another wave strikes India. Indeed, a tightrope walk for RBI ahead. (The writers are with Indian Economic Service)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/a-tightrope-walk-for-rbi-1006507.html
09-07-2021||Panorama||Organisational structures need to be strengthened to help Covid-hit children||June 1, 2021, marked one year of the Unlock 1.0 of Covid-19 lockdown in India. The second most populous country in the world is reeling under death and disease with no respite in sight. The second wave busted the myth that Covid-19 is an urban phenomena as 533 out of 741 districts were reportedly affected by the current wave. Also, our wrongly placed confidence that children are somehow immune to the Covid-19 strain is shattered as the caseloads and fatality rates among children is increasing across the country, which is an emerging and concerning narrative that should not be ignored. A possible third wave, long delays in inoculating large populations including those under 18 could possibly put millions of children at risk in the near future if preventive steps are not taken. The first wave of the pandemic in India pushed approximately 75 million people into poverty (earning less than $2 or less per day) which is nearly 60% of the global increase in poverty or 230 million Indians (as per a study by Azim Premji University), whose daily earnings are below Rs 375 ($5 per day), the minimum mandated daily wage suggested by a government-appointed committee. A report by India Development Review says that, out of 159 organisations that were surveyed for Covid-19 second wave response, a whopping 71% of them said that the biggest demand was for food and rations in the communities they work. While half of the requests were for vaccine awareness and support, only 29% asked for funding to provide oxygen and medical supplies. It is, therefore, evident that those living in poverty require a lifeline of support and the narrative emerging from the grassroots is clear— Food to eat and money to survive. With millions of vulnerable people (e.g., migrant labourers) already pushed into poverty owing to the first wave of the pandemic, the resultant effect on children is unimaginable. However, unlike the first wave, the second wave is infecting younger people and children. A possible third wave could hit the country in the August-September period, and there is no vaccination plan for those under the age of 18 as vaccine trials for children is still underway. The Covid-19 surge has led to appalling consequences for a greater number of children than the first wave— with constrained access to essential health, social protection and education services. The chaos and shortages in the medical care system witnessed during the second wave might be repeated and may even get worse if the system is not geared up for future challenges particularly related to children. One of the most visible initial impacts of the pandemic, according to Unicef, is on children and their education as 1.5 million schools were closed down which impacted 247 million children in India. School closures also indicate that children are increasingly at risk of exploitation and could be engaged in the worst forms of child labour. Millions of young girls are dropping out of secondary schools, putting them at risk of early marriage, early pregnancy, trafficking and violence. The closure of schools also meant that about 120 million children did not receive their nutrition diet through the mid-day meal programme. It is estimated that 115 million children are at risk of malnutrition due to the pandemic and these numbers are frightening as we consider the existing reality of malnourished under-five children in India. Children are also facing mental health issues, as lockdowns shut them off from their vital support networks. While the first wave spared many children, under 18 years, from the loss of their parents, the higher fatality rate among the age group of 30-40 years during the second wave has left many children without either one or both parents. The devastating effects of the loss of parents or caregivers could leave children vulnerable to several forms of abuse. Pleas for illegal adoption on internet platforms by relatives or families desperate to find homes for orphaned children were reported prompting fears of child exploitation. Combating the aftershocks of the second wave and a successful outcome for the well-being of children will only happen if there is greater cohesion between the government and Civil Society Organisations (CSO). With many children losing their parents, a direct cash transfer programme by the government to the caregivers of the orphaned children could ensure that they are cared for and the subsequent monitoring and reporting could be done through the District Child Welfare Committees (DCWCs). Many CSOs could play a vital role in building capacity for the caregivers of the orphaned children and supporting the children through psychosocial care. Much of the work ahead on the ground involves changing the attitude and behaviour of the key stakeholders in the communities— parents, caregivers, faith leaders etc., to care for the children. Organisational structures such as the School Management Committees, District Child Welfare Committees and the local panchayats, among others, could be strengthened to play a greater role to ensure child well-being in their communities.  CSOs must recognise the systems and schemes already in place by the government and strengthen the system by identifying and filling systemic gaps. The government on its part, perhaps, should recognise the capability and field experience of the CSOs in bringing the much-needed healing touch and last-mile connectivity to the appropriate schemes, ensuring their effectiveness and reach. An environment of mutual trust and accountability could be the right framework to combat the pandemic. The genesis of Covid-19 in India may not be anyone’s responsibility but the end of the pandemic is certainly everyone’s responsibility. (The writer is the CEO and national director, World Vision India)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/organisational-structures-need-to-be-strengthened-to-help-covid-hit-children-1006508.html
09-07-2021||Panorama||Why both Russians and Americans got nowhere in Afghanistan||By Leonid Bershidsky The story of two superpower invasions of Afghanistan is all about the similarities that end up erasing the undeniable differences. As the Soviet Union prepared to leave Afghanistan in 1988, it stepped up economic and military aid to the government of Mohammad Najibullah, even though it knew the requests for more weaponry were often larcenous, based on wildly inflated numbers of Afghan servicemen. Mikhail Gorbachev and his Politburo felt guilty about the withdrawal and wanted to compensate their “Afghan friends,” as official documents of the era referred to Najibullah and his people, for leaving them alone to face the fury of the US-trained, -armed and -funded opposition. Gorbachev was also conscious of a certain dignity issue. “He said several times that we cannot just pull up our pants and make a run for it, like Americans in Vietnam,” his foreign policy adviser Anatoly Chernyaev recalled in 2009. The Soviets took more than three years to leave after the decision was made. As they handed over garrisons and military equipment, the proceedings were elaborate, with the new local owners receiving spruced-up barracks and freshly tested weapons, all signed off on receipts. General Boris Gromov, who presided over the withdrawal, recalled in his 2019 memoir, The Limited Contingent, how the Jalalabad garrison left its barracks: The beds were neatly tucked in. Even the bedside floor mats were in the regulation spots, and there were slippers under the lockers. The barracks had all the necessary equipment. Water supply worked without a hitch. As the US pulls out in 2021, it aims to finish the withdrawal mere months after President Joe Biden made the decision to leave. It appears somewhat more concerned than the Soviets about having its weaponry fall into the hands of Afghanistan’s possible new masters, so it’s destroying some equipment. Some of what US troops do leave is, deliberately or not, unusable— for instance, cars and trucks abandoned without keys. Nor does the US appear to believe in elaborate goodbyes, at least if one judges by its unannounced nighttime departure from the Bagram Air Base; the Americans shut off the power (which cut off the water supply) and were gone. And yet the more things seem different, the more they stay the same. The spotless Soviet garrison town in Jalalabad was looted hours after the Russians left, and “all the more or less valuable property — televisions, audio equipment, air conditioners, furniture, even army beds — was sold through the city’s market stalls,” Gromov wrote. The same happened to Bagram minutes after the Americans went — looters went in and grabbed anything they could find of value. The Soviet Union went into Afghanistan to prop up a Communist-led coup as part of an expansionist Cold War strategy. The US did so in an attempt to purge Al-Qaeda in the wake of 9/11 — arguably a more honourable justification. The Soviets lost some 15,000 personnel in less than 10 years, the Americans (the Pentagon and private military companies together) fewer than half of that number over twice the time. The USSR achieved nothing by getting into its Afghan war — pouring resources into the conflict’s bottomless pit only quickened the end of the Communist superpower; the Americans, who spent a mind-boggling $2.26 trillion on the war, can live with that, and they did at least manage to break Al-Qaeda’s back and kill Osama bin Laden, albeit not in Afghanistan itself. But again, it’s hard to focus on these differences when the similarities are even more powerful. In early 1989, according to Gromov, the “opposition” — a catch-all term for various Islamist groups and self-serving warlords — controlled “207 out of 290 districts.” The number of districts is rather fluid in Afghanistan, and it’s being reported that the Taliban now controls about a third of the country’s “421 districts and district centres”; that number keeps growing. So both superpowers knowingly left behind beleaguered governments and a feeling of gloom and doom on the territories these governments still controlled. When the Taliban emerged as a righteous force pledging to end warlords’ internecine fighting and seized control of Kabul in 1996, they hanged Najibullah, by then long out of power; Afghan leaders who cooperated with the US could well face the same fate if they fail to flee. And in both cases, Pakistan played a critical role in thwarting the superpowers’ ambitions of holding back Islamist radicalism. As the former high-ranking Central Intelligence Agency officer Bruce Riedel wrote bluntly for the Brookings Institution earlier this year, “the war against the Taliban is impossible to win as long as Pakistan provides sanctuary and safety, training, equipment, and funds for the Taliban. We cannot defeat Pakistan, which is a nuclear-armed state and has the fifth largest population in the world.” In 1989, Pakistan was the party that flouted the agreements on Afghan national reconciliation, which served as the basis for the Soviet withdrawal. The Afghan rebels, including fighters who would end up with the Taliban, maintained bases in Pakistan and recruited Afghans in local refugee camps. Weapons and cash also flowed from the neighbouring country into the fighting areas, facilitated by the US and its Western allies; like the US today, the Soviet Union was unprepared to take on Pakistan militarily. In other words, no matter what your values, no matter how much time you spend or how many soldiers you lose, no matter whether you’re on the winning or the losing side in geopolitical battles, what you’ll leave behind in Afghanistan is scenes of looting, a weak regime too dependent on your support and unlikely to hold out much longer, tough local fighters who feel vindicated for years of hardship, and gloating Pakistani generals across the border. Another constant: Afghanistan’s flourishing opiate industry, which neither the Soviets nor the Americans could undermine.  These enduring circumstances have less to do with the stubborn magic of the place than with the simple fact that, as much as the Soviets of the 1980s and the Americans of this century’s first two decades differ from one another, both stepped into Afghanistan with too little forethought and too much arrogance and confidence — and knew from the start that they couldn’t stay. Both were certain of their superior military might and their superior values. Both found evidence that some locals liked what they brought — each their own brand of secular progressivism — and took that to mean those values could take root. But neither could stick around forever; colonization just isn’t done anymore, and Gorbachev was no more prepared to entertain it than Joe Biden. Afghanistan hasn’t been worth holding on to for either of them, given its hefty human and financial cost. To the Taliban, though, just as to the assorted Afghan rebels before them, their entire purpose and meaning were in staying there forever. The local fighters felt in 1989, and still feel in 2021, that they stand for the country and its way of life. The Taliban can be particularly convincing about it. If you’re not going anywhere no matter what happens, what price you’re forced to pay over how long, you can outlast superpowers. Attachment to a place and a way of life is a powerful constant that, as Afghanistan’s example shows, creates other constants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/why-both-russians-and-americans-got-nowhere-in-afghanistan-1006516.html
09-07-2021||Right in the Middle||Graveyard vows||Don't get me wrong, this is in a lighter vein. Graveyard vows or Masana Vayragya/ Sankalpa mean that we take a rather philosophical view of life immediately after visiting a graveyard. PG Wodehouse, in a book, has quipped that he wished the villainous person was buried and then cremated as well, just in case. Nonetheless, when you are there, the atmosphere is eerie and you take a very forgiving view of life. When we visit a graveyard for the first time, it is scary and we take a different vow: Never to visit again. I was in my early teens and had read the legendary Elegy written in a country churchyard by Thomas Gray. In those days, I used to tell my mother that we friends would study together for exams but instead we would roam about the Ulsuru lake. One evening, "The curfew tolls the knell of parting day" as per Grey, we found ourselves in Kalpally graveyard having entered there by mistake through MEG grounds adjoining the lake. Initially, we didn’t know where we were, till we found a few alabaster stones with by-gone dates and a few simmering mounds of earth with firewood in the yonder. We held our breath and ran through the length and exited by the Railway line. We restored ourselves with some roadside bonda and returned home. But the vow, never to visit graveyard remained. Of course, this vow was very short-lived, as I had to go there and other places in India dozens of times as I lost several loved ones including my parents, brothers, uncles and aunties, as time went by. But, what took the cake was visiting a graveyard without any compelling sad need. Guru, my schoolmate, was driving me to Southampton to his brother's home, and suddenly asked me, "Gnani, shall we stop by Stoke Poges, where Thomas Grey was buried." I remembered reading about the Churchyard, where Grey's mother was originally buried and which probably influenced his poem. So we stopped, spent a while in the graveyard and the church where his poem is inscribed on the walls. Of all the lines, the ones which make a deep impression are: The boast of heraldry, the pomp of pow'r,And all that beauty, all that wealth e'er gave,Awaits alike th' inevitable hour.The paths of glory lead but to the grave.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/graveyard-vows-1006513.html
09-07-2021||Second Edit||Vrishabhavathi has to be saved now||The Karnataka High Court has done well to act on the recommendations of the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) report on restoration and rejuvenation of the Vrishabhavathi river. It has directed the Karnataka government to survey the whole stretch of the river from the Bengaluru urban area up to the limits of the BBMP to check for illegal constructions and encroachments on the riverbanks as well as on buffer areas, agricultural runoffs and stormwater drains. The court has called on the government to convene a meeting of authorities to implement NEERI’s recommendations. It is time the state government and civic bodies took their responsibilities towards improving the health of rivers and lakes seriously. The 57-km-long Vrishabhavathi, which originates at the Kadu Malleshwara Temple in Malleswaram, snakes through south-west and south Bengaluru to meet the Arkavathy river near Bidadi on the outskirts of the city. Its banks were once popular picnic spots, but not anymore. The once-sacred Vrishabhavathi has become yet another stinking sewer. Indeed, it is better known today as the ‘Kengeri mori’ (sewer). Untreated sewage, toxic industrial effluents and construction debris are being dumped into it. So toxic is the Vrishabhavathi today that it has severely contaminated the groundwater in areas through which it passes. Its waters are black with filthy sewage, yellowed by sulphur compounds and white with chemical froth. It is an ugly sight. The Vrishabhavathi river is dying. Meanwhile, Bengaluru’s civic authorities are not only ignoring the destruction of this river but also actively participating in it. Consider this: only 54% of raw sewage entering the Vrishabhavathi is treated. The BWSSB cannot escape responsibility for transforming this river into a sewer. Private players are also contributing heavily to its sullying with copper plating and chemical units pouring their toxic waste into the river. Why hasn’t the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board pulled them up? Construction companies are dumping debris here, too. Such debris is maiming the Vrishabhavathi; the number of lakes contiguous to its valley has fallen from 71 in the 1970s to 35 in 2017. It is evident from the NEERI report that we are running out of time to save the Vrishabhavathi. Hitherto, a handful of committed environmental activists and residential groups have been working to focus attention on the plight of the river. But government agencies and industries need to pitch in urgently. Else, the Vrishabhavathi will become a full-fledged sewer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/vrishabhavathi-has-to-be-saved-now-1006509.html
09-07-2021||South||Explained: What is driving the spike in Kerala's Covid-19 cases?||While most of the states of India are showing a significant drop in the number of positive Covid-19 cases, Kerala has been reporting 11,000 to 13,000 cases daily. Kerala had shown a similar trend in January, when it accounted for almost 60 per cent of the country’s total cases. Even during the first wave, Kerala’s contribution had been high. As of now, over 30 lakh people in Kerala have been infected with coronavirus. Kerala stands right behind Maharashtra, which has recorded the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases in the country. However, Maharashtra has a larger population than Kerala. So, the total number of cases recorded compared to Kerala’s smaller population seems concerning. The average Covid-19 positive cases in the country is 24,000, whereas Kerala has recorded more than 90,000 confirmed cases per million people. It further explains that Kerala’s high Covid-19 positive numbers are due to better reporting. IT certainly doesn’t explain the rapidly increasing numbers. In every 100 tests the state conducts, 13 come out positive. While Kerala has been ahead of other states in vaccinating its people, that certainly hasn’t helped the state much, As of now, 45 per cent of Kerala’s population has received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine and almost 10 per cent are fully vaccinated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/explained-what-is-driving-the-spike-in-keralas-covid-19-cases-1006583.html
09-07-2021||South||Vijayan requests PM to waive tax on imported life-saving drug for child||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday urged the Centre to waive GST and customs duty on a life-saving drug to be imported from the US for the treatment of a child suffering from Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA), a rare disease, in the state. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he detailed the plight of 18-month-old Muhammed, a native of Kannur district, who is undergoing treatment for the disease. Noting that the medicine for SMA is 'prohibitively expensive' and 'unaffordable' for the child's family, Vijayan said it costs a whopping Rs 18 crore and is proposed to be imported from the US. The CM, in the letter, also pointed out that the central government had recently waived tax in a similar case of a five month old child, who is suffering from SMA in Mumbai. "I request you to give directions to the Union Finance Ministry to take steps not to levy Customs duty and integrated Goods and Services Tax (GST) in this case involving the import of the life saving drug zolgensma," he said.  The Chief Minister's plea to the Centre came days after funds for purchasing the drug had been raised in Kerala through online crowdfunding for Muhammed. Son of P K Rafeeq and Mariyumma, the child requires a dose of Zolgensma, which is considered as one of the most expensive drugs in the world. The treatment committee had on Monday informed the public that over Rs 18 crore reached the bank accounts opened for the donations and asked the people not to deposit anymore. The campaign was taken over by social media resulting in raising an amount within seven days from across the world. Incidentally, 15-year-old Afra, the elder sister of Mohammed, was also affected by the same disease. The medicine would have to be procured from abroad and the treatment committee had petitioned the state government to initiate the process for procurement. Medical experts suggest that the child will have to be administered the dose of the medicine before he reaches the age of two, family sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vijayan-requests-pm-to-waive-tax-on-imported-life-saving-drug-for-child-1006614.html
09-07-2021||South||Don't want every Tom, Dick and Harry to raise funds for treatments, some govt control needed: Kerala HC||The Kerala High Court on Friday expressed concerns over the raising of huge amounts through crowdfunding by individuals and YouTubers citing charity and observed that the government should frame policies to verify the source of such funds and their proper utilisation. Every Tom, Dick, and Harry was collecting funds via crowdfunding. There has to be some government control over the money being collected via crowdfunding even for charity. The sources of the funds should be also examined. Such transactions may even destabilise the economy. The court did not want to interdict the crowdfunding process. But the funds should go to the government rather than into the accounts of private individuals or Youtubers, the court said. A bench of justice P B Suresh Kumar made the observation while considering the petition of a father seeking government assistance for a child suffering from Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA) as the Zolgensma prescribed for him costs Rs 18 crore. Recently, another child from Kannur suffering from the same disease got Rs 18 crore through crowdfunding. The court also asked that if individuals could raise up to Rs 18 crore through crowdfunding in a short span of time, why was it that the state government could not pool such amounts. The court had earlier directed the state government to constitute a medical board to look into the medical condition of the child suffering from SMA. The state government informed that 102 children in the state were suffering from the disease of which 42 got the treatment. The state government also urged the centre to give tax and duty exemptions for importing medicine for the child in Kannur for whom funds were raised through crowdfunding. Meanwhile, a mother and daughter were held by the Kochi city police on Friday in connection with siphoning off funds raised through crowdfunding. They allegedly used the picture of a three-year-old child under treatment at a private hospital and gave their bank account in a message seeking assistance. The funds that reached the account were also suspected to be diverted to other bank accounts. The police were yet to confirm the amount allegedly siphoned off. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dont-want-every-tom-dick-and-harry-to-raise-funds-for-treatments-some-govt-control-needed-kerala-hc-1006622.html
09-07-2021||South||Mandatory registration of wedding 'gifts' being mooted in Kerala to curb dowry demands||The Kerala Women's Commission has proposed a legislation to make declarations regarding gifts received by brides and bridegrooms at the time of marriage mandatory for registration. The legislation is being mooted in light of the series of dowry deaths in Kerala in the recent past. In the last five years alone, nearly 70 dowry deaths and over 15,000 incidents of cruelty by husbands or relatives were reported in the state. As per the commission's proposal, a declaration signed by brides and bridegrooms, as well as their parents, on the gifts received during the wedding should be given, along with the application for registering marriage. The declaration should be attested by a notary. According to the commission, though the Dowry Prohibition Act and its rules state that the gifts being received by brides and bridegrooms at the time of marriage shall not be considered as dowry, it was widely seen that dowry was being given under the label of gifts. But no legal action for giving dowry was taken as it was being misinterpreted as gifts. Only after women suffer torture and even end their lives due to the torture, that the relevant provisions of the act are invoked. Hence, the commission has proposed mandatory declaration of gifts received at the time of marriage. Meanwhile, the Kerala High Court on Friday issued a notice to the state government on a writ petition seeking amendments and strict implementation of the Dowry Prohibition Act. A bench headed by Chief Justice S Manikumar asked why there was no appointment made to the posts of Dowry Prohibition Officers though dowry deaths were being reported frequently. The petition sought a direction to all government servants to furnish a declaration that they have not taken any dowry. Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (KeSCPCR) former member advocate J Sandhya said such a provision would be beneficial for both brides as well as bridegrooms in case of any future disputes. The chances of a bride's family making exaggerated claims regarding the 'gifts' given could be also avoided if there was an official record. The Women's Commission will be intensifying the campaign against dowry in view of the series of dowry deaths and torture faced by married women, the commission spokesperson said. (With inputs from agency)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mandatory-registration-of-wedding-gifts-being-mooted-in-kerala-to-curb-dowry-demands-1006697.html
09-07-2021||South||14 Zika virus cases confirmed in Kerala||Thirteen more Zika virus cases have been confirmed in Kerala taking the total infected so far to 14. Health Minster Veena George said that an action plan was prepared to prevent the spread of the virus, especially through mosquito eradication. Since the virus was likely to affect women in early months of pregnancy, all women who are up to five months pregnant were advised to undergo tests in case of fever or other symptoms. The symptoms of Zika are similar to dengue and they include fever, rashes and joint pain. All the 13 fresh cases were reported in health workers of a private hospital in Thiruvananthapuram. Hence, special drives were being carried out at the places of their work and stay. A 24-year-old woman in Thiurvananthapuram was initially found infected with Zika virus. It was the first Zika virus case reported in the state. She gave birth on Wednesday and did not have any medical issues after. Though no medicines for Zika infection are available, the fatality due to the infection was very rare, said the minister. Meanwhile, Covid cases in Kerala also continued to be high with 13,563 fresh cases being reported on Friday. The test positivity rate was also remaining high at 10.4 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/14-zika-virus-cases-confirmed-in-kerala-1006699.html
09-07-2021||South||Indian Navy prohibits flying of drones over its assets||Indian Navy on Friday prohibited flying of non-conventional aerial objects like drones and UAVs (Unmanned Aerial Vehicles) within 3 km of Naval Base, Naval Units and Naval assets. "Any non-conventional aerial object, including RPAs (Remotely Piloted Aircraft Systems), found violating this prohibition, will be destroyed or confiscated without any liability, and additional actions may be initiated under sections 121, 121A, 287, 336, 337 and 338 of Indian Penal Code against the operator", a Defence statement said here. The Navy's decision came in view of a drone attack on an Indian Air Force base in Jammu last month injuring two personnel. The government authorities said the use of a drone to carry out a terrorist attack marked the beginning of a new security threat for the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/indian-navy-prohibits-flying-of-drones-over-its-assets-1006706.html
09-07-2021||South||Central team of experts dispatched to Kerala to monitor Zika virus situation||A six-member central team of experts has been dispatched to Kerala to monitor the Zika virus situation and support the state government in the management of cases, the Union health ministry said on Friday. The southern state has so far reported 14 cases of the Zika virus. It has been put on alert. At a press conference here, the joint secretary in the health ministry Lav Agarwal said, "There are some Zika cases which have been reported from Kerala. To monitor the situation and to support the state government, a six-member team comprising public health experts, vector-borne disease experts and clinicians from AIIMS has already been issued instructions to reach there and support the state government in terms of management of Zika there." A 24-year-old pregnant woman was the first to have been diagnosed with the mosquito-transmitted disease on Thursday. The National Institute of Virology (NIV) confirmed 13 more cases on Friday, according to the state government. The symptoms of Zika are similar to dengue and they include fever, rashes and joint pain. Kerala Health Minister Veena George has said that an action plan has been drawn up to control the spread of Zika.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/central-team-of-experts-dispatched-to-kerala-to-monitor-zika-virus-situation-1006756.html
09-07-2021||South||Kerala's disgruntled Kitex group starts talks with Telangana||In a major embarrassment to the Kerala government, state-based Kitex Garments began formal talks with the Telangana government on Rs 3,500 crore investment plans. The move came after Kitex decided to backtrack from the investment plan in Kerala alleging harassment by government agencies. Several other states had also invited Kitex. Before boarding the special flight sent by the Telangana government, Kitex Garments managing director Sabu M. Jacob told reporters that he was not going to Telangana at his own will but being chased away from Kerala. He also said the Kerala government's attitudes towards industries should change. Telangana industries minister K T Rama Rao invited Kitex group after Jacob recently announced that Kitex was backtracking from the investment plan proposed in Kerala owing to harassment by government agencies. A series of inspections by various government agencies at its units in Kochi was alleged to be the provocation. Jacob, who heads the Twenty20 forum that contested in the elections, was even suspecting that the inspections were politically motivated. Meanwhile, Kerala industries minister P Rajeeve told reporters that the state government did not do anything wrong against Kitex. He also added that many international firms would be soon commencing units in Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-disgruntled-kitex-group-starts-talks-with-telangana-1006767.html
09-07-2021||State||Special court bins pvt plaint against CM, son, others||On Thursday, the special court of elected representatives (MPs/MLAs) dismissed a private complaint filed against Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, Minister S T Somashekar and others, including three family members of the chief minister, over allegations of corruption and money laundering activities. Judge B Jayantha Kumar dismissed the complaint in the absence of a valid sanction. The private complaint was filed by T J Abraham, a social activist. Besides Yediyurappa, the complaint named his son B Y Vijayendra, grandson Shashidhar Maradi and son-in-law Virupakshappa Yamakanamaradi. The complaint also accused Virupakshappa’s son-in-law Sanjay Sree, contractor Chandrakant Ramalingam, IAS officer G C Prakash and others. Abraham had initially filed the complaint with the Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB). On December 15, 2020, the ACB had closed the complaint. Subsequently, Abraham filed a private complaint before the special court. The complainant stated that the Governor, Office of the Chief Secretary, and the Legislative Assembly's Speaker have not responded to his request for sanction for prosecution. Hence, there was a deemed prosecution sanction, he contended. Citing various orders passed by the Apex Court about the requirement of prior sanction, the special court said that it cannot refer the matter for investigation against a public servant without a valid sanction order under section 19 (1) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. During the course of the argument, the court noted that the public prosecutor had presented a memo signed by D Rajendra, DySP of ACB, and produced a photocopy of the order signed by the undersecretary to the governor. By the order dated June 23, 2021, the governor had rejected the request of the complainant for sanction for prosecution of the chief minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/special-court-bins-pvt-plaint-against-cm-son-others-1006490.html
09-07-2021||State||Ashada Friday marked at Chamundeshwari temple; no devotees allowed||Ashada Friday was celebrated with religious fervor at Chamundeshwari temple atop Chamundi Hill. Chamundeshwari Utsava and other such rituals were performed. However, no devotees were allowed to take part in the rituals. Priests led by Shashishekar Dixit performed the rituals for the deity. The district administration has banned the entry of the devotees atop the hill due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the police have blocked the way to the temple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ashada-friday-marked-at-chamundeshwari-temple-no-devotees-allowed-1006634.html
09-07-2021||State||HDK threw paper on my face over Ambareesh memorial: Actor||Speaking to reporters, Doddanna recalled an incident which took place in Kumaraswamy's chambers when he was the chief minister. After the demise of Ambareesh, Doddanna went to meet Kumaraswamy with a requisition to set up a memorial for the late actor. "It pained me that Kumaraswamy threw the paper on my face and said Ambareesh, whom he addressed in the singular, had not achieved anything to deserve a memorial. I took the paper back and silently walked out of the room," Doddanna said. His claim came in the wake of Kumaraswamy saying that he facilitated the actor's memorial.  Adding to the controversy, Rockline Venkatesh, too, condemned the attacks against Sumalatha and Ambareesh by a few JD(S) leaders who have alleged that the illegal mining around KRS became rampant when the actor-turned politician was in power. "People who would bow down before Ambareesh and talk in reverence to him are today talking ill of him. Kumaraswamy claims to have been Ambareesh's friend one moment and makes allegations against him another moment," Venkatesh said. Meanwhile, Sumalatha shot back at JD(S) leaders. "If there are any documents to prove these allegations, let them present it in public. As for the Ambareesh memorial, it was the current CM B S Yediyurappa who facilitated it," she said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hdk-threw-paper-on-my-face-over-ambareesh-memorial-actor-1006852.html
09-07-2021||State||Online education: Govt seeks ways to bridge digital divide||The Education department is struggling to bridge the digital divide that affects online education with minister S Suresh Kumar set to hold a meeting with various service providers on Monday. During the interaction with SSLC students on Friday, the minister had to face a barrage of questions from several rural students about internet issues and non-availability of gadgets to attend online classes. Considering this, the minister decided to convene a meeting with various stakeholders and service providers. “To start with, we are convening a meeting on Monday with institutions, who can donate gadgets to students, and internet service providers for uninterrupted internet facilities even in rural areas,” said the minister. Along with this the department, in association with the RDPR department, is taking measures to provide televisions to public libraries and thereby help those who do not have television facilities to attend classes through the Doordarshan’s Chandana channel. It can be recalled that the survey conducted by Department of State Educational Research and Training (DSERT) revealed that only 61% of the children have access to gadgets and access to the internet. “At some places though there is an internet facility, it is not strong. Even the survey provided us details about students without access to any devices to attend online classes,” minister explained. Offline classes The decision on resuming offline classes will be taken in 8 to 10 days. The department has constituted a task force, headed by commissioner for the department of public instruction having educationists, representatives from private schools and parent associations as members, to look into theissue. Suresh Kumar said, “We will decide about resuming offline classes or restarting Vidyagama after receiving a report from the task force. The report is expected in 8 to 10 days.” Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/online-education-govt-seeks-ways-to-bridge-digital-divide-1006866.html
09-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt plans tertiary treatment of Vrishabhavati water for reuse||In its efforts to reclaim Vrishabhavathi—once a river and now a polluted stream, the Environment and Ecology department is mulling to upgrade the existing sewage treatment plants (STPs) in the Vrishabhavathi valley to carry out Tertiary Treatment Process (TTP). The upgradation would allow treatment of the sewage for use in agriculture and other secondary and tertiary purposes. The department will chalk out a plan, spread over three to five years, at a cost of Rs 1,500 crore. With courts and NGT rapping the state government over the quality of water in V Valley and missing out on the deadline of December 2020 for commissioning of STPs in the valley, CP Yogeeshwara, Minister for Environment and Ecology on Thursday inspected the V valley from Gali Anjaneya temple to Byramangala Lake in Ramanagar and directed the officials to complete the project in three months. “I agree that most of the STPs in the V Valley are not functioning effectively. The two STPs at Nayandahalli, with a capacity of 180 and 150 MLD would require another three months for commissioning. Thereafter there is no chance of sewage flowing into the river. Currently, we have been treating sewage using secondary treatment techniques and the treated water is not properly used. Hence we have decided to upgrade the treatment technique to TTP level and make use of the treated water for agriculture and filling up of lakes along the valley. Tertiary Treatment of one MLD of sewage would cost one crore and may require 1,500 crores for the entire valley. This can be achieved in a phased manner,” Yogeeshwara said. Acknowledging that the Covid pandemic has slowed the pace of work on STPs, the minister assured that they will be commissioned in the next three months. “If we want to reuse the water and clean the Vrishabhavathi stretch clean, there is no alternative than to tertiary treat the sewage.” he clarified. As the Karnataka High Court has ordered a survey of the Vrishabhavathi valley, Yogeeshwara said that next week the department will convene a meeting of all the stakeholders including Revenue, Urban Development, BWSSB and others to chalk out plans for reclaiming the most polluted stream of Bengaluru. We will not support Byramangala diversion project Close on the heels of the High Court of Karnataka ordering a stay over the Byramangala diversion project as it allegedly involves diverting the flow of the Vrishabhavathi River, Minister Yogeeshwara said that the Environment and Ecology department will not support this diversion project. “The lake is fed by Vrishabhavathi and we are doing everything to clean the stream. It is only for the dredging and de-weeding of the lake bed that the water was diverted. But henceforth we will take suggestions from NEERI and work accordingly without damaging the course of Vrishabhavathi. Once the STPs in upstream is commissioned, there is no question of sewage entering the lake and it will be fresh water.,” the minister explained. Govt to bypass BU syndicate to set up STP at Jnanabharati The state government will set up a tertiary STP on the Jnanabharati campus of Bangalore University through special order, according to Environment and Ecology minister CP Yogeeshwara. Previously, the BU syndicate had rejected the BWSSB's demand to part with 10 to 12 acres of land for setting up STP. "The syndicate then had reportedly sighted foul smell as the reason. But with the latest technology, STPs would be as clean as any other place and better than the present stench. We will issue an order as it is in the interest of the people of Bengaluru for setting up an STP," Yogeeshwara replied. Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-plans-tertiary-treatment-of-vrishabhavati-water-for-reuse-1006459.html
09-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt to clear Rs 720 crore pending MSP dues to farmers||The state government will release pending Minimum Support Price (MSP) dues of about Rs 721 crore over the next two days. These are pending dues of ragi, rice and wheat that were procured five months ago, Cooperation Minister S T Somashekar said. A decision to this effect was taken on Thursday in a Cabinet sub-committee meeting on MSP. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Somashekar said ragi, rice and wheat were bought under MSP, but there was a delay in releasing funds. The chief minister has now approved releasing Rs 721 crore. This will be credited to the farmers’ accounts over the next two days.  The sub-committee will meet again on July 29 and take a call for fixing the MSP for the current year, he said. The sub-committee will also look into various measures to be taken to avoid payment delays in the future, the minister added.  The sub-committee members include Agriculture Minister B C Patil, Food & Civil Supplies Minister Umesh Katti, Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa, Municipal Administration & Sugar Minister M T B Nagaraj and Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chavan. Govt issues ex gratia order The state government on Thursday issued an order to provide Rs 1 lakh compensation for BPL families which have lost an earning member due to Covid-19. Families will have to submit necessary documents that certify the cause of death as Covid-19. Even if a BPL family lost more than one person due to Covid-19, they will be eligible for a compensation of Rs 1 lakh only, the order stated. District authorities should secure all relevant details to confirm Covid-19 deaths as suggested by the Technical Advisory Committee. The compensation will be debited directly into the accounts of the families.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-to-clear-rs-720-crore-pending-msp-dues-to-farmers-1006487.html
09-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Crop survey: Few takers for mobile app despite govt’s push||While the state government has announced crop survey for the kharif season and has encouraged farmers to upload details of their crops through a mobile app, a huge number of farmers have not yet taken to theidea. Last year, the government launched an app through which farmers could themselves upload details of their crops, without waiting for private residents (delegated by the state government) to physically survey the same. The app was introduced to empower farmers and to eliminate third party interference in uploading details of crops.  Agriculture Minister B C Patil recently invited farmers to make use of the government mobile app for crop survey for 2021-22. Through the app, farmers can upload details of the crops grown by clicking photos of it, add the survey number of their land, among other details.  “There are already awareness programmes being conducted in all districts in this regard,” he said, encouraging farmers to embracetechnology. However, several farmers still prefer the traditional method of a physical survey done with the help of officials. A farmer and Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha member Devaraj said, many farmers were still intimidated by making use of phone for the purpose. “A lot of us are scared that we might make mistakes while uploading,” he explained. Veeresh Sobaradamath, who leads Karnataka Riatha Sene, said the mobile app, although useful to ensure accuracy in data, needed supervision of officials. “Not all farmers are comfortable using phones for uploading data. They have to inevitably depend on a younger member in the family. Also, to ensure accuracy, government officials must supervise the data uploading on the ground-level,” Sobaradamath said, alleging that the government-appointed private residents for the survey were often hand in glove with insurance companies. Nonetheless, the state government saw an encouraging response to the mobile app last year, according to Brijesh Kumar Dixit, Commissioner of Agriculture. “We were pleasantly surprised. There are 2.20 crore agricultural lots in the Karnataka, of which the crop survey for almost 80 lakh was done through the mobile app last kharif,” he said. For those who either do not own an android phone or do not know how to use the app, the government has kept the option open to get the survey done by the private residents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/crop-survey-few-takers-for-mobile-app-despite-govt-s-push-1006488.html
09-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Draft Bill on online gambling ready, Karnataka govt tells HC||The state government on Thursday informed the High Court that a draft bill has been prepared for the consideration of the state Cabinet with regard to the issue of online betting and online gambling.  Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar filed an affidavit in this regard.  A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, was hearing a PIL filed seeking a ban on online betting until guidelines/rules are framed. The affidavit said that the home department will take immediate measures to place it before the state legislature after getting approval from the cabinet. The chief secretary stated that the stand of the government on the issue will be placed before the court after the approval of the cabinet and the legislature. The bench has posted the matter to July 25 when the government is required to make a statement regarding the cabinet decision. The PIL, filed by D R Sharada, a resident of Davanagere, sought a direction to ban all forms of online gambling and online betting of any nature until appropriate regulatory regime is established and regulations are framed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/draft-bill-on-online-gambling-ready-karnataka-govt-tells-hc-1006494.html
09-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||DH Deciphers | Will the government really end the corruption in the TDR scheme? ||Karnataka has promised to address some of the most troubling issues in the scam-ridden Transferable Development Rights (TDR) scheme. It has announced ordinances to amend the Karnataka Town and Country Planning Act, 1961, for this purpose. But will the proposed amendments really nip the scamsters in the bud or will the land sharks find newer loopholes to make hay out of the TDR scheme? Read on to find out:    What is the TDR?  The TDR scheme is a method of reducing the government's cost of acquiring land for public projects such as building or widening roads, constructing metro/railway lines, etc. A person who parts with his/her land for a public project is given the TDR instead of monetary compensation. A TDR certificate relaxes several governmental restrictions on land development, such as zoning regulations, setback area rules, etc, and it can be transferred (=sold).  What's the scam in the TDR?  The TDR scheme isn't really known for transparency. Its opaque nature has facilitated a nexus between corrupt government officials and land sharks, resulting in a scam to the tune of hundreds of crores.  For example, owners could bribe officials to inflate the prices of their land and strike unscrupulous deals with developers. In most cases, there is an inordinate delay in issuing the TDR certificates. Currently, it takes four to five years for landowners to receive the TDR after their land has been acquired.  There are often discrepancies in the surveys carried out by planning and implementing agencies. The existing guidelines require that surveys are carried out by the project implementing agency - say BBMP or BMRCL - followed by the planning agency - BDA. This means beneficiaries have to run from pillar to post to get the TDR certificate.  In Bengaluru, the widening of Ballari and Jayamahal roads has been held up because of the issues with the TDR scheme.  What amendments have been proposed in the existing law? The proposed amendments quicken the process of issuing the TDR by setting a 90-day time frame for issuing the documents. In addition, the government will scrap the multi-agency surveys before the TDR is issued. Towards this end, the state cabinet has approved ordinances to include sub-sections 4(I), 4(J) and 4(K) under section 14(B) and amend section 17 of the KTCP Act. The government is also evaluating whether the amendments would warrant the notification of a new set of rules for the TDR process.  What other measures have been proposed?  The government is looking to introduce the TDR in tier-II and tier-III cities and in rural parts of the state where lands are required for public projects. For this purpose, the government is planning to appoint district-level officers. A central monitoring system of the TDRs issued and sold is also in the works. What are the shortcomings in the proposed amendments?  The TDR scheme, in itself, has received a very lukewarm response over the years as landowners prefer monetary compensation. Moreover, the documents and survey sketches issued by the implementing agency tend to vary from those available with the planning agency. There are fears that scrapping multi-agency surveys would only lead to more irregularities as the powers will be concentrated in a single agency. A second survey by a planning agency could detect the irregularities. Lastly, the ordinance route taken by the government to bring in the amendments has raised many an eyebrow.  Check out DH latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dh-deciphers-will-the-government-really-end-the-corruption-in-the-tdr-scheme-1006496.html
09-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Youth admitted to Manipal hospital after allegedly thrashed by police||A youth was admitted to ICU at Manipal hospital after being kicked and beaten allegedly by a Sub-Inspector attached to Karkala Town police station on Friday. The youth identified as Radhakrishna Nayak Hirgana, who works in Bengaluru, was summoned to the station in connection with a police complaint submitted against him. Radhakrishna, allegedly a Congress sympathiser, had reportedly posted abusive messages against defence personnel on social media, angering a few people including the SI involved, relatives of youth claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/youth-admitted-to-manipal-hospital-after-allegedly-thrashed-by-police-1006646.html
09-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress leader MB Patil meets Karnataka CM over irrigation project||Former Congress minister MB Patil on Friday met Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa and sought the finance department's approval to take up an irrigation project in the drought-hit villages of Indi taluk in Vijayapura. Patil, a former water resources minister, told Yediyurappa that the finance department had put on hold a project to fill up 16 minor irrigation tanks from the Krishna river through the Tidagundi aqueduct. “He has informally agreed to the same,” Patil said in a tweet after meeting Yediyurappa. According to Patil, the project was approved by the Krishna Bhagya Jala Nigam Ltd in October 2020 at an estimated cost of Rs 140 crore. Subsequently, the finance department deferred the project in view of the pandemic-induced financial condition. “The project will help people, cattle and birds with drinking water in the severe drought-prone region of the Indi taluk,” Patil stated in his letter to Yediyurappa. He also said filling up 16 tanks will also become a source for the multi-village water supply scheme and improve the groundwater level in nearby villages. Patil reaching out to Yediyurappa is seen as significant. Patil hails from north Karnataka and is considered to be a prominent leader of the Lingayat community, to which Yediyurappa also belongs. It was once rumoured that the BJP was looking to rope in Patil, which he later denied.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-leader-mb-patil-meets-karnataka-cm-over-irrigation-project-1006648.html
09-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||SSLC exam inevitable, says Education Min S Suresh Kumar||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said conducting the SSLC examinations was inevitable due to the lack of a better way to assess and promote students. Addressing the media on Friday after interacting with students preparing for examinations, the minister said, "The examination is mainly to boost their confidence and it is the responsibility of the government to conduct the examination." "For PUC 2 students there were scores from SSLC and PUC 1 examinations and the duration needed for conducting of PUC 2 exams was more than 19 days. Considering all these, we decided to cancel examinations for them," he explained.  Meanwhile, the minister clarified to students that questions will be direct and easy. "Students do not need to worry about the question paper or the examination center. The questions will be direct and easy and the centres will be sanitised. Students can attend the examinations without any fear," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sslc-exam-inevitable-says-education-min-s-suresh-kumar-1006650.html
09-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Thawarchand Gehlot will be sworn in as Governor of Karnataka on July 11||Thawarchand Gehlot will be sworn-in as the 19th Governor of Karnataka on July 11, the state government said on Friday. Gehlot will be sworn-in as Governor of Karnataka on July 11 at 10.30 am, at the Glass House of Raj Bhavan, an official release from the state information department said. The Chief Justice of the High Court of Karnataka Justice Abhay Srinivas Oka will be administering the Oath of Office and Secrecy to the new Governor on this occasion, it said. Gehlot, 73-year-old, who held the portfolio of Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment at the Centre, and was leader of the House in Rajya Sabha, will replace Vajubhai Vala, who has been the Governor of the southern state since 2014. The President has announced the appointment of Gehlot as the new Governor of Karnataka on July 6. A Dalit leader, born on May 18, 1948 at Rupeta in Ujjain, Madhya Pradesh. He graduated in B.A form Vikram University in Ujjain. Gehlot entered politics in 1962 through the Jan Sangh and had occupied several positions in BJP including its Parliamentary Board and Central Election Committee. He is familiar with Karnataka as he served as the state in-charge for years between 2006 and 2014 when he was party general secretary. A three-term MLA in Madhya Pradesh, Gehlot served four terms as member of the Lok Sabha from Shajapur from 1996 to 2009. He lost the 2009 Lok Sabha elections and was sent to the Rajya Sabha in 2012. Though 83-year-old Vala's five-year term had ended in August, 2019, he had continued in the post as his successor was not named by the centre. Politically, Vala came under attack in May 2018, for inviting the BJP to form the government much to the chagrin of the Congress-JD(S) coalition, which had termed his action as that of a "Gujarati businessman." He was also targeted by Congress-JD(S) during H D Kumaraswamy's trust vote in July 2019, for repeatedly seeking to interfere with assembly proceedings, by setting deadlines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/thawarchand-gehlot-will-be-sworn-in-as-governor-of-karnataka-on-july-11-1006681.html
09-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bengaluru among top 15 global cities in attracting VC funds in fintech sector||Bengaluru is the only Indian city to be listed among the top 15 cities globally in terms of attracting highest VC investments in the fintech sector. The city currently ranks 8th globally. During the first six months of 2021, Bengaluru has attracted $800 million VC funds in the fintech sector. Between 2016 and the first half of 2021, the city has attracted a total of $5 billion VC funds in the fintech sector, according to research from London & Partners, a not-for-profit social enterprise, and Dealroom.co. The new research also shows that India ranked fourth globally for fintech VC investments so far this year, with Indian-based fintech companies receiving $2.3 billion in the first six months of 2021, up from $1.5 billion in January to June 2020. The US ranked first with $26.3 billion, followed by the UK at $5.7 billion and Germany at $2.4 billion. The bumper start to the year for VC funding sees the UK capital further cement its position as a global fintech hub, with investors pumping $5.3 billion into London-based fintech companies – an increase on all previous full year investment figures for London’s fintech sector and over 2.5 times more VC investment than any other European city. India has also seen an increase in fintech unicorns in 2021, adding four to its list and taking the total number of Indian fintech unicorn companies to nine. Bengaluru is home to four of these fintech unicorns, including Razorpay and Cred. London is also home to 3,018 fintech companies, more fintech firms than any other city globally. As the biggest global fintech cluster, the UK capital is producing some of the world’s fastest growing fintech companies and is now home to 29 fintech unicorns, second only to San Francisco’s 37, the research revealed. Hemin Bharucha, Country Director, India, at London & Partners, said: “It is fantastic to see both Bengaluru and London among the top global cities for fintech VC investment. The pandemic has forced us to reinvent the wheel and focus on technology to connect and transact digitally when physical borders have been shut.” “We are also seeing increasing opportunities for fintech collaboration between India and London, with several London-based fintech companies choosing to expand into the India market. We look forward to supporting more Indian fintech companies to expand to London, as well as helping London-based fintech firms to enter the Indian market,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bengaluru-among-top-15-global-cities-in-attracting-vc-funds-in-fintech-sector-1006717.html
09-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||More than 2.5 crore Covid jabs administered so far in Karnataka: Health Minister||In a "milestone", more than 2.5 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered in Karnataka so far, Health Minister K Sudhakar said on Friday. The Health Department information tweeted by Sudhakar said more than 2.5 crore doses of vaccine have been administered in the state till now, which he described as a milestone.  So far 2,06,01,462 first doses and 45,20,506 second doses have been administered, it said, adding that vaccines are being given at 8,207 centres, out of which 7,609 are government and 598 are private. Meanwhile, the Department of College Education has vaccinated 51.12 per cent of students and staff in the city's government degree colleges, Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan said here on Friday. The city comprises eight Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) zones and the total number of students and staff in government and aided degree colleges is 62,255 Out of this, 31,826 have been vaccinated as of July 8, Narayan, who is also the Higher Education Minister, said. In the student group 31,147 were vaccinated as against 59,179 which covers 52.63 per cent, while among the staff, 2,518 were vaccinated as against 3,076 which tallies to 81.86 per cent, a statement from the DCM's office said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/more-than-25-crore-covid-jabs-administered-so-far-in-karnataka-health-minister-1006806.html
09-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 2,290 new Covid-19 cases, 68 deaths ||Karnataka reported 2,290 new Covid-19 cases and 68 deaths on Friday, taking the total number of infections to 28,67,158 and toll to 35,731. The day also saw 3,045 discharges, continuing to outnumber the fresh cases, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 27,93,498, a health department bulletin said. Out of 2,290 new cases reported on Friday, 472 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 814 discharges and 12 deaths. The total number of active cases in the state is 37,906. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 1.48 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 2.96 per cent. Out of 68 deaths reported on Friday, 12 were from Bengaluru Urban, Dakshina Kannada accounted for nine, Mysuru seven, Davangere and Dharwad five each, followed by others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 472, Hassan 228, Mysuru 216, Dakshina Kannada 209, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,18,493, followed by Mysuru 1,69,304 and Tumakuru 1,16,079. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 11,89,233, followed by Mysuru 1,63,744 and Tumakuru 1,13,575. Cumulatively a total of 3,56,30,054 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,53,740 were on Friday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-2290-new-covid-19-cases-68-deaths-1006840.html
09-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||IMD issues red, orange alerts in parts of Karnataka; heavy rainfall likely in Bengaluru||A sudden change in the weather pattern and steady formation of a low-pressure area over the northwest part of the Bay of Bengal is likely to intensify the current regressive monsoon over Karnataka in the next few days. As a result, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has sounded red and orange alert in coastal and south interior Karnataka districts. According to meteorologists, the whole of Karnataka is currently witnessing widespread rainfall coupled with thunderstorms in north interior Karnataka. However, the situation is expected to gain momentum starting from Saturday till July 13 with heavy to very heavy rainfall likely to lash various districts of Karnataka especially in coastal and south interior Karnataka. GS Patil, Director and Scientist, Weather Forecasting Unit, IMD Bengaluru said, “A low-pressure system is likely to form over North-West part of Bay of Bengal by July 11 and due to this Karnataka is likely to get widespread rainfall from Saturday till July 13. However, Uttara Kannada, Udupi, Dakshina Kannada, Chikkamagalur, Hassan, Shivamogga and Kodagu districts are likely to get heavy rainfall to very heavy rainfall and at times extremely heavy rainfall. Hence orange alert has been issued from July 9 to July 13 and Red alert on July 11 and 12 in these districts.” Similarly, Bengaluru in south interior Karnataka will also likely to get widespread rainfall with a few spells of thundershowers in some parts according to the meteorologists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/imd-issues-red-orange-alerts-in-parts-of-karnataka-heavy-rainfall-likely-in-bengaluru-1006882.html
09-07-2021||West||Maharashtra's Covid-19 tally grows by 9,114, death toll by 121||Maharashtra has reported 9,114 new Covid-19 cases and 121 fatalities, which took its overall infection count to 61,31,976 and death toll to 1,24,296, a health department official said on Friday. These cases and deaths were reported on Thursday. As compared to Wednesday’s figures of 9,558 cases and 147 fatalities, the state witnessed a decline on both counts. A total of 8,815 patients were discharged from hospitals on Thursday, which pushed the state’s overall recovery count to 58,89,982. There are 1,14,444 active Covid-19 cases in the state. Of these, the highest number of 17,435 active cases is in Pune district, followed by Thane and Mumbai with 16,546 and 11,470 patients respectively. Maharashtra's Covid-19 recovery rate is now 96.05 per cent, while the fatality rate is 2.02 per cent, the official said. Out of the total number of 4,33,50,257 tests conducted so far, 2,25,457 were carried out on Thursday. The state's case positivity rate is 14.15 per cent, he said. At present, 6,24,511 people are in home quarantine and 4,572 others in institutional quarantine across the state. In Mumbai, 532 new cases of the infection were reported during the day, taking its tally to 7,26,037, while the death toll increased to 15,586 with13 fatalities. The official said that 357 persons tested positive in Pune city, which pushed its tally to 4,97,326, while the death toll increased to 8,440 as three patients succumbed to the infection. Nagpur, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Nashik, Aurangabad and Amravati cities reported 18, 263, 70, five and six new Covid-19 cases respectively. Of the total number of recoveries in the state, the highest number of 10,30,168 are from Pune district, followed by Mumbai and Thane with 6,96,664 and 5,56,756 cases respectively. The health department official said that in Mumbai circle, which includes greater Mumbai, 1,906 new cases were reported, taking the tally to 16,10,023, while 39 fatalities pushed the toll to 32,682. In Pune circle, 2,517 persons tested positive during the day, raising the tally to 14,42,091, while 26 fatalities took the death toll to 26,561. With 696 new cases and six deaths, the tally in Nashik circle rose to 8,95,329 and toll to 17,605. In Kolhapur circle, 3,459 new cases and 36 deaths were recorded on Thursday, which took its caseload to 4,40,585 and toll to 12,093. With 76 new cases, the Covid-19 tally in Nagpur circle increased to 7,69,528. However, no death was reported there during the day. Its death toll stands at 13,590, the official said. Aurangabad, Latur and Akola circles reported 147, 233 and 80 new cases, respectively, and one fresh death each. The coronavirus figures in Maharashtra are as follows: Total cases 61,31,976, new cases 9,114, death toll 1,24,296 recoveries 58,89,982, active cases 1,14,444, new tests conducted 2,25,457||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-covid-19-tally-grows-by-9114-death-toll-by-121-1006569.html
09-07-2021||West||Amit Shah to be on three-day Gujarat visit from July 10||Union Home Minister Amit Shah will be on a three-day visit to his home state Gujarat from Saturday to take part in a host of programmes, including Lord Jagannath's rath yatra here on July 12, officials said. Shah is expected to arrive in Ahmedabad on Saturday night. The next day (July 11), he would visit Bopal area of the city, which is part of his Gandhinagar Lok Sabha constituency, to inaugurate a library and a civic centre. From the same place, he would also perform e-inauguration of other projects, including a water distribution project, a community hall and a ward office built by the civic authorities in and around Ahmedabad city, said officials on Friday. Shah is then expected to visit the nearby town of Sanand, which also falls in his constituency, to either launch or lay foundation stone for various projects, such as development of Sanand APMC, anganwadis, roads and smart classrooms. On July 12, Shah would take part in ‘mangla aarti’ at Lord Jagannath temple in Ahmedabad in the morning before the annual Rath Yatra takes off from the temple that is located in Jamalpur area, Minister of State for Home, Pradeepsinh Jadeja, told reporters. Later, he would visit Nardipur village of Gandhinagar district to launch the beautification work of a lake, which is spread across 72 hectares, officials said. From the same venue, Shah would either inaugurate or perform a virtual ground-breaking ceremony for various developmental projects worth Rs 26 crore coming up in his constituency, they added. In the afternoon, Shah is scheduled to visit the National Forensic Sciences University (NFSU) campus in the state capital to inaugurate a narcotics and psychotropic substances detection centre. “Illegal drugs seized across India would now be sent here for accurate analysis of its contents and also to find the country of origin of such banned substances,” an NFSU official said. According to another official, Shah would also attend a virtual conference with Home Ministry officials and other state dignitaries at the NFSU. Later, he is also expected to attend a conference on issues surrounding women’s safety at the same venue, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/amit-shah-to-be-on-three-day-gujarat-visit-from-july-10-1006633.html
09-07-2021||West||Leopard breaks into school canteen in Maharashtra, rescued||In a shocking incident, an adult male leopard broke into the canteen of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, located in Takali Dhokeshwar village in Ahmednagar district of Maharashtra. The big cat was successfully rescued in a four-hour-long daring operation by Wildlife SOS  and the Maharashtra Forest Department and is currently under medical care and observation at the Leopard Rescue Centre in Junnar. The adult leopard entered a school through the kitchen window. While all schools across the state remain shut due to the Covid 19 pandemic, the on-ground maintenance staff at Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya were busy with a clean up of the premises on Wednesday. The panic-stricken staff immediately shut the canteen doors and windows from outside and reported to Forest Department and Junnar-based conservation charity, Wildlife SOS. On arriving at the school, the team first ensured that all entry and exit points were secured following which they carefully set the rescue plan in motion. In the meantime, the panic-stricken leopard kept scrambling from one corner of the room to the other to escape. The rescuer team cut a hole in the entry door of the canteen so they could insert a camera and torchlight to get a clear visual of the exact location of the leopard. Once they confirmed its position, Wildlife SOS veterinary doctor Dr Nikhil Bangar immobilised the leopard using a sedative injection through the hole. The leopard was safely shifted to a trap cage and transferred to the Wildlife SOS Leopard Rescue Centre in Junnar for medical care and observation. The leopard, estimated to be a 7 to 8 yearly male had wounds all over his body that were at risk of becoming septic in the rains. Dr Nikhil Bangar, Wildlife Veterinary Officer, Wildlife SOS, said, “The leopard has scratch marks and wounds on the head, ear, neck, chest and tail regions. The injuries indicate that he must have gotten into a territorial fight with another male and had rushed to find shelter inside the school. We are currently administering topical treatment and dressing the wounds along with proving antibiotics and anti-anti-inflammatory medication to help alleviate the pain.” Kartick Satyanarayan, co-founder & CEO of Wildlife SOS, said, “Big cats, especially the males often compete with each other for prey and territory base. Shrinking habitats and loss of natural prey base has led to more frequent struggles between animals over space and territory.” Pratap Jagpat, RFO Takali Dhokeshwar, said, “Ahmednagar is a leopard prone area and these big cats often wander into human settlements in search of food and shelter. ”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/leopard-breaks-into-school-canteen-in-maharashtra-rescued-1006720.html
09-07-2021||West||Polls to 5 Maharashtra ZPs, 33 panchayat samitis postponed||The Maharashtra State Election Commission (SEC) on Friday deferred polls to five zilla parishads and 33 panchayat samitis scheduled for July 19 at the request of the state government in view of the Covid-19 situation and prevailing restrictions and prohibitory orders, an official said. The polls were to be held for Dhule, Nandurbar, Akola, Washim and Nagpur zilla parishads as well as panchayat samitis coming in their jurisdictions, he said. A statement from the SEC said it had convened a meeting to review the Covid-19 situation in these five places after a letter was received from the state chief secretary on July 7 requesting postponement of the polls. It said collectors of the five districts were asked to submit reports on the outbreak situation and they had noted that the second wave of Covid-19 had not subsided fully and a threat of a third wave along with the spread of the Delta Plus variant persisted. The fresh poll schedule will be announced when the situation becomes conducive for elections, the SEC statement informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/polls-to-5-maharashtra-zps-33-panchayat-samitis-postponed-1006822.html
09-07-2021||West||Anil Deshmukh case: CBI records statement of dismissed Mumbai cop Sachin Vaze in prison||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has recorded the statement of dismissed Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze, who is lodged in jail, in connection with its probe into the corruption charges against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, an official said on Friday. Vaze was quizzed at the Taloja Central Prison in Navi Mumbai by a team of the CBI which is probing the corruption charges against Deshmukh on the direction of the Bombay High Court, the official said. The questioning took place on Wednesday and Thursday, he said. Last week, a special court had allowed the CBI to quiz Vaze. Earlier, the central agency had interrogated the former encounter cop and recorded his statement in April. Vaze was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for his alleged role in the recovery of an explosives-laden car from outside the south Mumbai residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani and the subsequent murder of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran, the owner of the vehicle. Following the HC direction, the CBI had registered an FIR in April against Deshmukh and others after a preliminary enquiry in connection with the allegations of corruption and misconduct levelled by former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh. Deshmukh, an NCP leader, had resigned from the state cabinet after the HC order. Vaze had claimed he was asked to collect money from bar and restaurant owners allegedly on instructions of Deshmukh, who has repeatedly denied the allegations against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/anil-deshmukh-case-cbi-records-statement-of-dismissed-mumbai-cop-sachin-vaze-in-prison-1006867.html
09-07-2021||West||Maharashtra reports 8,992 new Covid-19 cases, 200 deaths; 10,458 recover||Maharashtra reported 8,992 new coronavirus cases and 200 fresh fatalities on Friday, while 10,458 patients recovered from the infection, a state health department official said. The official said with this, the tally of Covid-19 cases in the state surged to 61,40,968, while the total fatalities rose to 1,25,034. The state reported a decrease in the daily Covid-19 cases, but the fatalities rose as compared to Thursday when it had reported 9,114 new infections and 121 deaths. The official said as many as 10,458 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, taking the number of recovered cases to 59,00,440. The state now has 1,12,231 active cases. Maharashtra's recovery rate of Covid-19 cases is 96.08 per cent, while the fatality rate is 2.03 per cent, the official said. According to the official, 4,35,65,119 Covid-19 tests have been conducted so far in the state, including 2,14,862 tests on Friday, reflecting an overall positivity rate of 14.1 per cent. The official said currently 6,27,243 people are in home quarantine and 4,756 people are in institutional quarantine across the state. Out of 1,12,231 active Covid-19 cases across the state, the highest - 17,636 - are in Pune district, followed by Thane and Mumbai with 16,630 and 11,269 patients, respectively. According to the health department, of the total 59,00,440 recovered patients, the highest - 10,31,138 - are from Pune district, followed by Mumbai and Thane with 6,97,444 and 5,57,148 cases, respectively. Mumbai recorded 596 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 7,26,633, while the death toll increased to 15,599 with the addition of 13 fresh fatalities, the official said. The official said 342 new cases were reported in Pune municipal limits, which took the tally to 4,97,668, while the death toll increased to 8,487 after three patients succumbed to the infection in the city. According to the official, Nagpur, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Nashik, Aurangabad and Amravati municipal corporation areas reported 14, 227, 61, 38 and nine new Covid-19 cases, respectively. Coronavirus figures for Maharashtra are as follows: Total cases - 61,40,968; new cases 8,992; deaths -1,25,034; recoveries 59,00,440; active cases 1,12,231; tests so far 4,35,65,119.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-reports-8992-new-covid-19-cases-200-deaths-10458-recover-1006889.html
