10-07-2021||First Edit||New governors, Centre’s old politics||The latest round of appointments of active politicians as governors of states demonstrates once again the contempt of central governments, irrespective of the party in power, towards the Sarkaria Commission report on Centre-state relations. The commission had laid down that the governor should be an eminent person who has not participated in active politics for some time before his appointment. Of the new governors, one was a sitting Union minister, while the rest are active BJP leaders. The commission had also recommended that the governor should be appointed in consultation with the chief minister of the respective state, the Vice President of India and the Speaker of the Lok Sabha. The report stressed that prominence should be given to the state government, as a good rapport is required between the chief minister and the governor for proper functioning of the parliamentary system. In reality though, chief ministers are rarely consulted and are only informed about the appointment. Unfortunately, most governors end up being partisans acting on behalf of the party in power at the Centre and are often engaged in destabilising opposition party governments in the states rather than functioning as per the Constitution. In 2018, outgoing Karnataka Governor Vajubhai Vala had sworn in B S Yediyurappa as chief minister though the numbers were clearly stacked against him. Yediyurappa had to resign two days later. In Maharashtra, Governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari administered the oath of office as chief minister to Devendra Fadnavis in a midnight BJP operation to grab power despite not having numbers. In Tamil Nadu, Governor Banwarilal Purohit interfered with the day-to-day administration and even summoned bureaucrats for routine meetings, arrogating to himself the powers of the chief minister. In an unprecedented move, Kerala Governor Arif Mohammad Khan had recently declined permission to hold the Assembly session but was forced to relent later. The list of governors and their improprieties is a long one. For long, there has been a demand from many quarters for the abolition of the governor’s post, which is a vestige of the colonial era. DMK founder C N Annadurai had famously remarked that the post of the governor is as redundant as a goat’s beard. While that is one argument that must be debated, the other is that abolishing the post itself may be akin to throwing the baby out with the bathwater, and thus not desirable. Instead, the Centre should make efforts to restore the dignity of Raj Bhavans by appointing people of high credibility and integrity. It may begin by appointing non-political eminences to the post.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/new-governors-centre-s-old-politics-1006970.html
10-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Agumbe Ghat opened for heavy vehicles||Heavy vehicles can now ply on Agumbe Ghat on Udupi-Thirthahalli National Highway 169A, Deputy Commissioner G Jagadeesha said. He said that the ban on movement of heavy vehicles was lifted due to reduced rainfall.  The movement of the heavy vehicles was banned fearing that heavy rainfall would trigger land slides between Thirthahalli and Udupi. During the ban, the vehicles were plying on alternative routes, like Shivamogga-Thirthahalli-Agumbe-Sringeri-Kere Katte, Karkala-Udupi-Mangaluru or Mastikatte-Hulikal-Hosangadi, and Siddapura-Udupi. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/agumbe-ghat-opened-for-heavy-vehicles-1006952.html
10-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mining around 10 km radius of KRS dam stopped: Nirani||Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani said on Saturday that the state government had closed mining within a radius of 10 kilometres around Krishna Raja Sagar dam four months ago. Speaking to reporters here on Saturday, he stated that permission has been given for mining beyond 10 km radius.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mining-around-10-km-radius-of-krs-dam-stopped-nirani-1007024.html
10-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Kalaburagi district administration ready to tackle imminent floods: Nirani||Boats have been kept ready to save lives if Kalaburagi district receives heavy rains for the next one week as per the forecast, District In-charge Minister Murugesh Nirani said.  The district administration has been directed to tackle the imminent floods effectively if it hits the district. It has been decided to bring boats from Karwar also, he told reporters.  People will be shifted to safer places if the flood hits. Fodder arrangement for the cattle will also be made. The district officials are in constant touch with the officials of Maharashtra over release of water from various dams.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kalaburagi-district-administration-ready-to-tackle-imminent-floods-nirani-1007037.html
10-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Moving car catches fire, man charred to death||A man who was driving a car was charred to death when the car caught fire accidentally, at Vasthare in Chikkamagaluru, on Friday night. The deceased is Raghu (45). The mishap occurred when he was driving the car from Arenoor to Beekanahalli. The locals who noticed the fire tried to douse it, but their efforts went in vain. Later, fire service personnel rushed to the spot and extinguished the fire. Aldur police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/moving-car-catches-fire-man-charred-to-death-1007048.html
10-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Link Aadhar with bank accounts to get compensation, K S Eshwarappa tells workers||District in-charge Minister K S Eshwarappa stated that 1,07,286 workers in the unorganised sector in the Shivamogga district are eligible to get one-time compensation of Rs 3,000 from the government as they lost their income due to Covid-19-forced lockdown. Speaking to media persons on Saturday, he said, the government is transferring money to the bank accounts of beneficiaries. So far, Rs 21.61 crore has been transferred to 72,065 workers in the district. However, Rs 3.31 crore has not been credited to the accounts of 11,040 workers as their bank accounts are not active and Aadhar numbers are not linked with their accounts. He appealed to workers to link their Aadhar numbers with their bank accounts.  He said State Building Construction & Other Workers Welfare Board is providing various facilities to workers. Food kits are being distributed to workers in the district. Food kits would be distributed to 10,850 workers in 32 wards of Shivamogga city from July 12. He suggested beneficiaries to collect tokens by submitting photocopies of labour card and Aadhar card at the distribution centre and they would be given food kits the next day. As many as nine teams have been formed to distribute food kits to workers. Food kits would be distributed in 32 centres under the guidance of nodal officers.     Mayor Sunita Annappa, City Corporation Commissioner Chidananda Vatare, District Labour Department Officer Vishwanath and others were present at the press conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/link-aadhar-with-bank-accounts-to-get-compensation-k-s-eshwarappa-tells-workers-1007057.html
10-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Rain lashes Mangaluru on Saturday||With monsoon gaining steam, intermittent rain lashed various parts of Dakshina Kannada on Saturday. Though the sky was clear in the morning, Mangaluru received rainfall all of a sudden in the noon. India Meteorological Department (IMD) has put coastal districts and Malnad region on red alert from July 11 to 13 with Dakshina Kannada and Udupi district likely to receive heavy rainfall from Sunday.   Two persons suffered minor injuries after a retaining wall fell on a house at Vidyagiri on Bantwal-Moodbidri road, late Friday night. The injured are Naveen and his child. The collapsed retaining wall had fallen on the roof of the house, thus, damaging the roof and wall of the house.  From April to July 9, a total of 59 houses were completely damaged and 316 houses had been partially damaged in Dakshina Kannada district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rain-lashes-mangaluru-on-saturday-1007060.html
10-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||35-year-old mentally ill patient raped in KR Hospital||A 35-year-old mentally ill woman was allegedly raped by an unknown person at the KR Hospital in the city. The woman was undergoing treatment in a ward reserved for destitutes for the last few months. According to the police, a person gained entry into the ward by cutting open the window grill. Though the incident occurred last week, the authorities of the hospital lodged a complaint on July 9. The Devaraja police are investigating. The police collected CCTV camera footage and questioned other inmates of the ward and security personnel. The victim has been subjected to medical tests. A doctor said that the victim woman was shifted to a special care unit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/35-year-old-mentally-ill-patient-raped-in-kr-hospital-1007126.html
10-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Experts will take a call on govt medical college in Davangere: K Sudhakar||Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said that a team of experts would be sent to Davangere soon to submit a report on the feasibility of establishing a proposed government medical college in the premises of District Chigateri General Hospital in the city. Speaking to media persons after holding a discussion with the officials of the health department on Saturday, he said, the existing district general hospital building is very old. But MP and legislators have appealed to the government to set up a government medical college here. Though it is a 1,000-bedded hospital, it has no adequate number of specialists, nurses and staff. He also made it clear that the officials concerned have shared information on the availability of land to set up the college. It has been decided to upgrade all primary health centres in the state, he said, adding that a proposal would be submitted to the union health ministry in this regard. On vaccine, he said around 2.5 crore people in Karnataka have been vaccinated against Covid-19. "Now, students are being vaccinated against Covid-19 on a priority basis."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/experts-will-take-a-call-on-govt-medical-college-in-davangere-k-sudhakar-1007129.html
10-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Pedal bicycle for daily chores to tackle fuel price rise, Davangere MP tell people||Defending the soaring rise in fuel prices, Davangere MP G M Siddeshwara suggested people to pedal bicycles for daily chores to protect their health. Reacting to a query on rise in prices of fuel here on Saturday, he said the price of fuel in international market has increased and this has led to rise in prices of petrol and diesel in the country. He exuded confidence that the price would come down in the coming days. He also claimed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is taking steps to tackle fuel price rise. When questioned on Congress leader Siddaramaiah's statement that Karnataka is not getting its share of GST compensaiton, he said he has no idea of it and the finance minister might know more. He also said four union ministers of the state will ask the Centre. Siddeshwara also questioned the Congress on its what it did for the state, since it had 28 MPs from Karnataka in the past.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pedal-bicycle-for-daily-chores-to-tackle-fuel-price-rise-davangere-mp-tell-people-1007170.html
10-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||No discussion held on Cabinet expansion: B S Yediyurappa||Putting at rest the rumours of cabinet expansion, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said on Saturday that no discussion on Cabinet expansion has been held. Speaking to media persons here, he stated that he has not thought in this regard, and added that he will inform if the matter of Cabinet expansion comes up for discussion. On the verbal duel between former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy and Mandya MP Sumalatha Ambarish, Yediyurappa said there is no need to engage in mudslinging like this. "Everyone should learn to live like brothers. All should be united for the development of Mandya district," he advised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/no-discussion-held-on-cabinet-expansion-b-s-yediyurappa-1007058.html
10-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||I don't know which 'exam' C P Yogeshwar wrote: K Sudhakar||Reacting to Tourism Minister C P Yogeshwar's remark that he has written the 'examination' and he is waiting for the results, Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said he has no idea of the examination Yogeshwar wrote. "17 legislators appeared for the 'examinations' (by-polls) after quitting the posts. We passed the examinations and became ministers," Sudhakar said. Speaking to media persons here on Saturday, he said the chief minister will take a call on according ministerial berths to Ramesh Jarkiholi and Muniratna. On his visit to Delhi, he said he had been to Delhi to urge the Centre to supply more Covid vaccines to Karnataka. It has nothing to do with politics. On former chief minister Siddaramaiah's allegation that state is giving false data on vaccine, the minister said around 2.5 crore people in Karnataka are vaccinated against Covid-19. Around 38 crore people in India are vaccinated. Let the Congress leader try to gather information on number of people vaccinated against Covid in US, he suggested and said Siddaramaiah is known for making false statements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/i-dont-know-which-exam-c-p-yogeshwar-wrote-k-sudhakar-1007186.html
10-07-2021||Main Article||Talk of NPR-CAA again: Regressive and harmful||Illegal migrants living inside India is a reality dating back to the 1950s, especially in several border states. Over decades, successive governments of different political hues have amended the citizenship law and rules multiple times to identify illegal migrants. A National Population Register (NPR) to form the basis of a National Register of Citizens (NRC) is the government’s most recently proposed tool. The Supreme Court-monitored NRC process in Assam took five years, was completed on August 31, 2019, and cost ₹1,220 crore. It found 1.9 million people — 6% of the 32.9 million who applied to be recognised as citizens — unable to prove their citizenship for want of documents acceptable to officials. Of the 1.9 million “illegal migrants”, over 60% turned out to be Hindus. Not unexpectedly, within 100 days, the government introduced the CAA-2019 Bill. It was passed into law on December 12, 2019, and government declared its intention to carry out country-wide NPR-NRC. According to NPR-NRC-CAA read together, illegal migrants – persons whose names are excluded from NRC – will be consigned to Detention Centres. However, the CAA provides illegal migrants an opportunity to get Indian citizenship if, even while in detention, each can provide documents to prove their: 1. Citizenship of Afghanistan, Bangladesh or Pakistan, and 2. Religion as Hindu/Sikh/Buddhist/Jain/ Parsi/Christian, and 3. Entry into India on/before December 31, 2014, and having lived inside India for five years. This provides opportunity for corrupt middlemen to produce for people excluded from the NRC these three documents of “proof” to satisfy officials, and a fresh impetus to the fake-document industry. The three conditions of CAA ensure that every individual in a Detention Centre will remain there if he/she is Muslim or is not from an Islamic country. The fears over NPR-NRC followed by CAA do not concern only Muslims, but every one of us 1.4 billion Indians. We will each need to prove our citizenship with prescribed documentation. The government’s ham-fisted response to massive country-wide protests against CAA gained wide media attention. These fears are presently overshadowed by the brutal Covid pandemic-caused national tragedy of deaths and personal suffering, combined with economic body-blows to millions of families and the nation. In the midst of this, Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma announced his intention to re-do Assam’s NRC. This has re-kindled fears not only in Assam but also country-wide, of each individual having to suffer the personally traumatic, socially disruptive, and economically debilitating, process of proving citizenship with documentation. There are also national security implications of hostile neighbours taking advantage of reduced army presence on the borders due to additional troops deployed for internal security duties, to handle potential social unrest caused by country-wide NPR-NRC implementation. It is therefore necessary to re-visit the wisdom of the Rules governing NPR-NRC. NPR is created according to the “Instruction Manual for Updation of National Population Register, 2020,” and NRC is prepared according to Citizenship (Registration of Citizens and Issue of National Identity Cards) Rules, 2003. These Rules require local government officials to collate and compile data, verify it for the population of their jurisdiction, and handle related appeals and complaints – all in addition to their normal duties. The cost of Assam’s one-time NPR-NRC (Rs 1,220 crore-5 years) does not reveal the inevitable governance-deficit due to officials neglecting their normal duties. Assam’s NPR-NRC experience reveals that lakhs of people made multiple visits to distant towns, depleting scarce personal finances for travel-stay-food-miscellaneous expenses, and losing income due to absence from occupation/job. Their suffering in personal, social and financial-economic terms, disrupted lives and exacerbated existing socio-economic insecurity.  Furthermore, since population is a dynamic entity, NPR-NRC will need continual/periodic updation, and budgetary support. It will increase work-load on local officials, already overloaded with essential deployment for state and general elections and Census-taking, exacerbating  the existing governance-deficit situation. Undeniably, large numbers of people are illegal migrants. They must certainly be identified and dealt with according to law. Nobody claims that this is easily done. However, NPR-NRC will put India’s entire 1.4 billion population to untold trouble, misery, expense and loss, to have one’s name included in NRC, all with the aim to identify a few million, at most, who are illegal immigrants. NPR-NRC is as illogical as a police official summoning the entire population of the mohalla to the station to prove their innocence regarding an illegality committed in that mohalla, in order to find the culprit, who may still go undetected. Rather than solving the illegal migrant problem, NPR-NRC followed by CAA for 28 states and eight UTs, will impose unbearable individual and national socio-economic costs. The already floundering pandemic-struck economy may well go beyond resuscitation. Several cases questioning the constitutionality of CAA were filed in the Supreme Court. At the March 2020 hearing, the court rightly ruled that it needs to hear the government before taking a decision. Expectedly, the government remains in no hurry to present its defence, and inexplicably the court did not see fit to give the government a date. Hopefully, the new judicial atmosphere will expedite adjudication on this matter of huge national importance. NPR-NRC is designed to identify persons for enforcement of CAA, the constitutionality of which is sub-judice. Implementing NPR-NRC will have deleterious social, economic and security effects, which will haunt our country for decades. However, fortunately, country-wide implementation of NPR-NRC, which was to begin on April 1 last year, was stymied by the pandemic. NPR-NRC will be socially disruptive, unconscionably expensive, and illogical. Governments, endowed with administrative organisation, public finance, intelligence capacity, police, etc., have both the onus and the means to proactively detect illegal immigrants and deal with them under due process of law. But NPR-NRC is regressive and harmful, and deserves to be withdrawn. Ominous future Illegal immigration into India since Independence and especially following the early 1970s was caused by adverse social-economic-political circumstances obtaining in neighbouring countries. The rise in sea levels due to Global Warming is already affecting populations in low-lying coastal areas. It is likely to cause massive environmental migration from neighbouring countries and magnify our socio-economic problems. Central and state governments would be wise to rise above petty politics and majoritarian nationalism to strategise for this in consultation with experts, in the public interest. (The writer focuses on development and strategy) Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/talk-of-npr-caa-again-regressive-and-harmful-1006963.html
10-07-2021||National||FM Nirmala Sitharaman emphasises on role of technology in fighting climate change||The minister participated virtually in the G20 High-Level Tax Symposium on Tax Policy and climate change, organised by Italy ahead of the 3rd G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors Meeting. Sitharaman highlighted that in India, fiscal policy options are used for better environmental outcomes and concessional tax rates are in place to promote use of renewables, the finance ministry said in a series of tweets. She also shared India's innovative policy mix for better environmental outcomes, such as the new Energy Map of India; digital innovation and emerging fuels; International Solar Alliance for enabling clean energy; and promotion of energy efficiency and afforestation. Later in another tweet, the ministry said the meeting also discussed issues relating to global economic recovery, health and international financial architecture for coordinated global fiscal and monetary stimulus programmes to address the challenges brought on by the pandemic, from both short and long-term perspectives. "FM Smt. @nsitharaman discussed #GlobalEconomicRisks in view of emerging #CoVID19 variants and welcomed the Report of the #G20 High-Level Independent Panel on Financing #GlobalCommons for #PandemicPreparedness and Response," it tweeted. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fm-nirmala-sitharaman-emphasises-on-role-of-technology-in-fighting-climate-change-1006942.html
10-07-2021||National||Relics of 17th century queen and India’s outreach to Georgia in diplomatic tit-for-tat to Russia||A casket with a 17th century queen’s relics is at the centre of India’s outreach to Georgia as External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar flew from Moscow to Tbilisi on Friday in a diplomatic tit-for-tat to Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, who had also travelled from New Delhi to Islamabad in April. Jaishankar handed over to the spiritual leader of Georgian Orthodox Church, Ilia II, a casket containing the relics of St. Queen Ketevan, who was tortured to death in 1614 for refusing to shun Christianity to embrace Islam. The brief ceremony at the airport in Tbilisi was attended by Georgian Prime Minister Irakli Garibashvili. “Warmly welcomed in Tbilisi by FM @Dzalkaliani. Blessed to hand over the holy relics of St. Queen Ketevan to the people of Georgia. An emotional moment...” Jaishankar posted on Twitter, tagging Georgian Foreign Minister David Zalkaliani. Jaishankar’s was the first visit by an Indian External Affairs Minister to Tbilisi after Georgia declared independence from Soviet Union in April 1991 – a few months before the dissolution of the USSR (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics). Queen Ketevan was canonised by the Georgian Orthodox Church a few years after her death at Shiraz in Iran in 1624. The relics of Queen Ketevan were found at the St. Augustine Convent in Old Goa in 2005. They are believed to have been brought to Goa in 1627 and interred in St. Augustine Complex. The Archaeological Survey of India got the CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology in Hyderabad to carry out the DNA analysis that confirmed the authenticity of the relics. “Delighted to welcome my Indian counterpart @DrSJaishankar on his first visit to Georgia, who has brought the relics of Georgia's Queen Ketevan. This visit is to definitely play a huge role in strengthening ties between our countries and upgrade our relations to a completely new level,” tweeted Zalkaliani. New Delhi used the External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar’s visit to Tbilisi to send out a message to Moscow. Russia has a strained relation with Georgia and ties between the two nations worsened after a brief war in 2008. The war ended with Russia supporting secession of South Ossetia and Abkhazia from Georgia. Tbilisi, however, never recognised South Ossetia and Abkhazia as separate entities. Neither did most of the members of the United Nations, except Russia, Syria, Nicaragua, Venezuela and Nauru. Georgia severed its diplomatic relations with Russia in the same year. Jaishankar’s stopover in Tbilisi on his way back to New Delhi from Moscow was a tit-for-tat response by India to Russia. Lavrov, the Russian Foreign Minister, had on April 6 and 7 this year visited New Delhi and Islamabad respectively. Moscow apparently sought to send out a message to New Delhi by clubbing his visits to India and Pakistan. New Delhi has been conveying its concerns to Moscow over increasing Russia-Pakistan cooperation, particularly in the defence sector. Russia too has been peeved over India’s growing defence relations with the United States as well as its decision to join the rest in the move to upgrade the Quad to the level of the Heads of Government. Russia has long been the largest supplier of military hardware to India and has been maintaining a low-key relationship with Pakistan. But with the changes in the geo-political landscape and in the wake of New Delhi’s growing ties with Washington D.C. since the landmark 2008 civil nuclear agreement, Moscow too started responding to Islamabad’s overtures to improve bilateral relations. They started discussing the sale of Russian Mi-35 attack helicopters to Pakistan in 2014 and the delivery of the choppers purportedly began in 2018, although New Delhi had conveyed to Moscow its concerns over the deal. Russia also inked a defence cooperation agreement with Pakistan in November 2015 and the two nations had the first joint military drill in September-October, 2016 – just weeks after India signed the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement with the US. Lavrov used his visit to New Delhi on April 6 to convey Russia’s unease over India’s engagement with Japan, Australia and the US in the ‘Quad’ – a coalition, which the four nations forged to build a bulwark of democratic nations to counter China in the Indo-Pacific region. He said during a news conference in Islamabad on April 7 that Russia would provide more ‘special’ military equipment to Pakistan and hold more bilateral wargames both in the mountains as well as in the Arabian Sea. Jaishankar had a meeting with Lavrov in Moscow before flying to Tbilisi on Friday. He and Zalkaliani, the Georgian Foreign Minister, will meet in Tbilisi on Saturday and exchange views on issues of regional and global interest, apart from reviewing bilateral relations. He will also unveil the newly installed statue of Mahatma Gandhi in Tbilisi. In 2017, at the request of the Georgian Government, India sent the relics of Queen Ketevan for an exhibition for six months in Georgia. The relics were personally received by Ilia II, the Catholicos-Patriarch of Georgia, along with many Georgians on September 23, 2017. The loan of the holy relics was extended for another six months and was returned to India on September 30, 2018 after being put on display in different churches across Georgia. Tbilisi, however, has been requesting New Delhi for permanent transfer of the holy relics. The Government of India now accepted the request and gifted a part of the holy relics to the Government and people of Georgia. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/relics-of-17th-century-queen-and-india-s-outreach-to-georgia-in-diplomatic-tit-for-tat-to-russia-1006976.html
10-07-2021||National||Petrol, diesel prices up after fourth hike this week||Fuel prices in the country were hiked for the fourth time this week on Saturday as petrol rates in all major cities remained above Rs 100 while diesel also inched towards the Rs100/litre mark.  Petrol price was up 35 paise in the national capital and diesel was increased by at least 26 paise. In Bengaluru, petrol is priced Rs 104.29 and diesel stood at Rs 95.26. Meanwhile, the price of petrol in Delhi showed a hike, standing at Rs 100.91 per litre against Rs 100.56 on Friday, while diesel is priced at Rs 89.88 per litre. In Mumbai, the price of petrol was Rs 106.93 per litre and diesel in the city costs Rs 97.46. In Kolkata, petrol costs Rs 101.01 per litre, and diesel costs Rs 92.97 per litre. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as value-added tax (VAT) and freight charges. Oil companies revise rates of petrol and diesel daily based on the average price of benchmark fuel in the international market in the preceding 15 days, and foreign exchange rates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-diesel-prices-up-after-fourth-hike-this-week-1006988.html
10-07-2021||National||India sees 42,766 new Covid-19 cases, 1,206 deaths||India has logged 42,766 new coronavirus infections, taking the total tally to 3,07,95,716, while the active cases have declined to 4,55,033, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The death toll has climbed to 4,07,145 with 1,206 fresh fatalities. The active cases comprise 1.48 per cent of the total infections and the national Covid-19 recovery rate stands at 97.20 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. As many as 19,55,225 tests were conducted on Friday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 42,90,41,970, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.19 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for 19 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 2.34 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,99,33,538, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.32 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 37.21 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's Covid-19 tally crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-42766-new-covid-19-cases-1206-deaths-1007000.html
10-07-2021||National||'End of second Covid-19 wave in India is still far away'||As the states across the country started to ease Covid-19 curbs with a dip in new cases, it suggested an end of the second wave. However,  Niti Aayog member Dr V K Paul said on Friday that the current decline in the number of Covid-19 cases does not indicate the end of the second wave. The health expert said that only when the number of daily new cases come down to 10,000 and it remains so for at least three weeks, the second wave can be considered to be over. "Baseline would be 10,000 cases and when it is maintained for at least three weeks, then we can say that we have brought the situation under control," Dr V K Paul said, adding that the daily numbers currently are far from the baseline. India is currently reporting daily cases between 35,000 and 45,000, which he said is not a small number. He added that the number of cases currently look smaller because of the peak that the country experienced recently.  The peak of the second wave was around three times the present daily count. The presence of the second wave is experienced in states like Maharashtra and Kerala. Kerala is currently accounting for almost one-third of the country’s total cases. "This shows that the country is not yet in the safe zone. This has happened earlier too that cases are localised at one point of time and then they suddenly explode," he said. After a steady drop, the rate of decline in the number of cases has slowed down, he said and advised that the situation should not be taken lightly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/end-of-second-covid-19-wave-in-india-is-still-far-away-1007025.html
10-07-2021||National||India's summer crop planting lags as monsoon rains taper off||Indian farmers have planted 49.9 million hectares (123 million acres) with summer crops, down 10.43 per cent from a year earlier, according to the Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers' Welfare, as monsoon rains taper off after a strong start last month. Farmers typically start planting summer-sown crops on June 1, when monsoon rains usually reach India. Planting then continues until early August. Planting of rice, the key summer crop, was at 11.5 million hectares as of July 9 versus 12.6 million hectares in the previous year, the ministry said. The area planted with cotton was at 8.6 million hectares versus 10.5 million hectares the prior year. Planting of overall oilseeds, including soybean - the main summer oilseed crop - was at 11.2 million hectares, down from 12.6 million hectares the previous year. Soybean sowing was at 8.2 million hectares against 9.2 million hectares last year. India is the world's biggest buyer of cooking oils. Sugarcane sowing in the world's second-biggest sugar producer was almost unchanged at 5.3 million hectares. Farmers planted protein-rich pulse on 5.2 million hectares against 5.3 million hectares in the previous year. The figures are provisional and subject to revision as the June-September monsoon season progresses. India, one of the world's top agriculture producers, has received 5 per cent below average rainfall since June 1, when the four-month rainy season began. Monsoon rains were 46 per cent below average in the week to July 7. The state-run weather office defines average, or normal, rainfall as between 96 per cent and 104 per cent of a 50-year average of 88 cm for the entire season. Monsoon rains, which turned patchy at the tail-end of June, will pick up later this week, India's top weather official told Reuters in an interview on Wednesday. Nearly half of India's farmland has no irrigation and is dependent on monsoon rains that account for 70 per cent-90 per cent of annual rainfall. Farming contributes almost 15 per cent to India's $2.7 trillion economy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-summer-crop-planting-lags-as-monsoon-rains-taper-off-1007035.html
10-07-2021||National||Well-known Ayurveda practitioner Dr P K Warrier no more||Well-known Ayurveda practitioner Dr P K Warrier, who played a key role in bringing international popularity to Ayurveda treatment, died at the age of 100 at Kottakkal in Malappuram district of Kerala on Saturday. Warrier, who has been the managing trustee of the Kottakkal Arya Vaidya Sala, was a recipient of Padma Shri and Padma Bhushan awards as well as a series of honours for his contributions to Ayurveda. Warrier, who was the nephew of Arya Vaidya Sala founder Vaidyaratnam P S Warrier, brought global popularity to Ayurveda through his research and scientific publications. He also played key role in modernising Ayurveda as well as research in medicinal plants. It was under his leadership that Arya Vaidya Sala spread its wings all over the country. He had also participated in the freedom struggle. His birth centenary was celebrated last month. He was undergoing treatment for age-related ailments and breathed his last by Saturday noon. His funeral was performed by evening. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and other senior leaders condoled his death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/well-known-ayurveda-practitioner-dr-p-k-warrier-no-more-1007051.html
10-07-2021||National||All you need to know about the Ministry of Cooperation||Before the mega reshuffle of the Union Cabinet, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced the creation of a separate Union Ministry of Cooperation. It was handed over to Home Minster Amit Shah on July 7. The Cooperation movement was looked after by the Ministry of Agriculture before it got its independent portfolio. What are the objectives of the Ministry of Cooperation? According to a media release by the Press Information Bureau (PIB), the Ministry of Cooperation will work towards strengthening the cooperative movement in the country with a separate administrative legal and policy framework. “It will help deepen Co-operatives as a true people-based movement reaching up to the grassroots. In our country, a Co-operative-based economic development model is very relevant where each member works with a spirit of responsibility. The Ministry will work to streamline processes for ‘Ease of doing business’ for co-operatives and enable the development of Multi-State Co-operatives (MSCS),” it read. What is the cooperative movement? Cooperatives are organisations formed at the grassroots level by stakeholders to attain the power of collective bargaining. The cooperative movement, which officially started with the introduction of the Cooperative Societies Act in 1904, has been seen in various sectors such as agriculture (cooperative dairies, sugar mills, spinning mills), banking and finance, and so on. Why was a separate Ministry for cooperations created? Over the years, the cooperative institutions have experienced drying out of funding. While the capital came from the Centre, in the form of equity or working capital, only a few states like Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka got to enjoy it, while other states could not receive much. It had become important to restore the structure of these cooperatives. How do these cooperative structures influence politics? The cooperative institutions ranging from the village-level PACS or the urban housing societies have been the starting point of a lot of present leaders. That’s because these cooperatives elect their own board of directors. Home Minister Amit Shah was the head of the Ahmedabad District Central Cooperative Bank (DCCBs) in Gujarat. Similarly in Maharashtra, around 150 ministers of the legislature have been in connection with the cooperative movement in the past. NCP chief Sharad Pawar and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar also started their political career through cooperative elections. How much finance do the cooperative institutions control? According to the NABARD’s annual report of 2019-20, there are 95,238 PACSs,363 DCCBs and 33 state cooperative banks across the country. The state cooperative banks have reported a total of Rs 6,104 crore paid-up capital and Rs 1,35,393 crore deposits. The paid-up capital at DCCBs was Rs 21,447 crore and the total deposit was Rs 3,78,248 crore. While the DCCBs distributed Rs 3,00,034 crore in loans, the state cooperative banks disbursed Rs 1,48,625 crore as loans in the same year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-you-need-to-know-about-the-ministry-of-cooperation-1007071.html
10-07-2021||National||Who is Karl Rock? Why is he making headlines?||New Zealand-based Karl Edward Rice, better known as Karl Rock on YouTube, has been on the news after he released a video earlier this week alleging he had been separated from his wife in India for 269 days. Karl alleged that the Government of India has blacklisted him from entering India since October 2020, with the government saying that he violated visa norms. Karl, who married Manisha Malik, an Indian, in 2019, had been living in the country on an X-2 visa (meant for spouse/children of an Indian citizen) which had a validity period of May 2019 to May 2024 and one of the conditions in the visa for him was to exit India every 180 days or to intimate the Foreigner Regional Registration Office concerned. The government has alleged that Rock was engaging in business activities on a tourist visa and also violated other visa conditions. Rice runs a YouTube channel called Karl Rock, which has 1.8 million subscribers. In his video, titled "Why I Haven't Seen My Wife in 269 Days #Blacklist", Kark describes his situation. In his own words, he says he makes "videos about travel safety and incredible travel destinations, along with videos to help people avoid scams."  "India is my passion," Karl says in his video. Karl says he went to Dubai and Pakistan in October of 2020, and when he left through the Delhi airport, his visa was cancelled, and after repeated attempts to get a new visa from Dubai is when he learned that he was blacklisted and could not return to India. "We've written multiple emails to the Home Ministry and gotten no reply," he says, adding that his wife went to the Ministry's doorstep but was ignored entirely. He even says that he was ignored by the Indian High Commissioner in Wellington. As for why he has been blacklisted, Karl says he does not know and the government has been ignoring his requests to find out why, which has led to his wife filing a plea in the Delhi High Court. "Without the judiciary, we have no recourse," Karl says. Karl has faced backlash over his video on Twitter, with people pulling up some of his older content, including his appearance at anti-CAA protests and consuming beef. Youtuber Karl Rock, Who Actively Participated in Anti-CAA Protests and Spews Venom against India Claims He has been Denied Indian Visa! You have been blacklisted because of a reason as you violated conditions of visa by interfering in India's internal politics, taking part in protests. Do read IPC & rules , before using your victim card. India is country not a park where you can do whatever. This guy is from NZ which hasn't been allowing international tourists for months. What right does he have to to question the Indian Govt's decision to revoke his visa?||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-is-karl-rock-why-is-he-making-headlines-1007080.html
10-07-2021||National||BJP president J P Nadda to visit Goa on July 12-13||BJP president J P Nadda will be visiting Goa on July 12 and 13 during which he will hold meetings with different wings of the party, a senior state leader said on Saturday, adding the ruling party's immediate focus is strengthening the organisation ahead of the Assembly polls due next year. Nadda would be accompanied by BJP national general secretary B L Santhosh and Goa state in-charge C T Ravi, who will also oversee the party's preparedness for the 2022 Assembly elections, due in February. BJP Goa unit president Sadanand Shet Tanavade said the party is ready to face the election at any time, even tomorrow. "Nadda will hold meetings with different organisational wings of the party, Legislature Party, president and general secretaries of district committees, in-charges of different mandals, social media cells and others," he said. Tanavade said the BJP's immediate focus is to strengthen the organisation. "The party has not yet decided on the ticket allocation as elections are still six months away," he added. He said BJP's parliamentary board will finalise candidates after conducting surveys in the respective constituencies. In 2017 polls, the BJP had won 13 of the total 40 Assembly seats, while the Congress bagged 17. The BJP, however, managed to form a government with the support of the Goa Forward Party (GFP), Maharastrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) and two Independents with Manohar Parrikar as chief minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-president-j-p-nadda-to-visit-goa-on-july-12-13-1007084.html
10-07-2021||National||Gujarat BJP leaders take part in Netrotsav ritual at Jagannath temple||Gujarat Home Minister Pradipsinh Jadeja and other senior BJP leaders in the state took part in the "Netrotsav" ritual at Lord Jagannath Temple on Saturday ahead of the 144th rath yatra, which will be held on July 12 with strict adherence to Covid-19 protocol. The Gujarat government had on Thursday given its nod for the rath yatra, which will be taken out from the temple in the city's Jamalpur area, with restricted participation and strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols and guidelines. State Home Minister Pradipsinh Jadeja, state BJP president C R Paatil and Speaker Rajendra Trivedi took part in the "Netrotsav" ritual held at the temple. "Netrotsav" is organised when Lord Jagannath, his brother Balram and sister Subhadra are symbolically treated for conjunctivitis by covering their eyes with cloth after their return from their maternal uncle's place. This is followed by ceremonies such as "Dhwajarohan", when the temple flag is changed. City Mayor Kirit Parmar and senior BJP representatives in the city civic body arrived at the temple for the ritual, and devotees also thronged the temple in large numbers for the occasion. Before the commencement of the rath yatra on July 12, Union Home Minister Amit Shah will take part in the 'mangla aarti' at the temple. In view of the pandemic, the state government has made it clear that except for three chariots and two other vehicles, no other vehicle, singing troupes, akhadas, elephants or decorated trucks have been allowed during the procession this year. To stop people from gathering along the route to catch a glimpse of the deity, a curfew will be imposed on the entire yatra route from early morning till afternoon on July 12. Last year, only a symbolic rath yatra was organised within the premises of the temple after the Gujarat High Court denied permission for the usual public procession amid the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-bjp-leaders-take-part-in-netrotsav-ritual-at-jagannath-temple-1007088.html
10-07-2021||National||PM Modi speaks with Vietnam PM, says both nations share vision of rules-based Indo-Pacific||Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke with his Vietnamese counterpart Pham Minh Chinh on Saturday and noted that the Indo-Vietnam comprehensive strategic partnership can contribute to promoting regional stability as both nations share a similar vision of an open, inclusive, peaceful and rules-based Indo-Pacific region. In his telephonic conversation with Pham, Prime Minister Modi congratulated him on his appointment as the premier of Vietnam and expressed confidence that the India-Vietnam comprehensive strategic partnership will continue to become stronger under his able guidance, the Prime Minister's Office here said in a statement. Modi welcomed the fact that both the countries share a similar vision of an open, inclusive, peaceful and rules-based Indo-Pacific region, and hence the India-Vietnam Comprehensive Strategic Partnership can contribute to promoting regional stability, prosperity and development, the PMO said. In this context, Prime Minister Modi also noted that both India and Vietnam were presently fellow members of the UN Security Council.  Modi thanked PM Pham for the valuable support provided by the government and people of Vietnam during the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic in India, the statement said. The leaders agreed that both the countries should continue consultations and cooperation to support each other's continuing efforts against the pandemic. Both the prime ministers reviewed the state of bilateral relations and shared their views on different areas of cooperation, the PMO said.  Noting that the year 2022 marks the 50th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries, the two leaders agreed to celebrate this milestone in a befitting manner through various commemorative activities, the statement said. Prime Minister Modi also invited his Vietnamese counterpart to undertake an official visit to India at an early suitable date.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-speaks-with-vietnam-pm-says-both-nations-share-vision-of-rules-based-indo-pacific-1007092.html
10-07-2021||National||Helpline for healthcare workers facing mental health issues launched||A number of associations of doctors and psychiatrists from around the world have joined hands to launch a dedicated helpline for healthcare workers to address stress, depression and other psychological issues faced by them during the Covid-19 pandemic. In an official statement issued on Saturday, the Global Association of Physicians of Indian Origin (GAPIO), one of the primary partners behind the initiative, said the move was particularly important as the second wave of the pandemic in the country has affected doctors, nurses and others in the sector in a big way. This has led to significant challenges, with medical, nursing and allied healthcare workers experiencing stress, depression and distress while discharging their duties towards patient care, the GAPIO said in the statement. Ensuring mental wellbeing of healthcare workers is of prime importance, and GAPIO and Indian Psychiatric Society (IPS), along with other collaborating partners have launched a helpline for HCWs facing mental health issues to help them address it, said. Other partners include, American Association of Physicians of Indian Origin (AAPI), the British Association of Physicians of Indian Origin (BAPIO), the Canada India Network Society (CINS) and the British Indian Psychiatric Association (BIPA), the statement said. Announcing the launch, Dr Prathap C Reddy, Chairman, Apollo Hospitals Group and Founder President, GAPIO said, "This is a very challenging and difficult time. An exponential rise in the cases of anxiety, post-traumatic stress and depression amongst healthcare and frontline workers has been seen. With the support of psychiatrists, clinical psychologists and other mental health professionals, the mental health needs of HCWs needs to be addressed". The helpline, it is hoped, will ameliorate the stress and challenges that HCW's are facing amid this unprecedented crisis, he said. Dr Anupam Sibal, President GAPIO, said, "Peer support sessions will be available to provide support. There will also be an opportunity for individual sessions and referrals, where needed, to be organised". In May, when the second wave was at its height, doctors and nurses had faced "nightmare in wards" seeing their patients die in large numbers. Prolonged duty shifts, watching patients die every day or family members pleading to save their lives, doctors on Covid duty in Delhi, had then opened up about their experiences and said they went through unimaginable mental agony during the worst phase of the second wave of the pandemic. From government hospitals to private facilities, the calamitous second wave in Delhi had not only strained healthcare infrastructure to its limits, but also affected the physical and psychological well-being of doctors and other healthcare workers. "The United States has passed through a similar situation which India is facing today. It was difficult for American doctors and other HCWs who faced extreme work pressure, stress and fear. Our learnings from the American experience will help support this helpline," said Dr Sudhakar Jonnalagadda, president, AAPI. Dr Gautam Saha, president of IPS, assured that psychiatrists from India will do everything possible to put back their mental health to a level as existed before the declaration of Covid-19 pandemic. He added that this mental helpline will offer free online services to medical and allied healthcare workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/helpline-for-healthcare-workers-facing-mental-health-issues-launched-1007098.html
10-07-2021||National||Trade unions to protest against Ordinance barring strikes in defence sector||Ten central trade unions will hold countrywide protests on July 23 against the "draconian" Essential Defence Services Ordinance that bars strikes and "rampant" privatisation in defence production sector. The unions -- INTUC, AITUC, HMS, CITU, AIUTUC, TUCC, SEWA, AICCTU, LPF and UTUC -- said it supports the ongoing protests under the joint leadership of the five federations of the defence production employees against "aggressive and hectic exercise" to privatise defence production sector and ordnance factories network. Expressing serious concern over the ordinance, the unions said it was meant to "brutally suppress the rising discontent and anger" among the defence production employees against privatisation of defence production sector. "It has various draconian penal provisions extending even beyond strike, to all kinds of collective democratic protests. It empowers the government to extend those brutal autocratic measures to other sectors as well," it said adding the joint platform of central unions said they would fight the ordinance with a firm resolve. The unions are of the view that the move to permit 100% FDI in defence production would "severely weaken" the indigenous production network of all basic requirements of the defence forces, much to the detriment of national interests. They called upon workers all over the country and the entire trade union movement to raise their united voice of protest and condemnation against this "authoritarian Ordinance hurriedly promulgated" by the Centre to push its policy of privatisation of the PSUs, Railways, Mines, financial sector as well as the defence production network "only to benefit big corporates".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trade-unions-to-protest-against-ordinance-barring-strikes-in-defence-sector-1007099.html
10-07-2021||National||Maharashtra govt sets up panel to probe Nana Patole's phone-tapping allegation||The Maharashtra government has appointed a high-level committee under state DGP Sanjay Pandey to probe state Congress chief Nana Patole's allegation that his phone was tapped when he was MP in 2016-17 under the watch of the then BJP government led by Devendra Fadnavis. State intelligence department commissioner and additional police commissioner (special branch) will be part of this three-member panel, as per the order issued by the state government on Friday night. During the two-day monsoon session of the Maharashtra legislature held earlier this week, Home Minister Dilip Walse Patil had made the announcement about setting up a high-level inquiry while speaking in the Legislative Assembly. Patole had claimed that his phone was tapped during 2016-17 when he was a Member of Parliament (MP) and when the state government was headed by Devendra Fadnavis. He said his phone was tapped on the pretext that it belonged to drug-peddler Amjad Khan. The committee would probe the case and submit its report to the legislature in three months, the order said. The terms and references for the committee are to scrutinise the cases of phone-tapping between 2015 and 2019 and find out whether there was any political motive. "If the phone surveillance was politically motivated, action will be taken," the order said. When Patole raised the issue in the House, several members supported the need for a high-level probe. Patole represents the Sakoli Assembly segment in the Bhandara district of the Vidarbha region. He had earlier quit the Congress and won the 2014 Lok Sabha election on the BJP's ticket. However, he left the saffron party in 2017 citing differences with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Fadnavis, and returned to the Congress. On Saturday, BJP MLA and former minister Ashish Shelar questioned Patole's "silence" for two years before raising the phone-tapping allegation against the erstwhile Fadnavis government, even as the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) dispensation in the state was formed in November 2019. The Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress and NCP are the constituents of the MVA government. Speaking to a regional news channel, Shelar said, “Patole has levelled the allegation that his phone calls were tapped by the previous Fadnavis government. However, he has made the allegation two years after the formation of the MVA government. What was he doing in the last two years?” The BJP leader quipped that Patole keeps passing amusing comments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-govt-sets-up-panel-to-probe-nana-patoles-phone-tapping-allegation-1007100.html
10-07-2021||National||Shah meets Cooperatives amid Opposition's federalism assault charge||Shah held the meeting chairman of the National Cooperative Union of India (NCUI) Dileep Sanghani, the chairman and the managing director of the Indian Farmers Fertiliser Cooperative Limited (IFFCO) B S Nakai and U S Awasthi respectively and chairman of the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd (NAFED) Bijender Singh amid a row over the government's decision to set up the new ministry. "Today met @ncuicoop Chairman Shri Dileep Sanghani ji, @IFFCO_PR Chairman Shri B S Nakai ji, Managing Director Shri U S Awasthi ji and @nafedindia Chairman Dr Bijendra Singh ji. "Under the leadership of Modi ji, we are determined to make cooperatives and all cooperative institutions more empowered," Shah tweeted in Hindi. The next big step on it could be a conference with representatives of state-level cooperatives to be organized by NCUI, IFFCO and other cooperatives for discussing pertinent issues confronting the cooperative movement. Shah said the government is determined to make cooperatives and all cooperative institutions more empowered and added asked the cooperatives like IFFCO and KRIBHCO to work in the field of seed production using vacant land of 38,000 hectares, as well as, in organic farming. The minister also assured that the government is committed to strengthening the cooperative movement in the country, the benefits of which would go to the grass-root level cooperatives, according to a release of NCUI. While Union Minister Piyush Goyal said that the Ministry of Cooperation has been set up in line with Sardar Patel's dream and asserted that it can really help the production as well as trade in the country, a number of Opposition leaders have questioned the intent of the government behind the decision. CPI-M's Sitaram Yechury asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi the reason behind the decision reminding him that Cooperative Societies is a State Subject in Constitution’s 7th Schedule and called it another assault on federalism. Congress leader from Kerala, Ramesh Chennithala, on Friday said his party would consider taking the legal path against the formation of the ministry. However, the union ministers of the Modi government have gone the whole hog in hailing the move. Shah's meeting with Cooperative heads came three days after he was given the charge of this newly-created ministry, a fulfilment of the promise made by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her Budget speech.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shah-meets-cooperatives-amid-oppositions-federalism-assault-charge-1007110.html
10-07-2021||National||FM urges G20 nations to align recovery strategies with climate concerns||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday urged G20 nations for aligning economic recovery strategies with climate concerns. Participating virtually in the Third G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors (FMCBG) Meeting under the Italian Presidency, Sitharaman shared recent policy responses of Government of India to strengthen the health system and economy, including the efficient application of CoWIN Platform to scale-up vaccination in India.  She highlighted the need for international coordination and cooperation in view of the emerging Covid-19 variants. Sitharaman added that this platform has been made freely available to all countries as humanitarian needs outweigh commercial considerations in this extraordinary crisis. As the co-chair of Framework Working Group of the G20, India along with UK, views digitalization as an agenda that will continue to play a key role in bolstering economic growth, she said. Regarding the 'Statement on a two-pillar solution to address the tax challenges arising from the digitalisation of the economy', released by the OECD/G20 Inclusive Framework on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS-IF) on July 1, the G20 Finance Ministers called on the OECD/G20 BEPS-IF to swiftly address the remaining issues.  Sitharaman suggested that further work needs to be done to ensure a fairer, sustainable and inclusive tax system which results in meaningful revenue for developing countries, the Finance Ministry said in a statement. Earlier this month, India along with other nations joined OECD-G20 framework for global minimum tax. Total 130 countries agreed to an overhaul of global tax norms to ensure that multinational firms pay taxes wherever they operate and at a minimum 15 per cent rate. Some significant issues including share of profit allocation and scope of subject to tax rules, remain open and need to be addressed. Further, the technical details of the proposal will be worked out in the coming months and a consensus agreement is expected by October. Speaking on the need for aligning recovery strategies with climate concerns, the Finance Minister called for climate action strategies to be based on the principles of the Paris Agreement and noted the criticality of timely fulfilment of international commitments on climate finance and technology transfer. The Finance Minister joined other G20 members in welcoming the Report of the G20 High-Level Independent Panel on Financing the Global Commons for Pandemic Preparedness and Response and emphasized on the urgent need to strengthen multilateralism for global health. The G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors reaffirmed their resolve to use all available policy tools for as long as required to address the adverse consequences of Covid-19. Sitharaman appreciated the Italian G20 Presidency for identifying three catalysts of resilient economic recovery from the pandemic as being Digitalization, Climate Action and Sustainable Infrastructure and shared the Indian experience of integrating technology with inclusive service delivery during the pandemic. The two-day deliberation held on July 9-10 saw discussions on a wide range of issues including global economic risks and health challenges, policies for recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic, international taxation, sustainable finance and financial sector issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fm-urges-g20-nations-to-align-recovery-strategies-with-climate-concerns-1007116.html
10-07-2021||National||Petrol crosses Rs 109 in Bhopal and Indore; diesel nears Rs 99 after another hike||Petrol prices in Bhopal and Indore neared Rs 110 a litre while diesel reached almost Rs 99 after fuel prices were raised yet again. Overall, petrol prices crossed Rs 110 a litre and diesel at Rs 100 in several districts of Madhya Pradesh. Petrol price was hiked by 35 paise per litre and diesel by 26 paise, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. Petrol prices on Saturday in Bhopal stand at Rs 109.30 a litre and diesel at Rs 98.73 a litre. In some parts of the state, the prices are around Rs 111 per litre and diesel crossed Rs 100 for a litre, Ajay Singh, President, Petrol Pump Dealers Association told PTI on Saturday. On the other hand, the prices of petrol and diesel in Indore, the biggest city of the state, reached 109.32 and Rs 96.76 per litre respectively. Singh said that the prices of these oil products in Madhya Pradesh are higher than the neighbouring states. Petrol pump owners in the border districts are suffering the most due to higher prices in Madhya Pradesh. " I know that several of these petrol pump owners near Uttar Pradesh borders themselves get the petrol and diesel from the neighbouring state for their own vehicles," he said. Singh said that petrol is cheaper by Rs 12 and diesel by Rs 9 a litre in Uttar Pradesh. He demanded that these products should be brought under the purview of the Goods and Service Tax (GST) for the uniformity of the prices across the country. The oil companies issue a tender to purchase crude from the international market once every three months. This means the rate is fixed once for a period of three months. In such cases, the daily dynamic pricing for the people is not understandable, Singh said. The people are also facing problems with higher prices of the petroleum products. "Petrol is becoming expensive day by day, ruining my budget. The government should give relief to the common man from inflation by reducing the tax on this fuel," said one Vijay Verma, who was refilling petrol for his bike at a pump in Indore. Federation of Madhya Pradesh Motors and Goods Transport Association President Parvindar Singh Bhatia told PTI that the transport business was already sluggish due to Covid-19 outbreak. Now, this business is being affected by 40 per cent due to the impact of expensive diesel. He said that there is a decrease in the bookings of goods of general need especially those sent from central India to South India due to rising freight rates. Earlier on Friday, Madhya Pradesh's Home Minister Narottam Mishra had blamed the previous Congress government in the state for the inflation of petrol and diesel. "Our government has not increased any tax on petrol and diesel since the past 15 months while this was done by the previous Kamal Nath led Congress government," he said and added that the opposition party had promised to give relief on fuel prices in their manifesto. On the other hand, State Congress spokesman Aminul Khan Suri asked what has been stopping the ruling regime from giving relief by reducing the prices of diesel and petrol. "This government is still so scared of then chief minister Kamal Nath that it remembers him in every statement," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-crosses-rs-109-in-bhopal-and-indore-diesel-nears-rs-99-after-another-hike-1007123.html
10-07-2021||National||Monsoon expected to cover parts of north India in a day, says IMD||The easterly winds have made conditions favourable for the advancement of the southwest monsoon and it is likely to cover parts of north India, including Delhi, Haryana and Punjab, in a day, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Saturday. The IMD said lower-level easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal have extended northwestwards, reaching up to Delhi, Haryana and east Rajasthan as on Saturday. Low level relative humidity has also increased over the region.  "Hence, the conditions continue to remain favourable for further advancement of southwest monsoon over Delhi, remaining parts of west Uttar Pradesh and some more parts of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan during the next 24 hours," the IMD added.  Conditions are also becoming favourable for further advancement of southwest monsoon into remaining parts of the country during the subsequent 48 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/monsoon-expected-to-cover-parts-of-north-india-in-a-day-says-imd-1007137.html
10-07-2021||National||From The Newsroom: UP unveils draft of The Uttar Pradesh Population (Control, Stabilisation and Welfare) Bill, 2021||In your evening news update, WHO likely to take a decision on including Covaxin in the emergency use list within four to six weeks; UP unveils draft of The Uttar Pradesh Population (Control, Stabilisation and Welfare) Bill, 2021; BJP dubs Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar a “rowdy”, and Kerala reports 40 Zika virus cases.  Soumya Swaminathan, WHO's chief scientist, said today the global health body is likely to take a decision on including Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin in the emergency use list (EUL) within four to six weeks. Speaking at a webinar organised by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) today, Swaminathan said, the WHO is reviewing Covaxin as its manufacturer Bharat Biotech is now uploading its entire data on the health body’s portal.   The draft of The Uttar Pradesh Population (Control, Stabilisation and Welfare) Bill, 2021 was released today in Lucknow and it plans to give incentives to couples who have one child while denying government benefits to those having more than two children in its new population policy. The Bill would make couples with more than two children ineligible for state government jobs and also bar them from contesting panchayat elections while those with two children would receive two additional increments, subsidy in the purchase of house and rebate in the utility bills.   The BJP today dubbed Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar a “rowdy” after a video went viral showing him slapping a man who had his arms around him. The incident took place yesterday at KM Doddi in Mandya where Shivakumar had gone to visit veteran politician G Madegowda who is ailing. The 50-second video that was widely shared on social media shows Shivakumar slapping a party worker and then chiding him. The BJP tweeted, "Being the president of a national party, it is unforgivable to publicly assault a man."   Kerala has reported a total of 40 Zika virus cases. Veena George, Kerala Health Minister, said, "Our department is on high alert and monitoring the situation closely. For Covid-19, we've always tried to keep the number of cases below medical capacity. No one died in Kerala due to lack of oxygen supply." Source: DHNS/PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-up-unveils-draft-of-the-uttar-pradesh-population-control-stabilisation-and-welfare-bill-2021-1007145.html
10-07-2021||National||Govt staff deaths during MP bypoll duty: Petitioner told to furnish details in 2 weeks||The Madhya Pradesh High Court on Friday granted two weeks' time to a petitioner to furnish details of government employees who had died due to Covid-19 while deployed for the Damoh Assembly bypoll, the result of which was declared on May 2 this year. The PIL of social activist Jaya Thakur has claimed that over 100 government employees, including 66 teachers, died while performing poll duty starting from election training to the declaration of result. The PIL sought that the state government and the Election Commission of India pay the kin of the deceased compensation of Rs 1 crore each as well as give a job to a legal heir. During the hearing on Friday, Deputy Advocate General Swapnil Ganguly had pleaded that the petition contained a vague statement without details that almost 100 government employees had died due to Covid-19 while on election duty. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Mohammad Rafiq and Justice VK Shukla allowed the petitioner to furnish details of deceased government employees during bypoll duty within two weeks, the petitioner's counsel Varun Thakur said. The notification issued by the EC on July 20 last year made a provision of Rs 30 lakh as compensation for such deaths but the kin have not yet received the amount, while the state education department had given Rs 50,000 to families of deceased teachers to conduct the last rites, counsel Thakur said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-staff-deaths-during-mp-bypoll-duty-petitioner-told-to-furnish-details-in-2-weeks-1007147.html
10-07-2021||National||Uttarakhand CM Dhami calls on PM Modi||Pushkar Singh Dhami, who was recently sworn in as Uttarakhand chief minister, called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday and sought his directions on the possible third wave of coronavirus, the proposed Kanwad Yatra and the Chardham Yatra against the backdrop of the pandemic. He also sought establishment of an All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Kumaon region of the state on the lines of AIIMS, Rishikesh. In a tweet, Dhami said he sought the blessings of the prime minister. "Sought his directions on the state's development, the possible third wave of Covid-19, Char Dham Yatra and Kanwad Yatra. The prime minister assured all possible help for the state's development," Dhami tweeted. The Prime Minister's Office also tweeted pictures of the meeting. प्रधानमंत्री जी ने राज्य के विकास के लिए हर संभव मदद का भरोसा दिया। On Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's comments asking why people of the hill state, which generates electricity, cannot get free power like consumers in the national capital, Dhami said the AAP leader may have his agenda but the only agenda for the BJP is the state's development and offering the best to people.  The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convenor will visit Dehradun on Sunday. The party has decided to contest the assembly polls in the state due early next year. Uttarakhand on Thursday decided to review its decision to stop all Kanwad yatra devotees from entering the state this year. The yatra sees lakhs of devotees travel through several states by foot to the holy town of Haridwar in Uttarakhand. According to an official release in Dehradun, Dhami said an AIIMS in Kumaon will give access to the people of the region to world class medical facilities, adding the state government will give land for it. Describing AIIMS, Rishikesh as a big gift to the people of the state from the Centre, Dhami said it is playing a significant role in the battle against Covid. Dhami also sought speedy implementation of the 300 mw Lakhwar multi-purpose project from which six states including Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh will benefit. The project has all the clearances and work on it can begin after a cabinet committee on economic affairs by the Union Government gives its go-ahead to the project, Dhami said. He informed the prime minister that the second phase of building and reconstruction projects at Kedarnath are to begin at an estimated cost of Rs 108.78 crore and sought an appointment from him for laying their foundation stones virtually. Dhami's meeting with the prime minister lasted one hour and 15 minutes. Congratulating Dhami, Modi expressed hope that under his youthful leadership the state will prosper, the release said. Dhami also met Home Minister Amit Shah and urged him to remove inner line restrictions from Nelong and Niti valleys near India-China border saying it will boost tourist inflow to the beautiful valleys and increased economic activities as a result of this will stop migration from border villages. He also demanded two air ambulances and establishment of one disaster research institute at Uttarakhand's summer capital Gairsain in view of the state's vulnerability to natural calamities. The Chief Minister also met Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri and requested him to increase the budgetry allocation for solid waste management projects in Uttarakhand under the Swacch Bharat Mission-2 from Rs 89 crore to 150 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttarakhand-cm-dhami-calls-on-pm-modi-1007152.html
10-07-2021||National||E-learning: Children addicted to screens, parents seek help||While a 14-year-old boy at Idukki district in Kerala recently ended his life reportedly after his parents scolded him for playing online games too much, parents of a 12-year-old girl from North Kerala are seeking the help of child psychiatrists to save the girl from addiction to on online music portal.  Online education has become the new normal during the Covid-19 pandemic and with it, parents face a tough challenge to ensure that their children are using the internet moderately and appropriately. Many ill effects of excessive use of mobile phones, including instances of pornographic materials being sent to girls to lure them were also reported in the state recently. In an incident, a minor girl was regularly absent in online class and when teachers enquired with her family they came to know that her parents damaged their mobile phone after she was seen accessing obscene contents sent by her lover. In Kollam district, a mother of two teenagers had to stage a bid to end life alleging police inaction against those who sent pornographic materials to her children's mobile phone. Police and child psychiatrists who deal with such cases said that as online education becoming the lone mode of education, most parents were finding it difficult to regulate the internet usage of children. Students frequently demand recharging of internet packages and also spend long hours in front of computers and mobile phones, all in the name of e-learning. Online classes have also become an excuse for students to surf the internet by keeping doors closed. Smartphones or computers have become essential commodities for all students, right from the primary classes. All these factors are contributing to the increasing instances of children falling in the wrong tracks. Child psychiatrist and additional professor of paediatrics at the Thiruvananthapuram Medical College Dr R Jayaprakash said that there was a spurt in the instance of screen addiction after digital learning became the new normal. Most of the students who fell into such traps were those depending on recorded classes. While the options of interactions make live online classes more attractive, listening to recorded digital classes often tend students to go in search of other options like online games, music or pornography. He said that a child should ideally undergo digital learning only for a maximum of three hours a day and there should be breaks after every 30 to 45 minutes. Teachers should also ensure that the classes are more interactive and lively. He also said that since digital learning would be the key learning option in future, stress needs to be given to equipping the students to defend themselves from falling into wrong tracks. Hence training sessions for students on these aspects should be also made part of the digital learning curriculum.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/e-learning-children-addicted-to-screens-parents-seek-help-1007153.html
10-07-2021||National||Eggs and cakes are the new metaphors in Goa politics  ||Eggs and cakes appear to have become the new political metaphors in poll-bound Goa. On Saturday when the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) went around offering cakes to defecting legislators, supporters of a BJP MLA, who had switched over from the Congress in 2019, hurled eggs on AAP supporters. AAP, as part of its "clean goa politics from the trend of defection" campaign, offered cakes with a politically styled theme to 10 defector MLAs. "Today is a reminder to all those people who have voted for the Congress. We have come to the legislator's doorstep to remind them that they have betrayed the people's vote," Aam Aadmi Party worker Cecille Rodrigues told DH after she along with a group of workers appeared at the private residence of Jennifer Monserrate, Goa's Minister for Revenue, near Panaji. AAP volunteers carried two cakes to be gifted to her and her legislator husband Atanasio, both of whom were a part of the group of 10 MLAs who joined the BJP after splitting the Congress in July 2019. The chocolate cakes were embellished with icing which depicted a hand -- the Congress party symbol -- holding a lotus -- the BJP's party symbol. Trouble, however, festered after AAP supporters turned up at the residence of Nuvem BJP MLA Wilfred D'Sa armed with cakes. D'Sa supporters jeered the dozen-odd AAP volunteers and flung eggs at the latter, also flinging the cake to the ground. AAP Delhi MLA Atishi who is anchoring the party's #LetsCleanGoaPolitics campaign said that the cakes were presented to the defecting MLAs on the occasion of their two-year-anniversary of defecting to the BJP after being elected to the state assembly in 2017 on a Congress ticket. “The people of Goa wanted change and they thought the Congress represented change. Instead, the Congress sold the votes of the people of Goa to the BJP and the BJP bought these votes. Together they form the Congress Janata Party,” Atishi said. Elections to the Goa legislative assembly are scheduled to be held in early 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eggs-and-cakes-are-the-new-metaphors-in-goa-politics-1007155.html
10-07-2021||National||Chirag taunts Paras upon landing cabinet berth; declares he won't give up||Lok Janshakti Party leader Chirag Paswan on Saturday paid a backhanded compliment to estranged uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras, by congratulating him on joining the union cabinet, which he said was a goal he achieved by breaking up his own family. The beleaguered LJP leader, who has suffered a setback with the Delhi High Court rejecting his petition challenging the election of Paras as the party leader in the Lok Sabha, made it clear I am not going to give up my fight to reclaim the party nurtured by my late father Ram Vilas Paswan's blood and sweat. In an oblique reference to Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar who he suspects of engineering the putsch in the LJP, Chirag said, "I cannot allow the party to be taken over by those, who because of personal ambitions, are sitting in the lap of people who did not deign to come out with even a tweet on my fathers birth anniversary recently." The Jamui MP also hinted at his disillusionment with the BJP which has kept silent over the crisis in his party despite his unreserved adulation of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. When asked by reporters whether he still considered himself a Hanuman to Modi, akin to the relationship between the monkey god and Lord Ram, Paswan cryptically replied, "This is a question you need to ask when elections are round the corner." The 38-year-old, who has been reaching out to the family of his late father from the first marriage, also said, "I feel overwhelmed by emotions. After the death of my father and the betrayal of my family members many other dear relatives have come out with support." In the state since Monday as part of his ashirwad yatra, Chirag has paid visits to his step-sisters here, besides his stepmother, in his native district of Khagaria, in a charm offensive to win over his close relations. The former Bollywood actor has in the past been accused of condescension towards them. "I am not a legal expert. So I will not comment much upon the Delhi High Court order until a meeting with my legal team in the national capital. But I am not going to give up," he asserted. After making his political debut in the Lok Sabha elections of 2014, Chirag succeeded his father as LJP national president five years later. He opened a front against Nitish Kumar ahead of the assembly polls last year, claiming that the people of the state wanted a change in leadership and he was helping the BJP form its own government. The BJP, which had backed Kumar for a fourth consecutive term, distanced itself from Chirag's politics of brinkmanship. It, however, ended up benefiting from the melee as it returned with a tally much higher than that of JD(U), for the first time. Paras, along with four other party MPs, staged a political coup last month when they broke away voicing disapproval of Chirag's stance towards the JD(U). Paras replaced Chirag as the party's leader in the Lok Sabha and was elected national president of the breakaway faction. The uncle and the nephew seem poised for a long legal and political battle with the former appearing to have the cadres support but the latter capturing the public imagination as the heir to Ram Vilas Paswan, one of the tallest Dalit leaders of his generation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chirag-taunts-paras-upon-landing-cabinet-berth-declares-he-wont-give-up-1007168.html
10-07-2021||National||Kerala CPM leader under scanner for electoral setbacks||Former minister and senior leader G Sudhakaran is under scanner after the CPM in Kerala decided to examine the reasons for setbacks at some of the seats in the recent Assembly elections. According to sources, the CPM Alappuzha district committee pointed fingers at Sudhakaran for the anti-party activities against party candidate H Salam at Ambalappuzha constituency. Sudhakaran, who was the sitting MLA, was asked to keep off from the election citing the maximum two-term norm. After Salam was announced as a candidate, some poster campaigns appeared against him. But the party worked to ensure his victory. There were also reports that Sudhakaran kept off from the two-day state committee meeting that concluded today. CPM state secretary-in-charge A Vijayaraghavan told reporters that the party decided to examine the reasons for the defeat. But it was not targeted at anyone personally, he commented. Party sources said that it was quite an unprecedented move to initiate an internal probe against a senior party leader in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-cpm-leader-under-scanner-for-electoral-setbacks-1007174.html
10-07-2021||National||Navjot Singh Sidhu slams AAP govt in Delhi over electricity issue||Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu on Saturday attacked the AAP government in Delhi over its petition in the Supreme Court, which was later withdrawn, seeking closure of 10 power plants in three states, including Punjab. The BJP and the SAD also slammed the Aam Aadmi Party over the petition and accused it of "plotting" against the interests of Punjab. The Delhi government on Friday withdrew from the apex court its plea seeking directions to 10 coal-fired thermal power plants in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana, which allegedly contributes to air pollution in the national capital, to immediately cease operations till Flue Gas Desulphurization technology is installed to reduce harmful emission. Sidhu, who has been raising electricity issues in the state for the past few days, alleged that the AAP government in Delhi wanted the thermal power plants in Punjab to shut down amid the electricity crisis. "Today, forces bent-upon Punjab's destruction are clearly visible ... Delhi govt wants Punjab's lifeline, our thermal power plants, to shut down in the middle of a power crisis leaving Punjabis helpless in this simmering heat and our farmers to suffer in this paddy-sowing season," the cricketer-turned-politician tweeted. 2. Meanwhile Badals-signed PPAs with Thermal Power Plants & Majithia as Minister Renewable Energy (2015-17) signed PPAs for 25 Years for Solar Power at Rs 5.97 to 17.91 per unit to loot Punjab knowing cost of solar is decreasing 18% per year since 2010 & is Rs 1.99 per unit today BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh lambasted Arvind Kejriwal for trying to shut down thermal power plants in Punjab on the pretext of saving Delhi. In a statement, he said Delhi Chief Minister Arvid Kejriwal had always been "plotting against the interests of Punjab" and now he was trying to "bring the state to ruin". Chugh said at a time when Punjab is facing a power crisis, the Kejriwal government's move could only be termed "heinous and criminal". Shiromani Akali Dal's senior leader Daljit Singh Cheema accused Kejriwal of "betraying" the people of Punjab by filing the petition. It was a "big conspiracy" to further worsen the power crisis in the state, he alleged. Punjab is reeling under an unprecedented power shortage with urban and rural areas facing frequent load shedding and voltage fluctuations. Congress MLA Navjot Sidhu, in another tweet, blamed the Badals for signing power purchase agreements (PPAs) during the SAD-BJP rule in Punjab. "The Badals-signed PPAs with thermal power plants and (Bikram Singh) Majithia as minister of renewable energy (2015-17) signed PPAs for 25 years for solar power at Rs 5.97 to 17.91 per unit to loot Punjab knowing cost of solar is decreasing 18 per cent per year since 2010 and is Rs 1.99 per unit today," said Sidhu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/navjot-singh-sidhu-slams-aap-govt-in-delhi-over-electricity-issue-1007180.html
10-07-2021||National||Court accepts closure report against Chhota Rajan in Lakdawala case||A special court on Saturday accepted a closure report filed by the CBI against jailed gangster Chhota Rajan in the case related to a firing on builder and film financier Yusuf Lakdawala in 2001. A closure report is filed when an investigating agency believes that it does not have enough evidence to proceed against an accused. Special Judge A T Wankhede accepted the report and directed that Rajan be `released' as per section 169 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (release of accused when evidence is deficient). The court also asked Rajan to furnish a personal bond of Rs 50,000. However, the gangster would not walk out of jail as he is facing numerous other cases. Special Public Prosecutor Pradeep Gharat said the Central Bureau of Investigation had filed the closure report about three months ago. Appearing through video link, 76-year-old Lakdawala told the court that he had no objection if the closure report was accepted, Gharat said. Rajan's lawyer advocate Tushar Khandare said the incident of firing on Lakdawala had taken place in suburban Bandra in 2001. Rajan and some others were named in the case for alleged attempt to murder and also under the Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act (MCOCA). Rajan is lodged in Tihar Jail in Delhi after his deportation from Indonesia in October 2015. He is facing around 70 cases, including the 2011 murder of journalist J Dey. Lakdawala too is in judicial custody after being arrested by the Enforcement Directorate in a money laundering case. The ED case is based on a 2019 FIR of the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of Mumbai Police about alleged cheating and forgery related to a Rs 50 crore-worth land at Khandala in Pune district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/court-accepts-closure-report-against-chhota-rajan-in-lakdawala-case-1007181.html
10-07-2021||National||DCGI decision on Covid vaccine for kids likely after October: NK Arora ||India may consider the issue of vaccinating 12-18-year-old children after another three months, by when the drug regulator would be able to examine the clinical trial data on nearly 1,000 adolescents who participated in the evaluation exercise of a new Covid-19 vaccine developed by the pharmaceutical major Zydus Cadila. "Since it may take 8-10 weeks for the Central Drug Standard Control Organisation to review the Zydus Cadila vaccination data, the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) may take a decision on giving vaccines to 12-18-year-olds sometime between October and December,” NK Arora, one of the Centre’s top advisors on Covid-19 vaccination policy, told DH. Earlier this month, Zydus Cadila said it had submitted only safety and tolerability data on children to the regulator and would take about a month to analyse and submit the efficacy data on kids. The indigenous DNA vaccine ZyCoV-D has been found to be 66.6 per cent effective in adults. Arora said 10-12 per cent of the Indian population would fall into the 12-18 years category, which means there would be 13-14 adolescents requiring the vaccine. They would be in addition to the 94.47 crore target population identified by the government. "Vaccination of the adolescents will ultimately happen at one point of time, but there is no urgent need,” said Gagandeep Kang, India’s leading vaccine researcher and a professor at the Christian Medical College in Vellore. Both Kang and Arora said the reopening of the schools should not be linked to Covid-19 vaccination. Rather, it is important to ensure that every staff member in a school gets a jab so that a ring of fully vaccinated people surrounds the children. But when inoculation happens, those with comorbidities should get the jab first. Meanwhile, a meta-analysis of 57 research studies by UK researchers has suggested that children are at the lowest risk of developing severe diseases from Covid-19 infections. However, those with cardiac and neurological illnesses or having two comorbidities or obesity are at higher risk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dcgi-decision-on-covid-vaccine-for-kids-likely-after-october-nk-arora-1007184.html
10-07-2021||National||Over 37.57 crore Covid vaccine doses administered in India so far: Govt||The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 37.57 crore, the Union health ministry said on Saturday. Of these, 34,01,696 vaccine doses were administered on Saturday, according to a provisional report at 7 pm. The ministry said that 15,72,451 vaccine doses were administered as first dose and 1,74,472 vaccine doses given as second dose in the age group 18-44 years on Saturday. Cumulatively, 11,16,46,378 persons in the age group 18-44 years across the country have received their first dose and 36,93,265 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive. Eight states namely Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh have administered more than 50 lakh first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in the age group 18-44 years. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Kerala, Odisha, Punjab, Telangana, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 10 lakh beneficiaries of the age group 18-44 years for the first dose, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-3757-crore-covid-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-so-far-govt-1007190.html
10-07-2021||National||TN to resume bus services to Puducherry from July 12||Effective July 12, bus services to neighbouring Puducherry would be operational and retail outlets would be permitted to be open till 9 pm, the government said on Saturday. Announcing fresh relaxations under the ongoing 'unlock' exercise, the government said restaurants, shops and a variety of other retail stores that were previously allowed to function till 8 pm "with 50 per cent occupancy rider," would get an additional hour from Monday. Competitive examinations for central and state government services shall be permitted, an official release said. Till July 19, schools, colleges, zoos, cinemas, bars and swimming pools would continue to be closed down. Also, social, political, sports, entertainment and cultural events would remain prohibited as before. Norms already in force, related to wedding ceremonies and funerals, that cap the number of participants at 50 and 20 respectively, shall continue, the government said. Tamil Nadu clamped a lockdown from May 10 to combat the second wave of Covid-19 and from last month phased relaxations were provided in lockdown norms corresponding with a decline in virus cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tn-to-resume-bus-services-to-puducherry-from-july-12-1007196.html
10-07-2021||National||Over 97 lakh households in 61 JE-AES affected districts provided tap water supply||In a span of 22 months, the Jal Jeevan Mission has provided tap water supply to over 97 lakh households in 61 Japanese Encephalitis–Acute Encephalitis Syndrome (JE-AES) affected districts, the Jal Shakti Ministry said on Saturday. On August 15, 2019, when the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) was announced, only 8.02 lakh (2.67 per cent) households in these 61 JE-AES-affected districts across five states had tap water supply, it said. "In the last 22 months, tap water connections have been provided to an additional 97.41 lakh households in these districts," the ministry said. Now, 1.05 crore or 35 per cent households have assured tap water supply in JE-AES affected districts, it said. This increase in household tap water connections in JE-AES priority districts is about 12 per cent higher than the national average increase of 23.43 per cent in tap water supply across the country during the same period, the ministry said. The JJM has significantly strengthened the preventive measures to reduce spread of JE-AES by providing clean tap water supply to economically poor households in the affected districts of Assam, Bihar, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, it said. Specific funds for JE-AES affected priority districts are allocated on the basis of drinking water sources and the extent of water contamination and 0.5 per cent of the budget under the JJM is allocated to carry out activities for providing potable drinking water in every rural household of JE-AES affected districts, the ministry said. It said that Rs 462.81 crore has been allocated to these five states as JE-AES component for 2021-22. Japanese Encephalitis – Acute Encephalitis Syndrome (JE-AES) is a serious health hazard. The disease mostly affects children and young adults which can lead to morbidity and mortality. These infections particularly affect malnourished children of poor economic backgrounds. The 61 high-priority districts in the five states were identified for strengthening prevention and control measures through five Union ministries with Ministry of Health and Family Welfare as the nodal ministry. The JJM is a key programme in reducing the burden of disease in these districts. It was announced by the Prime Minister on August 15, 2019, to provide tap water connection to every rural household of the country by 2024. The ministry said that Rs 50,000 crore has been allocated for the JJM.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-97-lakh-households-in-61-je-aes-affected-districts-provided-tap-water-supply-1007199.html
10-07-2021||National||BRICS countries agree to Innovation Cooperation Action Plan proposed by India||All BRICS countries have agreed to the STI-led BRICS Innovation Cooperation Action Plan (2021-24) proposed by India during the 12th meeting of the BRICS S&T Steering Committee, the Department of Science and Technology said. India had proposed the plan to facilitate sharing of experiences of each other's innovation ecosystem and networking of innovators and entrepreneurs. The details of the action plan will be worked out by the BRICS Science, Technology Innovation Entrepreneurship Partnership (STIEP) working group, it said. "It was agreed that the proposal may be forwarded to BRICS STIEP working group through the respective country's STI focal point," the DST said. The DST hosted the 12th meeting of the BRICS S&T Steering Committee on July 8. Scientific ministries and agencies of all BRICS countries participated in it. BRICS officials discussed in detail about the thematic areas for this year's call for proposals at the meeting and unanimously agreed for collaboration in 10 thematic areas. These are Transient Astronomical Events and Deep Survey Science, Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR): Technologies for Diagnosis and Treatment, Simulation and Big Data Analytics for Advanced Precision Medicine and Public Healthcare, HPC and Big Data for Sustainable Development: Solving Large Scale Ecological, Climate and Pollution Problems, Innovation and Entrepreneurship on Photonic, Nanophotonics, and Metamaterials for Addressing Bio-medicine, Agriculture, Food Industry and Energy Harvesting Issues, Materials Science and Nanotechnology for Addressing Environmental, Climate Change, Agricultural, Food, and Energy Issues, Renewable Energy including Smart Grid Integration, Ocean and Polar Science and Technology Water Treatment Technology Research in Aeronautics and Aerospace. These areas have been recommended by different thematic working groups. All countries also agreed to thematic areas proposed by India for the sixth edition of the BRICS Young Scientist Conclave which will be held in Bengaluru during September 13-16. The three themes to be discussed at the conclave include healthcare, energy solutions and cyber-physical system (CPS), and their applications. India's new proposal regarding inviting BRICS partnership in India's Technology Summit, which got positive support from all countries, was suggested to be sent through the BRICS Sherpa office for suggestions from all stakeholders, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/brics-countries-agree-to-innovation-cooperation-action-plan-proposed-by-india-1007210.html
10-07-2021||National Politics||DH Toon | The middle-class is on its own!||A day after the Cabinet expansion, newly-appointed ministers in the NDA government took charge of their portfolios and hit the ground running with specific direction from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to get acquainted with their respective ministries before the Parliament Session. He also asked his ministers to reach office on time and channelise all their energy into their ministerial work, saying their focus should be on helping the most deprived people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-the-middle-class-is-on-its-own-1006962.html
10-07-2021||National Politics||Rahul, Priyanka slam BJP govt in Uttar Pradesh over poll violence||The Congress on Saturday slammed the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh over incidents of alleged violence and misbehaviour with women during the filing of nominations for block panchayat chiefs, with party leader Rahul Gandhi saying that violence has been renamed "masterstroke" in the state. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra alleged that the BJP had "crossed" all limits to stop the nomination of a woman in the polls. "A few years ago, a rape victim raised her voice against a BJP MLA and an attempt was made to kill her and her family. Today, the BJP crossed all limits to stop the nomination of a woman. Same government. Same behaviour," she said in a tweet in Hindi and also tagged a video purportedly showing a woman being stopped from filing her nomination in the polls. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi, in a tweet in Hindi, said that in Uttar Pradesh, violence has been renamed "masterstroke". The brother-in-law of a block development committee member was killed in Bahraich as he resisted an alleged attempt to abduct his relative by a BJP candidate's husband and supporters ahead of the polls for the block panchayat head. In another incident in Lakhimpur Kheri, a Samajwadi Party candidate was allegedly manhandled by BJP workers, after which six policemen were suspended with the administration ordering a magisterial probe.  A woman BDC member's saree was also pulled in front of police officers, alleged the Congress and sought an apology from the state government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-priyanka-slam-bjp-govt-in-uttar-pradesh-over-poll-violence-1007040.html
10-07-2021||National Politics||New Modi Cabinet in reality representation of entire India: UP CM Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said the Cabinet reshuffle initiated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and induction of new ministers in his team is in reality the representation of the entire India. In a series of tweets in Hindi, Adityanath said, "The kind of public representation and public partnership envisaged by our eminent personalities, especially thinkers like Babasaheb (B R Ambedkar) and (Ram Manohar) Lohia ji, is being fulfilled under the leadership of Modi ji." "Lohia ji was of the view that a mature democracy is possible only by giving power to the backward class. The prime minister has given constitutional status to the OBC Commission, and has also given representation to the OBC leadership in the Council of Ministers. Had Lohia ji been alive, he would have felt happy by seeing the seeds of his thoughts bearing fruit," he said. आज जब देश इतने बड़े सार्थक और सकारात्मक सामाजिक बदलाव का साक्षी बन रहा है, दुर्भाग्य से कुछ लोग इसमें भी राजनैतिक विरोध कर रहे हैं। ऐसे लोगों को लोहिया जी ने कहा था- "सामाजिक परिवर्तन के बड़े काम जब प्रारंभ होते हैं तो कुछ लोग आवेश में इसका विरोध करते हैं"। Hitting out at the opponents, Adityanath said some people were opposing the “positive change” that the country is witnessing. “For these people, Lohia ji had said that when the big work of social transformation begins, some people oppose it due to anger ('aavesh'). These are the same set of people who had opposed the constitution of the OBC Commission, and had also insulted Babasaheb. These people had never followed even a single principle of Lohia ji in their behavior," he said. In another tweet, Adityanath said, "Today, the believers of Babasaheb and Lohia ji will accept that Modi ji’s mantra of 'Sabkaa Saath, Sabkaa Vikaas, Sabkaa Vishvaas' has validated the soul of the Constitution in real sense. For this, we are grateful to the prime minister."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/new-modi-cabinet-in-reality-representation-of-entire-india-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-1007047.html
10-07-2021||National Politics||Centre earned Rs 4.91 lakh crore as fuel prices hiked 69 times this year: Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury||Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Saturday claimed that the Centre had earned Rs 4.91 lakh crore in revenue as petrol and diesel prices were hiked 69 times since Jan. 1 this year. Chowdhury, also the West Bengal Congress chief, urged the TMC government in the state to follow the footsteps of the Chhattisgarh administration and do away with Value Added Taxes (VAT) to reduce fuel prices. "Unmindful of the sufferings of the people, the Narendra Modi government in Delhi has effected 69 hikes in petrol and diesel prices since Jan. 1 and earned Rs 4.91 lakh crore in revenue. "The BJP government is not showing any concern for the plight of the common man. We urge the Centre to roll back fuel price hike, as petrol breached the Rs 100-per-litre mark, diesel neared century and LPG rate touched Rs 850 per cylinder," the senior Congress leader told reporters. He said that the petrol price dipped by Rs 12 per litre after the Congress government in Chhattisgarh did away with VAT, and urged other state administrations, including that of West Bengal, to follow its lead. "We know that the TMC government in West Bengal will have to forego a revenue of Rs 1,300-Rs 1,400 crore yielded from VAT, but a party that has come to power with such a huge mandate shouldn't be found wanting in undertaking pro-people steps," Chowdhury said. Responding to a query, he said that the main opposition party is given the post of the Parliamentary Accounts Committee (PAC) both in the Lok Sabha and the Vidhan Sabha. "I have been the PAC chairman three times. My name was recommended by our leader Sonia Gandhi. However, the speaker takes the final decision. Appointing the PAC chairman is his/her discretion," he said. However, Chowdhury did not directly comment on the controversy over the appointment of TMC leader Mukul Roy, who recently crossed over from the BJP, as the PAC chairman of West Bengal assembly by the speaker on Friday, which had sparked a walkout by saffron party members who are demanding his disqualification under the anti-defection law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-earned-rs-491-lakh-crore-as-fuel-prices-hiked-69-times-this-year-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-1007118.html
10-07-2021||National Politics||Muslims, Christians in India were Hindus at one point: Himanta Biswa Sarma||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Saturday claimed that Muslims and Christians in India were Hindus at one point while insisting that Hinduism can not be disconnected from history. "Hinduism is 5,000 to 6,000 years old. How can we leave Assamese from Hinduism? We all are children of Hindus. Even the Muslims in India were children of Hindus six or twelve or twenty generations ago. Even a Christian in India was a Hindu at one point of time. Hinduism is a continuous flow. How will you leave Hinduism from Indian history? Doing so will mean disconnecting me from the soil where I was born. While writing history, you have to write about Ganga, Kamakhya or Navagraga temple," Sarma said when asked about Assam MLA Akhil Gogoi's allegation that Assamese identity was being surrendered to the ideology of BJP/RSS. Sarma was talking to reporters in Guwahati to announce about the state cabinet's decision to set up a new department for indigenous faith and culture and some administrative reforms to be made from the next financial year. Gogoi on Thursday made the allegations while reacting to Sarma' claim that BJP patriarch Shyamaprasad Mukherjee had helped to recognise Assamese as a seperate language in Calcutta University when he was the Vice Chancellor. He said Sarma's claim was wrong and was not based on facts. Sarma on Saturday said there should not be any controversy as the same was also written in books by Assamese writer and intellectual Nabakanta Barua and Birinchi Kumar Baruah. Gogoi, who was arrested during the anti-CAA agitation in December 2019 and was released from jail following a court order on July 1, has been a staunch critic of Sarma and the ideology of BJP and RSS.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/muslims-christians-in-india-were-hindus-at-one-point-himanta-biswa-sarma-1007163.html
10-07-2021||National Politics||Delhi Congress questions Arvind Kejriwal's silence on soaring fuel prices||Delhi Congress president Anil Kumar on Saturday wrote to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, demanding reduction in value-added tax (VAT) on fuel prices in the city. In an official statement, the Delhi Congress said that in his letter Kumar has drawn the CM's attention to people's difficulties due to petrol and diesel price hikes. “The Delhi Government is collecting Rs 23 from a litre of petrol and Rs 13 from a litre of diesel as VAT which is a betrayal on the people of Delhi. The people of Delhi seek a reply from the Chief Minister for taxing them with higher VAT. Coupled with the high excise duty charged by the Modi Government petrol and diesel have become dearer than ever before in Delhi,” Kumar said in a statement. The statement quoted Kumar as saying, “Why Delhi Chief Minister was keeping quiet when fuel prices have soared past the roof, and why he was not taking up the matter with the Modi Government to reduce taxes, so that petrol and diesel could be sold in the National Capital at affordable rates.” The Delhi Congress social media department has also launched a missed call number (9625777907) and hashtag to invite public response to fuel price hikes. The hashtags launched by the party are #tel_ka_khel_bandh_karo, #petrol_diesel_me_VAT_ki_loot. In Delhi, petrol price rose to Rs 100.91 a litre and diesel to Rs 89.88 per litre on Saturday. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as VAT and freight charges. As much as 55 per cent of the retail selling price of petrol in Delhi is made up of taxes (Rs 32.90 a litre excise duty collected by the central government and Rs 22.80 VAT levied by the state government). Half of the diesel price is made up of taxes (Rs 31.80 central excise and Rs 13.04 state VAT).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/delhi-congress-questions-arvind-kejriwals-silence-on-soaring-fuel-prices-1007167.html
10-07-2021||National Politics||Madhya Pradesh Congress leader sends Burnol to BJP minister over Scindia's elevation||Trading barbs over the induction of Jyotiraditya Scindia in the Union cabinet, a Congress leader on Saturday sent tubes of Burnol cream to Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra to 'ease his pain'. Mishra on Thursday had said that those who are feeling jealous about Scindia, a former Congressman, getting into the Narendra Modi cabinet should be given Burnol (which is used to treat minor burn injuries). "When the Congress issued a statement about a betrayal by Scindia, Mishra said he would send us Burnol. Now we have sent two tubes of the ointment to Mishra because he needs them more,” state Congress spokesperson Narendra Saluja said. The tubes were sent through an e-commerce platform, he said. "One tube is from Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, because Mishra was eyeing his post. Another tube is from state Congress chief Kamal Nath because Mishra is obsessed with him and continuously talks about him," Saluja said. State BJP secretary Rahul Kothari said it was a cheap stunt. “This is a cheap tactic being used by the Congress. The opposition party should tell us what kind of ointment Nath needs, because he travels only by air and now Scindia has become the aviation minister," Kothari retorted. Scindia brought down the Kamal Nath government in MP last year when he and 22 Congress MLAs loyal to him quit the party and joined the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/madhya-pradesh-congress-leader-sends-burnol-to-bjp-minister-over-scindias-elevation-1007173.html
10-07-2021||National Politics||AAP claims panel has given clean chit to its DTC bus deal, BJP says findings establish 'open loot'||The ruling AAP Saturday claimed that a Centre-appointed committee has absolved the Delhi government of any "infirmity" in procurement of buses by DTC while flagging "lapses" in their annual maintenance contract but the opposition BJP insisted the panel "nailed" the Kejriwal dispensation and its findings establish "open loot". The committee has given "clean chit" to the Delhi government in procurement of buses and this is the proof of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's honest politics, his deputy Manish Sisodia said. But the Delhi BJP attacked the Kejriwal government claiming the report has established a "scam" in the bus procurement process. The three-member panel that included transport commissioner and vigilance secretary of the Delhi government was formed by Lt Governor Anil Baijal last month. It submitted its report to Baijal on July 8, officials said. "The committee in its report did not find any infirmity in bus procurement. Also, it did not come across any evidence to impute any criminal misconduct by any public official. However, it flagged several lapses in annual maintenance contract (AMC) of 1000 buses being procured by the DTC," an official said. According to Sisodia, the committee analysed 3,000 documents and raised several queries, after which it concluded that the Kejriwal government was not involved in any scam in the procurement of buses. The BJP has been alleging a "scam" in the AMC of low floor buses to be procured by the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC). "The investigation committee of the BJP-led central government has not been able to find any flaws or irregularities in the purchase of buses. The report of the inquiry committee has made it clear that the government led by Arvind Kejriwal in Delhi is honest and the Delhi BJP leaders in opposition are trying to malign the image of the government," Sisodia said at an online briefing. "This makes it clear that the Delhi government is working honestly for the interests of the people," he added. Sisodia said Kejriwal's model of "politics of good governance, honesty and work is being discussed all over the country". The  BJP leaders are spreading "lies" and obstructing the process of procurement of buses, he claimed and demanded an "apology" from the party to the people. He claimed that no buses were purchased in Delhi from 2008 to 2015. "After forming the government in 2015, whenever Arvind Kejriwal has invited for tenders for the purchase of buses to improve public transport service, BJP leaders have tried to create hurdles. But despite all their lies and hindrances, the buses will come to Delhi and public transport service will be further improved," he said. Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot said the national capital will get 1,000 buses. "Truth prevails, Conspiracies derail. I had always maintained that let BJP get any of our decisions probed from anywhere. Reality is that BJP's real motive was to defame @ArvindKejriwal ji and derail the process of getting buses for Delhiites. I am happy that Delhi will get 1000 Buses," he tweeted.  However, BJP MLA Vijender Gupta who had raised the issue in the assembly earlier this year, claimed the AAP is "misguiding people by saying that the committee has inquired into the procurement process of the DTC buses and has given it a clean chit". The committee focussed on AMC of 1000 buses being procured by DTC which it has clearly stated in its report, he told a press conference. "After finding the AMC process and contract faulty, the committee has suggested scrapping of the deal entirely," he claimed. Gupta asserted the committee report nailed Delhi government on its AMC tender.  "The findings of the committee establish the open loot perpetrated in the AMC contract for the new DTC buses. The entire deal was meant to favour two companies as a quid pro quo and siphon off Rs 3,500 crore from the taxpayers' money," he alleged.  The committee in its report found "grave violations" of General Financial Rules 2017 in the maintenance contract of the buses, he claimed, sharing a purported copy of the report. "The government ensured that only two companies could take part in the tendering process of the AMC contract. It did not set any benchmark price in the request for proposal. There is no record of any internal cost assessment for benchmark bids against an estimation," said Gupta. These companies were to be given Rs 30 crore every month, even when all the infrastructure requirements, bus driver, conductor, fuel are being ensured by the DTC, while other requirements are being fulfilled under warranty, he claimed.  "This was being done without any due diligence or assessment of a reasonable cost. The committee recommended that the bid for AMC of buses be scrapped. It also suggested fresh bid for AMC with relevant service level agreements and ensuring wider participation," he said. The bus procurement process was put on hold by the Transport department due to the enquiry by the LG-appointed committee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aap-claims-panel-has-given-clean-chit-to-its-dtc-bus-deal-bjp-says-findings-establish-open-loot-1007191.html
10-07-2021||North and Central||As global warming worsens, beating the heat is a luxury India's poor can't afford||Beating the merciless heat is hard in the Indian desert city of Sri Ganganagar, a reality facing millions across the vast country as the climate changes in the coming decades. While people in richer nations can find some respite from a warming planet with air conditioners and other modern luxuries, many here — and elsewhere in India — don't even have running water. Sri Ganganagar, in Rajasthan near the Pakistan border, is regularly India's hottest place and temperatures of 50 degrees Celsius (122 degrees Fahrenheit) are nothing out of the ordinary. So the district's 20 lakh people — equivalent to the population of Slovenia — get up early during the long summer months. By late morning the sun is already ferocious and the temperature a brutal 42 degrees Celsius, and everyone soon retreats to their homes until early evening. "By noon only those who can't avoid it are outside. We just sit under this," said fruit vendor Dinesh Kumar Shah, gesturing to his large black umbrella. Only a lucky few have air conditioning, with most people using fans and cheaper air coolers — in between power cuts — and thick green curtains called tarpals to block out the sun. "Us poor are hit the hardest," said local resident Kuldeep Kaur. "The ceiling fans at our homes just circulate the hot air." "It is particularly difficult for young children at home in summers. But I guess there isn't much ordinary citizens can do about it. We just have to bear it." Along the city's irrigation canals, boys and men young and old — but not women in socially conservative Rajasthan — cool off in the muddy water. Locals know the water-release schedules. It helps them with irrigating their crops, and tells them where they need to be for a dip. "This is better than any fan or air-cooler," said Arjun Sarsar, 16, who has already spent four hours chilling, literally, with his friends. India's average temperature rose around 0.7 degrees Celsius between the beginning of the 20th century and 2018. It is set to rise another 4.4 degrees by 2100, according to a recent government report. The study also forecasts the frequency of heatwaves by then to be three to four times higher than in 1976-2005, and they will last twice as long. According to a draft report by the UN's climate science advisory panel seen by AFP last month, hundreds of millions of people will likely be afflicted by at least 30 deadly heat days every year by 2080, even if the world meets the Paris climate deal goal of capping warming well below two degrees Celsius. Sustained heatwaves can be mortally dangerous, especially when combined with high levels of humidity. Together, high humidity and heat can create so-called "wet-bulb temperatures" so vicious that sweating no longer cools people down, potentially killing a healthy adult within hours. "Both temperatures and humidity are increasing in India and all over the world," Roxy Mathew Koll, climate scientist at the India Institute of Tropical Meteorology, told AFP. "It is not just about the heatwaves but the accompanying rise in humidity too, which makes you feel the temperature is much higher (than it is)," Koll added. Indian cities are implementing "heat action plans", planting trees in urban areas and painting roofs with reflective paint, but these are no substitute for global action to reduce emissions. Back in Sri Ganganagar, the locals keep cool drinking plastic cups of sugarcane juice with mint leaves and lemon, sold by Mathura Choudhary for Rs 10 each. "This is the time when we do our best business," Choudhary told AFP at his roadside stall. "Who wouldn't like a glass or two of this in the summer? It's cold, sweet and fresh." Filling up plastic water containers that his company distributes to homes without running water, Sitaram Sevta said the city's inhabitants were used to the summer heat. "People live their lives around it," he told AFP. "It isn't too hot. It isn't a Sri Ganganagar summer yet... (The temperature) is only 41 or 42."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/as-global-warming-worsens-beating-the-heat-is-a-luxury-indias-poor-cant-afford-1006992.html
10-07-2021||North and Central||After Amul, Mother Dairy hikes price of milk in Delhi-NCR, other cities by Rs 2 per litre||Leading milk supplier Mother Dairy has increased milk prices in Delhi-NCR and other cities by Rs 2 per litre with effect from Sunday due to higher input costs. It had last raised the milk prices in December 2019. From July 1, Amul had hiked its milk prices by Rs 2 per litre. Mother Dairy said it is "compelled to raise its liquid milk prices by Rs 2/litre in Delhi-NCR with effect from July 11, 2021." The new prices will be applicable for all milk variants. "The company has been experiencing inflationary pressure on the overall input costs which has increased multi-fold in the last one year, accompanied by the distress in milk production due to the ongoing pandemic," the statement said. In the last one year, farm prices have increased to the tune of 8-10 per cent coupled with mounting operational costs of processing, packaging and logistics. "It is pertinent to note that the farm prices of milk alone have firmed up by about 4 per cent in the last three-four weeks. Despite paying higher prices towards milk procurement in the last one year, the consumer prices were kept intact. With this revision, the milk prices are undergoing a revision of 4 per cent," Mother Dairy said. Mother Dairy sells more than 30 lakh litres of milk per day in Delhi-NCR.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-amul-mother-dairy-hikes-price-of-milk-in-delhi-ncr-other-cities-by-rs-2-per-litre-1007008.html
10-07-2021||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir achieves 100% vaccination among above-45 age group in nine districts||100 per cent population above 45-years of age have been vaccinated against Covid-19 in nine out of 20 districts in Jammu and Kashmir, while three more districts are set to achieve the feat in next few days. According to J&K health department data, the districts where vaccination of all above 45 years of age has been completed include Shopian, Budgam, Baramulla, Bandipora, Ganderbal (in Kashmir), Jammu, Rajouri, Poonch and Samba (in Jammu). Three districts in Kashmir - Anantnag with 98.87 per cent, Kulgam with 98.60 per cent and Pulwama with 96.88 per cent - are also on verge of completing vaccination of all above 45-years of age. The overall percentage of vaccination of above 45 years of age in the UT is 92.58 per cent. Covid-19 vaccines have so far been administered to 50,80,845 beneficiaries in J&K at an average of 29,033 per day since the inoculation started on January 16. According to the 2011 census, J&K’s population is 1.25 crore. Notably, the UT has missed two deadlines to vaccinate all above 45 years of age. After the second wave of Covid-19 hit the UT in April and May this year, people have started flocking to vaccination centres in large numbers to get their jabs. The UT has witnessed 4,354 deaths since the pandemic began last March. From the peak of more than 50,000 active positive cases in mid-May, the cases have come down to 3,300 on July 9. So far 3,10,630 patients have recovered in J&K which amounts to 97.59 per cent of the total cases. Though the Covid-19 count is down in J&K, health experts have warned that if people continue to violate the safety protocols, the caseload may surge in the coming weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-achieves-100-vaccination-among-above-45-age-group-in-nine-districts-1007019.html
10-07-2021||North and Central||Condition of ex-UP CM Kalyan Singh stable: Hospital||The condition of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, who is admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) of Sanjay Gandhi Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences here, is stable, the hospital said. "The vital parameters are stable. He (Singh) is communicative. The senior faculty of CCM, Cardiology, Neurology, Endocrinology and Nephrology are supervising his treatment and are keeping a close watch on all the parameters related to his health," the SGPGIMS said in a statement. Director Prof R K Dhiman is monitoring his treatment on a daily basis, it said. Eighty-nine-year-old Singh, who has also been the governor of Rajasthan, was admitted to the ICU of the hospital on the evening of July 4 due to an infection and reduced consciousness level. Earlier, he was undergoing treatment at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/condition-of-ex-up-cm-kalyan-singh-stable-hospital-1007026.html
10-07-2021||North and Central||Voting for 476 block panchayat chief posts under way in Uttar Pradesh||Counting of votes polled for the 476 posts of block panchayat chiefs has begun in Uttar Pradesh, the State Election Commission said. The counting of votes commenced after the voting concluded at 3 pm, it said. Voting was held from 11 am to 3 pm on Saturday. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath directed officials that tight security arrangements should be made at each block where counting is taking place. In a statement issued here, Adityanath said there should be a system in place wherein the winning and losing candidates be escorted to their homes under police protection. "The police force should remain extra alert and sensitive. Stringent action should be initiated against people who indulge in vitiating the atmosphere," he said. A total of 349 candidates for the block panchayat chief posts were elected unopposed on Friday, the last day for the withdrawal of nomination papers. In a statement issued here on Friday, State Election Commissioner Manoj Kumar had said 1,778 nomination papers were received for 825 posts of the block panchayat chief, of which 68 were cancelled and 187 withdrawn. As a result, now 1,710 candidates will go into the elections on Saturday, he had said. As the State Election Commission announced that candidates on 349 posts have been elected unopposed, an office-bearer of the BJP claimed that 334 among the winning candidates belonged to the ruling party. UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh said a state of development and good governance has been established by eradicating casteism and corruption in Uttar Pradesh after the formation of the government under the leadership of Chief Minister Adityanath. "This is the reason that even in the three-tier panchayat elections, the BJP is continuously achieving victories, which is the stamp of people's approval on the policies of the BJP," he said earlier in a statement. Opposition parties, including the Samajwadi Party, the Bahujan Samaj Party and the Congress, have accused the ruling BJP of damaging democracy in the elections of kshetra panchayat chiefs and attacked it for allegedly showing "utter disrespect" to women during the election process. They accused the government of misusing power and official machinery in the panchayat elections. Hitting out at the BJP government, BSP chief Mayawati alleged that there is “jungle raj” in the state. In a tweet in Hindi on Saturday, she said, "In the reign of the present BJP government in UP, there is no rule of law, but a jungle raj is prevailing there, under which there has been widespread violence in the panchayat polls, and there was indecent behaviour with a woman in Lakhimpur Kheri. “This is highly condemnable. Is this their (BJP's) rule of law and democracy? This is something to ponder upon.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/voting-for-476-block-panchayat-chief-posts-under-way-in-uttar-pradesh-1007027.html
10-07-2021||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir national highway closed as rains trigger massive landslide||The Jammu-Srinagar national highway was closed for traffic on Saturday due to a massive landslide triggered by heavy rains in Ramban district that left over 500 vehicles stranded, officials said. The 270-km highway, the only all-weather road linking Kashmir with the rest of the country, was blocked by a landslide at Magarkot belt in the Ramsoo area, they said. As a result, over 500 heavy motor vehicles (HMVs) and light motor vehicles (LMVs) are stranded at different points of the highway, the officials added. They said men and machinery have been deployed to clear the area. Due to a massive landslide at Magerkote, all passengers in LMVs are requested to move back towards Banihal or Ramban from either side, the officials said. "No new vehicles will be allowed to ply on highway from Nashri towards Srinagar and from Banihal towards Ramban," an official said. Police have requested the public to cooperate in this regard and make travel plans only after checking about the reopening of the road. The landslide may take 10-12 hours to get cleared, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-national-highway-closed-as-rains-trigger-massive-landslide-1007030.html
10-07-2021||North and Central||Kejriwal heads to poll-bound Uttarakhand on Sunday||After Punjab, Delhi Chief Minister and AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday is heading to poll-bound Uttarakhand where his party's main poll plank is likely to be free electricity. AAP has already announced that it will contest all the seats in Uttarakhand where the BJP is hoping to retain power. BJP has appointed a new Chief Minister, the second one in four months, ahead of the polls to refurbish its diminishing influence in the hill-state. AAP has made clear its plans for Uttarakhand by raking up the free electricity poll plank, its successful mantra in Delhi, with its activists on Saturday hitting the streets on "expensive power bills". The arrest of Army veteran Col Ajay Kothiyal, who was part of the protest, has also been highlighted by the party in the state, which sends a substantial number of people to the military. Kejriwal set the tone for his Sunday visit with a tweet, "Uttarakhand generates power and sells it to other states too. Then why is electricity so expensive for the people of Uttarakhand? Delhi does not generate its own electricity, buys it from other states. Still, electricity in Delhi is free. Shouldn't the people of Uttarakhand get free electricity? See you tomorrow in Dehradun." AAP is planning to contest the Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Punjab, scheduled for early next year. While it will contest all seats in both Punjab and Uttarakhand, it is to be seen whether it would enter into any alliance in Uttar Pradesh or contest all seats or a limited number. Electricity will be one of its poll themes in all states and in his late June visit to Punjab, Kejriwal announced that people in Punjab would not need to pay for 300 units of electricity if AAP is voted to power. He also announced that a Sikh would be the Chief Minister if the AAP gets majority, as reluctance to name a Sikh had cost the party dearly in the last elections. It is also keenly watched whether dissident Congress leader Navjot Singh Siddhu would jump ship and join with Kejriwal ahead of polls if his demands are not accepted by the Congress leadership. In Uttar Pradesh, AAP is raising issues like Covid-19 handling and the contentious land deals of Ram Temple Trust involving BJP leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kejriwal-heads-to-poll-bound-uttarakhand-on-sunday-1007034.html
10-07-2021||North and Central||SC youth tied to tree, brutally tortured over inter-caste love affair in Uttar Pradesh||(Warning: Story contains some graphic details, reader discretion advised) A youth belonging to the Scheduled Caste (SC) community was brutally tortured after being tied to a tree in Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur Dehat district, about 150 kilometres from here, over an inter-caste love affair. According to reports, the youth, identified as Sarvan Kumar, a resident of Patari village in the district, had been having an affair with a girl of another caste, a resident of Akbarpur police station area for the past few months. The father of the girl, who did not approve of their affair, had the girl call him (Sarvan) and ask him to meet her at her home on Thursday night. An unsuspecting Sarvan, upon reaching the home of his lover, was overpowered by the father of the girl and some others and tied to a tree. He was thrashed with sticks and belts. A stick was inserted in his anus also after he revealed that he hailed from the SC community. A video, which went viral on social media sites, showed a man thrashing the youth with a stick. It also showed the youth being kicked and slapped. One could also hear the culprits asking him to reveal his caste. He was hit repeatedly after the revelation. The video also showed an elderly man inserting a stick several times in the youth's anus. Police said that a case was lodged against four people. ''We have arrested one of the accused. A hunt has been launched to nab the others. The accused have fled their homes,'' a senior police official in the district said on Saturday. The incident triggered a sharp reaction from the opposition parties, who accused the Yogi Adityanath government of failing to ensure the safety of the Dalits in the state. ''Dalits are facing persecution under the BJP regime. It shows the anti-Dalit mindset of the BJP,'' said a senior Samajwadi Party (SP) leader here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-youth-tied-to-tree-brutally-tortured-over-inter-caste-love-affair-in-uttar-pradesh-1007043.html
10-07-2021||North and Central||YouTuber Karl Rock's wife moves Delhi HC challenging Centre's decision blacklisting him||A plea has been moved before the Delhi High Court by wife of New Zealand vlogger, Karl Rock for quashing the order blacklisting her husband from entering the country. She also sought a direction to further issue an India Visa to her husband, subject to the valid conditions. The Ministry of Home Affairs, has reportedly claimed that the vlogger, was found doing business activities on a tourist visa, which is in violation of the terms and conditions of his visa. He was also found to have posted a video related to protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019. In her plea, petitioner Manisha Malik, through advocate Fuzail Ahmad Ayyubi, has asked the court to call for records pertaining to cancellation of Visa and unilateral blacklisting of her husband, whose real name is Karl Edward Rice.  Malik, who hailed from Haryana, has called the Centre's decision as "arbitrary and unreasonable". She claimed Karl has not been able to return to India from New Zealand since October 10, 2020.  "The petitioner is an Indian national, and has been with Rice, a national of New Zealand, since 2014 and married him in 2019. Since their marriage, the petitioner and Rice have been living together peacefully in New Delhi. The petitioner and her husband are YouTube vloggers and, therefore, have visited most of India to capture its beauty and thereby, contribute to promotion of tourism in India," the petition said.  The decision to blacklist her husband had violated her fundamental right to life and dignity as guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution, it claimed.  Karl has a dual nationality - New Zealand and Netherlands and has been visiting India since 2013, strictly abiding by the laws of the country and the conditions of visa. There hasn’t been even a single allegation against the petitioner’s husband, it claimed.  After the marriage, Karl was granted an X-2 Visa (meant for spouse/children of an Indian citizen) with a validity period till May, 2024. One of the conditions in the said Visa was for the petitioner’s husband to exit India every 180 days or to intimate the concerned Foreigner Regional Registration Office, the advocate said.  However, after he left India on October 10, 2020, he has not been able to return to India because of rejection of his application for issuance of an Indian Visa. "The petitioner has been running from pillar to post and no reasons are communicated to either Rice or to the petitioner herself as to on what basis her husband’s request for issuance of visa has been rejected," her plea claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/youtuber-karl-rocks-wife-moves-delhi-hc-challenging-centres-decision-blacklisting-him-1007053.html
10-07-2021||North and Central||UP population Bill: No government jobs, incentives for those with over 2 children||The Uttar Pradesh government plans to give incentives to couples who have one child while denying government benefits to those having more than two children in its new population policy, the draft of which was released in Lucknow on Saturday. The Uttar Pradesh Population (Control, Stabilisation and Welfare) Bill, 2021, according to the official sources, aims at ''revitalising efforts and providing for measures to control, stabilise and provide welfare to the population of the state by implementation and promotion of two-child norm''. The Bill provides for making couples with more than two children ineligible for state government jobs and also bar them from contesting panchayat elections while those with two children would receive two additional increments, subsidy in the purchase of house and rebate in the utility bills. Couples with one child would receive extra benefits, including four additional increments, free education up to graduation and preference in admission in schools. Every state government employee and the members of the local bodies would have to give an undertaking within one year from the implementation of the policy that he would not act in contravention to the two-child norm. The Bill also deals with polygamous and polyandrous marriage and says that they will be considered as a set of married couples with one man and one woman only.  It goes on to explain the same stating: ''The personal law governing A allows polygamy. A has two wives B and C. A with his first wife B conceive two children, born out of the same pregnancy. A subsequently marries C and she conceives another child. A has a total of three children from all his marital relationships and has acted in contravention of the two-child norm. The same formula would be applicable in cases of polyandrous marriages''. It also said that the state government would establish maternity centres at all the primary health centres, distribute contraceptive pills, condoms, etc through Healthcare Centres and Non-Governmental Organizations. The government would also organise massive information and education campaigns to generate public awareness related to the benefits of having small families and healthy birth spacing, and introduce Population Control in School Curriculum.  Although the government officials had denied that the new policy had anything to do with any specific religion, opposition parties slammed the BJP government for targetting a particular community. ''BJP has always been against a particular community... they have been on the receiving end under the current dispensation,'' said a senior Samajwadi Party (SP) leader. He also attributed the move to the state government's attempts to hide its failures in controlling the Covid 19 pandemic in the state. Saffron leaders, however, welcomed the move and said that it would help check the growing population of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-population-bill-no-government-jobs-incentives-for-those-with-over-2-children-1007070.html
10-07-2021||North and Central||J&K administration appoints nodal officers to assist delimitation Commission||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Saturday nominated nodal officers with the Delimitation Commission at the district level for providing timely information to it and receiving representations from stakeholders. In an order issued by the General Administration Department, one officer has been nominated in each of the 20 districts of the union territory for liaisoning with the commission, which wrapped its four-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir on Friday during which it interacted with political parties and district administrations. The order said the nodal officers shall be responsible for assisting the deputy commissioners in providing timely information as may be sought by the commission. The nodal officers shall receive representations from stakeholders for submission to the commission and shall also be responsible for any other work as may be assigned by the commission, the order read. On Friday, the Delimitation Commission headed by Justice (retd) Ranjana Prakash Desai concluded the four-day visit to J-K to gather “first-hand” inputs on the conduct of the exercise to redraw constituencies and carve out new ones in the UT. Except for the Peoples Democratic Party and the Awami National Conference, the commission interacted with all political parties and officials concerned during the visit. Justice (retd) Desai has assured the exercise would be transparent and completed by following due process as laid down in the law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-administration-appoints-nodal-officers-to-assist-delimitation-commission-1007074.html
10-07-2021||North and Central||NCW seeks action as visuals of dragging a woman in Uttar Pradesh emerge||The visuals of some youths misbehaving with a woman and pulling her sari during filing of nominations for the block chairman polls in Uttar Pradesh has kicked up a row. While the National Commission For Women stepped in and asked UP police to take action, Opposition parties latched on to the issue to paint a picture of lawlessness in the BJP-ruled state. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said that violence has been renamed "masterstroke" in the state while party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said the BJP has "crossed all limits to stop the nomination of a woman" in the polls. "A few years ago, a rape victim raised her voice against a BJP MLA and an attempt was made to kill her and her family. Today, the BJP crossed all limits to stop the nomination of a woman. Same government. Same behaviour," she tweeted. A number of Congress leaders tagged the video of the assault. SP leader Akhilesh Yadav expressed solidarity with the victim and alleged that the BJP leaders were involved in the incident. "National Commission for Women (NCW) on July 8th had taken suo motu cognisance of an incident wherein a woman was allegedly attacked and misbehaved with and her sari was pulled in Lakhimpur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh," the Commission headed by Rekha Sharma said seeking strict action against the men involved.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ncw-seeks-action-as-visuals-of-dragging-a-woman-in-uttar-pradesh-emerge-1007081.html
10-07-2021||North and Central||Delhiites to pay Rs 10,000-Rs 1 lakh for violating noise pollution norms under new rules||Delhiites will have to pay Rs 10,000 to Rs 1 lakh for violating noise pollution norms by using loudspeakers without permission or DG sets as the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) has asked authorities to strictly implement revised rules. According to the Central Pollution Control Board's (CPCB) revised penalties, one will have to pay Rs 10,000 fine in case of noise violation by a loudspeaker or a public address system at a public place without permission or during night, and the equipment will also be confiscated. A fine of Rs 1 lakh has been set for Diesel Generator (DG) sets of over 1,000 KVA, Rs 25,000 for DG sets between 62.5 KVA to 1,000 KVA and Rs 10,000 for DG sets upto 62.5 KVA, the DPCC order said.  Permissible noise level in residential areas is 55 decibel during day time and 45 decibel during night. Similarly, in commercial areas, the permissible sound limit is 65 decibel during day time and 55 decibel during night. In sensitive areas it is 50 decibel during the day and 40 decibel at night.  Other than this, there are 'silent zones' that includes areas which lie within 100 metres of premises of schools, colleges, hospitals and courts. According to the order, in case of bursting of fire crackers beyond the prescribed limit within premises of any RWA or at a marriage function, the organiser and the owner of the premises will have to pay Rs 20,000 for the first violation.  "For the second violation, the organiser and the owner will have to pay Rs 40,000. For more than two violations within a fixed premises or at a marriage function, the organiser and the owner will have to pay a fine of Rs 1 lakh. The premises will also be sealed," the DPCC order stated. If noise pollution is caused by bursting of crackers beyond a limit at a marriage procession or public and religious rally, the organisers will have to pay Rs 10,000 fine and if it is in a silence zone then the fine will be doubled.  If an individual household bursts crackers in a residential or commercial zone, then the fine will be Rs 1,000. However, it will be Rs 3,000 in case of violation in a silence zone. In case construction equipment emit sound beyond the permissible limit, a fine of Rs 50,000 will be imposed, the order said. DPCC officials said the penalties were revised by the CPCB in 2020 wherein recommendations were made that people have to shell out more money for going beyond noise pollution limits. The DPCC has issued directions to all DMs, SDMs, Delhi Police, and traffic police for strict compliance of these rules.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhiites-to-pay-rs-10000-rs-1-lakh-for-violating-noise-pollution-norms-under-new-rules-1007096.html
10-07-2021||North and Central||3 militants killed in encounter with security forces in J&K's Anantnag district||Three militants were killed in an encounter with security forces in Anantnag district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, police said. Security forces had launched a cordon and search operation in Kwarigam, Ranipora area of the South Kashmir district following inputs about the presence of militants there, a police official said. While the forces were conducting searches in the area the militants fired upon them. The forces retaliated leading to an exchange of fire in which three militants were killed, the official said. One of the slain militants has been identified as Arif Hazam belonging to the terror outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) outfit, he said, adding Hazam was involved in the killing of Territorial Armyman Havaldar Manzoor Beigh in June 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-militants-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces-in-jks-anantnag-district-1007101.html
10-07-2021||North and Central||Hizbul chief's sons among 11 employees terminated by J&K government||Two sons of Pakistan-based Hizbul Mujahideen chief Syed Salahudin were among 11 employees dismissed by Jammu and Kashmir government for their alleged involvement in “anti-national” and “terrorist-related” activities. Sources said the designated committee in J&K for scrutinising and recommending cases under Article 311(2) (c) of the Constitution of India, recommended a total of 11 cases for their dismissal from the government service. They include Shakeel Yousuf Shah, a lab assistant at tertiary-care SKIMS hospital in Srinagar and Shahid Yousuf Shah, extension agriculture officer in Sher-i-Kashmir University of Agriculture Sciences and Technology (SKUAST) for their involvement in alleged terror funding to wage war against India. Both Shakeel and Shahid were arrested in 2017 and 2020 respectively by National Investigation Agency (NIA) in terror funding cases. A policeman, Rashid Shigan, who was allegedly involved in militant activities, has also been terminated from his service. Four employees working in the School Education department were dismissed from service. Earlier on May 20, tainted deputy superintendent of J&K police Davinder Singh, who was chargesheeted by the NIA for providing support to Hizbul militant outfit, was dismissed. Before that, the LG administration had terminated the services of three government employees, including a Naib tehsildar, an assistant professor and a school teacher after a panel identified them as being involved in ‘anti-national’ activities. In April, the J&K government had announced the formation of a Special Task Force (STF) to bring under the scanner government employees allegedly involved in ‘anti-national’ activity. The STF has been empowered to compile records of such employees and refer it to the committee constituted on July 30 last year. There were complaints that government employees, who were allegedly involved in anti-national activities during street protests, instigating people against security forces were neither booked nor FIRs allowed to be filed against them by political governments. In July last year taking note of the situation, the J&K government constituted a panel to scrutinise and recommend cases for dismissal of their services. Sources said social media activities of the employees, even under a fake identity, would also fall in the category of anti-national activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hizbul-chiefs-sons-among-11-employees-terminated-by-jk-government-1007148.html
10-07-2021||North and Central||Punjab BJP expels former state minister Anil Joshi from party for six years||The Punjab BJP on Saturday expelled former state minister Anil Joshi from the party for six years. The action against Joshi came after he gave his reply to a show-cause notice issued by the BJP's state unit for his “anti-party” activities. According to the notice, Joshi had been making statements against the Union government, party's central leadership and policies. Joshi was expelled on the directions of state unit chief Ashwani Sharma, according to a party statement. Joshi did not give up his stubborn attitude of going against the party whereupon state BJP chief Ashwani Sharma on the recommendations of a disciplinary committee expelled him from the primary membership of the party for six years, the statement said. Earlier, in a two-page reply to the show-cause notice, Joshi said he never spoke against the Centre’s farm laws and asked the state party chief if it is indiscipline to talk about farmers. Former Amritsar North MLA asserted that he always spoke about the party's interests. “I neither spoke against the Centre's farm laws nor against central leaders,” Joshi replied. Joshi rather asked Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma whether it was indiscipline to talk about farmers. “Is it indiscipline to talk about 'arhtiyas', industrialists, small traders and labourers?,” he asked. He further said workers are leaving the party and asked the Punjab BJP chief whether giving a suggestion to save the party was indiscipline. Joshi also pointed out that initially, farmers protesting against the farm laws in the state had a few demands that could have been handled had the BJP's Punjab unit made some efforts. Joshi has been blaming the party's state leadership for not giving a correct feedback to the Centre on the farm laws. He had also stated that it had become difficult for party workers to come out of their homes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-bjp-expels-former-state-minister-anil-joshi-from-party-for-six-years-1007149.html
10-07-2021||North and Central||Vedanta's 1980MW Talwandi Sabo plant to be fully operational by month end||Vedanta's Talwandi Sabo Power Ltd (TSPL) on Saturday said that all three units of its 1,980 MW coal-fired thermal power plant in Mansa district of Punjab would be operational by the end of this month. In a statement, it stated that the TSPL engineers are on war footing to rectify a technical snag. "The components have already arrived from China and shall reach the plant within a day. Thanks to CMD, PSPCL to get it cleared early from the customs. It is expected that within next week two units shall be functional and by the end of this month, all the three units will be operational," it added. It stated that the first unit of 660 MW (at the plant) which broke down in March had an unprecedented failure. "This was communicated to PSPCL (Punjab State Power Corporation Limited) and they have been supportive in early restoration. Usually, such technical breakdown takes about a year’s time for restoration, however TSPL has spent manifolds amounts to ensure that the components are delivered within 3-4 months’ time," it said. "In an unprecedented chain of events, the current breakdown of two of our units is unfortunate; restoration of one of these is expected within 48 hours, while the other one might take a little longer. We are targeting all the three units of TSPL to be operational by the end of the month and functional to the full capacity." Punjab is reeling under an unprecedented power shortage leading to unscheduled load shedding in urban and rural areas, amid scorching heat. As part of the measures to deal with the power shortage, the PSPCL has already cut down power supply to the industry including rolling mills and induction furnaces till July 11. Besides, the state government has already directed government offices to function from 8 am till 2 pm till July 10 with a ban on use of air conditioners. TSPL said it fully acknowledges the current power crisis in Punjab and is working hard to rectify the issue at the earliest to help the government and people of Punjab towards mitigating the crisis. While the state is reeling under a tremendous crisis, at TSPL, a team of highly qualified engineers from Korea, BHEL, GE & Siemens are diligently working day and night along with TSPL engineers to identify and rectify the technical snag and towards early restoration of the unit, it said. "One of the major reasons for such frequent breakdown is owing to import coal restrictions and to the challenge in getting import substitute coal from Indian coal mines. This has led to dependence on usage of domestic coal which has high ash content. Despite PSPCL’s support to get supply of import substitute coal, we have not been able to get adequate low ash coal, and high ash content coal results in frequent unit breakdowns," it stated. Vedanta’s Talwandi Sabo Power Limited (TSPL) is a supercritical 1,980 MW world-class thermal power plant at Banawala in Mansa district of Punjab and supplies 100 per cent of the electricity to Punjab State Power Corporation Ltd.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vedantas-1980mw-talwandi-sabo-plant-to-be-fully-operational-by-month-end-1007159.html
10-07-2021||North and Central||76 new Covid-19 cases, one more death in Delhi; positivity rate falls below 0.10%||The national capital recorded 76 fresh Covid-19 cases and one death due to the disease on Saturday, while the city's positivity rate slipped to 0.09 per cent, according to data shared by the health department here. The Covid-19 positivity rate had dropped to 0.11 per cent on Friday from 0.12 per cent the day before when 93 cases and three deaths were recorded in the city. The new fatality pushes the death toll in Delhi to 25,012, according to the latest bulletin. On Tuesday, Delhi had reported 79 cases of the infection and four fatalities. A day later, 93 cases and four deaths were recorded, according to official figures. On Friday, the daily infection tally was 81 and three deaths were recorded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/76-new-covid-19-cases-one-more-death-in-delhi-positivity-rate-falls-below-010-1007160.html
10-07-2021||North and Central||UP block panchayat polls: 'Big victory' for BJP; Opposition slams Yogi government over violence||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday claimed victory in the polls for the posts of the block panchayat chief, amid allegations of violence by the opposition parties. The Opposition has slammed the state government over incidents of violence in the run-up to the polls. Reports of clashes had surfaced from several areas of the state with allegations that candidates backed by opposition parties were not allowed to file nomination papers. However, claiming an outstanding show by the BJP in the polls to the posts of block and district panchayat chiefs, Adityanath said almost 85 per cent seats went in favour of the ruling party. Terming the success an outcome of the teamwork, the chief minister said the BJP and its allies bagged 635 of 825 seats of block panchayat chief on Saturday. Meanwhile, lauding the BJP's win in the elections, Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted that the "big victory" is a reflection of the benefits people have received due to the Yogi Adityanath government's policies and pro-people schemes. All party workers deserve congratulations for this win, he said. The CM also praised the state Election Commission for the “peaceful and fair” polls. Conducting such a massive election process peacefully, in a state where democracy was “mortaged” before professional criminals and mafia on the basis of caste religion and sect, is praiseworthy, he told reporters at the BJP headquarters here. He said it was due to the guidance and inspiration of PM Modi, work was done without discrimination for every sections of society. “The inclination of the people was towards the BJP and I am happy to say that the strategy of the party has yielded this result,” he said. On Saturday, the elections were held for 476 posts of the block panchayat chief as 349 candidates were declared elected unopposed on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-block-panchayat-polls-big-victory-for-bjp-opposition-slams-yogi-government-over-violence-1007169.html
10-07-2021||North and Central||Ram Janmabhoomi trust general secretary meets RSS chief in Chitrakoot||Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust general secretary Champat Rai, battling allegations of corruption in purchasing additional land in Ayodhya, met RSS sarsanghchalak Mohan Bhagwat and a prominent Hindu seer, who told him to maintain transparency in the construction of the Ram Temple, here in Madhya Pradesh, sources said on Saturday. Rai left for Ayodhya on Saturday after meeting Jagadguru Rambhadracharya, a renowned Hindu spiritual leader. Bhagwat had called on the jagadguru on Wednesday. Rai came down to Chitrakoot on Thursday evening from Ayodhya. He met the Sangh chief during his stay, sources said, adding Ram Temple issue came up for discussion between the two. Bhagwat is currently attending a four-day brainstorming meeting of RSS 'pracharaks' (full-time workers) at Chitrakoot in Madhya Pradesh's Satna district which began on Friday. During the last three days, Rai had visited many Hindu spiritual leaders in Chitrakoot spread over areas in MP and Uttar Pradesh where Lord Rama and Sita are believed to have spent most of their 14-year exile. AAP leader Sanjay Singh and former SP MLA from Ayodhya Pawan Pandey had recently alleged that a piece of land worth Rs 2 crore was purchased by the Shriram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust in Ayodhya at an inflated price of Rs 18.5 crore. The Trust had denied the allegations. "Rambhadracharya congratulated Rai on the ongoing construction of the Ram Temple. He also told Rai that Ayodhya should turn into the centre of devotion for the world and not the centre of controversies. The Jagadguru also told Rai that transparency should be there in the construction of the temple," Acharya Ramchandra Das, the successor of Rambhadracharya told PTI. The meeting between Rai, also vice president of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad, and the jagadguru, the founder chancellor of the Jagadguru Rambhadracharya Handicapped University in Chitrakoot, lasted for around 30 minutes before the former left for Ayodhya, he said. According to Das, Bhagwat and the jagadguru had met for nearly two hours on Wednesday. Rai didn't take calls made on his mobile phone for reaction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ram-janmabhoomi-trust-general-secretary-meets-rss-chief-in-chitrakoot-1007171.html
10-07-2021||North and Central||Monsoon expected to hit Delhi on Sunday; rain, thundershowers likely||The southwest monsoon gave its date with Delhi a miss on Saturday and is now expected to hit the national capital in the next 24 hours, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said here. The weather department has predicted cloudy skies with one or two spells of rain or thundershowers on Sunday. The easterly winds have made conditions favourable for the advancement of the southwest monsoon and it is likely to cover parts of north India, including Delhi, Haryana and Punjab, in a day, it said. "Hence, the conditions continue to remain favourable for further advancement of southwest monsoon over Delhi, remaining parts of west Uttar Pradesh and some more parts of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan during the next 24 hours," the IMD added. On Friday, the weather office had predicted that the monsoon would reach the national capital on Saturday, 13 days after its usual date of June 27. This will be the most-delayed monsoon in Delhi in the last 15 years. According to Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, the monsoon had reached the capital on July 7 in 2012 and July 9 in 2006. In 2002, Delhi had received its first monsoonal showers on July 19. The most delayed monsoon arrival in the city was recorded in 1987 on July 26, he had said. The maximum and the minimum temperatures of Delhi on Saturday settled at 39.8 degrees Celsius, four degrees above normal, and 28.6 degrees Celsius, a notch above normal, respectively. Relative humidity recorded at 5.30 pm was 47 per cent, the Met said. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed that Delhi's hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7.05 pm was 96. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/monsoon-expected-to-hit-delhi-on-sunday-rain-thundershowers-likely-1007187.html
10-07-2021||North and Central||Farmers clash with police in Haryana's Yamunanagar||A group of farmers on Saturday clashed with police when they tried to force their way through barricades to head towards a venue where Haryana minister Mool Chand Sharma was to come. Some farmers and police personnel received minor injuries in the incident. Later, protesting farmers were detained by police. Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma was to address a party meeting at Jagadhari in Yamunanagar. When farmers protesting against the Centre's three farm laws came to know about the arrival of the minister, they started heading towards the venue of the meeting. Police personnel were deployed and barricades were also put to prevent farmers from going towards the meeting hall. However, farmers tried to remove barricades with the help of tractors. Some farmers carrying black flags even climbed the barricades while being adamant on holding a protest against the minister. A protester said they had warned the state authorities beforehand not to allow the BJP's programme but despite that they decided to hold the same. Meanwhile, farmers held protests in Hisar against Haryana BJP chief O P Dhankar and state minister Kamlesh Dhanda in Jind. Farmers are protesting against leaders of the BJP-JJP alliance in Haryana over the Centre' three farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-clash-with-police-in-haryanas-yamunanagar-1007189.html
10-07-2021||North and Central||Services on Delhi Metro Pink Line to be curtailed from July 12-15 due to OHE work on a section||Delhi Metro services on the Pink Line will be curtailed from July 12-15 on account of interlinking work of overhead equipment (OHE) on its yet to be opened section between Mayur Vihar Pocket-1 and Trilokpuri Sanjay Lake stations, officials said on Saturday. Civil work on a small stretch of non-operational segment on the Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar corridor was recently completed, thus physically bridging the long-standing gap on the 58 km-long metro line. The Pink Line spans 38 stations. However, a small portion in east Delhi's Trilokpuri area had proved a bottleneck for the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) authorities for a long time, due to which, the line remained disjointed for some distance there. The total length of the stretch which "remains to be linked is 289 metre", according to the Delhi Metro. "Due to OHE interlinking work on the section between Mayur Vihar Pocket-1 and Trilokpuri Sanjay Lake, Metro services will NOT be available between IP Extension and Trilokpuri stations, and between Mayur Vihar Ph-I and Mayur Vihar Pocket-1 stations from July 12-15," the DMRC said in a statement.  Also, Mandawali, West Vinod Nagar, East Vinod Nagar, Mayur Vihar Ph-II, Trilokpuri and Mayur Vihar Pocket-1 stations will be closed in this period, it said. Train services during these days on the Pink Line will continue to run as usual from Majlis Park to Mayur Vihar Phase-I section and from IP Extension to Maujpur/Shiv Vihar section, the statement said. Services will be regulated in view of the work to be undertaken on the unoperationalised section, officials said. "First and last train timings from the modified terminal stations for this period (i.e. Mayur Vihar Phase-I and IP Extension) will remain unchanged during this period," it said. Announcements will also be made at the stations and inside the trains on the Pink Line about the modified destination of trains during this period, the officials said. Normal train services on the corridor will be resumed as per the present practice from July 16 onwards, the DMRC said. The Pink Line was opened in multiple phases in 2018. And, all station on the line have been opened. This corridor will further be extended from Majlis Park to Maujpur in Phase-IV, making it the longest single metro corridor in India at approximately 70 km. After completion of the Phase-IV, the Pink Line will also become the only Ring Corridor of Metro in the country, the DMRC had earlier said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/services-on-delhi-metro-pink-line-to-be-curtailed-from-july-12-15-due-to-ohe-work-on-a-section-1007208.html
10-07-2021||Opinion||India's Co-WIN redemption||The offer by India this week to the world to utilise its open-source technology platform in keeping track of vaccination drive is a move through which New Delhi should be able to wrest back, through the digital route, the initiative in the global fight against Covid-19. As countries around the globe embarked upon the inoculation drive or getting ready to launch one to protect their people from the scourge, India on Monday hosted a global conference to showcase CoWIN.  The indigenously developed software platform helps people in the country get the jab. Signalling recalibration of India's contribution to the worldwide effort mounted in the fight against the virus, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told the conclave: "Technology is integral to our fight against Covid-19. Luckily, the software is one area in which there are no resource constraints. That's why we made our Covid tracking and tracing App open source as soon as it was technically feasible. With nearly 200 million users, this 'Aarogya Setu' app is a readily available package for developers. Having been used in India, you can be sure that it has been tested in the real world for speed and scale". The development is a subtle shift in the strategy to be among the nations working shoulder to shoulder, cooperating with health authorities and contributing according to its ability after putting on hold "Vaccine Maitri". The Ministry of External Affairs website shows that before calling a halt to Vaccine Maitri, India supplied slightly over 66 million doses to 93 countries besides UN Health Workers and Peacekeepers between January and April this year. These were under grants, contributions under the WHO-mandated Covax and some 35 million under commercial obligations of the vaccine manufacturers. As the intensity of the second wave of Covid19 started to overwhelm, the scenario altered with India having to depend on other countries for supplies, including life-saving oxygen and medicines. At one time, India took the lead in offering life-saving medicines, medical supplies, personal protection kits and most essential vaccines to countries during the first wave. This scenario altered dramatically when the second wave hit with unprecedented intensity. Meanwhile, China, whose role in the pandemic continues to be a subject of discussion in several world capitals, stepped up to augment vaccines along with other supplies. Towards the end of June, China contributed 450 million vaccines produced by Sinopharm and Sinovac, with Beijing stating that to date, over 100 countries approved Chinese vaccines and the WHO including these into its Emergency Use Listing. China said over 30 foreign leaders took the lead in getting administered the Chinese vaccine jab while discounting doubts over its efficacy. New Delhi's initiative is an effort to recreate space and regenerate goodwill when many countries, especially the lesser-developed economies and neighbouring countries, are exploring supplies to vaccinate their people. Around two decades ago, when the world was worried about computer systems crashes due to the Y2K bug, Indian software developers were among the pioneers who showed the way to tide over the anticipated crisis. Now offering the open-source application for all the countries in the world, India takes a march in providing a technology-driven solution for countries to keep a record of the vaccination drive and eliminate physical documentation. Once again, this should demonstrate that India, known for its prowess to develop software and a leading supplier in the world, occupies a high perch in this field. With the world preparing to re-open places for people to travel for work or leisure, countries are discussing methods to verify those vaccinated. The Green Pass plan of the European Union is one such case in point. It created a controversy in India over the non-recognition of the Covishield vaccine, which most Indians are taking. Some countries have come out with amendments while discussions to deal with the situation on a diplomatic plane are on. Appraising the virtual conclave of the features, PM Modi underscored that the digital approach is needed if the globalised world has to return to normalcy in the post-pandemic period. To prove they are vaccinated, people would have to carry safe, secure, and trustworthy proof with relevant details of when, where, and who gave the required dosages.Representatives of 142 countries, the European Union Commission and the UN, including Ministers from Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Guyana and the Maldives, attended the July 5 conclave where India offered countries a customisable software. (The writer is a Delhi-based journalist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/indias-co-win-redemption-1006995.html
10-07-2021||Right in the Middle||Dancing with dudes||In the pandemic, while the youngsters should conserve energy and enthusiasm to build a better, pleasant and promising future, the old can use this indoor time to hark back on the pleasant memories of the past. Here is one such pleasant instance. During my itinerant years working as an auditor at a prestigious bank, I had to once stay put in the town of Kundapura for a few days. Flaunting my literary pretensions, I took time off on a Sunday to visit Dr Shivarama Karanth, the versatile Kannada litterateur, who was then camping at a nearby place. Two of my young colleagues followed me in tow. On reaching the place, we were ushered into a large hall, where Dr Karanth, sporting his familiar moustache and the mane of longish grey hair neatly combed back, and surrounded by about a dozen boys and girls, was rehearsing for a Yakshagaana ballet. Nervous and fidgety, we saluted the celebrity writer, trying to articulate a few words of greetings to him. Informal as ever, the great man of many parts answered us with a few words, even as he continued to dance around with his deft, measured steps, directing his pupils. The veteran writer then turned to his juvenile minions and bade them: “ You see we have guests! Some of you welcome them, and accord them the usual courtesies.” A boy and a girl soon sprang to their feet. Enacting the role of pious householders, they started cavorting around with their dancing steps, supplicated us by gestures of welcome, and mimicked the acts of offering seats, water or coffee to drink. They mimed making inquiries like “Where do you come from? And why? Whom do you want to meet, so on, so forth.” And offering a repast to us, striking poses and gestures. Our distinguished host then turned to us, and hollered: “Hey, you dudes! Why are you sitting glumly; glued to your seats? Do respond, my friends” His prompting proved to be most effective. My young companions jumped to their feet instantly and started ecstatically capering around all across the place, making all manner of hilarious gesticulations. Our veteran host then turned to me, and struck a dancing posture: “Now, how about you, my dear sir!” I did rise to my feet. Being an old slowcoach, however, I do not know whether I danced or dithered. The childlike spirit of all the mime was unalloyed frolic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/dancing-with-dudes-1006964.html
10-07-2021||Second Edit||A country of contradictions||The findings of a survey conducted by Pew Research Centre on religion and related public sentiments in India provide insights on a country of contradictions. The survey interviewed some 30,000 respondents in 17 languages across the country in 2019-20. The sample did not represent the relative size of the communities correctly and there are not many details about the income, caste or rural/urban status of the respondents. So, there could be some margin of error, but the conclusions are interesting. The survey shows that India remains an overwhelmingly religious country, with most people claiming to belong to one religion or another, and with most of them, irrespective of religious affiliations, identifying themselves with particular castes. This is true across the nation and for all categories of people, including the educated sections. Most respondents believe they have the freedom to practise their respective religion in the country and say tolerance for other religions is important. While this is true, most also oppose marrying outside their respective religions and many even outside their castes. Most people would prefer to live with only co-religionists as neighbours. Inter-religious conversions are not large in number and no community is a major gainer or loser. Only a minority says there is caste discrimination, and a similar minority says there is discrimination against Muslims. There are also some in both groups who think there is discrimination against Hindus. The preferences in social interaction are similar in the case of all communities. The survey has also thrown up linkages between religion, language and nationalism, and even revealed a political dimension. More than half the Hindus in the survey, especially in the North, said their religion is a marker of nationhood. Many link Hindi to nationalism. Many of them also support the BJP. A large number of respondents endorse political intervention in matters of faith. About half of them support authoritarian rule. The overall picture that emerges from the survey is of a religious country with a high degree of tolerance. But there are exclusionary proclivities in social life. The survey points to a linkage in the minds of people between the Hindu religious identity and the national identity. But essentially, through the welter of views, it points to contradictions and divergences in the national mind that have been noted before. Even the idea of religion is different in the country, and a Hindu could mean multiple identities. Faith and the lack of it, attachment and renunciation, association and dissociation, segregation and socialisation and other dualities and diversities have creatively existed and interacted in the country and shaped its inclusive culture. That culture has been secular and will continue to be the mainstay of national life.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/a-country-of-contradictions-1006971.html
10-07-2021||South||IMD issues Red Alert for rainfall in Kerala's Kannur, Kasargod districts||The meteorological department on Saturday issued a Red alert on July 11 for Kannur and Kasaragod districts in Kerala predicting extremely heavyrainfall. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has also issued an Orange alert on Sunday for Wayanad, Kozhikode and Malappuram districts and a Yellow alert for Palakkad, Thrissur, Idukki and Ernakulam districts. Meanwhile, an Orange alert for Saturday was issued for the districts of Kottayam, Idukki, Malappuram, Kozhikode and Kannur and a Yellow alert has been sounded for the districts of Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta. According to the IMD website, Kottayam received 15 cms of rain till 10 AM on Saturday while Thiruvananthapuram district received 1.7 cm of rainfall and Ernakulam received 10.7 cms. "Strong wind with speed reaching 40-50 Kmph gusting to 60 Kmph likely along and off Kerala coast. Fishermen are advised not to venture into these sea areas during the period mentioned," said a weather warning issued for fishermen for Kerala coast for the next four days beginning from July 10 to 13. A Red alert indicates heavy to extremely heavy rains of over 20 cm in 24 hours, while Orange alert means very heavy rains from 6 cm to 20 cm of rains. A yellow alert means heavy rainfall between 6 to 11 cm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/imd-issues-red-alert-for-rainfall-in-keralas-kannur-kasargod-districts-1007046.html
10-07-2021||South||15 Zika virus cases so far in Kerala||One more person has been infected with the Zika virus in Kerala, taking the total number of cases in the state to 15. Health minister Veena George said the samples of a 40-year-old man from Nanthancode here were sent to the National Institute of Virology at Alappuzhaand found to be positive for the vector-borne infection. So far 14 people from Thiruvananthapuram have tested positive for Zika. Samples of 17 people sent earlier were negative and in the second batch of 27 samples, one has tested positive, the minister said in a press statement. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said Zika has been reported in Kerala and it was not unexpected as it is spread by the Aedes Aegypte mosquitoes, which causes dengue and Chikungunya. Vector control units at the district and state level would be further strengthened, he told reporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/15-zika-virus-cases-so-far-in-kerala-1007077.html
10-07-2021||State||15 years on, law catches up with officials in bank challan case||It took 15 years for the Department of Stamps & Registration to act against eight officials, including four sub-registrars, for allegedly causing losses to the state exchequer by fudging bank challans. Three of them have since retired and one is dead.  The department has dismissed four officials for irregularities while serving at sub-registrar offices in Mandya district in 2006. The accused include Sringeri sub-registrar H N Cheluvaraju, who had recently filed a complaint against alleged hawala transactions at sub-registrar offices. The other officials suspended are sub-registrars S N Prabha and second division assistants (SDA) A C Sunanda and Leelavathi. Others named in the case include senior sub-registrar P V Veeraraje Urs (deceased), retired sub-registrars M Umesh, C Vijaya and SDA Srinivasulu. According to the order issued by Inspector-General of Stamps and Commissioner for Registration K P Mohan Raj, action was initiated based on a complaint registered against the officials in 2006. They were accused of fudging challans of property registration payments liable to the state for personal gains. The seven officials — save the deceased — were found to have fudged a total of 153 challans resulting in losses to the tune of Rs 14-15 lakh to the government. Following the alleged fraud, retired judge B Rangaswamy who was appointed to investigate, submitted an enquiry report in 2009. An FIR was also filed against the eight officials atMandya. Though disciplinary action was initiated against the officials that year under the provisions of Karnataka Civil Service Rules, 1959, the accused had approached the Karnataka Administrative Tribunal, seeking a stay against the order issued by the Department. Their petitions were disposed of last year, and the department has issued the suspension order along with penal provisions that allow for imprisonment of up to four years. Cheluvaraju had created a stir earlier this year after filing a complaint with Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar over alleged hawala transactions at sub-registrar offices. He had also written to the Home Department seeking a probe into the alleged irregularities documented by him while serving at the Sringeri sub-registrar office in Chikkamagaluru district. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/15-years-on-law-catches-up-with-officials-in-bank-challan-case-1006939.html
10-07-2021||State||BJP MP welcomes disgruntled Kerala firm Kitex Garments to Karnataka||Kerala-based garment manufacturer Kitex Garments has been invited by Minister of State for Entrepreneurship and Electronics Rajeev Chandrasekhar to invest in Karnataka. The move came close on the heels of Kitex Group locking horns with Kerala Government alleging harassment and withdrawing a Rs 3,500 crore investment proposal. The group also announced a Rs 1,000 crore investment in Telangana after being welcomed by the Telangana government on Friday. Chandrasekhar, who is Rajya Sabha MP from Karnataka, said in a tweet that he spoke to Kitex Garments managing director Sabu Jacob and offered opportunity to invest in Karnataka with support of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. Yediyurappa, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP president J P Nadda were among those tagged in the tweet. Spoke to Mr Sabu Jacob of Kitex and offered him all support for his industry that provides employment to thousands of Malayalees in Kerala. Meanwhile, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan alleged that the statements of Kitex Group managing director that Kerala was not investor friendly was a planned move to defame Kerala. In a damage control attempt, Vijayan also pointed out various surveys that projected Kerala as investor friendly. He also listed many measures taken by his government including single window clearance facilities for ease of doing business in Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bjp-mp-welcomes-disgruntled-kerala-firm-kitex-garments-to-karnataka-1007183.html
10-07-2021||State||Karnataka prepared for Covid-19 3rd wave: BSY||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said on Saturday that the state government was prepared to tackle the likely third wave of the Covid pandemic. Speaking at a programme, he said that the government had effectively tackled the second wave of the Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-prepared-for-covid-19-3rd-wave-bsy-1007205.html
10-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka’s skills training dropped 51% due to pandemic||Not just that, the pandemic might have impacted placements for candidates who were trained. According to government data, a total of 49,146 people were trained for various job roles in 2019-20. In the pandemic-hit 2020-21, the number of trained people came down to 23,845 - a 51% decrease.  This is based on the skills training data from the Chief Minister’s Kaushalya Karnataka Yojane (CMKKY) and the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY). Three-fifths of those who got trained last year are women for roles such as data entry operators, beauty therapists, field technicians, tailors, retail sales associates and so on.  “A majority of the skills training started in December 2020 and January 2021 after the Centre came out with standard operating procedures,” Karnataka Skill Development Corporation Managing Director Ashwin Gowda told DH.  It is not yet clear if all those who underwent training have been placed. “Our training partners are supposed to place the candidates within three months. We are monitoring and following-up with the training partners,” Gowda said. In the current 2021-22 financial year, the government has a target of training 34,000 people under CMKKY whereas the Centre is yet to fix a number under the PMKVY.  The government is now refurbishing its Skills Connect portal to push up hiring activity for skilled workers.  “There were uncertainties over the past year. Only big companies could recruit through Skill Connect whereas non-formal, medium-scale companies couldn’t. We have to make an aggressive effort now to push recruitment,” Skill Development, Entrepreneurship and Livelihood Secretary S Selvakumar told DH.  The Skill Connect portal - skillconnect.kaushalkar.com - is branded as a networking platform that pairs up companies with certified skilled workers.  “We are simplifying the portal,” Gowda said. “We received feedback from the candidates that the registration process was difficult. In the new set-up, we need candidates to enter basic details and their areas of interest,” he said.  In the wake of the pandemic, the department is conducting virtual job fairs and “they are happening every day,” Gowda said. So far, 5,743 candidates have registered in these job fairs, 2,889 have been interviewed, 1,895 shortlisted and 1,225 have job offers.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-s-skills-training-dropped-51-due-to-pandemic-1006932.html
10-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||8 lakh college students, staffers vaccinated against Covid-19 in Karnataka||As many as eight lakh students out of 21 lakh (38 per cent) college students, teachers and non-teaching staff across Karnataka have so far have been vaccinated according to the government. The government had however previously said that the health department plans to vaccinate everyone in this category with the first dose by July first week, subject to availability of vaccines. Among these, students are less than 15 lakh in number. Director of National Health Mission Dr Arundhathi Chandrasekhar, in a public service announcement on Friday said, "Colleges have not been functional for the past one year. This has been very difficult for students. To reopen colleges, we have started special vaccination drives on college premises where the target population is 21 lakh including supporting staff out of whom eight lakh have been vaccinated. In the coming days, based on vaccine availability, we will vaccinate more priority groups." As per BBMP zone-wise data provided by DCM and Higher Education Minister Ashwath Narayan's office, as on July 8, 51.12 per cent of 62,255 students and staff in government degree and aided degree colleges have been vaccinated. Out of vaccinated individuals, 2,518 are staff and 31,147 are students. In government degree and aided degree colleges in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Dharwad, Mangaluru, Shivamogga and Kalaburagi regions, out of 5,20,040 students and staff, 3,48,521 have been vaccinated which is 67 per cent. Chamarajanagar district has achieved an impressive 97 per cent vaccination coverage among students and staffers of colleges. Out of 8,409 students, teaching and non-teaching staff in colleges across five taluks of Chamarajanagar, Gundlupet, Kollegal, Hanur, and Yelandur, 8,136 have been vaccinated, said district immunisation officer Dr Visweswaraiah KM. Districts like Chikkabalapur, which is the health minister's home turf, and Chitradurga have achieved a vaccination coverage of 80 per cent and 63 per cent respectively among college students and staffers. Chikkabalapur district immunisation officer Dr Chennakeshava Reddy said out of 26,561 students and staff, across 57 colleges in six taluks, only 5,397 were yet to be vaccinated. However, a majority of them had already gotten jabbed and only 9,134 were vaccinated at vaccination sites in college premises. "10,669 students and 1,361 staff were already vaccinated in Bagepalli, Chikkabalapur, Chinthamani, Gowribidanur, Gudibande and Sidlagatta taluks," he said. Chitradurga has 53 degree colleges, 64 ITI colleges and eight polytechnic colleges. Out of 27,000 students and staff 16,000 are vaccinated, according to district immunisation officer Dr PC Kumaraswamy. Kodagu district immunisation officer Dr Neelesh MN told DH, 81.9 per cent of students and staff had been vaccinated so far. "As per information from colleges, our target is 9,603 out of which 7,866 have been vaccinated."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/8-lakh-college-students-staffers-vaccinated-against-covid-19-in-karnataka-1007001.html
10-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Intensify surveillance for Zika on war footing: Karnataka health commissioner to districts||In view of Zika Virus Disease (ZVD) being reported in the neighbouring state of Kerala, Health Commissioner Dr KV Trilok Chandra in a circular issued on Friday asked districts to intensify vector control measures across Karnataka on a war footing. Border districts like Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, and Chamarajanagar should be more vigilant, he said. "The current monsoon season supports the widespread proliferation of Aedes mosquito, which is a vector; for Zika Virus Disease. Considering the prevalence of Aedes aegypti in Karnataka, which is a vector of Dengue, Chikungunya as well as Zika, the routine surveillance activity in rural areas by ASHAs and health assistants, and fortnightly surveillance activity in urban wards should be implemented on a war-footing with strict monitoring and supervision," said Chandra in his circular. Effective disposal of solid waste should be given due importance to prevent Aedes breeding in domestic situations, he said. "Aedes larval surveillance and source reduction activities in airports, sea ports/ harbour and in villages/ wards in two km vicinity should be carried out," he added. ZVD presents with symptoms like fever, rashes, conjunctivitis, and joint pain. "Travel history or visit of guests may also be considered for suspecting ZVD. The samples collected from suspected cases should be sent to National Institute of Virology (NIV), Bengaluru for testing," Chandra said. During ultrasound scanning for pregnant women, due focus should be given for presence of Microcephaly. Data regarding deliveries at both private and government hospitals should be captured weekly. This includes deliveries at general hospitals, community health centres, primary health centres and home deliveries. Details of the babies born with Microcephaly have to be reported. Serum samples of both the mother and the newborn should be sent to NIV Bengaluru. "Ensure availability of logistics such as adulticide and larvicide at all levels, up to village level," Chandra said. Suggested measures: — Vector surveillance both for adult and larvae — Vector management through environmental modification/ manipulation — Adopt personal protection measures — Biological and chemical control at household, community and institutional level||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/intensify-surveillance-for-zika-on-war-footing-karnataka-health-commissioner-to-districts-1007003.html
10-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||D K Shivakumar slaps man for trying to put arms around him, BJP calls him a 'rowdy'||The BJP on Saturday dubbed Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar a “rowdy” after a video went viral showing him slapping a man who had his arms around him.  The incident took place Friday at KM Doddi in Mandya where Shivakumar went to visit veteran politician G Madegowda who is ailing.  The 50-second video that was widely shared on social media shows Shivakumar slapping a party worker and then chiding him. “You should be responsible,” Shivakumar is heard telling him, before asking cameramen there to delete the footage.  “Being the president of a national party, it is unforgivable to publicly assault a man,” the BJP said in a tweet with the hashtag #RowdyDKS in Kannada. “If D K Shivakumar can attack a party worker for having come close to him, what will happen to commoners? Are you trying to become the brand ambassador of hit-and-slap politics?” the BJP tweeted.  The BJP also tweeted past video clips that show Shivakumar slapping supporters and party workers trying to take a selfie.  BJP national general secretary C T Ravi, in a tweet, pointed out Shivakumar’s past association with notorious Bengaluru don Kotwal Ramachandra. “If this is how the “former shishya" (disciple) of Kotwal Ramachandra treats his party worker, one can imagine what he would do with others. Have you given DKS the "licence for violence",” Ravi asked Congress leader Rahul Gandhi.  If this is how the "former shishya" of Kotwal Ramachandra treats his party worker, one can imagine what he would do with Others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/d-k-shivakumar-slaps-man-for-trying-to-put-arms-around-him-bjp-calls-him-a-rowdy-1007079.html
10-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt ready for debate on any issue in Monsoon Session of Parliament: Pralhad Joshi||Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi on Saturday stated that more than 20 Bills, including five ordinances would be tabled in the monsoon session of the Parliament which would commence on July 19. "The government is ready for structured debate on any issue in the session. A meeting of floor leaders of all parties is called on July 18, under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi," he said. "Dr Harsh Vardhan and others were dropped from the Cabinet not due to poor performance, but to give opportunity to new faces. Arranging vaccines for the entire population in the country at a time is humanly impossible, and vaccines are being given in a phased manner. More vaccines are being supplied to those states where vaccines have exhausted," Joshi noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-ready-for-debate-on-any-issue-in-monsoon-session-of-parliament-pralhad-joshi-1007113.html
10-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||2,162 new Covid-19 cases, 48 deaths reported in Karnataka||Karnataka reported 2,162 new Covid-19 cases and 48 deaths on Saturday, taking infection tally to 28,69,320 and the toll to 35,779. In keeping with the trend, recoveries outnumbered fresh cases as 2,879 discharges on Saturday swelled the numbers to 27,96,377. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 1.48%, same as Friday's, the case fatality rate (CFR) was 2.22%. As on July 10, the state has 37,141 active carriers of the virus.Bengaluru Urban registered 452 fresh infections while Dakshina Kannada and Mysuru accounted for 218 and 211 cases respectively. Hassan and Udupi also reported cases in three figures with 178 and 113 cases. Of the new fatalities reported on Friday, Dakshina Kannada accounted for 9 followed by Belagavi 6, Bengaluru Urban 5 and Mandya and Kolar 4 each. As many as 1,45,666 samples were tested for Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the testing tally in the state to 3,57,75,720.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/2162-new-covid-19-cases-48-deaths-reported-in-karnataka-1007172.html
10-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Siddaramaiah plans campaign on caste census report||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Saturday held talks with a backward classes delegation on mounting pressure on the government to accept the socio-economic survey, which is better known as the caste census.  The delegation that met Siddaramaiah consisted of former backward classes commission chairpersons C S Dwarakanath and H Kantharaj, MLC P R Ramesh, former MLC M C Venugopal, former Kannada Development Authority chairperson Mukhyamantri Chandru, Kurubara Sangha general secretary D Venkatesh Murthy and others.  The caste census, officially the Social and Educational Survey 2015, was commissioned by the then Siddaramaiah-led Congress government. The report of the census, on which the state government has spent about Rs 167 crore, is currently with the Karnataka State Backward Classes Commission.  The report is yet to be made public as successive governments are said to be wary of a backlash from upper castes whose numerical strength may get altered.  According to sources, Siddaramaiah is planning to take this up in a big way. He will soon write to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, urging him to accept the caste census report. He is also discussing a massive rally in favour of the caste census, sources said.  By doing this, Siddaramaiah, a Kuruba, will look to consolidate the Ahinda, the Kannada acronym for minorities, backward classes and Dalits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/siddaramaiah-plans-campaign-on-caste-census-report-1007207.html
10-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Jarkiholi does U-turn on threat to quit||MLA Ramesh Jarkiholi said on Saturday that he had reconsidered his decision to quit as the Gokak MLA. He said the resignation issue was now a closed chapter and he decided not to resign as MLA, after seers and well-wishers advised him against it. Jarkiholi told reporters at Ankalgi village in Gokak taluk that earlier he had told everyone that he would resign as Gokak MLA as a section of BJP leaders had ‘conspired’ against him. “Now, I have decided not to resign as per the advice of seers, elders and well-wishers,” he added. Jarkiholi denied that he was now alone and that his friends’ group had ditched him. The former minister said that this notion was wrong as he himself had not met his friends since he was busy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/jarkiholi-does-u-turn-on-threat-to-quit-1007209.html
10-07-2021||West||Aadhaar helps 18-year-old mentally-challenged man reunite with family after gap of 10 years||An 18-year-old mentally-challenged man, who had gone missing at the age of eight years from Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh and started living in Maharashtra’s Nagpur, was reunited with his family with the help of his Aadhaar details, an official said on Saturday. Before he went missing in 2011, his family members had got his Aadhaar registration done, which now helped in tracing them, he said. The man was handed over to his biological parents on June 30, said Samarth Damle, who looked after him all these years as a family member. Damle used to run an orphanage at Panchsheel Nagar in Nagpur, which was closed down in 2015. “The boy was found at the railway station when he was around eight years old. He was brought to our orphanage by the police,” Damle told PTI. “He is mentally-challenged and is unable to speak properly. We named him Aman as he could only utter ‘Amma Amma’. He stayed in the orphanage till 2015. But after the facility shut down, Aman had no one to look after him, so we brought him home and since then he had been living with us as a family member. I have one daughter and a son,” he added. Aman was also admitted to a local school and he studied in Class X this year, Damle said. “The school needed his Aadhaar card details. I tried to register his name for Aadhaar, but it used to get rejected due to the biometric issues. After that, I approached the UIDAI office in Nagpur's Mankapur area, where the centre manager found that Aman’s Aadhaar registration had already been done and his real name was Mohammed Aamir, which ultimately helped us in tracing his family,” he added. Talking to PTI, centre manager of Aadhaar Seva Kendra in Mankapur, Anil Marathe, said that Damle had approached his office for Aman’s Aadhaar registration on June 3. “We tried to register his name several times, but due to the biometric issues it was not happening. So, with the help of UIDAI's tehnical centre in Bengaluru and the regional office in Mumbai, we were successful in getting his Aadhaar details based on his biometric details,” he said. It was found that his Aadhaar registration had been done in 2011 in Jabalpur and his real name was Mohammed Aamir, he added. “The photos of Aman and Mohammed Aamir also matched,” Marathe said. He said Damle told him that Aman was found at the railway station 10 years back and had been living as his family member. “So with Damle’s consent, I contacted my old friends in Jabalpur, who with the help of locals, found out Aman’s real parents living in Hanumantal area of Jabalpur. After that, both the families spoke over phone,” he said. Aamir's parents, who run a food stall in Jabalpur, visited the Damle family in Nagpur and after following all the procedures, he was handed over to them on June 30, Marathe added. "I feel blessed that I could help in reuniting Aman with his biological parents," he said. Damle said that although it was hard for him and his family to hand over Aman to his parents, they were also happy for their reunion. “Aman’s family members said they were grateful and also told us that we are welcome to meet him anytime,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aadhaar-helps-18-year-old-mentally-challenged-man-reunite-with-family-after-gap-of-10-years-1007039.html
10-07-2021||West||Patole’s phone-tapping allegation came nearly two years after MVA govt's formation: BJP leader||Maharashtra BJP MLA Ashish Shelar sought to know why state Congress chief Nana Patole took nearly two years to level the phone-tapping allegation against the previous Devendra Fadnavis government, even as the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) dispensation in the state was formed in November 2019. Congress is part of the three-party MVA government led by Uddhav Thackeray. Patole had earlier alleged that his phone was tapped in 2017 when the Fadnavis-led government was at the helm. He levelled the same allegation during the recently-held monsoon session of the state legislature. He said his phone was tapped on the pretext that it belonged to a drug peddler. The state government has now formed a three-member committee to probe Patole's phone-tapping allegation. Speaking to a regional news channel, Shelar said, “Patole has levelled the allegation that his phone calls were tapped by the previous Fadnavis government. However, he has made the allegation two years after the formation of the MVA government. What was he doing in the last two years?” The BJP leader quipped that Patole keeps passing amusing comments. Shelar was among 12 MLAs who were suspended from the Assembly for one year for alleged misbehavior with presiding officer Bhaskar Jadhav in the Speaker's chamber during the recent monsoon session. Talking about it, Shelar said, “Sena leader Bhaskar Jadhav was known to us as an honest, hard working leader from Konkan region. I also come from the same region. However, his image is now maligned with his own act of suspending 12 BJP MLAs from the assembly.” The BJP leader alleged that current government in the state is appointing administrators on various co-operative housing societies, where its management bodies are embroiled in disputes. “These administrators are supposed to facilitate the residents to set up new management body. Instead, they are involved in entering into building redevelopment agreement with a builders, where the latter's interest is protected instead of the flat owners. There are at least Rs 2,000 crore worth deals are taking place in Mumbai city alone at the moment,” he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/patole-s-phone-tapping-allegation-came-nearly-two-years-after-mva-govts-formation-bjp-leader-1007062.html
10-07-2021||West||Gujarat: Two Congress MLAs, several workers detained for protests over fuel price hike, inflation||Two Congress MLAs in Gujarat and several party workers were detained on Saturday for carrying out agitations against the central government over inflation and fuel price, at different locations in the state as part of the party’s nationwide protest on these issues, police said. The opposition party in Gujarat held the protests at Amreli, Junagadh and other parts of the state. Leader of Opposition in Gujarat Assembly, Paresh Dhanani, was detained along with 25 party workers after he led a cycle rally in his constituency Amerli, a police official said. The protestors carried empty gas cylinders and placards, which stated that the BJP government's policies have resulted in inflation, hike in fuel cost and also in the prices of other household items. They said that all these things are causing hardships to people, who are already hit by coronavirus pandemic. In Junagadh, Congress legislator Bhikhabhai Joshi was among over a dozen local party leaders and workers who were detained for taking out a protest march. The MLA was pulling a hand cart with an empty gas cylinder, another police official said. Protestors carried placards with slogans that read ‘People suffer due to price rise, but government remains indifferent’ and ‘Enough of inflation, now where is the Modi government?’ Joshi said, "It appears that democracy is finished, and police are being used to suppress people's voices. Common man is already suffering due to the coronavirus pandemic, and he is being made to suffer due to the sharp rise in the price of petrol, diesel, edible oil, and everything of daily use. Where is (PM Narendra) Modi now, who as Gujarat chief minister used to protest when petrol price went up even by 5 paise?" The party launched a countrywide agitational programme on July 7 against the rising inflation and the increase in the fuel prices, which will continue till July 17. The party said that since May 2, the government has hiked the fuel rates 29 times and the price of petrol has crossed Rs 100 per litre in more than 150 cities. The price of edible oil has also nearly doubled in the last six months and that of pulses have seen an unprecedented rise, with the increase in the wholesale price index in May 2021 at 12.94 per cent being the highest in 11 years, the party has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-two-congress-mlas-several-workers-detained-for-protests-over-fuel-price-hike-inflation-1007106.html
10-07-2021||West||Bullock cart stage collapses during Congress's protest against fuel price hike in Mumbai||A makeshift stage mounted on a bullock cart toppled under the weight of Congress activists during a protest held against the fuel price hike in Antop Hill locality here on Saturday. Mumbai Congress president Bhai Jagtap was among other workers of the Congress present on the stage when it collapsed. Jagtap and other leaders escaped unhurt. Earlier in the day, Congress staged demonstrations at 29 spots in Mumbai against the rise in prices of petrol and diesel and other essential commodities. Speaking at the occasion, Jagtap said, "The hike in fuel prices shows the Centre's anti-poor stand. Petrol now costs Rs 107 per litre while a cooking gas cylinder costs Rs 950. The common man is worried about his survival. The Congress held protests to highlight the anger of the common man".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bullock-cart-stage-collapses-during-congresss-protest-against-fuel-price-hike-in-mumbai-1007161.html
