11-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||20 Block Education Officers served notices for alleged misappropriation of RTE funds||The Office of Commissioner of Public Instruction (CPI) has served notices to 20 Block Education Officers (BEOs) — including four from Dakshina Kannada district — accused of misappropriating funds to the tune of Rs 1.87 crore, released as reimbursement of RTE dues to private and unaided schools during 2014-15. “The BEOs have been asked to furnish their replies within seven days,” sources said. Ramesh Bettaiah from Bengaluru had filed a complaint alleging misuse of funds released for reimbursement of RTE dues. Based on the complaint, Commissioner of Public Instruction had directed the primary education director to submit a report. The director submitted a report to the commissioner highlighting additional payment of fee for children admitted under the RTE Quota Act from 2012-13 to 2015-16. The report had added that no compliance report was submitted for additional payment for reimbursement of RTE dues. The report also had recommended disciplinary action against the BEOs. Based on the report, notices were served to 20 BEOs on July 6. In the notice, Joint Director of Department of Public Instruction warned of taking unilateral decision if the BEOs failed to reply to the notice. Puttur BEO Lokesh C said: “The BEO office has received a notice. We will submit a reply with documents. No funds had been misused.” 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/20-block-education-officers-served-notices-for-alleged-misappropriation-of-rte-funds-1007311.html
11-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||G T Devegowda urges JD(S), Sumalatha to stop debate over KRS Dam||MLA G T Devegowda urged JD(S) leaders and Mandya MO A Sumalatha to not engage in any further debate over Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) Dam. Devegowda said the debate is not good either for JD(S) leaders or Sumalatha. The government has clarified that the dam has no crack and the matter must be stopped, he urged. Devegowda argued that Sumalatha has been elected as MP for the first time and she has made the statement that the dam has developed a crack, accidentally. Sumalatha does not know the difference between 'crack' and 'repair', Devegowda said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/g-t-devegowda-urges-jds-sumalatha-to-stop-debate-over-krs-dam-1007409.html
11-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 lockdown norms relaxed in Hassan district||As the Covid cases are coming under control, the District Administration, as per the directions of the state government has decided to relax the lockdown norms further in Hassan district. As per the new relaxations, the shops will be allowed to open on all the days of the week from Monday (July 12). As per the directions, temples, bars, pubs, hotels and malls have been given permission to open for business. The government, private offices, and industrial sectors are allowed to function with 100% employees. Buses are also allowed to operate normally with full seating capacity. However, swimming pools and stadiums are allowed only for training the sportspersons. There is no permission for any political, religious, social and cultural activities. Protests are also banned. Devotees are allowed to offer prayers at places of worship. Only 20 people will be allowed to participate in funerals. The government has not given permission to open schools and colleges. Online classes will continue. Theatres will remain closed. Permission will be given for 100 people to participate in weddings. Night curfew will be in place from 9 pm to 5 am. There is no weekend curfew.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-lockdown-norms-relaxed-in-hassan-district-1007456.html
11-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Will win polls independently: G T Devegowda||Devegowda, who elected from Chamundeshwari Assembly segment on JD(S) and maintained a distance from the party, expressed confidence in winning the upcoming assembly election independently. Devegowda said, he and his son G D Harishgowda, also president of Mysuru District Central Co-Operative Bank and vice-president of Apex Bank, would win the election independently. However, a final call will be taken after considering the opinion of the supporters, he said. “In 2008, I did not gather opinion from the supporters and was defeated from Hunsur assembly segment. But this time, I will go for election only after gathering the opinion of my supporters,” he said. About the upcoming Zilla Panchayat and Taluk Panchayat elections, Devegowda said he is thinking to field his supporters independently. “I will tour the constituencies before taking a decision,” he said.    However, Devegowda said, JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda had telephoned him and asked not to quit JD(S).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/will-win-polls-independently-g-t-devegowda-1007492.html
11-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Red alert in border as Covid-19, Zika virus cases rise in Kerala||With the Zika virus cases rising in Kerala, the people living in the border areas are under panic. The Health Department has intensified its checking at the Bavali check-post in the Karnataka-Kerala border and has taken all precautionary measures. All the vehicles coming from Kerala are inspected and the people and the vehicles are allowed to enter the state only after verifying the negative RT-PCR report of the occupants. "The passengers, who have availed both the doses of vaccination are only allowed. Children above two years are allowed. Every day more than 80 public vehicles and 100 goods vehicles are subjected for inspection. The vehicles and passengers who do not meet the criteria are not allowed," said Taluk Health Officer Dr T Ravikumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/red-alert-in-border-as-covid-19-zika-virus-cases-rise-in-kerala-1007503.html
11-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Two youths from Shikaripur drown in Murudeshwar||Two youths from Shikaripur taluk reportedly drowned while swimming in the Arabian Sea in Murudeshwar, a pilgrimage centre in Uttara Kannada district on Sunday. According to police, the deceased have been identified as Manjunath (26), Manikanta (35), natives of Masur, Shikaripur taluk. The body of Manjunath has been found and the search is on for the body of Manikanta. Local fishermen rescued Chandan and Praveen. They had been to Murudeshwar on a tour from Shivamogga district. Following heavy rains, the tourism department banned swimming on the right side of the temple. The four youths got into the sea for swimming from the left side of the temple violating the norms. Murudeshwar police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-youths-from-shikaripur-drown-in-murudeshwar-1007505.html
11-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Thawarchand Gehlot takes oath as Karnataka governor||Thawarchand Gehlot was sworn in as the 19th Governor of Karnataka, here Sunday. He succeeds Vajubhai Vala, who was Governor since 2014.  The Chief Justice of the High Court of Karnataka Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka administered Gehlot the oath of office in the presence of outgoing Governor Vala, Speaker of the Karnataka Assembly Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, his cabinet colleagues, MPs, MLAs, Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar and senior officials of the state government. Dressed in a white suit and sporting a Himachali cap, Gehlot took the oath of office and secrecy in the name of God inside the imposing glass house of the Raj Bhavan. After the oath taking ceremony, Justice Oka, Vala and Yediyurappa greeted the new Governor with bouquets and congratulated him. Gehlot hails from Madhya Pradesh and has occupied several key positions in the BJP. He was elected to the Madhya Pradesh Legislative Assembly thrice and to Lok Sabha four times, before he was nominated to the Rajya Sabha in 2012.   Born in a Dalit family on May 18, 1948 to Ramlal Gehlot and Suman Bai at Rupeta in Ujjain, Madhya Pradesh, Gehlot did his BA from Vikram University, Ujjain. Gehlot, who was involved with the RSS, took a plunge into politics in 1962 through the Jan Sangh and held several key positions in the BJP. His electoral politics began in 1980 and he was elected MLA thrice before becoming a member of Lok Sabha in 1996 and served there for four consecutive terms till 2009. Gehlot had been to jail several times between 1968 and 1971 for raising workers' issues as well as during the Emergency in the 1970s. Though the 83-year old Vala's five-year term had ended in August, 2019, he continued in the post as his successor was not named by the centre. Politically, Vala came under attack in May 2018, for inviting the BJP to form the government much to the chagrin of the Congress-JD(S) coalition, which had termed his action as that of a "Gujarati businessman." He was also targeted by Congress-JD(S) during H D Kumaraswamy's trust vote in July 2019, for repeatedly seeking to interfere with assembly proceedings, by setting deadlines. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/thawarchand-gehlot-takes-oath-as-karnataka-governor-1007316.html
11-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah vs Shivakumar: Surjewala to visit Karnataka soon||With no end to factional fights in Congress on the next Chief Ministerial candidate, AICC General Secretary in charge of Karnataka, Randeep Singh Surjewala, is expected to visit the state soon to hold discussion with local leaders. Though the final date for Surjewala’s visit is yet to be decided, some of the state leaders have asked him to visit early amid the reports that former chief minister Siddaramaiah was preparing to hold a backward class rally to show his strength. Surjewala told the state leaders that he would visit the state and will send detail tour programmes soon, sources in Congress told DH. Despite the Congress high command's strict instructions to the state leaders to not indulge in a debate on the next Chief Ministerial candidate, supporters of Siddaramaiah and state Congress chief D K Shivakumar continued to issue statements in favour of their respective leaders. The Congress high command is worried over the divide in the party among old-timers and newcomers. The party also noticed that only Siddaramaiah was attending most of the ration kit distribution events, while Shivakumar had been maintaining distance from it. Siddaramaiah’s meetings with some of the backward class leaders in an apparent revival of Ahinda (Minority, Backward Class and Dalit) movement too has not gone down well with many state leaders as they see this would further divide the party vote base. Surjewala is also likely to discuss reconstituting the state office bearers. Shivakumar recently urged former Congress President Rahul Gandhi as well as Surjewala to take steps to revamp district and block level office bearers. With the Zilla and Taluk Panchayat, and Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagar Palike (BBMP) elections due, the party top brass wanted the state unit to be revamped to fight the polls. While most old-timers including former President G Parameshwara, Rajya Sabha Opposition Leader Mallikarjuna Kharge, State Working president R. Dhruvanarayana, are seen with Shivakumar, newcomers including former Ministers B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan, H C Mahadevappa and former Union Minister C M Ibrahim are with Siddaramaiah. With both Siddaramaiah and Shivakumar aspiring to be the next Chief Ministerial candidate, the party is worried this would spoil the party's prospects as it is eying to encash infighting within the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-vs-shivakumar-surjewala-to-visit-karnataka-soon-1007480.html
11-07-2021||National||Central Vista Virodhi Bharat campaign's chapter launched in Delhi||A group of people, including NCP Rajya Sabha MPs Vandana Chavan and Fauzia Khan, and Congress leader Hardik Patel, on Saturday launched the Delhi chapter of a campaign against the Centre's ambitious Central Vista project. The group, "Central Vista Virodhi Bharat", initiated the campaign in Mumbai on June 5, according to a statement. The campaign's chapters will be started in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Gujarat ahead of the assembly elections in each of these states, farmer leader and member of the group Ashok Dhawale said at a press conference at the Maharashtra Sadan here. The redevelopment project of the Central Vista -- the power corridor of the country -- envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a Common Central Secretariat and the revamping of the three-km-long Rajpath from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate and new residences for the prime minister and the vice president. "On 9th August, 2021, we will launch this movement all over India against (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi and (Home Minister) Amit Shah to protest the grab of public land in New Delhi for building their palace," Dhawale said. He added that he will inform the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) to take up this campaign in the ongoing farmers’ movement. The (SKM), an umbrella body of 40 farmer unions, is leading the stir against three central farm laws which were enacted in September last year. NCP MP Fauzia Khan said that they will oppose the "dictatorial regime to save Indian democracy". "Central Vista is against our historic legacy and hence we have to launch our campaign with the People’s concerns like ''Vista Versus Vaccines'', ''Kisan Versus PM Ka Makaan, ''Oxygen Versus PM’s Palace''," Khan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-vista-virodhi-bharat-campaigns-chapter-launched-in-delhi-1007253.html
11-07-2021||National||Congress protests across Assam against soaring fuel prices||Leaders and workers of the Congress on Saturday held protests across Assam against soaring prices of petrol, diesel and essential commodities, amid the Covid-19 pandemic. They organised sit-ins in several districts and raised slogans against the BJP-led governments at the Centre and in the state for skyrocketing fuel prices. A demonstration was held in Abhayapuri town in Bongaigaon district, while members of Tappatari and Boitamari block Congress staged protests. Activists of the NSUI wing of Barpeta district Congress and Karimganj's party unit demonstrated against the surging prices of petrol and diesel. "Fuel prices are rising despite the decrease in international crude oil price. The excise duty on petrol and diesel has been increased by about eight times since the BJP came to power at the Centre in 2014," Bobbeeta Sharma, chairperson of the media department of Assam Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC), said. Claiming that the actual benefit of the fall of crude oil prices in the international market has not reached the common man, she said the government is collecting revenue and putting a burden on the public. "Today, revenue from excise constitutes 12 per cent of the total receipt, which was approximately 4 per cent in 2014," Sharma said. "The Congress has led many protests earlier. As an opposition party, it is our duty to constantly keep reminding the people that they should not be fooled again and again," she said. These protests against the soaring fuel prices are part of a series of agitations planned by the Congress from July 7 to 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-protests-across-assam-against-soaring-fuel-prices-1007260.html
11-07-2021||National||Vice President Naidu calls for efforts to counter fake news, dispel myths about Covid||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday stressed on the need to remove vaccine hesitancy among sections of people and called for  concerted efforts to counter fake news as well as dispel myths related to Covid-19. Noting the effect of mental stress and fear among people, he said misinformation on Covid and vaccination is a matter of serious concern. The vice president urged icons in different fields, doctors and others to dispel fears and create awareness among the people on the importance of vaccination.  Pointing out that India is implementing the world's largest vaccination drive, Naidu emphasised that every Indian has a social responsibility to get vaccinated and encourage others to immunise themselves, an official statement said. Vaccination drive should become a peoples' movement and it should be led by the youth, he said. He made these remarks in Hyderabad at the release of a book 'Kotha (Corona) Kathalu', an anthology of 80 short stories on Covid in Telugu by eminent authors from across the world. Naidu suggested people to adopt five principles to combat the pandemic -- leading an active lifestyle that includes regular physical exercise or yoga, seeking spiritual solace, consuming healthy nutritious food, observing Covid-appropriate behaviour like wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and washing hands frequently and to always protect and live in harmony with nature, the statement said. Asserting that India has fared reasonably well in tackling the pandemic in spite of its huge population and lack of adequate health infrastructure, he commended the efforts of scientists, doctors, health workers and others in playing an invaluable role in containing the spread of coronavirus. Naidu pointed to the importance of mental health as a public health issue in the wake of the pandemic and the need to address it in a holistic manner. He said meditation and spirituality would help in maintaining a balanced life. Highlighting the importance of consuming a balanced diet, he cautioned people, particularly the youth, against becoming addicted to fast food. PTI NAB  http://ptinews.com/images/pti.jpg “We bring the World to you" Disclaimer : This e-mail message may contain proprietary, confidential or legally privileged information for the sole use of the person or entity to whom this message was originally addressed. Please delete this e-mail, if it is not meant for you.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vice-president-naidu-calls-for-efforts-to-counter-fake-news-dispel-myths-about-covid-1007279.html
11-07-2021||National||DH Toon | Army, air force need to 'focus on China'||A public spat occurred over the relative roles of the three wings of the armed forces in the proposed integrated theatre commands. Last week, the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), Gen Bipin Rawat, and the Air Force Chief, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria aired their differences in public, over the relative roles of the army and the air force in the new set-up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-army-air-force-need-to-focus-on-china-1007285.html
11-07-2021||National||DH Toon | Tourist crowds despite Covid-19 ring a bell?||As states across India relax strict coronavirus curbs in view of the receding second wave of the virus, tourists are thronging public spaces ignoring Covid protocol. Popular tourist hubs like Manali saw huge crowds with no distancing and many without face masks, which triggered outcry across India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-tourist-crowds-despite-covid-19-ring-a-bell-1007286.html
11-07-2021||National||India registers 41,506 new Covid-19 cases, 895 deaths||India registered 41,506 new Covid-19 cases and 895 deaths on Sunday as active infections in the country remained above 4.5 lakh, according to a Union Health Ministry statement.  The death toll has climbed to 4,08,040 with 895 fresh fatalities. The active cases comprise 1.47 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has increased to 97.20 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed A decrease of 915 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 18,43,500 tests were conducted on Saturday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 43,08,85,470. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.25 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for 20 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to  2.32 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,99,75,064 and the case fatality rate stands at 1.32 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative number of vaccine doses administered so far has reached 37.60 crore under the Nationwide Vaccination Drive. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 895 new fatalities include 494 from Maharashtra and  109 from Kerala. A total of  4,08,040 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,25, 528 from Maharashtra, 35,779 from Karnataka, 33,371 from Tamil Nadu, 25,012  from Delhi, 22,693 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,903 from West Bengal and 16,177 from Punjab. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-registers-41506-new-covid-19-cases-895-deaths-1007305.html
11-07-2021||National||India pulls staff from Kandahar after intense fighting; monitoring situation in Afghanistan||India has evacuated its officials posted at its consulate in Kandahar in south Afghanistan, as the Taliban continued its advances taking advantage of the withdrawal of troops by the United States and its NATO allies from the war-torn country. New Delhi sent an aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) aircraft to bring back home the officials posted at the Consulate General of India in Kandahar late at night on Saturday. The aircraft avoided the airspace of Pakistan while flying out of India and returning from Afghanistan with the officials onboard. The Consulate General of India (CGI) in Kandahar will, however, continue to function and run as local employees. The Embassy of India in Kabul will take over the consular works of the CGI in Kandahar and issue visas to people in Kandahar, Nimroz, Zabul, Uruzgan and Helmand districts of Afghanistan. “The Consulate General of India in Kandahar has not been closed. However, due to the intense fighting near Kandahar city, India based personnel have been brought back for the time being,” Arindam Bagchi, spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs, said in New Delhi, adding: “I want to emphasise that this is a purely temporary measure until the situation stabilizes. The consulate continues to operate through our local staff members.” India has not yet evacuated officials from its embassy in Kabul and consulates in Mazar-e-Sharif, Herat and Jalalabad in Afghanistan. Bagchi, however, said that the Government of India was closely monitoring the evolving security situation in Afghanistan. “The safety and security of our personnel are paramount.” He reiterated India’s commitment to a “peaceful, sovereign and democratic Afghanistan”. The United States withdrew over 90 per cent of its troops from Afghanistan, leaving it to the Afghan National Defence and Security Forces to fight the resurgent Taliban. New Delhi recently underlined that if the Taliban took over power in Kabul by violent means instead of going through a political process, it would lack legitimacy. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-pulls-staff-from-kandahar-after-intense-fighting-monitoring-situation-in-afghanistan-1007310.html
11-07-2021||National||Twitter names Vinay Prakash as Resident Grievance Officer for India||"Twitter can be contacted in India at the following address: 4th Floor, The Estate, 121 Dickenson Road, Bangalore 560 042," the page further said. Prakash's name appears along with Kessel, who is the Global Legal Policy Director and is based in the US. However, the microblogging platform did not share additional details of the new resident grievance officer. Though Twitter had earlier appointed Dharmendra Chatur as its interim grievance officer for India after the new IT rules came into force on May 26, he stepped down. Separately, Twitter has also published its first detailed compliance report. In its India Transparency Report: User Grievances and Proactive Monitoring July 2021 report, Twitter said it had received 94 grievances and "actioned" 133 URLs between May 26 and June 25, 2021. Twitter said the majority of complaints received via Grievance Officer - India channel during the reporting period fell into categories including defamation (20), Abuse/Harassment (6), Sensitive Adult Content (4), Impersonation and privacy infringement (3 each), IP-related Infringement (1), and Misinformation/Synthetic and Manipulated Media (1). In addition to this, Twitter processed 56 grievances that were appealing Twitter account suspensions. In a separate category - 'Proactive Monitoring Data', Twitter said 18,385 accounts were suspended over the issue of Child Sexual Exploitation, Non-Consensual Nudity, and similar content, while 4,179 accounts were suspended for Promotion of Terrorism. The US-based firm also said it will publish this report on a monthly basis and that it will make improvements over time. As per new social media intermediary rules 2021, which came into effect on May 26, large digital platforms (with over 50 lakh users) are required to publish periodic compliance reports every month, mentioning the details of complaints received and action taken thereon. The rules also mandate the appointment of Indian residents for three key posts - grievance officer, chief compliance officer and nodal officer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twitter-names-vinay-prakash-as-resident-grievance-officer-for-india-1007314.html
11-07-2021||National||Virologist Dr Shahid Jameel spells out what may determine possibility of third Covid-19 wave||Renowned virologist and former INSACOG chairman Dr Shahid Jameel said that data from a quickly conducted serosurvey could suggest whether and when a third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic may hit the country. Dr Jameel suggested that a quick serosurvey be conducted to determine what percentage of the population had been exposed to the coronavirus and explained that the situation would vary hugely based on whether 50 per cent of people were exposed to Covid-19 or 70 per cent. He also said that if a more infectious (than Delta) variant of the virus arises, it may trigger a third wave. Citing a recent example, he noted that the Delta variant, which drove the second wave, was 100 per cent more infectious than the Alpha variant. The Delta Plus variant, he said, was not as infectious. Speaking on the possibility of children being adversely impacted by a third wave, Dr Jameel told the publication that such predictions were made on the premise that children "have largely been left unexposed." He opined that children were as exposed to the virus as adults. When asked on the amount of sequencing in India, the virologist said that the strategy adopted mattered more than "brute numbers." He said that while INSACOG's sequencing rate was 0.03 per cent, they still managed to find the emerging Delta Plus variant. He said that the country's scale of sequencing could be enhanced by "utilising the strengths" of private players, whose help the government has not sought so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/virologist-dr-shahid-jameel-spells-out-what-may-determine-possibility-of-third-covid-19-wave-1007323.html
11-07-2021||National||Sirisha Bandla, the woman who is breaking boundaries beyond earth||From the rice fields of Guntur in Andhra Pradesh to a journey to the edge of space, 34-year-old Sirisha Bandla will not only fulfill her childhood dream on Sunday but create history opening a whole new world for commercial space travel. Born in Guntur to Muralidhar and Anuradha Bandla, Sirisha spent her early childhood in the region known for its braided stream channels created by the Krishna and other smaller rivers before joining her parents in Houston, Texas—the hub of American space activities. "I was always one of those kids that wanted to be an astronaut and go into space, and that’s something that I never grew out of," Sirisha said in an interview to Space Times, a journal of the American Astronautical Society last year. However, her dream of being an astronaut or a pilot was cut short because of bad eyesight. But the first crewed private spaceflight powered by Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen funded SpaceShipOne in 2004 helped Sirisha pursue her passion. "From there on I decided to become an aerospace engineer, so I could hopefully align myself with the growing commercial space sector," she said.  On Sunday, July 11, Sirisha along with her boss Richard Branson and four others are set to travel to space onboard Virgin Galactic’s spaceflight Unity22. "When I first heard I was getting this opportunity, I was speechless," she said in a video released by Virgin Galactic on July 5.  According to Virgin Galactic, the ‘Unity 22’ mission will be the twenty-second flight test for VSS Unity and the first to carry a full crew of two pilots and four mission specialists in the cabin, including the company’s founder, Richard Branson, who will be testing the private astronaut experience.  Twitterati in India have already raised the toast to "Mana-ammayi-Modati Telugu ammayi" (Our girl-First Telugu girl) venturing to the edge of space.  "She is my granddaughter! Sirisha was fearless since childhood and had a keen interest in space. I wish her all the best. She grew up with us in Tenali till she was five," said Dr Bandla Ragaiah, Sirisha’s paternal grandfather, beaming with pride. Sirisha completed her Bachelor of Science in Aerospace, Aeronautical, and Astronautical Engineering in 2011 from Purdue University and went on to do her MBA from George Washington University in 2015.  She joined Richard Branson's Virgin Galactic after completing her studies and is currently the Vice President of Government Affairs at the British-American spaceflight company. Her passion for the space sector has seen her rise from intern designing components of advanced aircraft at L-3 Communications in Texas to joining Commercial Spaceflight Federation, an industry association, as Associate Director to her current position in Virgin Galactic in less than a decade. "I am so incredibly honored to be a part of the amazing crew of #Unity22, and to be a part of a company whose mission is to make space available to all," Sirisha said on July 2, a day after the announcement.  Sirisha’s pitch for opening up space travel for all puts the spotlight on the scarce representation of women in space missions.  Over the past 50 years, nearly 600 persons have undertaken missions in space of which barely 65 were women, despite Valentina Tereshkova becoming the first woman to travel to space in 1963.  Among Sirisha’s co-travelers would be Beth Moses, the first female commercial astronaut on Virgin Galactic’s flight test in February 2019.  "Women and people of colour you don’t often see… I don’t often see students that look like myself in this industry just yet," she said in an interaction with the Matthew Isakowitz Fellowship, a program that helps college students enter the commercial spaceflight industry. Sirisha is one of the coordinators for the fellowship set up in the memory of aerospace engineer Isakowitz, who helped her understand space policy. Indians across the world would be closely tracking Sirisha’s travel to the edge of space on Sunday. The two spacecraft would climb together to an altitude just below 50,000 feet when the mothership release Unity whose rockets would take it to an altitude of approximately 3,00,000 feet above the earth. Sixteen cameras inside the cabin will capture every moment of the experience in HD. Sirisha will be the second India-born woman to travel to outer space after Kalpana Chawla.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sirisha-bandla-the-woman-who-is-breaking-boundaries-beyond-earth-1007325.html
11-07-2021||National||A month after launch, glitches continue to mar Income Tax portal functioning||A month after its launch and two weeks after the finance minister reviewed its functioning, technical glitches continue to mar the functioning of the new income tax portal as certain key utilities like e-proceedings and digital signature certificate are not yet functional, say chartered accountants. Also, some overseas firms have been facing problems in logging in to the portal, they said. The much-touted new income tax portal 'www.incometax.gov.in’ had a bumpy start from the day of its launch on June 7 as it continued to face tech glitches, which prompted Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to call a meeting on June 22 with officials of Infosys which has developed the new website. Infosys in 2019 was awarded a contract to develop the next-generation income tax filing system to reduce processing time for returns from 63 days to one day and expedite refunds. Even after two weeks of the meeting and over a month of the portal launch, users still continue to encounter multiple problems like unable to file I-T returns for past years, download intimation notice u/s 143(1) for AY 2019-20 and earlier years, and Form- 3 under 'Vivad se Vishwas Scheme' is not visible on the portal. In response to queries on the glitches on I-T portal, Infosys said, “We’re in our silent period. Clarity on the income tax matter was provided at our recently concluded AGM”. An email sent to the Finance Ministry for comments remained unanswered. BDO India Partner (Tax & Regulatory Services) Amit Ganatra said after the meeting of the Finance Minister with the Infosys team on June 22, it appeared that all the pending issues would get resolved quickly. While there has been improvement in the functioning of the site thereafter, it seems that the technology-related challenges still persist and it may take some more time to get the site up and running completely. “The e-proceedings tab is not fully functional, online rectification option is not available, JSON utility for filing tax returns in ITR 5, 6 and 7 is still not available and unlike the earlier website there is no tab for the VsV scheme for providing comprehensive information and no update of the pending actions tab, these are some of the functionalities amongst others that remain to be addressed in the new tax portal,” Ganatra added. Dhruva Advisors LLP Partner Sandeep Bhalla said Form 15CA/CB utility (relating to remittances) is still awaited. While physical filing of the same is permitted, it is a time-consuming process. This is a time when companies declare and pay dividends and physically filing Form 15CA/ CB for remittance to each shareholder can be a task. "Also, the DSC is now required to be registered on the personal e-filing account of the authorized signatory. In the case of foreign companies having non-resident authorized signatories not having a PAN in India, it is unclear as to how this procedure will work. In fact, for such foreign companies, an error is being encountered even at the time of attempting to login onto the e-filing portal," Bhalla added. Industry chamber PHDCCI’s Direct Taxes Committee Chairman Mukul Bagla said the new income tax portal is expected to improve efficiency in tax return filing alongwith general tax administration. However, since the portal has major glitches even till date, the income tax work of taxpayers and tax professionals is seriously hampered. Listing out some of the glitches on the portal, Bagla said the taxpayer is not able to file ITR u/s 148 of the Income Tax Act for earlier years as download of utility is happening erratically and attachment of digital signature is not taking place consistently even though the return is required to be filed within 30 days of receipt of notice. Also in many cases, OTP is not reaching the taxpayer for e-verification of ITR. In the e-proceeding tab, replies cannot be filed as OTP is not reaching to the authorised representative. This is creating major problems as proceedings are getting time-barred. In cases where tax demands have been raised, there is no option to send a request for obtaining intimation u/s 143(1). The taxpayer is not able to file applications u/s 154 for rectification of mistakes as tab is not available. The modification of master data of the taxpayer is having major issues and Form No. 3 (certificate of declaration) under Vivad se Vishwas Scheme is not visible on the portal. "The tax portal serves as the depository of all documents filed with the income tax department. However, the taxpayer is unable to download most documents from the portal like forms filed in earlier years. The portal in the current form is very slow as compared to the earlier portal," Bagla added. Deloitte India Partner Saraswathi Kasturirangan said certain functionalities such as checking the status of e-proceedings, filing of grievance petitions etc were not initially operational, and are now enabled, clearly indicating that the utility of the portal is being expanded. "Functionalities such as online filing of rectification is yet to be enabled. From a practical perspective, filing of tax returns with the new JSON utility still has challenges which hopefully will be sorted soon," Kasturirangan added. Following the glitches on the portal after June 7 launch, the Finance Ministry had invited inputs from stakeholders. The ministry received 700 emails from stakeholders detailing over 2,000 issues, including 90 unique issues/problems in the new portal. During the meeting with Sitharaman and other finance ministry officials on June 22, Infosys CEO Salil Parekh and COO Pravin Rao along with other company officials took note of the issues highlighted by the stakeholders. They also acknowledged the technical issues on the portal and shared the status of the resolution with respect to the issues highlighted by the stakeholders. "They informed that Infosys has been working to fix the technical issues noticed in the functioning of the portal and that they have augmented the resources for execution of the project on the hardware as well as the application side and that some of the issues have already been identified and fixed," a statement issued by the Income Tax department after the meeting had said. For the other remaining technical issues, Infosys has assured the government that their teams were working on them and gave the expected timelines within which the issues would be resolved. During the meeting, Sitharaman had expressed her deep concern on the various problems being faced by stakeholders on the new portal which was expected to provide a seamless experience to taxpayers. "The FM asked Infosys to address all issues without further loss of time, improve their services, redress grievances on priority as it was impacting taxpayers adversely," the statement issued after the meeting had said. Last month, at the company's annual shareholder meeting, Infosys had stated that it is working to resolve the issues on the portal and already has succeeded on some fronts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-month-after-launch-glitches-continue-to-mar-income-tax-portal-functioning-1007334.html
11-07-2021||National||Over 1.44 crore unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses available with states, private hospitals: Centre||More than 1.44 crore balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states, UTs and private hospitals to be administered, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. Over 38.60 crore vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far through all sources and a further 11,25,140 doses are in the pipeline. Of this, the total consumption including wastage is 37,16,47,625 doses, according to data available at 8 am. The new phase of universalisation of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from June 21||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-144-crore-unutilised-covid-19-vaccine-doses-available-with-states-private-hospitals-centre-1007336.html
11-07-2021||National||Nominate your choice of inspiring people for Padma awards: PM Modi to citizens||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday invited nominations from citizens for the Padma award of ordinary people doing exceptional work. “India has many talented people, who are doing exceptional work at the grassroots. Often, we don’t see or hear much of them. Do you know such inspiring people? You can nominate them for the #PeoplesPadma. Nominations are open till 15th September,” the prime minister said. The Padma awards – Padma Shri, Padma Bhushan and Padma Vibhushan—are among the top civilian honours awarded by the government on the eve of Republic Day. Since 2015, the Modi government has been conferring the Padma awards on ‘unsung heroes’, who have been quietly making meaningful contributions to society. “Gone are the days when getting a Padma Award was reserved for influential and powerful people and a far fetched dream for the common man. Now the contribution of 'unsung heroes’ to society is recognised leading to the Padma Awards now being called the #PeoplesPadma,” Law Minister Kiren Rijiju said. Among the ‘unsung heroes’ conferred the Padma awards included 105-year-old Pappammal from Tamil Nadu for her contribution to organic farming; Chutni Devi, who was once branded as a witch and started a fight against social evils, along with Mithila artist Dulari Devi and Social activist Shanti Devi, from Odisha. The Modi government has also taken a lead in conferring Padma awards on opposition leaders. Senior Congress leaders Tarun Gogoi, S C Jamir, Bhabani Charan Patnaik, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar are among the leaders who were conferred the Padma awards.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nominate-your-choice-of-inspiring-people-for-padma-awards-pm-modi-to-citizens-1007342.html
11-07-2021||National||Need for booster shot may arise even as India struggles to finish second Covid vaccine dose||Even as India struggles to vaccinate a majority of the population with the required two doses, evidence suggests that a third dose (or "booster shot") may be required to contain the still-active pandemic. An ongoing study at Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research suggests that as many as between 15 to 20% of people vaccinated with two doses would definitely require a booster shot. “This is due to the fact that only 80% of 300 fully vaccinated healthcare workers subject to an antibody test showed ‘effective’ levels of antibodies a month later,” explained Dr C N Manjunath, Director of Jayadeva. At the same time, because it will not be possible to subject all two-dose beneficiaries to antibody tests to determine the level of neutralizing titres in their body, experts believe that the booster shot may become mandatory for everyone. “A mandatory booster shot follows the established immunological schedule that we have seen with other viral diseases whereby a booster is required six months after the last dose,” explained the noted virologist Dr T Jacob John, former Principal of CMC Vellore. He added that the booster shot is critical to inducing a “hyper-antibody response,” necessary to enhance protection against the evolving virus. The issue of a booster has arisen because the current generation of Covid-19 vaccinations were conceived to defeat the D614G mutation of the wildtype B.1 virus which was largely responsible for the first wave last year. Since then, variants of the novel coronavirus have developed some “immune evasion” characteristics although they do not yet have “immune escape” abilities. These variants include the baseline “Delta” variant and the P2 “Zeta” variant of interest which has been found in West Bengal and Gujarat. “This ‘Zeta’ variant is found to have a six-fold ability to reduce vaccine effectiveness,” pointed out Dr Vishal Rao, a member of the state’s Genomic Surveillance Committee. Even the baseline “Delta” is not above inducing worry. A recent ICMR study in pre-publication form found that 16.1% of people who had been given two doses of the vaccine had not developed observable neutralizing antibodies against the Delta variant. India’s low second dose vaccination coverage could mean that the country will face a more prolonged outbreak than other nations where high proportions of people vaccinated with both doses could be eligible for the booster shot earlier. This means an earlier breaking of the chain of infection. In Karnataka, for instance, only 8.9% of the statewide adult population had received the second dose so far as of Friday. However, Dr John said that he expects India’s second dose coverage to gather momentum in the coming weeks when vaccine production increases. What form of booster? Even as discussion about booster vaccines increases, the form of the “boosters” themselves have not yet been finalized. Experts said it could constitute a third dose of the same vaccine used to twice-inoculate a person or could boil down to “dosage mixing” - that is, inoculating a person previously dosed with a viral-vector vaccine such as Covishield with an mRNA vaccine such as the Pfizer vaccine or an inactivated virus vaccine such as Covaxin. Meanwhile, some vaccine manufacturers such as Moderna are already modifying their existing Spikevax vaccine to serve as a booster shot. IISc’s protein-based thermotolerant vaccine could also be turned into a standalone booster shot. “The next 3-6 months are going to give us the answers,” said Dr Vishal Rao.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-for-booster-shot-may-arise-even-as-india-struggles-to-finish-second-covid-vaccine-dose-1007343.html
11-07-2021||National||Chennithala urges secular parties to join hands to fight Centre's move on cooperatives||Slamming the Centre for creating a new Ministry of Cooperation, senior Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala on Sunday urged secular parties in the country to come together and launch a joint fight against the "move by the BJP and Sangh Parivar to take control" of the key sector. "This is an unconstitutional and communal move by the Modi-government to gain control of cooperative societies in states like Kerala, Karnataka and Maharashtra where the co-operative movement has a strong presence", Chennithala said. Urging all the secular forces to come together and fight jointly against the move, the senior Congress leader said a delegation of opposition parties should meet the President of India seeking his intervention in the matter. Chennithala, who is also the former Leader of Opposition in the Kerala Assembly, said the opposition should also seek a legal option into the matter as Cooperative Societies is a state subject in the 7th Schedule via entry 32 of the State List in the Constitution of India. His statement comes a day after the Kerala government said that it would first try to to understand the motive behind the Centre creating the Ministry of Cooperation before taking any action. "Since cooperative societies are a state subject, it is natural for states to have such a concern," Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Saturday. Noting that it is a state subject, Vijayan has said there are multi-state cooperative societies, which are not large-scale institutions, warranting a separate ministry. Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who was given the charge of the newly-created Ministry, has said the government is determined to make cooperatives and all cooperative institutions more empowered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chennithala-urges-secular-parties-to-join-hands-to-fight-centres-move-on-cooperatives-1007346.html
11-07-2021||National||Kerala struggles with rising Covid cases; Zika virus outbreak adds to its woes||Rising Covid-19 cases in Kerala, coupled with the recent outbreak of the Zika virus, is causing concern to the health authorities here as the southern state battles to bring down the fresh infections. After winning accolades for its "Kerala model" of combating the contagion about a year ago, the state is now seeing daily fresh cases between 12,000 to 15,000 with no end in sight to the 'prolonged surge', as some experts put it. The state had reported 14,087 fresh Covid infections on Saturday and 109 deaths taking the total caseload to 30,39,029 and toll to 14,380. The active cases touched 1,13,115. Health Minister Veena George had recently said the virus numbers spiked due to certain unlock measures and that they were expected to go down. While on June 1 this year, Kerala reported 19,760 positive cases, there was a slight decline for a week with 9,313 new cases being recorded on June 7. However, two days later it again shot up to 16,204. For over a month, the state has been reporting cases between 11,000 to 13,000 on a daily basis. Incidentally, India's first Covid-19 case emerged from the state in January 2020 when a third year medical student from Wuhan, the epicentre of the virus in China, tested positive. Two other Wuhan returnees from the state had also tested positive and all the three had subsequently recovered. According to experts, the steady rate of Covid infection in Kerala would help the state to fight off the virus and ensure medical facilities are not overwhelmed, but the more it prolongs the more stressful it would be for doctors and healthcare workers. While the medical experts who spoke to PTI praised the Kerala government for its preventive measures which helped keep the infection rate from peaking drastically, some opined the administration's inability to enforce Covid appropriate behaviour after the unlock phase came into effect was one of the reasons that the numbers have not gone down. Vaccination was the key and the state government should try to procure the vaccines by whatever means instead of just relying on the central government for supply, they said. Dr T S Anish, who specialises in community medicine, said the present situation has its pros and cons. A prolonged infection rate would put stress on the doctors and other healthcare workers and in case a third wave comes, the medical system which is partially filled could be overwhelmed. He also said it was a matter of concern that the government was unable to reduce the rate of infection. According to him, some of the measures taken by the government were unscientific, like allowing overcrowding at shops and liquor vends and not making available services online that could be. "Crowding has to be prevented at any cost," he said, adding, while people wear masks out in the streets, they do not do so in their workplaces or during a celebration. Virologist Dr Sarada too said people were not following Covid appropriate behaviour which was also a reason for the cases not declining. She and Anish were of the view that vaccination was the key, the only solution and the state government should try to get the vaccine in more quantities by whatever means. Sarada also said that other states may not be showing such high numbers as they probably were not testing their rural population unlike Kerala. Citing the positive side of the situation, Dr Anish said the government was able to prevent a sharp increase during the peak of the second wave of Covid by putting in place a lockdown and thereby, ensured the healthcare system was not overwhelmed. This steady rate of infection could also help to prevent a third wave as the health system or machinery would be vigilant and would quickly detect any new variant or mutation. According to him, if the cases go down substantially, the system would be less vigilant as there would be less testing and therefore, by the time a new variant or mutation is detected the third wave would have already hit. Dr Amar Fettle, the state nodal officer for Covid-19, said that the Kerala government was carrying out extensive testing to ensure no one who is infected is missed out and it was taking measures to ensure elderly people and children, who would be vulnerable to infection, are protected. Testing is being carried out in high risk groups, he added. Fettle said that after a long period of lockdown, when the unlock phase comes into effect people venture out and therefore, the infection re-enters homes. A prolonged surge is better than a short spike or wave, as then the healthcare system will not be overburdened, he said. However, he said it cannot be predicted how long this trend will go on and when the numbers will go down. Health Minister Veena George had on Friday had said "the government's endeavour was to ensure the number of infected persons never goes above the medical capacity of the state, so that no one dies due to non-availability of beds or oxygen." Vaccination was the only way to prevent spread of the virus, she had asserted. She had also said preventive mechanisms like enforcing lockdowns, earmarking containment zones, aggressive testing and tracing by the state government ensured large number of people susceptible to the infection were protected. According to the minister, the Health department with the help of the police would be taking steps to ensure people follow the Covid protocols like social distancing and wearing of masks when they step out of their homes. On Thursday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had expressed concern over the persistently high number of Covid cases coming from Maharashtra and Kerala. The opposition Congress and BJP in Kerala have attacked the ruling dispensation over the Covid-related casualties, alleging a 'mismatch' in their numbers while George has maintained the government has nothing to hide and all deaths were being reported. Former health minister K K Shailaja had also been slammed when the Covid cases had gone up steadily during her tenure. To add to its woes, the state now has 14 active Zika virus cases and a Central team would reach here later to assist the government in handling the situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-struggles-with-rising-covid-cases-zika-virus-outbreak-adds-to-its-woes-1007347.html
11-07-2021||National||Stranded at home: Indians studying medicine in China desperate to return to college||Thousands of Indians studying medicine in China came home early last year for their winter break and have remained stranded since, unable to return as Covid tightened its grip and now getting more anxious as the months roll by with no clarity on when Beijing will lift travel restrictions. While online classes have been continuing, the lack of access to hands-on practical classes puts a big question mark on their education and future as medical doctors, said several students.   “I have attended classes online, but we are completely missing out on practicals. I have completed two years of my course but I still haven’t done an anatomy dissection,” said Delhi-based Richa Singh*, a second year MBBS student at Xi’an Jiaotong University.  With most Chinese applications banned in India, Singh* said many students, including her, have been forced to install virtual private networks (VPN) to access their classes.    While their inability to resume physical classes for a large part of 2020 was understandable due to global travel norms, the students are pressing for a deadline on when they can return to China. According to 2019 data, over 23,000 Indian students studied in different courses in Chinese universities and colleges. Of them, over 21,000 enrolled to study MBBS. According to Shamik Majumdar of Omkar Medicom, a consultancy for Indian students wanting to pursue MBBS abroad, China is allowing international students to return gradually but the second wave of Covid-19 in India has slowed down the process for Indian students.   “I have been in touch with the deans of different universities where Indian students are studying, and the colleges are saying that they want the students to return, but India’s Covid situation is not completely under control yet," he said.   “Since China is preparing for the Winter Olympics, it is likely that these students will be allowed to return by September-October this year,” he added. Nearly 3,000 students came together recently to form a group, Indian Students in China, on instant messaging software Telegram to brainstorm on how to draw the attention of the governments of India and China.    A Twitter campaign with the hashtag #takeusbacktochina has been started.   They also reached out to Prime Minister Narendra Modi last month to request the government’s intervention.   “We are 25,000 Indian students studying in Chinese universities who have been forced to participate in online classes for the past 17 months because of travel and visa restrictions. Our medical study requires a lot of practical and group work, but our entry to China and our respective universities has been banned for the past year-and-a-half and we are suffering every day,” the letter said.   Ravi Varma*, a fourth year student at the Nantong Medical University, said they had also sought assistance from the Indian Embassy in China but in vain.   “We reached out to the Indian Embassy in China about four-five months back... we were told that the Chinese authorities have said that they were working on calling the students back. But we haven’t heard anything from them yet,” the 22-year-old said.   Varma*, who is also part of the China International Students Union (CISU), an independent representative body of international students enrolled at universities and institutions in China, said there is no clear deadline from the Chinese authorities on when they would be able to return.   Both Singh* and Varma* claimed classes had resumed in their universities that were allowing students from several countries, including the US and South Korea, but not India.    Officials at the Indian Embassy in Beijing said they have taken up the issue with the Chinese government at the level of the foreign and education ministries several times, discussing the plight of Indian students stuck at home and their pleas to return with an undertaking to follow all the specified protocols.        On March 22, the embassy issued a statement that it has "continued to follow up closely with Chinese authorities, including the Ministry of Education of the People's Republic of China, regarding the concerns of Indian students in China, especially their early return to colleges/universities in this country". The students said they are paying their course fees and, in some cases, hostel charges as well.   Kareem Khan* said he has to shell out lakhs of rupees every few months.   “In MBBS, practicals are main. Everything cannot be understood online, but the university has not been understanding towards us”.    “Every time it’s time to pay our fees, we are told that our practicals would be taken care of once we return, but I don’t think that will happen. We have not been given any written assurance,” the 21-year-old student of Hubei University, said.   Internships are another problem with many doors in Indian establishments closed to them. The National Medical Commission (NMC) in October last year reportedly said online classes for MBBS would be valid for the pandemic only, and would have to be supplemented by practicals when colleges reopened. Some students also claim that several state governments in India have refused internships to those with “online degrees”.   “As part of our course, we are expected to do an internship in a hospital or nursing home in our final year, but several state governments in India are saying that they will not be accepting online degrees.    “This has now left us worried whether at all we will be able to practice in India in the future,” Varma* said.    Khan* added that their careers will be destroyed if the NMC decides to invalidate online MBBS degrees.   “The NMC can at least allow us to do our practicals in hospitals and nursing homes in India. That is something our universities have allowed, otherwise despite online classes we are not getting any clinical practice,” he said.    As the students fret about their future, Li Bin, China’s vice-minister of the National Health Commission, on Thursday said Beijing "cannot relax pandemic controls" due to the prevailing pandemic.           "Some cities have recently seen local clusters caused by imported cases of the Delta variant, including in Guangzhou, Shenzhen and Ruili," he said.    "These waves have reminded us that we cannot relax our pandemic control measures," Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post quoted him as saying.   Officials said China has to permit the return of the foreign students either by September this year or by April next year at the start of the new academic year.        China, which has broadly controlled the coronavirus after it first reported in Wuhan in 2019, is currently vaccinating its people at a hectic pace. As of now, it has administered about 1.34 billion doses of vaccines.        Officials expect China to vaccinate about 70 per cent of its people by early next year to achieve herd immunity. Until then, China may continue to stonewall foreign travel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stranded-at-home-indians-studying-medicine-in-china-desperate-to-return-to-college-1007351.html
11-07-2021||National||Congress demands Yediyurappa's resignation, judicial probe over corruption charges||Congress on Sunday demanded the resignation of Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and a judicial probe against him following allegations raised by a former state Pollution Control Board head that he was pressured to pay a bribe for his appointment. Former Karnataka Congress president Dinesh Gundu Rao, who is also party in-charge in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Goa, and party spokesperson Gaurab Vallab also demanded that central agencies like CBI, ED and Income Tax Department should carry out an "exhaustive" investigation to "uncover the truth" behind the allegations. "When India was fighting Covid-19, the Karnataka chief minister was allegedly more interested in such acts of extortion through his relatives. If these allegations are true, the people of Karnataka have been cheated on two counts - abetting black money circulation by the chief minister and weakening the fight against Covid-19 by focusing on matters of brazen corruption when the focus should have been to save lives and provide relief to the people," Gundu Rao said. The Congress leader said Yediyurappa has "no moral right to remain" as the chief minister after allegations of "such serious nature and of direct involvement". "Karnataka Chief Minister Yediyurappa should resign immediately from the post. An independent judicial probe should be set up under the supervision of Chief Justice of Karnataka High Court to uncover the entire matter and send the culprits behind bars," he said. The Congress leaders cited a local TV channel's interview with former Karnataka State Pollution Control Board Chairman Dr M Sudheendra Rao during which he alleged that he was asked to cough up Rs 16 crore for his appointment and that he was harassed by the chief minister's close relatives for money. Rao has accused Yediyurappa's son B Y Vijayendra, grandson Shashidhar Maradi and a close cousin Sanjay Shree of insisting for clearance of around 60 files regarding requests for No Objection Certificates for the functioning of several private companies. Rao also alleged that the family members of Yediyurappa collected Rs 60 crore as bribes in this connection, according to Congress leaders. The former Chairman also alleged that his signature was obtained on a blank paper and later his resignation letter was typed on it without his knowledge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-demands-yediyurappas-resignation-judicial-probe-over-corruption-charges-1007355.html
11-07-2021||National||Amit Shah lauds PM Modi's development-oriented approach||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi is probably the first leader to create systems ensuring the continuation of development work even after he left the post, citing Modi's tenure as the chief minister of Gujarat. Shah laid the foundation stone of projects worth Rs 244 crore in Ahmedabad and surrounding areas, which are part of his Gandhinagar Lok Sabha constituency, and hailed the development work started in Gujarat after Modi became the state's chief minister of the state. "After so much of experience in politics, I have seen many type of leaders. There are some who just allow things to happen at their pace and go to cut the ribbon. There are such leaders also who work hard to ensure best development takes place during their tenure,” Shah said. "But there are some others, probably Narendra bhai is the first such leader, who builds such mechanism that development continues even after they have left," he said addressing a gathering in Bopal area of the city He said Gujarat has benefitted a lot from the 14-year rule of Narendra Modi as the chief minister. "Systems and arrangements were made in those 14 years which ensure development work takes place even after he has left Gujarat,” Shah said. The Union Minister inaugurated a civic centre, a reading centre with a capacity of over 150 students in Bopal area, supply of drinking water to Ghuma, a community hall, party plot and various other projects. He also inaugurated some projects of the Western Railway for redevelopment and increasing facilities at stations in the western part of Ahmedabad. "It is my endeavour to ensure development of the Gandhinagar Lok Sabha area and I thank all officials who have worked for the completion of these projects," Shah said. He said the government has started a massive work of providing a 'suraksha kavach' (protective shield) against the coronavirus by taking up the vaccination drive. "I am pleased to inform you that around 86 per cent of those aged above 45 and 32 per cent of people in the age group of 18 to 45 have been vaccinated in Ahmedabad. But, this is not enough," he said. The remaining 14 per cent in the 45 plus age group and 70 per cent youths (in the 18-44 age group) should get vaccinated and all should take their second doses also. "This will provide protection to all,” he said. Shah said though there was a shortage of oxygen in the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, Prime Minister Modi has taken up the task of setting up oxygen plants in hospitals and substantially augment the production capacity of the life-saving gas. He asked BJP workers to ensure everybody in their area is vaccinated. The BJP leader also advised party workers to fight vaccine hesitancy and spread the message that the medicine (against Covid-19) is safe. Shah also said that for daily wagers, the government has extended the free 5 kg food grain per person scheme till November. He asked BJP workers to spread awareness among people about the scheme and to ensure every eligible person gets free food grains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-lauds-pm-modis-development-oriented-approach-1007359.html
11-07-2021||National||India's power consumption rises 18% to 30.33 BU during July 1-7||India's power consumption grew nearly 18 per cent in first week of July to 30.33 billion units (BU) compared to a year ago and returned to pre-pandemic level mainly due to easing of lockdown curbs and delayed monsoon, according to power ministry data. Power consumption during July 1-7 last year was 25.72 BU. Power consumption was recorded at 26.63 BU in first week of July in 2019. Thus, consumption of power has not only grown year-on-year but also returned to pre-pandemic level. In July 2020, power consumption recovered to 112.14 BU, but remained lower than 116.48 BU in the same month of 2019 (pre-pandemic level). Experts say recovery in power demand and consumption in first week of July is mainly due to delayed monsoon and improvement in economic activities due to easing of lockdown restrictions by states. They said power demand as well as consumption returned to pre-Covid levels in the first week of July, giving clear indication that there would be robust recovery in coming days. The commercial and industrial power demand and consumption got affected April onwards this year due to lockdown restrictions imposed by states. Experts say since the number of daily Covid-19 positive cases has declined across the country and states have eased lockdown curbs, the commercial and industrial demand of power is bound to see an uptick from July. Peak power demand met or the highest supply in a day touched an all-time high of 200.57 GW in the first week of July ( recorded on July 7, 2021). Daily power consumption also touched an all-time high of 4,508 million units on July 7, 2021. In the first week of July, peak power demand met witnessed a growth of nearly 18 per cent compared to 170.40 GW (recorded on July 2). Peak power demand met for the entire month of July 2020 was also 170.40 GW. The peak power demand met was recorded at 175.12 GW in July 2019, showing recovery to pre-pandemic level. Last year, the government had imposed a lockdown on March 25 to contain the spread of coronavirus. The lockdown was eased in a phased manner, but had hit the economic and commercial activities and resulted in lower commercial and industrial demand for electricity in the country. Power consumption in April 2021 saw year-on-year growth of nearly 38.5 per cent. The second wave of Covid-19 started in the middle of April this year and affected the recovery in commercial and industrial power demand as states started imposing restrictions in the latter part of the month. Power consumption in the country witnessed 6.6 per cent year-on-year growth in May at 108.80 BU despite a low base of 102.08 BU in the same month of 2020. As per the latest data, power consumption in June grew nearly 9 per cent to 114.35 BU compared 105.08 BU in the same month last year. Power consumption in February this year was recorded at 103.25 BU compared to 103.81 BU a year ago. In March this year, power consumption grew nearly 22 per cent to 120.63 BU compared to 98.95 BU in the same month of 2020. After a gap of six months, power consumption had recorded 4.6 per cent year-on-year growth in September 2020, and 11.6 per cent in October 2020. In November, power consumption growth slowed to 3.12 per cent, mainly due to early onset of winters. In December, it grew 4.5 per cent, while this was 4.4 per cent higher in January 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-power-consumption-rises-18-to-3033-bu-during-july-1-7-1007368.html
11-07-2021||National||IIT Delhi alumnus scales Mt Everest within seven weeks of recovering from Covid-19||Neeraj Chaudhary tested positive for Covid-19 on the day he was to start from Kathmandu for Mount Everest but that did not deter the IIT Delhi alumnus who returned to the base camp within weeks of his recovery and ultimately managed to hoist the institution's flag, besides the tricolour, atop the summit. While the country was reeling under the aggressive second wave of Covid-19, Chaudhary's family members in Rajasthan were hooked to their phones waiting for an update about his well being. Chaudhary, 37, did his MTech in Environmental Sciences and Management at Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Delhi during 2009-11 and he is currently working with the Rajasthan government's Water Resources Department. He took to mountaineering in 2014, and in 2020 got selected as a member of the Indian Mountaineering Foundation (IMF) Everest Expedition under the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports. However, the expedition was postponed due to the outbreak of coronavirus. This year, amid the uncertainty posed by the pandemic, he reached Kathmandu with the team to begin the expedition. "But I hit a roadblock when I tested positive for Covid and had to return to Jaipur. I was feeling fatigued since a few days but I had no other symptoms," Chaudhury told PTI. "In that moment as well, I wasn't really thinking of Covid. All I could think of was how much effort I had put in and the preparations I had done to reach there and that was my chance to complete it. I think that motivation of not having a second chance anytime soon helped me push my body harder and there I was," he added. He tested positive on March 27 and was back in Kathmandu in April itself. He managed to scale the peak on May 31. Chaudhary recalls that once he was back in Kathmandu, after recovering from the infection, the news updates from India about the Covid situation worried him, while his family was on tenterhooks due to updates of cyclones in subsequent weeks. "It wasn't easy mentally, and mountaineering is not just a physical effort. When I reached there, then also it took me three attempts within 36 hours to ultimately reach the top but once there, it was the best feeling. I managed to scale the peak on May 31," he said. Crediting IIT Delhi for shaping his career and the alumni association for helping him start a fundraiser of Rs 24 lakh for the expedition, Chaudhary took the IIT flag with him. A flag in ceremony was held at IIT Delhi on Friday to mark the achievement. "It's a matter of great pride that an alumnus of IIT Delhi Neeraj Choudhary, MTech, (Shivalik hostel) successfully scaled Mt Everest summit (8848.86m AMSL) on May 31. Neeraj carried the IIT Delhi flag with him and hoisted it on Mount Everest. "He started the summit push directly from Camp-II (6400m AMSL) on May 30 and after the summit on 31st, returned directly to Camp-II in a continuous effort of almost 36 hours," IIT Delhi Director V Ramgopal Rao.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iit-delhi-alumnus-scales-mt-everest-within-seven-weeks-of-recovering-from-covid-19-1007370.html
11-07-2021||National||Government extends deadline to bid for managing IDBI Bank sale||The government has extended the deadline for transaction and legal advisors to bid for managing the IDBI Bank strategic sale by 9 days till July 22. The Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) had on June 22 invited bids from merchant bankers and law firms for managing and giving legal advice for the sale process. The last date to put in bids was July 13. “… The competent authority has decided to extend the bid submission date of the… tender by nine days. The last date of bid submission will now be July 22, 2021,” the DIPAM said in a notice. DIPAM, which manages government's equity, had also clarified to the merchant bankers that LIC's holding in IDBI Bank would be sold along with government's stake, but the exact quantum of stake dilution would be decided later. The central government and LIC together own more than 94 per cent equity of IDBI Bank. LIC, currently having management control, has a 49.24 per cent stake, while the government holds 45.48 per cent in the bank. Non-promoter shareholding stands at 5.29 per cent. The cabinet in May had approved the strategic sale of the entire stake of government and Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) in IDBI Bank. In response to queries received from potential transaction advisors in IDBI Bank, DIPAM has clarified that since LIC's stake would be sold along with that of the government's, a single transaction advisor would manage the entire share sale process. "The mandate received from CCEA is to offload up to 100 per cent stake of GoI and LIC along with transfer of management control. However, the exact quantum is yet to be worked out. It will be determined, as we go through the transaction and ascertain investors' interest and market appetite. "It is clarified that LIC's stake will be sold along with GoI's shareholding in this transaction. So there is only one transaction advisor," it said. The quantum of stake dilution would be declared before RFP (Request for Proposal) stage of the transaction, it added. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her Budget for 2021-22 had said the process of privatisation of IDBI Bank would be completed in the current fiscal. The government aims to mop up Rs 1.75 lakh crore in the current fiscal from minority stake sale and privatisation. Of the Rs 1.75 lakh crore, Rs 1 lakh crore is to come from selling government stake in public sector banks and financial institutions. Rs 75,000 crore would come as CPSE disinvestment receipts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-extends-deadline-to-bid-for-managing-idbi-bank-sale-1007377.html
11-07-2021||National||Jammu IAF base attack: Security sources say 'pressure fuse' in bombs indicates role of Pakistan military||The initial investigations into twin drone terror attacks on the Indian Air Force (IAF) base in Jammu on June 27 have revealed that some elements of the Pakistan army helped Lashkar-e-Taiba outfit in fabricating the ‘pressure fuse’ which triggered the explosion. Sources said the Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs), fitted on drones that caused the blast, might have been initiated with ‘pressure fuse’, which is military ordnance and not a normally IED. “The June 27 blast was not a normal IED blast but had a pressure fuse, which initiated the blast. Such type of IED can be manufactured in ordnance factories only and involvement of Pakistan Ordnance factory in this is highly possible,” they said. A 'pressure fuse' is generally used in minefields, anti-tank mines and those dropped by the air force in the fuselage between the explosive and main detonator of a shell or an IED. In the first case of use of unmanned aerial vehicles by militants to target a security installation in the country, two explosives-laden drones crashed into the IAF station at Jammu airport damaging the roof of a building and injuring two personnel. On June 29, the investigation into the drone strike was handed over to the National Intelligence Agency (NIA) after the elite counter-terrorism unit submitted a preliminary report of the incident to the Union Home ministry. The ability of drones to evade radar, wreak devastation at strategic installations and transport weapons to terrorists has become a new concern for the country’s security establishment. Of late Pakistan has been procuring armed drones from China and Turkey. Since 2020, there has been a spurt in airdropping of weapons by drones and the smuggling of narcotics along the border in Jammu. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jammu-iaf-base-attack-security-sources-say-pressure-fuse-in-bombs-indicates-role-of-pakistan-military-1007388.html
11-07-2021||National||Conscience does not permit investment of even one rupee in Kerala: Kitex group chairman||My conscience now does not permit me to invest even a rupee in Kerala ever again, Kitex group chairman Sabu Jacob said on Sunday after returning from his trip to Telangana. He said he has plans to initially invest Rs 1,000 crore in Telangana and had given assurances to them to that effect. Speaking to the media after landing at the Cochin International Airport in Nedumbassery, Jacob also took a dig at Congress MLAs and MP Benny Behanan, who had made complaints against his units, by saying that he was "indebted" to them for showing him what was a business-friendly atmosphere and for opening the way for him to earn crores of money. "I am grateful to them (the Congress MLAs and MPs)," he added. He, however, declined to react to what Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Saturday that claims of Kitex that Kerala was not investment or business-friendly was a "planned and deliberate" move to humiliate the state. Jacob said he has a lot of respect for the chief minister who has the right to scold him or criticise him and therefore, he was not going to react to what Vijayan said. Referring to his two-day visit to Telangana on their invitation, he said that an aerial survey of the industrial parks and the facilities was facilitated by the state government there and before leaving he had discussions with the industries minister and other officials there. He said that his company plans to initially invest Rs 1,000 crore there in the first phase and assurances to that effect have been given to the Telangana government. After technical evaluations are carried out within the next two weeks, a call would be taken on whether to increase the investment there, he added. He also said that his company has decided that by the end of this month, a final agreement with Telangana will be arrived at and thereafter, within the next two years a certain amount of money would be invested there. Jacob said that if the people in Kerala come to know of the facilities and offers given to him, not a single business or industry would remain in the state and added that this trip that he took would be an inspiration to all businessmen and industrialists here. He said he will be holding a press meet on Monday to give further details regarding his investment plans in Telangana and the offers made to him by that state. On the aspect of offers, he said Union Minister of State for Electronics and Information Technology, Rajeev Chandrasekhar, called him inviting him to meet Karnataka Chief MinisterB S Yediyurappa. On whether he was open to discussions with the Kerala government, he said he was always open to talks with them. "Even if they had sent a clerk or a peon, I would have been open to talks. I am still open to talks with them. However, my conscience at the moment does not permit me to invest even a rupee in Kerala ever again," he said. Jacob said he has been facing problems for a long time, but he hung on as he was concerned about the thousands of people he has employed in his companies. However, he was continuously surrounded, hounded and pushed into a corner and therefore, he finally decided that he cannot continue like this, he told the media. He said no matter where in India he sets up his business he will provide jobs there to every Keralite who approaches him. He said if his actions can bring a change in Kerala, it would only help the future generations of the state. Alleging harassment by Kerala government officials, Jacob had in the last week of June said his group was withdrawing its Rs 3,500 crore project from the State. Two days ago, the Kerala government had said it has an "open approach" towards issues raised by Kitex group, even as the company stuck to its decision to back out from a Rs 3,500 crore investment plan in the state, with its chairman alleging that he was being "hounded and kicked out." "The government is still open...issues can be discussed with the investors and take things forward," Industries Minister P Rajeev had told reporters in Thiruvananthapuram on Friday. He was responding to Jacob's statement that he was not leaving his home state on his own, but was being "hounded and kicked out." Before leaving for Hyderabad, Jacob had alleged that the Kerala government authorities did not bother to intervene even after his announcement of withdrawal from the multi-crore investment project from the state. He had reiterated his charge that the atmosphere in Kerala was not conducive for launching business and said no other investor should face such an experience in the state. The industries minister, however, had rejected the charges, saying the state has a conducive atmosphere for launching industries and young investors in various start-ups would tell their better experience with the state government. Kitex Garments Ltd had said it has decided to withdraw from the project signed during the "Ascend Global Investors Meet" organised by the Kerala government in Thiruvananthapuram in January 2020, alleging that it was difficult for the company to run the existing industrial units in the state. Jacob had alleged that various units of Kitex were raided 10 times by officials from various departments during the past one month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/conscience-does-not-permit-investment-of-even-one-rupee-in-kerala-kitex-group-chairman-1007397.html
11-07-2021||National||Government seeks legal opinion on whether privatised BPCL can get state-produced LPG||A two-decade-old LPG supply order restricting supply of domestically produced LPG to only state-owned oil companies has stymied plans to allow Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) to continue selling subsidised cooking gas (LPG) after its privatisation. A legal opinion has now been sought to ascertain if privatised BPCL will be eligible to receive liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) produced by companies such as ONGC and GAIL, two government officials with knowledge of the development said. Currently, BPCL has more than 8.4 crore domestic LPG customers, including 2.1 crore Ujjwala customers. The company does not produce enough LPG at its refineries to be able to cater to the requirement of all these. It, like other oil marketing companies, buys LPG from state-owned firms like Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) and GAIL (India) Ltd as well as private companies such as Reliance Industries Ltd. The Liquefied Petroleum Gas (Regulation of Supply and Distribution) Order, 2020, known as LPG Control Order of 2000, restricts sale of indigenously produced cooking gas only to state-owned oil marketing companies — Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL) and BPCL. It restricts supply of LPG produced by firms such as ONGC and GAIL to private firms. Private LPG retailers, called parallel marketeers, have to use imported gas for supplying to customers. The 2000 Control Order was issued as the nation is short in LPG production. Once BPCL is privatised, the 2000 order will bar ONGC and GAIL from selling LPG to BPCL, the officials said. "Post divestment of the government's stake in BPCL, it shall cease to be a government oil company in terms of clause 2(g) of LPG Control Order of 2000," an official said. With no access to indigenously produced LPG, BPCL won't be able to serve its customers and it would not be possible to shift the customers to IOC and HPCL as LPG cylinder equipment at customer end will need to be changed. Also, IOC and HPCL may not have the required infrastructure to cater to such a large customer base, the officials said. As a way out, it is being considered to continue to treat BPCL as a government company for the purpose of the 2000 Control Order for three years, the officials said adding that a legal opinion has been sought to ascertain if such a move is tenable under the law. The other alternative is to amend the LPG Control Order itself to allow private firms to access indigenously produced LPG. This would open up LPG retailing to other private firms. Officials said law ministry opinion has been sought to determine if the term government oil company in the LPG Control Order necessary requires the company to be a government company and if BPCL post privatisation can be notified as a government oil company. To interpret the term 'government company', the opinion of the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA), as well as the Ministry of Consumer Affairs (MoCA), has been sought, they said. MCA because it is the administrative ministry for purposes of administration of the Companies Act, 2013 and MoCA because it is the administrative ministry/department for the purposes of administration of Essential Commodities Act, 1955, under which the LPG Control Order of 2000 was issued. Officials said the new owner of BPCL will after three years of takeover get a right to decide on retaining the business of selling subsidised LPG. The firm's cooking gas LPG customers will be transferred to IOC and HPCL in case the new owner does not want to continue with such a business, the officials added. The government gives 12 cooking gas (LPG) cylinders of 14.2-kg each to households in a year at a subsidised rate. There is no subsidy being paid in most parts of the country but a subsidy will be directly paid into the bank accounts of the users in case prices rise steeply. The government is selling its entire 53 per cent stake along with management control in BPCL. The new owner will get 15.33 per cent of India's oil refining capacity and 22 per cent of the fuel marketing share. It also owns 18,652 petrol pumps, 6,166 LPG distributor agencies and 61 out of 260 aviation fuel stations in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-seeks-legal-opinion-on-whether-privatised-bpcl-can-get-state-produced-lpg-1007398.html
11-07-2021||National||Stan Swamy's death in custody can't be justified: Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday said the death of Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case accused Jesuit priest Stan Swamy in custody cannot be justified even if Maoists are "more dangerous than Kashmiri separatists". In his weekly column Rokhthok in the party mouthpiece Saamana, Raut wondered whether India's foundation was so weak that an 84-year-old man could wage a war against it, and said being critical of an incumbent government doesn't mean being against the country. Swamy, 84, possibly the oldest person to be accused of terrorism in India, died in a Mumbai hospital recently in the middle of his fight for bail on health grounds. "A government that is scared of an 84-year-old physically challenged man is dictatorial in character, but weak in the mind," said Raut, who is the executive editor of Saamana. The activities of the Elgar Parishad cannot be supported, but what happened later should be called a "conspiracy of cracking down on freedom", Raut said, referring to the arrest of activists like Varavara Rao, Sudha Bharadwaj, Gaurav Navlakha and others in connection with the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case. Raut said all those arrested (in the case), including (scholar-activist) Anand Teltumbde, belong to a particular ideology who voice their rebellion through literature. "Can they overthrow the government with this?" he asked. Raut said Stan Swamy died in custody while Prime Minister Narendra Modi held talks with those who want autonomy for Kashmir and are demanding restoration of Article 370 there. "We may not agree with the ideology of Maoists and Naxals. Swamy's death in custody cannot be justified even if Maoists and Naxals are more dangerous than Kashmiri separatists," the Rajya Sabha member said. He expressed surprise over Prime Minister Modi's name figuring in the list of global leaders who crack down on press freedom. "The situation has not gone out of hand in India even if it is true that the government's critics are put in jail under sedition laws. The Indian press also raises its voice against such incidents," he said. "Is the country's foundation so weak that it can be threatened by an 84-year-old man?" Raut asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stan-swamys-death-in-custody-cant-be-justified-shiv-sena-mp-sanjay-raut-1007399.html
11-07-2021||National||Vistadome rail coaches offer breathtaking view of Western Ghats||The South Western Railway has introduced two luxurious Vistadome coaches on day Express trains, offering a 180-degree panoramic view of the scenic western ghats to the passengers. According to Chief Public Relation Officer of South Western Railway, Aneesh Hegde, this train route traverses through the Western Ghats, specifically the Sakleshpur-Subrahmanya Ghat section. "The section is scenic, offers breathtaking glimpses of mountains, valleys, gorges and greenery. The region abounds in monsoon with even more beautiful scenery," he added. Hegde said the train will have two Vistadome coaches with each coach having a seating capacity of 44. Seats are rotatable 180 degrees whereas the wide and large windows will offer a clear close-up view to the passengers. The Vistadome coach has been manufactured by the Integral Coach Factory in Chennai on the LHB (Linke-Hofmann-Busch platform/technology). There are glass rooftops that offer views of the sky to the passengers. These rooftops have anti-glare screens too, the SWR CPRO said. The coach is equipped with CCTV surveillance, fire safety systems, LED display, oven and refrigerator, mini pantry, multi-tiered steel luggage shelves, mobile charging socket on each seat, 'content-on-demand viewable by passengers, the officer said. He added that the coach is equipped with automatic sliding doors and bio-toilets. "The seats have foldable snack tables, similar to that in aircrafts. The coaches are also equipped with a GPS based public- address system and Braille signage to assist 'Divyang' (visually challenged) passengers. There is also a space, sort of lounge, provided at the far end of the coach with a large viewing window," Hegde said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vistadome-rail-coaches-offer-breathtaking-view-of-western-ghats-1007402.html
11-07-2021||National||India's first cryptogamic garden opens in Dehradun||India's first cryptogamic garden housing nearly 50 species of lichens, ferns and fungi was inaugurated in Uttarakhand's Dehradun district on Sunday. Located in the district's Chakrata town, the garden was inaugurated by social activist Anoop Nautiyal. Around 50 species have been grown in the garden at Deoban in Chakrata at a commanding height of 9,000 ft, Chief Conservator of Forest (research) Sanjiv Chaturvedi said. "We chose to locate the garden, which is spread over three acres, at Deoban because of its low pollution levels and moist conditions which are conducive for the growth of these species," he said. Deoban has pristine majestic forests of Deodar and Oak which create a natural habitat for cryptogamic species, he added. Cryptogamae means "hidden reproduction" referring to the fact that no seed, no flowers are produced. Thus, cryptogams represent the non-seed bearing plants, Chaturvedi explained. Algae, bryophytes (moss, liverworts), lichens, ferns and fungi are the best-known groups of cryptogams that require moist conditions to survive, he said. Expatiating on the cryptogamic groups present in the garden, Chaturvedi said algae comprises the most primitive organisms which are predominantly aquatic, both in marine as well as freshwater habitats. Bryophytes are the simplest and primitive land plants that occupy an intermediate position between algae and pteridophytes. Lichens are a complex life form that is a symbiotic partnership of two separate organisms, a fungus and an algae, he said. Ferns are the largest living group of primitive vascular plants while fungi is a kingdom of usually multicellular eukaryotic organisms that are heterotrophs, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-first-cryptogamic-garden-opens-in-dehradun-1007413.html
11-07-2021||National||New IT rules empowering, protecting users: Ashwini Vaishnaw||Defending the new IT rules, newly appointed IT and communications minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on Sunday said these rules are empowering and protecting users. "Reviewed the implementation and compliance of Information Technology Rules, 2021 along with my colleague Shri Rajeev Chandrasekhar ji. These guidelines are empowering and protecting users and will ensure a safer and responsible social media ecosystem in India," Vaishnaw said in a post on Twitter's Indian competitor Koo platform. Soon after assuming the charge as the new IT Minister, Vaishnaw said all companies that function in India should follow the rule of the land. The new rules that came into effect on May 25 mandate social media companies to establish a grievance redressal mechanism for resolving complaints from the users or victims.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-it-rules-empowering-protecting-users-ashwini-vaishnaw-1007417.html
11-07-2021||National||Puducherry schools, colleges to reopen on July 16||After months of closure due to the Covid-19 pandemic, schools and colleges in Puducherry will reopen on July 16. "Colleges will reopen on July 16. Schools would also reopen partially and classes for ninth to 12th standards alone would resume that day," Chief Minister N Rangasamy said on Sunday. He was speaking to reporters after submitting to Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, the list of portfolios for allocation to his newly inducted five ministerial colleagues. The Chief Minister said the government took the decision as the situation was now improving in the Union Territory. No Covid-19 death was reported in Puducherry on Sunday, while the number of fresh cases stood at 145.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/puducherry-schools-colleges-to-reopen-on-july-16-1007420.html
11-07-2021||National||AAP youth wing members reach Delhi BJP chief's residence to cut water supply, detained||AAP youth wing members were detained on Sunday when they went to cut the water connection to the house of Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta in protest against the Haryana government allegedly not providing the national capital its share of water. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Saurabh Bhardwaj had threatened on Saturday that if the BJP-led Haryana government does not release Delhi's "rightful portion" of water in 24 hours, the water supply to Gupta's house will be stopped. He alleged that the Haryana government has curtailed Delhi's water supply by around 100 million gallons per day (MGD). The AAP youth wing members reached Gupta's West Patel Nagar residence on Sunday. "They were detained and taken to the Rajender Nagar police station," a senior officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aap-youth-wing-members-reach-delhi-bjp-chiefs-residence-to-cut-water-supply-detained-1007427.html
11-07-2021||National||'Adventurous' siblings lose way in Kerala forest, trapped overnight||A trekking adventure of two siblings into the forests of the rural parts of Kerala's Kozhikode ended up in a harrowing experience as the two lost the route and were held up in the forest overnight. The two were spotted and rescued in a 12-hour-long joint operation by various agencies. Mohammed, 25, and his brother Ahammed, 21, natives of Kasargod, were held up in the forest close to the Malabar Wild Life Sanctuary where many wild animals like tigers and elephants are present. The siblings wanted to see the waterfall inside the forest. The two had ventured into the forest from Kattippara near Thamarasserry on the suburbs of Kozhikode on Saturday morning. By evening some local people alerted the police that two youths were seen entering the forest and they did not return yet as their two-wheeler was still there. Police traced their address with the help of the registration number of their vehicle and got their mobile phone numbers. Thamarasserry sub-inspector Prajeesh said that luckily the two were in the mobile network coverage area and hence they could be reached over the phone. They said that they lost the route and literally trapped in the forest. Subsequently, a joint team of police, forest officials and Fire and Rescue Services personnel launched a search by around 7 pm. They traced the path through which the two trekked based on the landmarks recollected by the two. The search went on overnight and lasted for at least 12 hours when the two were spotted by around 7 am on Sunday. Thamarasserry forest range officer Rajeev Kumar said that the two went more than five kilometres into the forest and were close to the Malabar Wild Life Sanctuary. The rescue team kept on contacting the two frequently and hence the two remained quite comfortable. On quizzing by the police and forest, the two said that they did not have any illegal intention but were just attracted by the waterfalls inside the forest. They were suspected to have made similar adventures earlier also. The forest authorities initiated a case against the two for trespassing into the restricted forest area, which could attract up to one year imprisonment and a fine of up to Rs 5,000. The police registered a case for flouting the Covid-19 protocol. Mohammed is into a catering business and his wife's house is in Thamarasserry. Ahammed is a student.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/adventurous-siblings-lose-way-in-kerala-forest-trapped-overnight-1007436.html
11-07-2021||National||SC to launch pilot project on timely remission of life terms||The Supreme Court has decided to launch a pilot project in the states of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Chhattisgarh from August 1, 2021, to ensure timely decision on remission of life terms convicts from jails. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta said the state governments should decide within a stipulated time to facilitate an aggrieved convict to challenge it before the court. The court agreed with a submission from amicus curiae, advocate Gaurav Agrawal that it was difficult to have a uniform policy in view of there being different criteria involved in different States. The court noted that there were four important aspects like timely identification of the eligible convicts; making applications by them with the help of the District Legal Services Authority; timelines for the application procedure and decision on the premature release on their plea. And, if the premature release applications are rejected by the state government, then legal aid will be provided to the said convict to decide whether the said rejection should be challenged in court or not. The bench said, "One of the aspects we have emphasised is that there should be better coordination between the District Legal Services Authority and the jail authorities so that the entire burden does not fall on the jail authorities. The assistance of paralegals can also be obtained to facilitate the better working of the system. In addition, after the review boards have taken a call, some time frame has to be provided for the state government to take a decision." "We consider it appropriate that the decision by the state government should be taken within a period of two months of the communication of the recommendation of the Review Board," the bench said. Agrawal suggested that as a pilot project the timeline suggested for each step may be implemented in the States of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Chhattisgarh.  "This will facilitate gaining experience whether it can be applied across the board and if any modifications are required," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-launch-pilot-project-on-timely-remission-of-life-terms-1007443.html
11-07-2021||National||Uttar Pradesh police bust Al-Qaeda module, nab two suspected suicide-bombers||The anti-terrorist squad (ATS) of the Uttar Pradesh police on Sunday claimed to have busted an Al-Qaeda module in Lucknow after it arrested two suspected terrorists, who had planned suicide attacks at crowded areas and recovered a huge quantity of explosive materials from them. UP additional director general of police, law and order, Prashant Kumar told reporters in Lucknow that the two suspected terrorists, who were associated with Al Qaeda's Ansar Ghazawat-ul-Hind outfit, were identified as Minhaj Ahmed and Musheeruddin alias Musheer. ''They planned attacks at crowded places in the state capital and other cities in the state before the Independence Day... We are trying to find out about their accomplices and searches are being conducted at different places,'' Kumar said. He also said that the nabbed terrorists were being handled from Peshawar and Quetta in Pakistan. Police officials said that the suspects were nabbed from a house in the Kakori area, on the outskirts of the state capital. ''Bomb-making material and other explosives were recovered from the house,'' said another senior police officer. He added that a pistol and IED were also recovered from the house of Minhaj.  The officials said that the terrorists planned to eliminate some prominent politicians. The ATS sleuths surrounded the area and conducted house to house searches. ''It is likely that some of their accomplices may have fled,'' the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttar-pradesh-police-bust-al-qaeda-module-nab-two-suspected-suicide-bombers-1007451.html
11-07-2021||National||Popular mimicry artist-actor Madhav Moghe dies at 68||Actor and mimicry artist Madhav Moghe, best known for featuring in films like Salman Khan-Govinda starrer Partner and Meenakshi Seshadri's Damini, passed away on Sunday after battling lung cancer. He was 68. The actor, who was not keeping well since the past one month, was admitted to Bombay Hospital last week where he was diagnosed with lung cancer, his daughter Prachi Moghe said Moghe was brought back home on Saturday. "He passed away today early morning at his residence. He wasn't keeping well for the last one month. His health kept deteriorating so he was admitted to Bombay hospital. Last week, he was diagnosed with last stage lung cancer," Prachi told PTI. Moghe was known for his mimicry, especially that of late star Sanjeev Kapoor. His spoof of Kapoor's iconic character Thakur from Sholay was widely popular. He was a regular on the Sachin Pilgaonkar-hosted 1990s show Ek Do Teen, which featured parodies of Bollywood films Saudagar, Chupke Chupke and Gupt among others. The actor's earliest film appearances were in Rajkumar Santoshi's Damini (1993) and Ghatak (1996). He also featured in the 2005 comedy-romance Maine Pyaar Kyun Kiya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/popular-mimicry-artist-actor-madhav-moghe-dies-at-68-1007452.html
11-07-2021||National||Railway marks 15th anniversary of 7/11 Mumbai train blasts||On July 11, 15 years years ago, seven blasts in a duration of 11 minutes in first-class suburban train compartments had left Mumbai rattled. Not only was it one of the worst-ever terror attacks in any metropolitan city in India, but also the most dangerous attack on urban transportation systems anywhere in the world. This Sunday marked the 15th anniversary of the July 11, 2006 blasts or the 7/11 blasts, which claimed 187 lives and injured 1,024 others. The orchestrated blasts occurred in gents’ first-class compartments of crowded trains bound for Borivli and Virar. The commuters were mostly included executives, businessmen and government employees as well as private establishments employees besides college students. Coinciding with the anniversary, various senior Railway officers placed wreaths on these stations as a mark of respect and paid tributes to the departed souls.  It was Lashkar-e-Taiba who executed the blasts with the ground support of activists of the outlawed Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI). A total of 13 persons were booked under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA). On September 11, 2015, as many as 12 of the 13 accused were convicted and sentenced while one of them was acquitted. The main planner and conspirator was Azam Cheema alias Babaji, the Bahawalpur-based LeT commander who doubled up as an ISI operative – a wanted-accused in the case. He started the planning several years ago and commenced training of some of the key players in the act of terror. After a detailed probe, the ATS has pieced together the entire modus operandi, but the key conspirators were still at large. Of the seven blasts, planters in the five blasts had been identified. The Al Qaeda imprint was also a matter of probe. Nearly 15 to 20 kgs of RDX were used in the blasts, which was brought by Eshamullah while the ammonium nitrate was locally procured. Five-litre pressure cooker bombs were used to trigger the explosions and quartz timers were used. The bombs were assembled at the residence of Shaikh, Chembur residence of accused Mohammed Ali and were then taken to one of the accused’s residences. The bombs were planted at the Churchgate station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railway-marks-15th-anniversary-of-7/11-mumbai-train-blasts-1007500.html
11-07-2021||National||RSS sets up special training camps to deal with third Covid wave||With the possibility of the third wave of the Covid-19, RSS has decided to train its workers to help in relief work and come to the aid of the administration across the country. After the meeting of the Akhil Bhartiya Prant Pracharaks at Chitrakoot in Madhya Pradesh, decision to organise special workers’ training camps to prepare them for a timely response was taken. “In such a situation, these trained workers will reach about 2.5 lakh places to reach the people at the appropriate time to get all the necessary information to boost the morale of the society,” Sunil Ambekar, the Akhil Bhartiya Prachar Pramukh of the RSS said in a statement. Ambekar said this training will be completed in the month of August and from September, many more people and organisations will be connected to the campaign through public awareness in every village and township. In this training, necessary precautions and measures will be included for children and mothers especially to safeguard them against coronavirus. With the Covid-19 situation returning to normal, RSS has re-started 27,166 of its 39,454 shakhas across the country in the field. Besides, 12,288 e-shakhas, 6,510 weekly meetings, and 3,620 e-milans have been taking place. RSS has also been reaching out through 9,637 family meetings, which were started during the Covid-19 pandemic. Sunday’s meeting at Chitrakoot also reviewed the service work done by various zones during the second wave of the pandemic. Facilitation centres and promotion campaigns for vaccination conducted by volunteers were also reviewed. Top RSS leaders have gathered at Chitrakoot for a four-day brainstorming session that could not be held last year due to the pandemic. RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat had addressed the inaugural session and asked swayamsevaks to help people in need should there be a third wave of the pandemic. On Monday, the Akhil Bharatiya Sanghathan Mantri of various organisations would participate in the meeting through video conferencing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rss-sets-up-special-training-camps-to-deal-with-third-covid-wave-1007508.html
11-07-2021||National||Surveillance of sewage water with genome sequencing tools can help identify genetic changes in Covid-19||Regular surveillance of sewage water with genome sequencing tools can help identify troublesome genetic changes in SARS-CoV-2 weeks in advance, Indian scientists said after discovering the Delta variant in Ahmedabad wastewater one month before the first clinical case was reported in the Gujarat capital. From the whole genome sequencing of the virus found in wastewater, the researchers spotted the signature mutations of the Delta variant in February 2021 – one month before it was found in a patient. "Scanning the sewage water has many advantages as a routine surveillance technique. It saves a lot of time and energy,” Chaitanya G Joshi, a scientist at the Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre and a member of the team that found the Delta in Ahmedabad in February told DH. Earlier CSIR laboratories conducted two such surveillance studies to show the method’s efficacy. While one of the studies was carried out in eight cities by three CSIR laboratories, a second study was undertaken in Pune by the National Chemical Laboratory. "The results correlated with the national sero prevalence survey carried out by the Indian Council of Medical Research. The wastewater surveillance is an effective way to monitor the spread of the disease,” commented Shekhar Mande, CSIR director-general, who is not associated with the Gujarat study. A similar survey by the National Centre for Disease Control is going on in Delhi whereas, in Nagpur, the Central India Institute of Medical Sciences has initiated one such study. The genomic surveillance of SARS-CoV-2 variants in wastewater samples, according to Joshi, offers early information about circulating novel variants and their transmission pattern. It is useful to detect and identify variants of concerns, variants of interest and new mutations within a population. A continuous and large-scale time-series monitoring of wastewater can identify disease outbreaks and clustering of VOCs & VUIs, and explain their genesis, virulence, transmission, and intensity of spread within a population. The GBRC team along with their collaborators with the Indian Institute of Technology, Gandhinagar was monitoring Ahmedabad wastewater since September 2020. Initially, they carried out RTPCR tests looking for positive cases to identify the disease clusters. Subsequently, they started whole genome sequencing to identify new mutations in the virus. Since diarrhoea is one of the symptoms of Covid-19 and happened before the respiratory symptoms, the wastewater contains the virus. A Covid-19 patient would shed more virus compared to those who are asymptomatic. In their research, the scientists found that 57% of the samples they analysed carry the Delta variant, which gives a clear indication about the arrival of a new strain in a city of 55 lakh individuals. “Our study revealed the genetic signs of the B.1.617.2 (Delta variant) in wastewater in February 2021, more than a month in advance the first case of such a variant was reported in clinical samples in March in Ahmedabad,” the team said in a study, which is yet to be peer-reviewed and released on a preprint server.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/surveillance-of-sewage-water-with-genome-sequencing-tools-can-help-identify-genetic-changes-in-covid-19-1007514.html
11-07-2021||National||New Uttarakhand CM Pushkar Dhami faces catch-22 situation over Kawad Yatra||With the second surge of Covid-19 pandemic yet to ebb, Uttarakhand’s young chief minister Pushkar Dhami is facing a catch-22 situation as he may reconsider his predecessor’s decision to cancel the ‘Kawad Yatra’, where lakhs of devotees travel to Haridwar to collect water from river Ganga to offer at Shiva temples. While the previous Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat had cancelled the annual ‘yatra’, undertaken during the month of Shravan, owing to the pandemic, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has allowed the pilgrimage that begins on July 25. Reports had it that Adityanath had asked Dhami, who was appointed chief minister on July 4, to reconsider the decision to cancel the yatra. Dhami said Uttarakhand was only the host as devotees travel to the hill-state from Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. “Over three crore Kawariyas visit the state in 15 days. It is a matter of faith but people’s lives are also at stake. Saving lives is our first priority. God would not like it if people lost their lives to Covid due to Kawad Yatra" Dhami said. Discussions on Kawad Yatra figured during Dhami’s meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday. Uttarakhand government had come under severe criticism for allowing the Kumbh Mela at Haridwar in March when lakhs of devotees thronged the banks of the river Ganga for holy bath, when the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic had started in some parts of the country. Experts have warned against holding the yatra at a time when the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic has not completely abated. “Until people promise to the society that they will not misbehave, I think yatras are very dangerous,” S K Sarin, Director of Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences told ANI when asked about the holding of Kawad Yatra. “It can be harmful if they don't follow Covid appropriate behavior, and should be cautiously monitored,” Sarin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-uttarakhand-cm-pushkar-dhami-faces-catch-22-situation-over-kawad-yatra-1007522.html
11-07-2021||National||'Fulfilling her life-long ambition': Sirisha Bandla becomes second Indian-born woman to enter space||Sirisha Bandla has become the fourth person of Indian origin to have entered space, after Rakesh Sharma, Kalpana Chawla and Sunita Williams. Bandla, 34, hails from Guntur district in Andhra Pradesh, and her family settled in the US in the nineties, when she was a few years old. On Sunday, Bandla, Vice President, Government Affairs and Research Operations at Virgin Galactic flew into space and landed back on Earth safely in about an hour-long flight along with the aerospace and space travel company's founder Richard Branson and four other employees. Bandla became the second Indian-born woman, after Kalpana Chawla, to fly up into space, a feat described by her family and friends as a “fulfilling moment of her life-long ambition to be an astronaut.” The “Unity 22” mission of Virgin Galactic generated much interest in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana as Bandla is the first Telugu person to have entered space. “That Sirisha is the first Telugu person / woman to be in space is interesting and important. But, Sirisha flying into space itself is the bigger story. Millions of people dream, but only a few persevere at making their dreams come true. I am proud of Sirisha for never wavering in her path, and prouder of her parents who helped her in pursuing her dream. I salute Sirisha and her parents for their courage,” said V Chowdary Jampala, a former president of Telugu Association of North America (TANA). Sirisha's family consists of father Muralidhar Bandla, mother Anuradha Bandla and a sister. She grew up in Houston, Texas and is an engineer from Purdue University. She did post graduation from George Washington University. Her paternal grandfather Dr Bandla Ragaiah is a retired agriculture scientist in Guntur. Sirisha regularly visits India and her next trip is scheduled for December. As part of the space flight mission, Bandla's job was to evaluate the human-tended research experience, using an experiment from the University of Florida that requires several hand- held fixation tubes activated at various points in the flight profile. CM conveys best wishes to Sirisha Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy said that its a proud moment for the state as Guntur-born Bandla Sirisha flew on Virgin Gailactic spaceflight, and wished her good luck in the space mission. The trajectory of the 34-year-old aeronautical engineer has been amazing and reached great heights and Sirisha, the second Indian-born woman in space, would propel to higher orbits by the successful mission of Unity 22, the chief minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fulfilling-her-life-long-ambition-sirisha-bandla-becomes-second-indian-born-woman-to-enter-space-1007534.html
11-07-2021||National Politics||RSS joint general secretary Arun Kumar made interface for political issues, coordinator with BJP||The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) on Sunday introduced a key organisational change by making its joint general secretary Arun Kumar the interface for political issues and also coordinator with the BJP. He replaced another joint general secretary Krishana Gopal who held the charge since 2015. The change was announced in an ongoing meeting of RSS full-timers at Chitarkoot in Madhya Pradesh. When contacted, RSS Prachar Pramukh Sunil Ambekar confirmed the development and said Arun Kumar will be the Sangh's coordinator for political issues including with BJP. He further said this is a routine exercise and the Sangh keep shifting its workers from one responsibility to another. Earlier this year, the RSS had made a generational shift in its organisational structure by elevating Dattatreya Hosabale as general secretary and Arun Kumar along with Ramdatt Chakarddhar as joint general secretary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rss-joint-general-secretary-arun-kumar-made-interface-for-political-issues-coordinator-with-bjp-1007510.html
11-07-2021||North and Central||Only a day's stock of Covid-19 vaccines left in Delhi: Official data||Delhi has less than a day's stock of coronavirus vaccines left as over 1.31 lakh doses were administered on Friday, according to data shared by the government. According to CoWIN portal, 79,626 vaccine doses were administered on Saturday, taking the total number of doses administered in the national capital to 88,90,766, of which 20,76,571 were second doses. On Friday, 1,31,143 were administered, of which 35,802 were second doses, according to the vaccination bulletin issued by the Delhi government. The total number of doses administered on Friday stood at 88,10,952, of which 20,49,318 were second doses. On the morning of Saturday, Delhi had 2,50,000 doses of Covaxin and 63,000 doses of Covishield. Covaxin is being used to administer second dose only, since its stocks are limited and have irregular delivery cycles, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/only-a-days-stock-of-covid-19-vaccines-left-in-delhi-official-data-1007255.html
11-07-2021||North and Central||Virus cases not falling not a concern, all under control: CM||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday said the lack of a dip in Covid-19 cases in the state when compared to other states was not a cause for concern or fear as things are under control. He said the endeavour of the state from the beginning was to protect as many people as possible from being infected or succumbing to the virus until the vaccine was available for all. "Many are wondering as to why the number of patients in Kerala has not decreased. This comes as no surprise when examined in terms of public health principles. We can confidently say there is no need to be fearful and that things are under control," he told reporters. He said the Delta variant which has a higher chance of spreading struck Kerala during the second wave of Covid-19 and that the number of people infected by it increased because of the huge population in the state. "In addition, the disease spreads rapidly across the state due to the interconnectedness of rural and urban areas," he said. Since people already infected by Covid and those who have been vaccinated have limited immunity against the Delta variant, it can lead to infection recurring in those infected in the past, he said. "Many of those who are now positive fall into these categories. It is reassuring that they have no serious symptoms and no risk of death," he said. He said the sero prevalence study of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) at the end of the first wave revealed the prevalence rate in Kerala was only about half (11.4) compared to other states (21.6). "Therefore, the infections in the second wave were higher. Consequently, the number of tests have also increased," he said. He further said the study found 70 to 80 per cent of people in many cities in the country were infected. The Chief Minister said though the number of infections are not going down, restrictions like lockdown cannot be continued indefinitely and things need to go back to normal as soon as possible. That is why the restrictions are being eased or phased out. However, the relaxations should not be misused or abused by people by not following Covid-appropriate behaviour like wearing of masks and maintaining social distancing, he said and added that overcrowding should be avoided. He further said the state has been able to provide appropriate treatment to patients in hospitals and ICUs even when the number of cases was high and even then more than 60 -70 per cent of Covid hospital beds were never used. "About 90 per cent of the total patients are being treated free of cost in government hospitals. This is an achievement no other state has achieved," he said. He said there are 252 private hospitals affiliated with the government's Karunya Health Care Scheme for providing treatment to the poor and vulnerable families and that the cost of treatment in other private hospitals has been controlled. "The government and the private sector are working together to deal with the Covid situation," he said. On reporting of deaths due to Covid, the Chief Minister said it was not something that could be done easily. Again referring to ICMR studies, he said they show Kerala was better at reporting deaths than most other states. On the vaccinations in the state, the Chief Minister said 43 per cent of people in the above 18 years category have received the first dose and 12 per cent have received the second dose. In terms of vaccination numbers, the state was ahead of the others, he said and added that the state was also ahead in non-wastage of the vaccine supplied by the Centre. "Vaccine distribution has now started through private hospitals as well. In addition to the COVISHIELD and COVAXIN vaccines, some hospitals are also offering the SPUTNIK vaccine.Other vaccines from Indian and American companies are expected to be available soon," he said. He said experts opine immunity can be achieved only if around 70 per cent of the people in the 18 years plus group are vaccinated. Since at least 60 per cent of people in that category have been infected without being vaccinated and have some immunity, he told reporters that steps would be taken to vaccinate another 15 per cent soon to achieve herd immunity. Vaccination is recommended for pregnant and lactating mothers as per the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation as scientific studies have shown that Covid infection during pregnancy increases the risk of premature birth. He said the state was trying to vaccinate 2.5-3 lakh people per day for which a campaign called 'Vave' (Vaccine Advancement for Vaccine Equality) was launched for the registration of marginalised people like those below the povertyline who do not know how to register or do not have the facilities for the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/virus-cases-not-falling-not-a-concern-all-under-control-cm-1007264.html
11-07-2021||North and Central||Will cut Delhi BJP chief's water connection if Haryana doesn't restore supply: AAP||If the BJP-led Haryana government does not release Delhi's "rightful portion" of water in 24 hours, water supply to the party's Delhi unit chief's house will be stopped, Aam Aadmi Party MLA Saurabh Bhardwaj said. The legislator alleged that the Haryana government has curtailed Delhi's water supply by around 100 million gallons per day (MGD). "Out of a total of 900 MGD of water consumed by Delhi, approximately 100 MGD of water has been curtailed by the BJP-led Haryana government. The BJP's dirty politics is costing the water of 20 lakh people of Delhi," Bhardwaj said at a press conference. If Delhi's rightful portion of water is not released in 24 hours, the water connection of the Delhi BJP chief's house will be stopped, he added. The AAP will no longer tolerate this domineering attitude and downright politics of the BJP-led Haryana government, Bhardwaj said. "The Haryana government has been repeatedly stalling Delhi's water and we have to very often go to the HC or the SC. Stopping water connection is the only way to bring the BJP on the right track," he said. "The state governments do not have the time and energy to go to court repeatedly. Only when the court gives a strongly-worded judgement will the BJP release our water," the AAP leader added. No immediate reaction was available from the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-cut-delhi-bjp-chiefs-water-connection-if-haryana-doesnt-restore-supply-aap-1007275.html
11-07-2021||North and Central||Fraudulent elements trying to dupe people via fake job ads for Patna Metro: DMRC||The DMRC on Saturday alerted job aspirants to "unscrupulous elements" trying to deceive people with fake recruitment advertisements as well as offer letters for the ongoing Patna Metro project. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) is working on the Patna Metro project. "It has come to the notice of Delhi Metro's management that some unscrupulous elements are trying to deceive job seekers by issuing fake recruitment advertisements as well as offer letters for the ongoing Metro project in Patna," it said in a statement. The DMRC authorities said that in case any such fraudulent activity is noticed, it is to be immediately reported to the police for necessary action. "This is to clarify that the recruitment process in the DMRC is fully computerised and selections are made purely on merit. In addition, DMRC does not appoint any external agency or individual for its recruitment process. All relevant notifications are uploaded on DMRC's official website," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fraudulent-elements-trying-to-dupe-people-via-fake-job-ads-for-patna-metro-dmrc-1007281.html
11-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi opens school auditoriums, assembly halls for training, meetings||Auditoriums and assembly halls in Delhi schools will allowed to be used for training and meeting purposes but physical teaching and learning will continue to be remain suspended, stated a Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). The order issued by DDMA on Saturday said that the auditoriums and assembly halls in schools and educational institutions can be used for training and meeting purposes with a 50 per cent seating capacity limit. All schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions will remain closed and online or distance learning will be permitted, said the order. Other prohibited activities and services include cinema halls, multiplexes, spas, theatres, entertainment parks, political, social, cultural festivals and such other gatherings. These were banned with the imposition of lockdown in Delhi on April 19 due to surging COVID infections. Public transport, including Delhi Metro, will continue to operate with 50 per cent seating capacity. DTC and cluster buses will also run with 50 per cent seating capacity, the order stated. Activities that are prohibited and restricted will remain so till 5 am on July 26, said the order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-opens-school-auditoriums-assembly-halls-for-training-meetings-1007327.html
11-07-2021||North and Central||Violence mars UP Panchayat elections, cop alleges BJP workers brought bombs||Incidents of violence marred the Uttar Pradesh Panchayat elections as BJP claimed a "historic victory" on Saturday while the Opposition parties slammed the Yogi Adityanath-government for the clashes across the states.  According to state police, clashes and other untoward incidents were reported from 17 districts during the election process and orders have been issued to respective district police heads to take strict action against those responsible for it. A senior police officer in Etawah reportedly accused the BJP workers of slapping him. "Sir, I have been slapped. BJP workers have also brought bombs," Additional Superintendent of Police (city) of Etawah Prashant Kumar Prasad is heard telling a senior over the phone in a viral video. Etawah police spokesperson confirmed the incident on Sunday. The incident took place in the Barhpura block of the district. A case has been registered against one identified and some unidentified people, he said. In another incident, the brother-in-law of a block development committee member was killed in Bahraich as he resisted an alleged attempt to abduct his relative by a BJP candidate's husband and supporters ahead of the polls. भाजपा के MLA और ज़िलाध्यक्ष बम लेकर पुलिस वालों पर हमला कर रहे हैं ! ये है भाजपा के गुंडो का असली चेहरा ! In Lakhimpur Kheri, an SP candidate was allegedly manhandled by BJP workers, after which six policemen were suspended and the administration ordered a magisterial probe. According to a report from Sonbhadra, after the election of the BJP candidate in Nagwan block, SP workers alleged rigging in the counting and created a ruckus in which policemen including a Circle Officer and a former chairman of Robertsganj Municipality were injured. Some vehicles were also damaged by the miscreants. Superintendent of Police, Sonbhadra, Amarendra Prasad Singh said that in Nagwan block after BJP candidate Alok Singh was declared the winner, SP workers started protesting and pelted stones when police tried to clear the area, prompting the cops to lathi-charge. CO Sadar Ashish Mishra and a policeman were injured in this incident, he said. पुलिस आगे आगे,भीड़ पीछे पीछे ! The BJP on Saturday claimed victory on 635 of the total 825 seats of block panchayat chiefs in the state. Though at most of the places, counting had been completed, it was still continuing in some areas as of Saturday night. The panchayat election results are an important morale-booster for the BJP ahead of assembly polls next year in the politically crucial state as it had drawn a lot of flak over its handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. (with inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/violence-mars-up-panchayat-elections-cop-alleges-bjp-workers-brought-bombs-1007333.html
11-07-2021||North and Central||Dismissal of 11 govt employees on flimsy grounds criminal: Mehbooba Mufti||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Sunday said the dismissal of eleven government employees on “flimsy grounds” was criminal and the Centre continues “disempowering” the people of Jammu and Kashmir in the “garb of pseudo nationalism by trampling” the Constitution. The Jammu and Kashmir administration sacked 11 employees, including two sons of Hizbul Mujahideen chief Syed Salahuddin, for allegedly working for various terror groups, officials had said on Saturday “GOI continues disempowering people of J&K in garb of pseudo nationalism by trampling the constitution that ought to be upheld. Abrupt dismissal of 11 gov(ernment) employees on flimsy grounds is criminal. All policy decisions vis a vis J&K are taken with sole objective of punishing Kashmiris,” Mehbooba wrote on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dismissal-of-11-govt-employees-on-flimsy-grounds-criminal-mehbooba-mufti-1007356.html
11-07-2021||North and Central||Watch: Police thrash reporters during UP block panchayat polls||As BJP claimed victory in the Uttar Pradesh block panchayat polls on Saturday, several scattered incidents of violence were reported from 17 districts during the election process. Multiple incidents of stone-pelting, policemen thrashing reporters and resorting to baton-charge to disperse mobs were reported from different parts of the state. Retired IAS officer Surya Pratap Singh questioned the "relentless sycophancy" of a senior journalist after a video of a reporter "being beaten like an animal" went viral. आपकी अथक चाटुकारिता एवं दिन रात नफ़रत फैलाना भी काम नहीं आया। मीडिया जगत की जो स्थिति है, उसके लिए मीडिया खुद ज़िम्मेदार है। Several purported videos of clashes between supporters of rival parties and police and workers of political parties were also posted on social media. In one such video, which was also shown by news channels, the Additional Superintendent of Police (city) of Etawah Prashant Kumar Prasad is heard telling a senior over the phone, "Sir, I have been slapped. BJP workers have also brought bombs." Etawah police spokesperson confirmed the incident on Sunday. The incident took place in the Barhpura block of the district. A case has been registered against one identified and some unidentified people, he said. इटावा SP सिटी का कबूलनामा- “मुझे थप्पड़ मारा, भाजपा विधायक और ज़िला अध्यक्ष बम लेकर आए हैं” यहाँ पुलिस बल की भी जान ख़तरे में है। 'Democracy held hostage by BJP' Polling for the 476 posts of block panchayat chiefs was held from 11 am to 3 pm on Saturday, following which counting of votes had commenced. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Adityanath praised the State Election Commission for conducting "peaceful and fair" elections. The opposition parties, however, accused the BJP government of misusing official machinery in the elections and unleashing "anarchy". “Democracy in Uttar Pradesh has been held hostage by BJP,” Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav alleged. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/watch-police-thrash-reporters-during-up-block-panchayat-polls-1007357.html
11-07-2021||North and Central||Adityanath govt hid Covid-19 death figures in Uttar Pradesh, alleges Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday said if voted to power in the coming Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, his government will carry out an audit of Covid-19 management and take stringent action against officials for allegedly concealing data related to deaths. He accused the BJP-led state government of hiding Covid-19 death figures and claimed that it hid data as it did not want to help the people. "After the assembly elections in the state, and the formation of the SP government, an audit (of Covid-19 management) will be done, and officials who had concealed information will face stringent action. “Officials who had breached their limits, their list has been prepared. In the Covid-19 pandemic, there was a time when it was felt that there was no government in UP. People were left to their fate," Yadav said. Assembly elections are scheduled to take place in Uttar Pradesh next year. "The government did not give the statistics pertaining to the Covid-19 deaths, nor any help was given to them (victims). They (UP government) did not give the statistics of Covid-19 deaths, as they did not want to help (the people)," Yadav told reporters.  The SP chief also alleged that people had to struggle to arrange medicines for coronavirus patients. Medicines were black marketed, people did not get beds and they had run from one place to another for oxygen, he said. "A number of lives were lost. If anybody is responsible for this, it is the BJP government," the former chief minister said. He also talked about the issue of teachers who allegedly died during panchayat poll duties in the state. "When the teachers went on (panchayat poll) duty, it was said that only three teachers died (on poll duty due to Covid-19). Later, when organisations and we raised questions, the government had to admit that actually how many lives were lost," he said. A teachers' body had earlier claimed that over 1,600 teachers and workers of the Basic Education Department have died in Uttar Pradesh since the first week of April due to Covid-19, and said that 90 percent of them were on panchayat polls duty. However, Satish Chandra Dwivedi, the UP minister of state (independent charge) for Basic Education, had said all these deaths cannot be attributed to election duty. According to government data, only three teachers had died due to Covid-19, he had said. On May 31, the UP Cabinet had approved financial assistance of Rs 30 lakh for the kin of government personnel who died on duty during the recently-held panchayat elections, including those who succumbed to Covid-19 within 30 days of poll duty, an official spokesperson had said. The Cabinet had also approved increasing the ex-gratia amount from Rs 15 lakh to Rs 30 lakh. "The duration of duty as defined by the Election Commission of India was the basis on which the State Election Commission had formed the guidelines, in which the duration of Covid-19 infection and death was not considered. “Hence, for the ex-gratia, death due to Covid-19 within 30 days from election duty has been made the eligibility criteria," a state government spokesperson had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/adityanath-govt-hid-covid-19-death-figures-in-uttar-pradesh-alleges-akhilesh-yadav-1007361.html
11-07-2021||North and Central||NIA conducts raids across Kashmir in ISIS module case||The National investigation agency (NIA) swooped down in Kashmir on Sunday and carried out multiple raids in connection with an alleged conspiracy of the international terrorist organisation ISIS to radicalise and recruit youth to wage war against India. A spokesperson of the NIA said simultaneous searches were conducted in Srinagar and Anantnag at seven locations in connection with RC 14/2021/NIA/DLI. “The case was registered by NIA on 29.06.2021 in connection with the conspiracy of the proscribed terrorist organisation ISIS to radicalise and recruit impressionable youth in India to wage violent jihad against the Indian State. In order to execute its nefarious plan, an organised campaign has been launched over the cyberspace which is supplemented by on-ground terror financing activities,” he said. The initial investigation by the NIA has revealed that the ISIS terrorists operating from various conflict zones along with cadres in India, by assuming pseudo-online identities, have created a network wherein terror group’s propaganda material is disseminated for radicalising and recruiting members. “In this connection, an India-Centric online propaganda magazine ‘the Voice of Hind’ (VOH) is published on monthly basis with an aim to incite and radicalise impressionable youth by projecting a skewed narrative of imagined injustices in India to arouse a feeling of alienation and communal hatred,” it added. The NIA spokesperson said that searches in the case on Sunday in Kashmir led to the recovery and seizure of a large number of incriminating documents and digital devices such as mobile phones, tablets, laptops, hard disks and T-Shirts with the ISIS logo. Sources said the NIA sleuths, besides paramilitary CRPF and police, were accompanied by Intelligence Bureau (IB) and the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) officials during the raids in Kashmir to bust the alleged ISIS module. While several suspects are being questioned by the NIA, six people, including the chairman of ‘Siraj-ul-Uloom’ a religious seminary, Adnan Ahmad Nadvi, were arrested. The seminary is affiliated with an Islamic seminary in Uttar Pradesh. Since 2017, the NIA and the Enforcement Department (ED) have arrested more than three dozen people, including separatist leaders, businessmen and government employees, in the Valley in alleged terror funding cases. The investigative agencies have also interrogated several media persons in the valley. On August 29, 2018, the probe agency had also arrested a deputy jail superintendent for allegedly hatching a conspiracy inside Central Prison, Srinagar to recruit youth into the militancy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nia-conducts-raids-across-kashmir-in-isis-module-case-1007376.html
11-07-2021||North and Central||SpiceJet to start 8 new flights connecting MP from July 16: Scindia||SpiceJet will start eight new flights connecting Madhya Pradesh with Maharashtra and Gujarat from Friday onwards, Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said on Sunday. “Good news for Madhya Pradesh! Starting 8 new flights from July 16 onwards via SpiceJet: Gwalior-Mumbai-Gwalior; Gwalior-Pune-Gwalior; Jabalpur-Surat-Jabalpur; Ahmedabad-Gwalior-Ahmedabad,” the minister said on Twitter. “The Civil Aviation Ministry & the aviation industry are committed to take UDAN to greater heights!” he added. Under the regional connectivity scheme UDAN, financial incentives from the Centre, state governments and airport operators are extended to selected airlines to encourage operations from unserved and underserved airports, and keep airfares affordable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/spicejet-to-start-8-new-flights-connecting-mp-from-july-16-scindia-1007378.html
11-07-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Man held for objectionable comments on PM, Union minister||Madhya Pradesh police have arrested a 28-year-old man for allegedly making objectionable comments against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani on social media, an official said on Sunday. A local BJP leader filed a police complaint on Saturday against Govardhan Nagar, a resident of Akya Jagir village in Ujjain district, Khachrod police station in-charge Ramkishor Singhavat said. In his complaint, Khachrod BJP mandal unit president Chetan Sharma alleged that the accused posted an edited picture along with some objectionable comments on social media platforms, the official said. Following the complaint, Nagar was arrested and a case registered against him under provisions of the Information Technology Act, the official said, adding that the accused was later released on bail. A probe is on into the case, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-man-held-for-objectionable-comments-on-pm-union-minister-1007380.html
11-07-2021||North and Central||Jammu, Kashmir have separate issues: Farooq Abdullah on party unit’s proposal to delimitation panel||Amid criticism that National Conference’s proposal to the Delimitation Commission in Jammu echoed BJP's demands, party president Farooq Abdullah on Sunday said the issues in the two regions of the union territory were different from each other. Speaking to reporters after paying floral tributes to his mother Begam Akbar Jehan at her mausoleum on the occasion of her 21st death anniversary, Abdullah said the different issues projected by the party's Jammu unit should not worry the people. “Jammu has separate issues, while Kashmir has separate issues. Why are you worried?” the NC president told reporters when asked about the criticism by some quarters that the party's proposal to the commission in Jammu echoed the BJP demands in framing a new criterion to delimit constituencies. In a reply to a question over the situation in Afghanistan and whether it would have any effect on Kashmir, Abdullah said he prays to God to bring peace to that country. “Afghanistan is a separate country. May God bring peace there and do whatever is right for the people there. I cannot say anything more than this because I have no relation with Afghanistan,” he said. Earlier, Abdullah along with his son and NC vice president Omar Abdullah and other senior leaders of the party paid floral tributes at the mausoleum of Begam Akbar Jehan -- wife of NC founder Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah. The NC leaders also offered special prayers there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-kashmir-have-separate-issues-farooq-abdullah-on-party-unit-s-proposal-to-delimitation-panel-1007387.html
11-07-2021||North and Central||Farmer from Punjab dies of electrocution near protest site at Singhu border||A farmer from Punjab died of electrocution on Sunday near the Singhu border of the national capital where protests against the contentious agriculture laws have been going on for over seven months now, police said. The body of Sohan Singh, 42, was found near an electric transformer close to the Singhu border in the Kundli area of Haryana's Sonipat district. "He died of electrocution. We have sent the body for post-mortem," an official of the Kundli police station said. Singh had come to the protest site to join the stir last month. Farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting in huge numbers at Delhi's borders since November 2020, demanding the repeal of the three farm laws. Enacted in September, the three legislations have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. The protesting farmers, on the other hand, have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and do away with the APMC markets, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmer-from-punjab-dies-of-electrocution-near-protest-site-at-singhu-border-1007389.html
11-07-2021||North and Central||Camel sacrifice attracts small section of people in Kashmir||As Kashmir prepares for Bakra-Eid, the festival of sacrifice along with the rest of the Muslim world, a small section of people are opting for the sacrifice of camels, instead of the usual sheep, goat and oxen. A limited number of camels, usually brought from Rajasthan, where they are found in abundance, have been put on sale in Parimpora Mandi on the outskirts of Srinagar. Though the sacrifice of camels was unheard of in Kashmir as the desert animal is not found in the valley, in recent years the trend has started picking up. On average, a sacrificial sheep costs Rs 18,000 to Rs 25,000 in Kashmir while each camel costs between Rs 60,000 and Rs 75,000. According to Islamic belief, at least seven persons can sacrifice a single camel while a sheep can be sacrificed by a single individual. “Most of the people in Srinagar and towns sacrifice sheep and goat while in villages oxen are also sacrificed. But since the last 10 or 12 years, some people are now sacrificing camels,” said a camel trader from Parimpora. He said few selected customers buy camels because of the cost considerations and ease of maintenance. “Camel meat has religious significance as Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) used to consume it, the trend of camel sacrifice is increasing and more people are opting for camels instead of sheep and goats,” he added. On every Bakra-Eid, Muslims in Kashmir sacrifice animals worth Rs 500 crore. However, this year, according to the mutton dealers, the demand for sacrificial animals may shrink by 50% owing to the Covid-19 pandemic and the ensuing general trade depression. This year Bakra-Eid will be celebrated on July 21.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/camel-sacrifice-attracts-small-section-of-people-in-kashmir-1007394.html
11-07-2021||North and Central||Why victory in Uttar Pradesh panchayat polls may not be an indicator of success in assembly elections||BJP, which won 67 of 75 district panchayat seats in Uttar Pradesh amid large scale violence, maybe touting the victory as an indicator of things to come in next year's assembly elections in the state, but the history shows a different picture. The last two district Panchayat polls in the state showed that the ruling parties had won them comprehensively but in the assembly elections, which were held a year later, they lost the polls. In 2010 the BSP, which was in power in the state then, had won 60 of the total 71 district panchayat seats. But the party lost the assembly polls, which were held in 2011. BSP could win only 80 seats in the 2011 assembly elections while the Samajwadi Party (SP), which could manage to win only three district panchayat seats, won 224 seats in the assembly polls. Similarly, in the 2016 Panchayat polls, the ruling SP had registered a massive win by capturing 63 of the 74 district panchayat seats. The BJP had then managed to win only five district panchayat seats. But in the assembly elections, which were held a year later, BJP made a clean sweep winning 325 of the 403 seats. The SP could manage to win only 49 seats. This time the BJP, the ruling party, has won 67 of 74 district panchayat seats and the assembly polls in the state are scheduled to be held early next year. ''The ruling parties have always won the panchayat polls.....the local administration favours the ruling party politicians for obvious reasons,'' remarked a Lucknow based media analyst while speaking to DH. There were reports of large-scale violence in the polls for district panchayats and Block Pramukhs. In many places, the candidates of the Opposition parties were not allowed to file nomination papers. There are also reports of kidnappings of the Block Development Committee members to prevent them from casting their votes. In Unnao, the cameraman of a local TV channel was chased and kicked by the chief development officer (CDO), who was angry over the airing of footage showing BJP leaders assaulting the rivals. In Etawah, a BJP leader allegedly slapped a senior police official while his supporters threw bombs and opened fire after the latter tried to stop them from entering a polling booth. Alleged BJP workers yanked the saree of an SP woman candidate in the Lakhimpur Kheri district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/why-victory-in-uttar-pradesh-panchayat-polls-may-not-be-an-indicator-of-success-in-assembly-elections-1007412.html
11-07-2021||North and Central||Kejriwal promises 300 units of free power to every family, waiver of old bills in Uttarakhand||If elected to power in Uttarakhand, the Aam Aadmi Party will give free electricity up to 300 units per month to every family, waive old bills and give free electricity to farmers, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday. Making the announcements in the hill state where assembly elections are due next year, Kejriwal said his government has done it in Delhi and can do it in Uttarakhand also as the state generates power. "These things are guaranteed if we come to power in the state. If we can do it in Delhi, then why can't we do it in Uttarakhand, which not only produces electricity but also gives it to other states," Kejriwal said at a press conference here. "There will be no power cuts. Free electricity doesn't mean long outages. When we took over in Delhi 7-8 hours long power outages were common. We set that right," said the AAP leader who recently promised free electricity to every household in Punjab that consumes up to 300 units of power if his party forms government in the state next year. Kejriwal had last year announced 100 percent subsidy to those who consume up to 200 units of electricity in Delhi. Consumers of 201-400 units received approximately 50 percent subsidy. In Uttarakhand, he said, every household will be provided 300 units of free electricity if the AAP forms the government. The freebies announced on Sunday are being seen as his attempt to woo voters and steal the ruling BJP's thunder by going one step ahead of it. Uttrakhand Power Minister Harak Singh Rawat had also recently announced that the state government will give free electricity to people of the state up to 100 units The AAP which has not been able to win a single seat in the state in the past elections has plans to emerge as an alternative to both Congress and BJP in the next assembly polls. The AAP leader remembered how he and his ministers went door-to-door to get transformers and wires replaced. He claimed that AAP workers touring different areas of Uttarakhand have found that exaggerated bills have been issued on a large scale to people "deliberately to dupe them". "So we have decided to waive the old bills and start afresh if elected to power. We will also give free electricity to farmers for agricultural purposes," Kejriwal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kejriwal-promises-300-units-of-free-power-to-every-family-waiver-of-old-bills-in-uttarakhand-1007416.html
11-07-2021||North and Central||MP cops use water cannons as Congress workers oppose land for RSS affiliate||The Madhya Pradesh government's decision to allot land in an industrial estate to an RSS affiliate associated with small industries prompted the opposition Congress to stage a protest under senior leader Digvijaya Singh on Sunday wherein police used water cannons. The incident occurred when Singh, a Rajya Sabha MP, and other Congress workers were trying to climb on a barricade during the protest held at Govindpura industrial area, officials said. Police have filed a case against Singh and eight other Congress leaders along with 200 workers of the party for organising a protest without prior permission and violating Covid-19 rules. “Police used water cannons but we will continue to fight against the land allotment till the association of Industrial area is with us. The water got into my ears,"' Singh told reporters. He alleged Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had given this land worth crores to the Laghu and Madhyam Udyog Bharti at the rate of Rs 1 despite opposition from the Industrial Association. "This is the only park where workers take their lunch and rest,” Singh said. The former chief minister said the Govindpura industrial estate was developed for ancillary units of the Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL) in Bhopal. “The park land in the estate is being allotted to this organisation without changing the land title and securing due permissions. 95 per cent of the industrialists are opposed to the land allotment to this body,” he said. "I, CM Chouhan, former CM Babulal Gaur had planted saplings in this park," Singh recalled. Eyewitnesses said a heated argument broke out between Singh and Bhopal DIG Irshad Wali during the demonstration in the presence of police personnel. When Singh said the Congress will demolish the foundation stone on the allotted land, Wali is heard saying the police will keep an eye on him, they said. District Collector Avinash Lavania told Singh that the work at the allotted land is allowed only after securing necessary legal permissions including from the Industry Department. Reacting to the Congress' protest, Madhya Pradesh Medical Education Minister Vishvas Sarang said the upcoming project of the Laghu Udyog Bharati will provide skill development and create jobs. "This land was allotted to the Laghu Udyog Bharti after considering all the aspects," he told reporters. Sarang said contrary to the claims made by Singh, no industrialist was seen during Saturday's protest. “Digvijaya Singh is always opposed to every new creation and brings negativity into every positive thing. The youths will be prepared for employment. Digvijaya Singh was CM for ten years but instead of giving jobs, he deprived the daily wagers of their employment. He is now feeling bad when something new is created," Sarang alleged. Congress leader and former Union minister Arun Yadav condemned the use of force by police against the party workers and Singh. “The BJP regime allotted the land to an organisation affiliated to the RSS. Police used force when Congress workers staged a protest. The CM should take action against erring officials,” Yadav demanded. Ashoka Garden police station in-charge Alok Shrivastava told PTI that police filed cases against eight leaders including Digvijaya Singh, MLA PC Sharma, Vibha Patel and others, besides 200 party workers. "These leaders were booked under sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 147 (rioting) of the Indian Penal Code," he said. Shrivastava said only water cannons were used to disperse the protestors and no excessive force was used during the protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-cops-use-water-cannons-as-congress-workers-oppose-land-for-rss-affiliate-1007448.html
11-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi adds 53 Covid-19 cases, lowest since April 15 last year||Delhi on Sunday reported 53 Covid-19 cases, the lowest since April 15 last year, and three more deaths while the positivity rate dropped to 0.07 per cent, according to data shared by the health department here. The national capital has recorded 14,35,083 coronavirus cases since the pandemic started last year. Over 14.09 lakh patients have recovered so far. The death toll stands at 25,015. On Saturday, the city had recorded 76 Covid-19 cases with a positivity rate of 0.19 per cent and one death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-adds-53-covid-19-cases-lowest-since-april-15-last-year-1007450.html
11-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi BJP demands CM's resignation alleging scam in procurement of buses||Delhi BJP leaders staged a protest near Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's residence demanding his resignation alleging a "scam" in the procurement of buses by the DTC. They also demanded a probe by the Anti Corruption Branch (ACB) and the removal of the Transport minister. State BJP president Adesh Gupta demanded the CM's resignation asserting that protests will continue till the matter is resolved. A three-member committee appointed by the Lieutenant Governor in its report has said that there is no "infirmity" in procurement of buses but pointed to several "procedural lapses" in annual maintenance contract (AMC). The committee, in its report submitted to the LG earlier this week, recommended scrapping the AMC for 1,000 low-floor buses being procured by the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and floating a fresh bid. The Delhi BJP chief alleged that the tender for maintenance of buses was floated for about three times the cost of the purchase of buses. Leader of Opposition in Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said when the Inquiry Committee has accepted that the maintenance tender should be issued afresh, it is clear that there was a "scam" in the matter. Bidhuri said the DTC has its own workshops and employees, so why should the maintenance work be outsourced. Senior AAP leader and Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday had accused the Delhi BJP leaders of "obstructing" DTC's procurement of buses that was being done after a long gap of over a decade and demanded they apologise to the people. He also claimed that the committee report gave a "clean chit" to the Kejriwal government that there was no "scam" in procurement of the buses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-bjp-demands-cms-resignation-alleging-scam-in-procurement-of-buses-1007463.html
11-07-2021||North and Central||Covid negative report, vaccine mandatory for tourists visiting Anantnag||Authorities in Anantnag district of Jammu and Kashmir have made a Covid-19 negative report and vaccine certificate mandatory for visitors to tourist places, including the famous resort of Pahalgam, in the district to prevent the resurgence of coronavirus, officials said on Sunday. The district administration of Anantnag in south Kashmir, which is home to several tourist spots and public parks, said the visitors to public parks and tourist spots will be permitted only upon producing vaccination certificates and Covid-negative reports to combat the spread of the virus, the officials said. As per an order issued by Additional District Magistrate, Chief Executive Officer, DDMA Anantnag, joint enforcement teams of civil and police administration have been constituted to ensure observance of Covid-19 SOPs at tourist destinations and public parks. The enforcement teams shall also comprise officials of floriculture department, development authorities and municipalities, the officials said. The prescribed preventive protocols have been issued to prevent possible spread/transmission of Covid infections, they said. The chief medical officer has been asked to deploy teams at public parks/tourist sites for on-spot testing and vaccination of visitors, they added. The order asked the joint teams to file a daily action taken report regarding the imposition of fines, etc. in case of violation of Covid SOPs. The constituted teams shall ensure Covid-19 protocols are followed in Wazir Bagh Park, Achabal Garden, Verinag Garden, Pahalgam, Aru, Betab Valley, Dara Shikoh Garden, Kokernag Botanical Garden and other tourist spots/parks, the officials said. Pahalgam and other tourist spots in the district as well as in other districts of the valley have been witnessing heavy influx of visitors due to rising temperature in Srinagar and other urban areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-negative-report-vaccine-mandatory-for-tourists-visiting-anantnag-1007519.html
11-07-2021||North and Central||If Congress says someone else will be Chhattisgarh CM, it will be so: Bhupesh Baghel||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Sunday said he was ready to step aside to make way for a new leader if the party leadership asked him to do so. Baghel made these remarks after a meeting with AICC General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra amid reports that Chhattisgarh Health Minister T S Singh Deo wanted the party leadership to honour the rotation formula of changing the chief minister after two-and-a-half years. “The high command instructed me to take the oath (as chief minister), so I took the oath. When high command says someone else will be the chief minister, then it will be so,” Baghel told reporters here. However, he hastened to add that such arrangements happen in coalition governments but Congress had a three-fourth majority in the Chhattisgarh assembly. Baghel said he was ready to take any responsibility for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections should the party high command ask him to do so. The Chhattisgarh Chief Minister had played a key role in the Assam Assembly elections, camping in the state for weeks together for booth level management and reviving the grassroots organisation. Congress lost the Assam assembly elections and BJP succeeded in retaining power for a second consecutive term. AICC General Secretary P L Punia and Singh Deo said there was no formula for having a “rotational chief minister” in Chhattisgarh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/if-congress-says-someone-else-will-be-chhattisgarh-cm-it-will-be-so-bhupesh-baghel-1007525.html
11-07-2021||Opinion||CCP is on its way to irrelevance; so are political parties the world over||Karl Marx had famously declared that States would wither away. But it’s the Communist parties that vanished, or are in the process, without realising the utopia of World Commune or International Comintern, whose objective it was to promote global Communist revolution and establish a world Communist regime. All that is fiction today. After the last global convention in 1935, the next biggest Communist party gathering was held in Beijing on July 1, 2021, and there was nothing global about it. It was the centenary of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), which cares two hoots for Marxism and practises capitalism more ruthlessly than the capitalist world. Incidentally, very few world leaders publicly congratulated the CCP on its centenary. Even Russian President Vladimir Putin is reported to have declined to attend the event and congratulated the CCP only in his ‘personal capacity’, and not on behalf of the Russian State or people. It is clear that the centenary bash was not a showstopper in most Western capitals or even in countries in the region where the Chinese footprint is overwhelming. The CCP probably knew this, and hence embarked on buying media space and influence by paying huge amounts to American media outfits, as papers filed with the US Justice Department showed. The highlight of the bash was the belligerent speech of Xi Jinping, who had dressed himself like Mao. “We must uphold the core position of the Secretary General of the party…” demanded Xi Jinping, the Secretary General of the party. Next, President Xi Jinping assured Secretary General Xi Jinping and the party that those “who would dare to bully, oppress, or subjugate China will have their heads bashed bloody against the ‘Great Wall of Steel’ forged by 1.4 billion Chinese people.” Then, Xi Jinping, the supreme head of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA), assured Secretary General Xi Jinping that the PLA is first and foremost the party’s army and secondarily the nation’s army. So, what is the rest of the world to make of the speech? The ill-tempered speech of Xi Jinping, wagging his finger at the West, is a clear sign that he who controls all three power centres in China is yet unsure of his power, position and tenure. The tone was a definite admission of the fear of losing control over the apparatus, apprehensions of being overthrown, or a slowing economy threatening the CCP’s, and therefore his, grip on power. In addition, like every other Chinese strongman, Xi, too, must have uncomfortable nightmares about a possible revolt in Xinjiang, Taiwan or Tibet, not to mention an internal coup. The millions of birthday wishes to His Holiness the Dalai Lama, including one from Prime Minister Modi, will have added to the discomfiture. The centenary celebration might have been an occasion to sing paeans to the party, but what is clear is that the CCP as an institution and the core ideology with which it was launched a hundred years ago are approaching irrelevance. The aura of Communist parties and of the universal Communist utopia started to dim as far back as the 1960s, with disagreements over the dogma, the Chinese rejection of peaceful coexistence with the West and what it saw as the Soviet Union’s capitulation to America (during the 1962 Cuban missile crisis), leading to the Sino-Soviet split in 1963, and splits in Communist parties worldwide, including in India. But then, the CCP, under wiser leadership than Mao’s, shape-shifted, embraced the West and capitalism, and outlived the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. Post-Cold War, the CCP put “prosperity first, not party.” And it has done very well since. But the party is over, or will be in the coming years, not because of the CCP’s shortcomings alone, but because political parties the world over are losing their relevance. Parties and ideologies are being fast replaced by issues and individuals. Political parties are in a state of flux. Irrespective of the type of dispensation, parties are losing their relevance or shrinking in influence. Dictators and despots have always nurtured contempt for political parties. Wherever possible, they have either dismantled parties or wrested control over them. Even in democratic set-ups, the nature of parties has changed. They are no longer the torchbearers of ideologies, they are increasingly the anti-thesis of ideals and ideologies, even their own, let alone of noble constitutions. European countries seem to be both more aware of the trend and furthest along on the path to a new politics. Several of them are devising alternatives to party-oriented democracy. Since 2019, France has held a Citizens’ Convention on Climate, asking some 150 randomly chosen citizens to help devise sustainable and socio-economically fair solutions to reducing greenhouse gases. In 2016, the Irish Parliament called a citizens’ meeting to deliberate on contentious issues, including a constitutional ban on abortion. The majority opinion was to strike down the ban, which was endorsed by a national referendum, resulting in the law being changed. Everything done within democratic parameters, but without involving political parties. In America, in 2019, 38 per cent of people refused to identify with either of the major parties, Democratic and Republican. Both parties were seen as unrepresentative, hopelessly corrupt, and hijacked by elites, confirming George Washington’s criticism of political parties in 1796 for allowing “cunning, ambitious, and unprincipled men” to “subvert the power of the people.” Political parties in India, too, are sailing in the same boat. From the ideology-oriented and cadre-based BJP to the dynasty-centred Congress, or the family concerns that are the regional parties, all have, in keeping with the global trend, replaced ideology with agenda, philosophy with programmes, and institutional frameworks with personalities to varying degrees. The Left parties haven’t been affected, but then they have already attained irrelevance. (Seshadri Chari reads between the lines on big national and international developments from his vantage point in the BJP National Executive and the RSS @seshadrichari)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/ccp-is-on-its-way-to-irrelevance-so-are-political-parties-the-world-over-1007236.html
11-07-2021||Opinion||The heart that can’t fit a straw||The much-vaunted ‘India Shining’ election ad blitz of 2004 was the kiss of death for the Vajpayee government. People looked around and saw a yawning gap between what the government claimed to have done for them, and what they were experiencing. This campaign cost the BJP in the region of Rs 150 crore, and the general election. Let’s all take a moment to wonder at just what impecunious amateurs they were back then. That election campaign, of course, made the mistake of directing the public’s attention to the government’s record. The Modi government’s tactic is to look ever forward, towards some future idyll. It makes an exciting promise, and instead of letting voters dwell on its shattered remains in the next election campaign, it just makes an exciting new promise. And, of course, it has marshalled the power of technology, social media, and the all-governing algorithm to speak in different voices to different constituents, making public noises about freedom and democracy while injecting a steady subcutaneous river of WhatsApp poison into the body politic. The achhe din and sabka saath, sabka vikas campaigns should have cost Modi his second term, but they didn’t. He and his ventriloquist figures in government and in media have used customised narratives to effectively hack the collective conscience to focus not on reality, but on dizzying amounts of spin and pretty myths of pride and Hindu empowerment. So today, many people look around at Covid-bereaved families, terrorised minorities, lost Indian territory, zombie institutions, steadily diminishing democratic values, rising prices, mass joblessness—the whole steaming pile of poo that is the economy—and they see, well, India shining. Funny story, eh? There was a time when the price of onions was a body blow to a government. That was a time of innocence. Reality should certainly deny Modi a third term, but it might not. There are many people who don’t care for him, but many of those have been hacked into thinking, “If not him, then who?” Today, despite a good smack on the snout from Bengal, the BJP squats over all of India like a giant spider. The question is: When you have so much power, why all the needless vindictive cruelty? Why shut up the young, the pregnant, the old and sick? Why throw journalists in jail under the UAPA for trying to report? Why plant evidence on activists? Why imprison political prisoners for years without filing charges? Why paint students as terrorists? And on top of this orgy of unfreedom, why refuse the basic humanity of giving a sick old man a sippy cup and a straw in his jail cell, so that he can drink water despite his Parkinson’s? The most consistent character trait of the BJP and its supporters has been to suppress humaneness, plurality, inclusiveness, openmindedness, respect, and rationality, and justify barbaric attitudes and acts, in the name of strength. But in an impressively long list of such attitudes and acts, denying Stan Swamy a straw is the one that best showcases the smallness of the BJP’s heart. Smallness of heart is inherently unattractive, and projects weakness. Maybe the BJP’s malignant behaviour is a vicious spiral: driven by fear of being unattractive to certain constituents, it overcompensates with force, thereby becoming more and more unattractive and therefore more and more forceful, until it fears that its hold on power depends on fear-inducing force. Authoritarians are very insecure people. But a cup? A straw? Exactly how insecure do you have to be, to be this hateful and heartless? If I were a better person, I might even feel a grain of pity for the ugliness of their inner lives. (But I’m not.) (Mitali Saran thinks a good asteroid could solve all our problems @mitalisaran)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-heart-that-can-t-fit-a-straw-1007238.html
11-07-2021||Opinion||The devastating loss of another 60,000 trees||With Unlock 3.0 in place (at least for the time being), on the surface, Bengaluru seems to be inching back to normal. But what constitutes ‘normal’ today? Despite predictions of a good monsoon this year, the rains have been playing kanna-mucchi, hide-and-seek, with us. Climate change is one possible cause; the deforestation in the Western Ghats is another contributor. Closer home, megatons of concrete have been poured into Bengaluru, adding to the dust and pollution in the air. Many tons of live wood, roots, branches and leaves have been chopped and carted away to clear the road (literally) for flyovers, underpasses, signal-free corridors, metro lines and other infrastructure projects. Urban tree-felling creates urban heat island effects, modifying local climate in areas that are 2-4 times the size of the city. Air pollution is back on the rise. We still do not know how many trees have been cut in and around Bengaluru in the past couple of years. In a particularly egregious case, several old trees were cut down on Old Airport Road overnight to make way for an underpass at the Suranjan Das Road junction. Some of these were than 50 years old – grand old trees like raintree and copper pod, which can shade up to half an acre of concrete, decrease the road surface temperature by as much as 25 degrees, and reduce air pollution to a considerable degree. To prevent such fly-by-night felling, Dattatraya T Devare, a trustee of Bangalore Environment Trust, along with BET, filed a PIL in April 2018, more than three years ago. While hearings continue, the High Court has demanded that the Karnataka Preservation of Trees Act, which dates from 1976, be followed to the letter. This involves many aspects. First, the city needs a tree census – something that Bengaluru’s citizens have been demanding for close to 20 years. If we do not know how many trees we have, how can we accurately tot up the city’s losses? We need a tree census to help us assess whether Bengaluru has kept its promises. For all the millions of trees that have been felled in past projects, authorities promised to plant at least two saplings as replacements. Where have all these trees gone? Devare now estimates that at least another 60,199 trees will be cut in the next few months, due to projects that involve further tree-felling for flyovers at the Old Airport Road and Ejipura/Kendriya Sadan, the widening of Bellary, Jayamahal and Sankey roads, Metro expansion, and widening of peripheral and surrounding roads. The glorious Jnana Bharati campus of Bangalore University, afforested through great efforts by ecologists, will lose at least 9,000 trees to a new institute. Citizen action has been a mainstay for tree protection in Bengaluru in the past decades. It remains the way forward for the city. In this, the High Court’s recent rulings bring hope. They empower citizens to follow new projects that require unnecessary tree-felling and submit well-reasoned objections to the tree committee, which will then look into this further. We must also realise that we need to plan for a post-Covid world, which is shaping up to look very different from pre-Covid times. Many corporates have announced their plans to extend work-from-home programmes, saving on rent. A number of apartments across the city lie vacant, with residents moving back to their hometowns, working long-distance. These are the people most likely to have taken private cars to work and back in IT tech parks. Many of the formerly high-traffic areas, such as the Outer Ring Road and Bellary Road, receive less traffic than they used to – and these trends are likely to continue for some time. We need to urgently commission new traffic studies to assess whether all these projects are actually needed in these new times. Cutting tens of thousands of trees in haste, without a proper study of alternatives, is madness. (Harini Nagendra the Azim Premji University Prof prides herself on barking up all trees, right and wrong)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-devastating-loss-of-another-60000-trees-1007240.html
11-07-2021||Opinion||A culture of hyper-labelling||I remember a colleague of mine saying how he was once dumbfounded on being asked a simple question -- “Who are you?” My colleague was a Russian working in the US at that time. The question was asked by a passport officer in Russia. He felt that his very being was questioned. He did not know where to begin or where to end. He was unable to respond with the right set of labels. I have also, as have probably many of you, struggled with the right introduction in different forums. Today, in most professional settings, the labels for me are “Founder and CEO of Myelin Foundry”, “Past Group CTO, Tata Sons”, and “Past MD, GE John F. Welch Technology Centre.” In a creative setting, my introduction could be, “be it going down unknown roads in a new city, or peeling a known fact to discover fascinating unknown layers, what drives me is the unknown…” No labels in this case. As humans and in interacting with others, in general, we seem to have a need to categorise. However, the ‘mainstream’ labels are not inclusive of those who are ‘non-mainstream’. The label ‘fringe’, used for the non-mainstream, itself has negative connotations. The Mahabharata tells us the story of Shikhandi, a transgender who was responsible for incapacitating Bheeshma in the battle of Kurukshetra. Most versions of the Mahabharata talk about Shikhandi undergoing a gender change from female to male as an adolescent. The third gender has hence long been in the Indian ethos. The fact is that many cultures have always recognised the third gender. Fact also is that most cultures did not do a great job of being inclusive of the third gender. Shikhandi was born in Panchala where, we understand, there was no gender discrimination. Shikhandi was able to train and participate in the military forces. Being the child of Drupada the King of Panchala, might have been helpful. Bheeshma, the patriarch of the Kurus, however, refused to engage in battle with Shikhandi because of his gender antecedents. Shikhandi wanted to be identified as a man. Bheeshma was unwilling to do so, despite Krishna advising him to recognise Shikhandi as a man, respecting Shikhandi’s choice. Today, the pronoun to be used for Shikhandi would be -- ‘his/him’. But that is a label. Woke and Cancel culture notwithstanding, we have not solved the issues pertaining to gender identity and inclusion. The matter has become more acute with what I call “hyper-labelling.” There are a hundred or more gender identities, depending on the source of research. These gender identities are not fixed in time even for one individual. Does this hyper-labelling help the inclusion of all the identities in mainstream jobs, social constructs, and individual opportunities? Probably not. Does the hyper-labelling help to create a good dialogue on the issues of inclusion? Maybe. Do individuals have a right to label themselves in the manner they are most comfortable? Absolutely. Will hyper-labelling help others understand the meaning of a label? Probably not. There is an increased sensitivity to labels even beyond gender identity to include generational identity, racial identity, disability identity, marital identity, and friendship identity. Labels come in and go out of use. Queer was a pejorative label, and now a matter of pride for the LGBTQ community. Black is OK, Coloured is not, and African-American not inclusive in the US. ‘Dalit’ means oppressed and is the label preferred over ‘Harijan’, which is perceived as condescending even by the Indian courts. When Gandhi started using the label Harijan, Ambedkar objected, saying that it was condescending and obscurantist in nature, an attempt to sidestep the real issue. As we gain a better understanding of our minds and bodies, we have more labels to deal with on mental wellbeing, physical wellbeing, identity matters, and societal matters. A scientific and cultural basis for labelling enables us to be more inclusive. Labels should be used to include and not to exclude people from a discussion. A label should reflect reality and not obscure, it should help make individuals comfortable in their identity. Hyper-labelling, though, has the reverse effect and does not aid inclusion, identity, or clarity. Finally, it is the prerogative of those who do not identify with the mainstream to choose their labels. The rainbow has seven labelled colours though it is a continuous spectrum. This works. In fact, the visible spectrum is only a part of the infinite electromagnetic spectrum. This is acknowledged. As humans, are we any less of a spectrum? Let us celebrate the spectrum!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-culture-of-hyper-labelling-1007241.html
11-07-2021||Opinion||It’s easy to solve samasyas, if you have your wits about you||Sanskrit poets, as you can imagine, had to be quick on their feet. In so many stories about poets, the king just waltzes in with an eccentric idea, and the poor poet is obligated to write a poem on it. Or even worse, some rival king sends along a nonsensical line, and the court poet must manage to build a nice verse around it. There is an entire genre of Samasya in Sanskrit and in many Indian languages, where one seemingly inappropriate, contradictory, or nonsensical line of a poem is given, and poets write three creative lines which provide a new context such that the line given at the start makes complete sense. You might have come across some of these already—There are some in the Kannada movie Kaviratna Kalidasa, starring Rajkumar. The samasya is “A lotus within a lotus has neither been heard of, nor seen before.” And poor Kalidasa, forced into a cliché, completes the poem by adding, “But darling, in your lotus face, I see two lotus eyes.” A Kannada one for you—”I saw some Jains eating a mouse” (ili, in Kannada). A creative poetess, Kanti, solved this by adding a syllable before the mouse at the start of the line, effectively changing it into the fried snack, chakkili. The poem now becomes— “I saw some Jains eating chakkili”, which is no longer incongruous. Another popular Sanskrit samasya has a single line with six synonyms for the ocean. But who in the world would just repeat the word ‘ocean’ six times? One talented poet thinks it could happen in the heavens, where Skanda tells his father Shiva, “My mom will be angry at you for carrying another woman on your head; please send Ganga away.” Ganga then asks Skanda, “Where am I to go if Shiva casts me away?” In his anger, Skanda answers with all his six faces: “The ocean, the ocean, the ocean, the ocean, the ocean, the ocean.” Mythology provides innumerable opportunities for samasyas. Consider this one -- “The sky filled with a hundred moons.” The poet Banabhatta solves it -- “Krishna gave Chanura one hard punch, and Chanura saw the sky filled with a hundred moons.” If we see stars after a punch, why not see moons? Even potentially scandalous samasyas like this one -- “The young woman took off her veil and wanted her father-in-law” have an easy solution: “Hidimba, Bhima’s wife, was strolling with her husband in the summer. It was really hot. She took off her veil and wanted the breeze.” The breeze, or wind god, Vayu, is Bhima’s father, after all. Though there are no kings around anymore to amuse us with samasyas, we can now count on press statements issued by splitting celebrity couples like Bill and Melinda Gates, and Aamir Khan and Kiran Rao. Here is a new samasya for you to solve -- “Our love and mutual trust has only grown with time, and we are breaking up.” (Anusha S Rao: the University of Toronto doctoral student in Religion oscillates between scholarly pursuits and abject laziness @AnushaSRao2)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/it-s-easy-to-solve-samasyas-if-you-have-your-wits-about-you-1007242.html
11-07-2021||Opinion||The supporting cast in BJP's rise in the heartland||Choudhary Charan Singh projected himself as the undisputed leader of the peasantry from 'Patiala to Patna.' Post Emergency, when he joined Morarji Desai-led government at the Centre, it was widely believed he would hand over the reins of his home state to a fellow Jat from western Uttar Pradesh. Instead, the former prime minister nominated an MLA from the far east of the state, the Azamgarh district, as the chief minister of UP. Ram Naresh Yadav's selection surprised many. However, the decision rested upon a measured political logic to win the support of the largest cohesive land proprietary caste in north India. Charan Singh did not need to woo Jats. He already was their leader. In appointing Yadav, Singh was seeking to win the loyalty of others by accommodating social blocks outside his clan. This dictum seems to have broadly guided the recent reshuffle in the Union council of ministers. Or at least in the representation given to poll-bound states like UP. After the Mandal-Kamandal rupture, the upper castes in Uttar Pradesh are at the core of the BJP's political edifice.  The Brahmins and Rajputs, and Banias may be unhappy with the government's Covid-19 management during the second pandemic wave. Some may have issues with Yogi Adityanath's style of functioning. But will they move substantially away from the BJP to dent the party's prospects in the 2022 Assembly polls? It seems quite unlikely. At least not till there is an alternative political arrangement offering something tangible in lieu.  The BJP has worked precisely this caste calculus in apportioning ministerial berths from UP. Of the seven new ministers Prime Minister Modi has appointed, only one is from the upper castes - Lakhimpur Kheri MP Ajay Kumar aka Teni Mishra. His constituency abuts Jitin Prasada's Lok Sabha seat Dhaurahra. For the consumption of the party cadre, the BJP is putting a premium on loyalists over turncoats. The remaining six ministers are from non-Yadav backward castes and non-Jatav Dalits - the communities that have played the supporting cast in the rise of both the Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party. Take the case of Kaushal Kishore, the Mohanlalgunj MP who started his political career as a communist and is now a minister in the BJP government. He comes from the Pasi community, numerically the second-largest sub-caste amongst Dalits in UP. Another new appointee, SP Singh Baghel - the Agra MP was a constable in UP police when Mulayam Singh Yadav asked him to contest from Jalesar constituency - a seat that ceased after the 2009 delimitation. After winning three consecutive terms for the Lok Sabha, he switched to the BSP before joining the BJP in 2014. He comes from the shepherd community, which has pockets of influence in western UP. Bhanu Pratap Singh Verma - the Jalaun MP comes from the Dalit Kori community, his constituency abuts Etawah and other areas of influence of the Samajwadi Party. The remaining three newly appointed ministers from UP are from backward communities- two Kurmis and one Lodha. Parties use political patronage to expand their social base. And the BJP, since its ascension in national politics, has optimally utilized its current dominant position to forge new alliances. Its meteoric rise in the heartland politics is also commensurate with a demonstrable inability of the second-generation leadership in the Mandal parties to suitably and equitably accommodate numerically smaller yet aspirational backward castes seeking parity and a larger share in the political pie. A Mulayam Singh Yadav could win the trust of these communities because he had the political gumption to empower the shepherd community by getting Baghel elected to the Lok Sabha. In making bandit queen Phoolan Devi a Lok Sabha member, he courted the numerous sub-castes of Nishads, or boatmen, who live by water bodies along the Indo-Gangetic plain. A Kanshi Ram was successful because he nurtured and promoted a strong Pasi leader RK Chowdhary against Kaushal Kishore in Mohanlangunj. Way back in 1989, he could get one Ali Akbar elected from Orai, an assembly segment in Jalaun - whose MP BP Verma is now a minister in the Narendra Modi government. The metamorphosis of the SP in UP and Rashtriya Janata Dal in Bihar into inclusive family-based enterprises created ample opportunities for the BJP to sneak into the caste conundrum. In the 2018 Gorakhpur bypolls necessitated by the appointment of Yogi Adityanath as UP CM, the SP fielded Nishad Party leader Sanjay Nishad as its candidate. But the alliance broke down ahead of the 2019 general elections because the Nishad Party reportedly wanted to contest two seats on its symbol. Compare this with the Bihar assembly polls late last year. Rebuffed by Lalu Yadav, the BJP roped in most of the floating smaller parties- from Jitan Ram Manjhi's Hindustani Awam Morcha to Mukesh Sahni's Vikassheel Insaan Party. Similarly, post the West Bengal Assembly polls, the BJP has been willing to reach out to Nitish Kumar, the Lok Janshakti Party and Anupriya Patel's Apna Dal. For the SP and RJD, which claim to be the political representatives of the entire OBC block in UP and Bihar, conceding space to smaller caste-based parties translates into a dilution of this overarching backward identity. It's like BJP facing the prospects of a pre-poll alliance with a Brahmin or a Rajput party in these two states. The first phase of identity politics, beginning in 1989, saw the consolidation of the entire backward block behind the Mandal parties. This camaraderie lasted a decade and a half. In the second phase, many smaller caste groups experimented by floating their sub-regional outfits seeking empowerment and leadership positions. Some of these parties dropped their anchor close to the BJP. The BJP is winning the heartland because it seems to understands prevailing caste and social undercurrents. Moreover, it has shown both patience and tenacity to exploit caste fault-lines to its advantage. (Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the authors’ own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-supporting-cast-in-bjps-rise-in-the-heartland-1007330.html
11-07-2021||South||One of the key accused in gold smuggling case alleges torture by jail authorities||A key accused detained in central jail in Thiruvananthapuram under COFEPOSA in connection with the Kerala gold smuggling case has alleged torture by jail authorities,prompting the Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate to take up the matter with the central government. Central Prison authorities at Poojappura in Thiruvananthapuram have however rejected the charges, saying no such incident took place. Sources in the Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate said they would appeal to the detaining authorities in the central government to shift those detained under the Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act (COFEPOSA) in the case to outside Kerala. The issue came to the fore this week after Sarith P S, a key accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case, alleged that he was tortured by jail authorities, reportedly forcing him to name leaders of the Congress and the BJP in the case.  The Prison authorities have filed a report in the Special NIA Court after Sarith moved a plea, alleging torture by the jail authorities. Based on the directive of the The NIA court, Sarith was produced before the chamber of the Special NIA court judge today. The court, which recorded his statement, is expected to give an order on Monday. The jail authorities have accused Sarith and another COFEPOSA detainee K T Rameez of improper behaviour in the jail. The detainees levelled such baseless charges as they were prevented from engaging in improper acts, a jail official told PTI. Sarith moved the NIA court as he was also an accused in the gold smuggling case being probed by the NIA. "We feel that this is a serious situation. This is not the first such incident to be reported", Customs Commissioner Sumit Kumar told PTI. Customs officials said that prime accused in the case, Swapna Suresh, had also alleged earlier that she was threatened by some people while she was in judicial remand in jail in Thiruvananthapuram. They said the issue of a threat of COFEPOSA detainees is a very serious issue and it would be taken up with the Central government, which can decide on shifting their jail from Kerala to any other neighbouring state. The Centre can also approach the Supreme Court,seeking to shift the trial of the case from the court in Kerala to another one in the neighbouring state, they said. Various central investigating agencies are probing the gold smuggling case after nearly 15 kg of gold was seized at Thiruvanathapuram airport on July 5 last year from a diplomatic baggage addressed to the UAE consulate there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/one-of-the-key-accused-in-gold-smuggling-case-alleges-torture-by-jail-authorities-1007282.html
11-07-2021||South||Expelled AIADMK leader, former MP join DMK||Former AIADMK Minister Thoppu N D Venkatachalam and an ex-MP of the party among others joined the ruling DMK here on Sunday. Besides Venkatachalam, expelled earlier from the party by its top leaders O Panneerselvam and K Palaniswami, former AIADMK MP and MLA PR Sundaram and others joined the DMK in the presence of its President and Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin, the party said in a release here. In March, Venkatchalam was expelled from the AIADMK by its top leaders for filing nomination as an independent for the April 6 Assembly polls after being denied ticket to contest the election from the Perundurai seat in Erode district. Over 100 other AIADMK functionaries from Erode joined the DMK, the release added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/expelled-aiadmk-leader-former-mp-join-dmk-1007386.html
11-07-2021||South||Olympian Mayookha Johny alleges threat for supporting friend in rape case||Olympian Mayookha Johny has received a death threat suspected to be in retaliation to her fight for justice for one of her friends who had been raped. Johny, who is a national record holder in the triple jump, recently held a press conference alleging police inaction on her friend's complaint that she was raped in 2016 by a businessman from the Thrissur district, after blackmailing her using her naked pictures that he took after barging into her house. Mayookha alleged that some influential people, including a former chairperson of the Kerala Women's Commission, were trying to protect the accused. On Sunday she said that she received a letter threatening to eliminate her family unless she withdrew from backing the rape complainant. The anonymous letter has derogatory content targeting her family. Johny said that she had filed a petition to the state police chief seeking a probe. She also said that she would continue to support her friend. The alleged rape took place in 2016 and the victim did not complain owing to fear of disgrace. In 2020 she decided to complain after her family members who came to know about it backed her. Johny alleged that though the police assured stern action, no effective actions were taken and hence she decided to back her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/olympian-mayookha-johny-alleges-threat-for-supporting-friend-in-rape-case-1007393.html
11-07-2021||South||Kerala in euphoria as beloved Argentina lifts Copa America||The striped blue and white flags waved high and mighty as scores of jubilant fans thronged the streets of Kerala, the deafening rev of their motorcycles matching the sheer exhilaration they felt as beloved Argentina lifted the 2021 Copa America title in a distant continent two oceans away. In the wee hours of Sunday, Kerala was as charged as any Latin American street, as two soccer giants clashed at the Maracana Stadium in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Kerala, the southernmost state in the country, would have celebrated thesame way even if the game played out differently, which shows its love towards Latin American football and footballers. In Kerala, this sport unites people beyond socio-political differences and it was evident with the friendly banter between two senior Left political leaders and former cabinet colleagues M M Mani and Kadakampally Surendran at the beginning of the Copa America season. While Mani is a diehard fan of Argentina, Surendran was with the canaries. Even Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday took to Facebook and said it wasbeautiful to watch the victory of Argentina and "crowning of the world star" Lionel Messi! "The beauty of football lies in the brotherhood that transcends boundaries and that's why Kerala has lakhs of fans to shout for Argentina and Brazil.. It was the humanity, brotherhood and sportsmanship of football that won the match," Vijayan posted after the game. Mani too posted a beaming picture of himself watching his favourite team winning the match. Social media was also abuzz with trolls and funny videos by Kerala fans of either team. One viral video shows an Argentina fan dancing in celebration with his shirt off in front of a disappointed Brazil fan and the latter ends up chasing the youth with his plastic chair. Even ESPN Argentina, shared a video of Argentina fans in Kerala riding through the streets in joy. Meanwhile, in Malappuram district two Argentina fans got injured amid celebrations involving firecrackers. "My team lost. However, I am happy that I could watch the match. The beauty of Latin American football could be seen but it was sad to watch certain harsh moves. Congratulations to Argentina. They played well.. But Neymar's tears remain as an ache," senior Congress leader and Opposition Leader in the state Assembly, V D Satheeshan posted on Facebook. The occasion was doubly sweet as the win over arch rival Brazil also put anend to their long wait for a major title which had proved elusive for decades. "Last time Argentina won an international trophy was the year I was born. I'm 28 now and crying like a kid!" a fan who goes by the handle @thesaudadeguy, tweeted. Another fan, who was a spectator at the Maracana posted a video of himself from the stadium describing how his team beat Brazil to win the title. "We scored a goal but it was offside," a teary-eyed boy from Thiruvananthapuram wearing a yellow jerseywas seen talking to the media. A few days before the final, media reports showed a father and son in Pathanamthitta district who painted each half of their house in colours of the two nations. Many also performed special flowerofferings in temples (pushpanjali) for Messi and for the Argentina football team seeking an auspiciouswin, with receipts of the offerings going viral too. Arguably, Kerala has the most number of fans for Latin American football teams Argentina and Brazil outside that continent. Fans celebrate their matches with the same or perhaps even a bit more fervour than they do for cricket.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-in-euphoria-as-beloved-argentina-lifts-copa-america-1007418.html
11-07-2021||South||Bakrid to be celebrated in Kerala on July 21||Bakrid or 'Valiya Perunal" will be celebrated in Kerala this year on July 21, Islamic associations said here on Sunday, The 'Samastha Kerala Jem Iyyathul Ulma', quoting religious scholars, said the date was decided as the new moon had not been sighted. The announcement was made jointly by Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) supremo Panakkad Hyderali Shihab Thangal, Samastha president Muhammed Jiffri Muthukoya Thangal and other senior clerics, a press release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bakrid-to-be-celebrated-in-kerala-on-july-21-1007423.html
11-07-2021||South||Child found dead with beetle stuck in windpipe in Kerala||A one and a half-year-old child was found dead with a beetle stuck in his windpipe. The tragic incident took place at Kasargod in Kerala. Anved, the younger son of Sathyendra and Rajani at Chennikara in Kasargod town, was found unconscious at their house on Saturday evening. He was rushed to the district general hospital where he was pronounced dead. The postmortem examination conducted on Sunday found a beetle stuck in his windpipe and it could have resulted in the death. According to the Kasargod town police, the child could have suffered choking after the beetle entered the windpipe. The chances of the child himself putting it in his mouth was also not ruled out by the doctors. A neighbour of the family said that the child was playing alone inside the house. The family members later spotted the child lying unconscious. The police registered a case for unnatural death and started further investigation. According to paediatricians, in case a live beetle or any insect enters the windpipe, a child should be naturally trying to eject it by coughing. Timely first aid and medical attention can save a child in such cases. Anved also leaves behind elder brother Rithuved.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/child-found-dead-with-beetle-stuck-in-windpipe-in-kerala-1007435.html
11-07-2021||South||Three more Zika virus cases reported in Kerala||Three more persons in Kerala were found to be infected with Zika virus, taking the total infected so far to 18. Among the fresh cases include a child who is less than two years old. Health department sources said that the condition of all infected was normal. Most of the infected were health workers of a private hospital in the city. Health Minister Veena George said the government has arranged testing facilities at Thiruvananthapuram, Thrissur and Kozhikode Medical colleges and also at the National Institute of Virology (NIV) unit at Alappuzha. "A 22-month-old toddler was found infected. A 46-year-old man and a 29-year-old health worker have also been found infected. We have 18 confirmed cases of infection in the state," she said in a release. A central government team is in the state to review the Zika virus situation. The state also received 2,100 test kits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/three-more-zika-virus-cases-reported-in-kerala-1007447.html
11-07-2021||South||CM Rangasamy allots portfolios; BJP's Namassivayam appointed Puducherry Home Minister||Puducherry Chief Minister N Rangasamy on Sunday allotted portfolios to his ministers with BJP bagging plum portfolios like home, electricity, and education.  The Chief Minister has kept the crucial Health and Family Welfare portfolio with himself as the Union Territory (UT) continues to fight against the second wave of Covid-19 infections.  Rangasamy submitted the list of portfolios to Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Sunday morning and the list was released by Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar in the evening. Though five ministers, including two from the BJP, were sworn in on June 27, the differences between Rangasamy and the saffron party on the allocation of portfolios delayed the exercise.  Rangasamy will handle Revenue and Excise, Health and Family Welfare, Hindu Religious institutions, Science and Technology, Local Administration, and Information and Publicity among other portfolios. The no. 2 in the cabinet, Namassivayam, will handle Home, Electricity, Industries and Commerce, Education, Sports and Youth Affairs, and Sainik welfare.  While K Lakshminarayanan will be the new Public Works Minister, agriculture has been allotted to C Djeacoumar, Transport and Housing to Chandriga Priyanga, the first woman minister in 40 years. Another BJP minister, A K Sai J Saravanan Kumar, will handle Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs, Urban Basic Services, Fire Services, and Minority Affairs. Namassivayam is a former Congress leader who quit the V Narayanaswamy government at the fag end of its tenure ensuring its fall just days before the assembly elections were announced.  The BJP, after winning six seats, attempted at forming its first government in Puducherry by asking its senior ally N R Congress to support Namassivayam’s candidature but Rangasamy refused to do. The persisting differences between the two parties delayed the cabinet formation for over 50 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cm-rangasamy-allots-portfolios-bjps-namassivayam-appointed-puducherry-home-minister-1007459.html
11-07-2021||South||Tamil Nadu CM M K Stalin to chair an all-party meeting on Mekedatu on July 12||With Karnataka insisting that it will go ahead with the construction of a reservoir in Mekedatu, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin will on Monday chair an all-party meeting to discuss the situation and the state’s future course of action on the raging issue. Stalin will meet leaders of political parties that have representation in the Tamil Nadu Assembly at the Secretariat on Monday morning to elicit their views and suggestions on Karnataka’s “unilateral decision” to construct a reservoir across river Cauvery in Mekedatu. The meeting comes a week after Water Resources Minister Durai Murugan submitted a detailed memorandum to Union Minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat opposing the construction of the dam and demanding that the Centre direct Karnataka to drop the project immediately. During the meeting, Stalin is expected to brief the political parties of the efforts being taken by the government to stop Karnataka from going ahead with the project. The Chief Minister will also seek suggestions and ideas from political parties and the meeting is likely to pass a resolution condemning Karnataka’s “unilateral decision.” During the meeting, the political parties are expected to ask the government not to budge from its stand that no construction across the River Cauvery can take place without Tamil Nadu’s permission. Parties like the AIADMK will demand that Stalin lead an all-party delegation to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the issue. Tamil Nadu has been opposing the project contending that the construction of a new reservoir across Cauvery is against the final award by the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal (CWDT) and the 2018 verdict by the Supreme Court. The state government argues that water flows from Karnataka into Tamil Nadu will get disrupted if a new reservoir is built in the neighbouring state. While Karnataka says it does not need any permission for constructing the reservoir in Mekedatu, Tamil Nadu feels otherwise. The issue assumed centerstage after Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yeddyurappa announced that the state will go ahead with the project come what may. He also wrote to his Tamil Nadu counterpart Stalin asking him not to oppose the construction of the dam. In his reply, Stalin said the proposed reservoir would “definitely jeopardize” the availability of water to Tamil Nadu while contending that Karnataka’s logic to construct a major reservoir at Mekedatu, which is too far away from Bengaluru, aimed at fulfilling the drinking water needs of the state capital does not “sound valid.” The construction of a reservoir in Mekedatu across River Cauvery is yet another source of friction between Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. While Tamil Nadu says no reservoir can be built without its concurrence and that it is against the orders of the Supreme Court, Karnataka argues that the project is aimed at fulfilling the drinking water needs of Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-m-k-stalin-to-chair-an-all-party-meeting-on-mekedatu-on-july-12-1007464.html
11-07-2021||South||Parties scoff at 'bifurcate Tamil Nadu, form Kongu Nadu' suggestion||Political parties in Tamil Nadu on Sunday warned the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) not to “play with fire” by “encouraging” people who advocate bifurcation of the state by carving out the western region into a separate entity.  “Why is the DMK scared of the term Kongu Nadu? However, one should keep in mind that states like Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh were divided on popular demand from people. If there are expectations from the people that the state should be bifurcated then it is the duty of the government to fulfil them,” he said.  Echoing similar sentiments, Nagarajan said the government should fulfil the “genuine demands” of the people. When asked whether the “proposal” was before the Centre, he said, “Thank you. It is in initial stages.” Though the two leaders appeared to support the demand, a senior BJP functionary said the saffron party will clarify its stand on the issue in the next few days.  “The BJP is not in favour of dividing states and the Narendra Modi government has not been receptive to suggestions of bifurcating any state. The party is not in favour of the bifurcation of Tamil Nadu and this stand will be made clear in a few days. One or two leaders may have commented out of the turn, but those are not the views of the party,” he told DH.   From the ruling DMK to its allies Congress to AMMK, almost all political parties spoke against any move to bifurcate the state. DMK MP Kanimozhi said, “Nobody can bifurcate Tamil Nadu as the state is now under a safe government.” AIADMK did not comment on the issue.  Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) chief K S Alagiri made it clear there was no need to divide Tamil Nadu and termed the demand for a Kongu Nadu as a “figment of imagination”, while VCK chief Thol. Thirumavalavan blamed the BJP for “attempting to split one part” of the state for political benefits.  The ‘Kongu Nadu’ controversy began on Wednesday after a profile released by the BJP mentioned that L Murugan, who is now a Union Minister of State, hailed from Kongu Nadu, otherwise known as the western region of Tamil Nadu. The Kongu region comprises seven districts, and the AIADMK-PMK-BJP combine won 33 of the total 50 seats in the region while the DMK alliance won almost every other region of the state.  Adding fuel to the fire was a front-page report carried by popular Tamil daily Dinamalar that said the Centre was planning to carve out Kongu Nadu as a Union Territory from Tamil Nadu as a “befitting” response to the DMK government referring to the Union Government as "Ondriya Arasu" in Tamil.  The Dinamalar report claimed the BJP was toying with the idea of announcing the region into a Union Territory since it enjoys popularity in the region. Though the Dinamalar report was dismissed as a “mischief” by many, a few BJP leaders added fuel to the fire through statements that the Union Government does not need the permission of the state in the event of a bifurcation. Even on social media, the voices supporting the demand were feeble while those opposing any such move were more in numbers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/parties-scoff-at-bifurcate-tamil-nadu-form-kongu-nadu-suggestion-1007467.html
11-07-2021||South||TN Health Minister Ma Subramanian participates in a marathon to encourage physical exercise||Ma Subramanian, Tamil Nadu’s Health Minister, is a fitness freak and has run over 120 marathons in just about seven years. On Sunday, he led by example and ran the talk – he clocked 21.1 km in just 2 hours and 8 minutes to emphasize the significance of physical exercise during a pandemic. 61-year-old Subramanian, former mayor of Chennai and a close confidante of Chief Minister M K Stalin, set out for the marathon at 4.45 am from his residence in Guindy along with his running mates. After running through some of the landmark roads, Subramanian culminated his marathon at the Kalaignar M Karunanidhi memorial on Marina Beach a little after 6.45 am. Marathons are not new to Subramanian, whose appetite for running and physical exercise is never-ending. Though he has participated in 128 marathons since 2014, the 21-km Sunday run was special as this is the first time, he participated in such an event after taking over as Health Minister on May 7. “I participated in the virtual marathon to create awareness about the importance of running during a pandemic. People should know physical exercise boots immunity and that is precisely the reason why I ran for 21 km to tell people they can keep off viruses and infection if they exercise regularly,” Subramanian told DH. A 15-minute video clip of Subramanian’s marathon posted on his verified Facebook page went viral with over 4 lakh views till Sunday evening. The minister is arguably the fittest politician in Tamil Nadu – he wakes up at 4.30 am and exercises for an hour before beginning his official engagements. He has also been posting pictures and videos of his daily exercise, especially when he is on tour to districts to review the Covid-19 situation. “I am sure people will understand the importance of physical exercise. I feel it is my body’s immune power that saved me from severe Covid-19 infection. When I contracted the virus in September last year, I felt body pain for just two days. I think exercise made all the difference,” he added. Having participated in marathon events in 12 countries, including the United Kingdom and Norway, and in 21 Indian states, Subramanian says regular exercise has helped him keep his diabetes under control since 2014.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-health-minister-ma-subramanian-participates-in-a-marathon-to-encourage-physical-exercise-1007474.html
11-07-2021||State||Illegal mining: Drone survey plan fails to take off||The Karnataka government, which had announced a drone survey to assess the extent of illegal mining in Karnataka, is unable to launch it as there are no takers for the recently floated tender in this regard. According to Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani, the government invited a tender for the survey about a month ago and there were hardly any participants. While there were no bidders in majority of the districts, there were single bidders in about five districts. As a result, the government is now floating the tenders again. "We will soon call for a meeting with the companies and arrive at a decision on the pricing," the minister said. The government-fixed price was Rs 2,500 per acre, which the companies have found unviable. Speaking to DH, officials in the mines and geology department explained that the tenders have now been finalised for only two districts — Udupi and Kalaburagi. This drone survey will pertain to stone quarries (building stone) only, officials said. Only companies empanelled with the Karnataka State Remote Sensing Applications Centre (KSRSAC) will be eligible to take up the survey. Following an explosion at a stone quarry in Shivamogga in January this year, Nirani had announced that the government will take up a drone survey of quarries to identify the extent of illegal mining in the state. While the department had got a survey done last year, the report was challenged by mining companies on the grounds that they were not present during the survey. Following this, the court asked the government to redo the survey in the presence of licence holders, officials said. Meanwhile, even as Mandya MP Sumalatha Ambareesh has alleged rampant illegal mining around the KRS dam, Nirani said there was no mining activity around the dam or Bebi Betta at present. Addressing mediapersons in Kalaburagi on Saturday, Nirani said he had visited the spot after being informed about illegal mining. "I had instructed the officials to stop stone quarrying after noticing violation of rules. The violators were fined and there is a ban on stone mining,” he said. The government is ready to take up a probe if Sumalatha produces documentary evidence, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/illegal-mining-drone-survey-plan-fails-to-take-off-1007263.html
11-07-2021||State||Private bus operators lose Rs 400 crore due to Covid lockdowns||Karnataka State Private Bus Owners' Federation president Kuyiladi Suresh Nayak said that private bus owners across the state had suffered losses to the tune of Rs 400 crore due to the Covid-19-induced lockdown. There are over 8,000 private buses including express, service buses in Karnataka. The suspension of bus service for a day incurs a loss of Rs 50,000 to Rs 1.50 lakh. The private bus owners are in financial distress, Nayak said. Despite submitting a memorandum to the chief minister and the Transport Minister, the demands of the private bus owners had received no response. The KSRTC had received an assistance of Rs 2,380 crore from the government. But the private bus owners did not receive any financial assistance, he added. "We had surrendered our bus permits. Hence, we got tax concession during the lockdown. The government should provide tax concession of Rs 80 crore for next six months from July to December," Nayak urged. He accused the government of not permitting private buses to operate on the routes taken by the KSRTC buses. The Centre had granted permission to the private bus operators, he added. Suresh Nayak said the diesel prices had increased. It is impossible to operate bus services with fewer passengers. About 20 per cent hike in bus fare is inevitable, he stressed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/private-bus-operators-lose-rs-400-crore-due-to-covid-lockdowns-1007340.html
11-07-2021||State||Rotary cycle expedition on global warming, literacy||With an aim to create awareness and spread the message on global warming and literacy, two Rotaractors from Bengaluru set off on a Guinness World Record attempt on their bicycle. Rtn Fazal Mahmood, District Governor, Rotary District 3190, flagged off the expedition in front of the Vidhana Soudha in Bengaluru on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rotary-cycle-expedition-on-global-warming-literacy-1007496.html
11-07-2021||State||Wild elephants destroy coffee plantations in Hassan district||Wild elephants on a rampage have been destroying coffee crop at several places in Sakleshpur taluk. Herds of jumbos have been camping in the coffee estates.  Around three acres of coffee plantation was destroyed in Masuvalli in the taluk, causing loss to the tune of lakhs of rupees. Around 14 elephants had camped at the coffee estate of Karnataka Coffee Growers Federation former president B A Jagannath. Fearing wild jumbo attack, the farmers have stopped cultivating paddy in the region, as it becomes difficult to protect the crop, said Jagannath. "The government pays a meagre sum as compensation. It should bail out the coffee growers by providing appropriate ex gratia and relocate the jumbos," he said. Meanwhile, an elephant was spotted on the Subrahmanya-Gundya state highway on Sunday. The lone tusker was crossing the road when motorists spotted it. The elephant had even chased a motorcyclist.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/wild-elephants-destroy-coffee-plantations-in-hassan-district-1007497.html
11-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Cops raid rowdies in jail, homes; seize drugs, arms||Surprise early morning raids by the police on rowdies at their homes and the Parappana Agrahara Central prison yielded lethal weapons, drugs and mobile phones. At the raid on Central Prison, around 125 officers of the Central Crime Branch (CCB) with sniffer dogs unearthed more than 40 lethal weapons including 26 daggers and knives, scissors, 200 kg ganja, seven ganja pipes, two mobile phones, four SIM cards, three pen drives and Rs 7,710 in cash. The seized goods were found with notorious rowdies Kunigal Giri, Ullal Karthik, Kulla Rizwan, Bombay Saleem, Auto Rama and others, who were put through intensive grilling.  “We will book cases against them under the Arms Act and Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) Act. We are also verifying the role of the prison authorities for letting rowdies hoard weapons, drugs, and use mobile phones,” an officer said. The rowdies claim they possessed weapons for self-defence against rivals. The seized mobile phones and pen drives will be sent to experts for analysis and to gather information about the rowdies, their associates and their activities, the officer added. At raids on rowdies’ houses, deputy commissioners of police (DCP) of the respective divisions conducted searches across Bengaluru. The simultaneous raids at various divisions started around 4.30 am with the use of sniffer dogs.  Around 2,144 rowdies’ houses were searched, 1,548 taken to police stations for interrogation and 561 booked under the Indian Arms Act, NDPS Act and security cases. During the raid, 91 lethal weapons, 12 kg ganja, mobile phones and vehicles wereseized. A few notorious rowdies whose houses were raided included JCB Naryana, Cycle Ravi, Poison Rama, Ashoki, Yuvaraj alias Papa, Eshwara alias Jutta, Koli Fayaz, Raju alias Dagar Raju, Shivajinagar Tanveer and others. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cops-raid-rowdies-in-jail-homes-seize-drugs-arms-1007262.html
11-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt must stop micromanaging engineering colleges: S Sadagopan||S Sadagopan, who is considered to be one of India's foremost academicians in the IT sector, retired recently as the founding director of the International Institute of Information and Technology - Bengaluru (IIIT-B), after a 22-year stint. Besides teaching, Prof Sadagopan has worked closely with the government on various committees including the National Language Policy Expert Committee, Chief Minister's Vision Group on IT, Karnataka, Karnataka Higher Education Council (2015) Karnataka Knowledge Commission and chaired the Karnataka e-Government Task Force Committee. He talks to Shruthi H M Sastry about technology education in Karnataka and more. Excerpts: You've been part of the IIIT-B since its inception more than two decades ago. What was your experience establishing such an exclusive institute and its relevance to society? Back then, information technology was primarily viewed as computer science. There were questions on whether an exclusive IT institute was an overkill. We realized that IT will soon impact every part of human endeavour beginning with manufacturing, retail, health, education, hospitality, etc. So, we looked at the socioeconomic aspects of IT and its impact on governance, something even the IITs didn't focus on. Nonetheless, it was an advantage to be located in Bengaluru. It was a time when startups were booming and they needed IT. We were at the right time and place. What was the turning point for establishing relevance and gaining public acceptance?  We had to begin by gaining our students' acceptance and it would happen only if they got jobs and other opportunities. Two of our students started a startup way back in 2001, which is doing well to this day, after twenty years. Another student went to University of California, Berkely, a top global university, which meant there were opportunities to pursue. About one third of the first batch of 136 M Tech students were hired by GE, a top recruiter. Add  to this, we also had good faculty members who joined us with previous work experience in premier institutes across the world. The institute also got opportunities to work on government projects such as K-SWAN and Khajane. We got acknowledged by the government. Moreover, in 1999 when we were born, Bengaluru, India and IT were the buzzwords. All of them aligned to help IIIT-B grow.    Karnataka has 234 engineering colleges and 299 polytechnics, majority being unaided. Most often, their quality is a concern. How should the government address this issue? The general problem is that the government-fixed fee cap is inadequate. Either the colleges end up underpaying the faculty or they admit too many students to make up for it, affecting the quality. While insisting on transparency, the government should stop micromanaging colleges. It has to also control the output from colleges by assessing students' performance in VTU exams and later in entrance exams such as the GATE.   Over the years, the VTU has run into many controversies. Has VTU outlived its time? The VTU needs to rediscover itself. Instead of hand-holding colleges, it has to enable affiliated institutions to become independent. The VTU guarantees students to colleges, they in turn conduct exams. There's no incentive for better performance. Each college should identify its core competence so that they can produce students who will emerge as leaders in that area. This way, the good colleges will survive and others can be merged. The state government's skill development programmes are yet to see an impact. What should be the government's approach to skilling? Many skill training outfits are fly-by-night operators only interested in pocketing government funds. Government should identify a few committed institutions and individuals to drive the effort. It should also focus on deep skilling. Merely distributing learning material won't help. The pandemic has forced higher education institutions to conduct classes online. Will this have a long-term impact? Online classes are only about the lecture. Learning involves interacting with fellow students, life on campus, access to libraries, sports, art and culture. This is important to create professionals who have empathy. While no institution will have the luxury of denying an online existence henceforth, their brick and mortar campuses will continue to exist. The ratio will have to be decided by each individual institution. The Karnataka Knowledge Commission, of which you were a part earlier, has shut shop. What's the role of such non-pedagogic bodies? These bodies enable thinking at the inter-institutional, state or national-level. At KKC, we came up with initiatives such as Kanaja, Cauvery museum and efforts to rejuvenate the Madiwala lake in Bengaluru. We took up research that needed the format of a think tank. The KKC didn't execute any project by itself, but government departments took them up. The Commission was an intermediary between citizens and government departments. This is a powerful model and there's always a need for such bodies. The Karnataka government has come up with an IT Policy for 2020-2025 with goals such as generating 60 lakh jobs during this period and expanding the IT sector beyond Bengaluru. How can the government ensure that these goals are met?  Many of these announcements are made but are not followed up with budget allocation annually. The government has to ensure funds. It also needs to set up a task force to make sure that these plans are executed and do not remain on paper.  How do you envision the role of institutes such as the IIITs in the future of technology education? Post-Covid, there will likely be a fundamental shift in the way the industry operates. People are likely to have the opportunity to continue working from home for most part. This means that people can work out of smaller towns which are a couple of hours away from metros. Such an employment model may have the solution to many problems such as pollution, global warming and health. In this context, it is important for institutions to study the next generation of urbanisation. The IIITs should start looking to study the future of humanity powered by technology.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-must-stop-micromanaging-engineering-colleges-s-sadagopan-1007306.html
11-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bengaluru-bound passengers marvel at breathtaking views aboard Karnataka's first vistadome train||"I consider myself as very, very lucky to have got a seat in the Vistadome coach," gushed LIC officer Shaila Nayak echoing the views of many passengers travelling in the inaugural run of Mangaluru-Yeshwantpur train's Vistadome coaches on Sunday. A majority of passengers such as Roopa from Kundapur, who was travelling with her two children; Lokesh from Chikmagalur; Nitin Bharadwaj and Priti Bharadwaj from Bengaluru; Hemant from Mangaluru had planned their travel to Bengaluru in these Vistadome coaches. Another passenger, Musaib Khan, was travelling from Mangaluru to Bengaluru and back with the sole aim of making a travel documentary for his train journey. Many passengers thanked the railways, declaring that the Vistadome coaches were a boon for Mangaloreans starved of entertainment. South Western Railways Senior Divisional Commercial Manager Dr Manjunath A Kanamadi said monsoons were the best time to travel in Vistadome coaches and urged people not to lose the golden opportunity. Lokesh from Chikamagalur felt that tickets for the Vistadome coaches were fairly priced. There are many facilities and the 360 degree view of greenery is priceless, he declared. However, many passengers were apprehesive of leaving their suitcases behind at the luggage racks, located outside the passenger area at the end of coach. Some travellers felt that a small rack should have been provided near the seats to keep small handbags. Explaining why this was done, Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) Trilok Kothari of Palakkad Division, Southern Railways, said that a separate luggage rack was to ensure that luggage did not obstruct the view. "I urge public to travel in Vistadome coaches, because such an experience is not available on any trains," the DRM stressed. Earlier in the day, Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel flagged off the inaugural run of the Vistadome coach services and thanked Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal and Railway officials for introducing the coaches for the first time in the Southern Zone (comprising of Southern, South Western, South Central and Konkan Railways). He said the Vistadome coaches are an excellent opportunity for locals to explore their own enchanting backyard. Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) Commissioner Premanand Shetty, Mangaluru South MLA D Vedavyas Kamath, DK Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V, Corporators Sudheer Kannur, Shobha among others were also present. The train will reach Hassan at 4.20 pm and Yeshwantapur at 8.05 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bengaluru-bound-passengers-marvel-at-breathtaking-views-aboard-karnatakas-first-vistadome-train-1007338.html
11-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Congress chief Shivakumar says man he slapped is his relative||Seeking to downplay the slapping of a man, who allegedly put his arm around his neck, Karnataka Congress chief D K Shivakumar on Sunday said the person was his distant relative and he slapped him fearing what others would think of him. "Yes, it's true that I hit him. He is known to us. He is also our distant relative. That's the bonding between us," Shivakumar clarified while talking to reporters near his Sadashivanagar residence in the city. He said, "I objected to him saying what others will think when they see him put his hand on my shoulder." Defending his action, the former minister said it was a natural reaction of people when someone behaves irresponsibly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-congress-chief-shivakumar-says-man-he-slapped-is-his-relative-1007473.html
11-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka logs 1,978 Covid-19 cases, 56 deaths||Karnataka on Sunday logged 1,978 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the caseload to 28.71 lakh, while 56 fatalities pushed the toll to 35,835. The total number of recoveries touched nearly 28 lakh with 2,326 persons being discharged in the state. The active cases in the state stood at 36,737, a health department bulletin said. Bengaluru Urban district topped the list with 433 infections and eight deaths, the highest among all the districts, followed by Mysuru with 261 cases and two deaths. Dakshina Kannada logged 195 cases and seven deaths. Hassan, Shivamogga, Belagavi, Tumakuru, Udupi, Kodagu, Bengaluru Rural and Mandya together accounted for 765 cases. The department said there were six deaths in Belagavi, five each in Hassan and Kolar, four in Dharwad and three in Shivamogga. Fatalities were reported in 13 other districts as well. There were zero fatalities in Ballari, Bidar, Chitradurga, Kalaburagi, Kodagu, Koppal, Raichur, Udupi, Vijayapura and Yadgir, it said. The state conducted 1,58,898 Covid tests on Sunday, taking the total number of specimens examined so far to 3.59 crore. As many as 2.56 crore doses have been administered in the state so far, including 89,037 on Sunday, the bulletin said. The positivity rate for the day was 1.24 per cent and the Case Fatality Rate, 2.83 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-logs-1978-covid-19-cases-56-deaths-1007482.html
11-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt policies increasing unemployment: Baraguru||Hundreds of youths took part in an online convention on Sunday to urge the government to take proactive measures to create jobs as the problem of unemployment has been exacerbated by the pandemic. Eminent writer Baraguru Ramachandrappa, who spoke at the convention of Nirudyogi Yuvajanara Horata Samiti organised by All India Democratic Youth Association (AIDYO), quoted the National Sample Survey to note that the unemployment rate has reached the highest point in 45 years. "Those who promised to make India a 'Vishwaguru' have not taken any decisive action in reducing unemployment. The government promised to create 2 crore jobs every year but has not even filled 52 lakh vacant positions in different departments," he said. He said Covid-19 has worsened the situation as 1.47 crore have lost jobs. "People's earning has hit rock bottom However, the Assocham report says the income of 100 billionaires has increased by Rs 13 lakh crore. This is the result of government's anti-people policies of globalisation," he said criticising the Congress party for nurturing globalisation policies which have left 74 per cent wealth of the nation in the hands of 1 per cent of the population. AIDYO national president Ramanjanappa Aldalli said a long-term struggle based on ideological grounds was necessary to end unemployment. "The government is cutting down jobs in different departments. First, there is a need to stop this practice. We need to demand for separate budgetary allocations for job creation," he added. About 800 representatives took part in the convention.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-policies-increasing-unemployment-baraguru-1007483.html
11-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Ramdas Athawale favours increase in reservation||The proportion of reservation offered in government jobs should be increased to accommodate the poor and backward sections from all communities, said Union Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment Ramdas Athawale, on Sunday. He also batted for a nationwide caste census to assess the socio-economic and educational status of all communities. “The Supreme Court has already ruled that the reservation ratio should not exceed 50 per cent. But, increasing it is necessary to provide justice to oppressed communities. Discussions were held with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the issue,” he said, noting that a constitutional amendment was essential to facilitate an increase in reservation.  Athawale said that he would urge Modi to conduct a caste census across the country to ensure social justice to all communities. He also detailed the amount of funds released to Karnataka under various schemes since the NDA came to power in 2014.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ramdas-athawale-favours-increase-in-reservation-1007486.html
11-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Will raise illegal quarrying issue in Parliament: Sumalatha||Mandya MP Sumalatha Ambareesh said that she would raise the issue of illegal quarrying around Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) reservoir in the upcoming Lok Sabha session. “My fight is different. I am not fighting against them (JD-S leaders) with respect to the KRS issue, but against illegal quarrying,” shesaid. KPCC president D K Shivakumar, meanwhile, took a dig at the comments by Sumalatha that cracks had developed in the KRS due to alleged illegal quarrying. The MP said that she was fighting against illegal quarrying in Mandya district. “I have just tried to bring it to everyone’s attention. I have not targeted anyone nor indulged in vendetta politics,” Sumalatha said. She was speaking to reporters outside Raj Bhavan, following new Governor Thawarchand Gehlot’s swearing-in ceremony in the city, on Sunday. JD(S) leaders and Sumalatha were involved in a spat following the latter’s remarks on the safety of the KRS dam. On Sunday, fans of late actor Ambareesh threatened to stage a protest against JD(S) leaders for attacking Sumalatha. The MP, in a meeting with her supporters and Ambareesh fans on Sunday, requested them to refrain from suchmoves. Responding to queries on the issue, Shivakumar said that he would not comment “on remarks made for cheap publicity on KRS developing cracks.” “It is a very sensitive issue. KRS dam is an asset of the state and the nation. People in responsible positions should not make such remarks,” he said, adding that the comments have stirred fear among those residing in areas downstream of the reservoir. Meanwhile, Mines and Geology minister Murugesh Nirani said that the department officials had inspected all quarries around the dam following Sumalatha’s complaint. If there is any more evidence of illegal operations she can submit it and government will take action, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/will-raise-illegal-quarrying-issue-in-parliament-sumalatha-1007490.html
11-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees 79% fall in Covid numbers over 4 weeks||Over the last four weeks, the state’s Covid-19 numbers fell by 79 per cent, although the number of daily cases being found have not yet reached pre-second wave figures. On Sunday, 1,978 new cases were registered in the state, out of which 22 per cent or 433 cases were found in Bengaluru Urban. Four weeks ago, an average 5,900 cases were being found daily in the state, at a time when the state was conducting about 1.56 lakh tests per day. Comparing that with the last seven days shows that the state has been finding 2,522 new cases daily. The number of daily tests too have declined slightly. In this past week, an average of 1.49 lakh tests were done.  After Bengaluru Urban’s 433 cases, the next highest caseloads reported on Sunday were from Mysuru district (261 cases), Dakshina Kannada (195 cases), Hassan (132 cases) and Shivamogga (124 cases). The total number of new cases and 2,326 discharges statewide brings Karnataka’s active caseload to 36,737.  In addition, 56 new deaths were disclosed on Sunday, which is in keeping with the declining death toll due to Covid. Of these 56 new deaths, six had happened in late May and eight in June. Out of the rest, only seven occurred on Sunday, 19 had happened on Saturday and 11 on Friday.  Among the fatalities, the youngest was an 18-year-old woman from Kolar who died at a private hospital on July 10, nine days after being diagnosed with the disease. She also had symptoms of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) but no known comorbidities. The oldest was an 88-year-old woman in Bengaluru Urban who also died on Saturday, within 24 hours of being diagnosed with the disease. She also suffered from diabetes and hypertension. 1.34 lakh doses  The state administered 1.34 lakh doses on Sunday, which is roughly half of the average number of doses given in the previous 14 days. Out of the doses given, 85,779 were first doses while 48,953 were second doses. The new doses constituted a slight increase in the state’s vaccinationcoverage. As per data, 40.91 per cent of all adults in Karnataka have had the first dose while 9.20 per cent have had the second dose. In Bengaluru Urban, the first dose coverage has reached 64.09 per cent while the second dose coverage has reached 14.20 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-79-fall-in-covid-numbers-over-4-weeks-1007491.html
11-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Unrelenting rain unleashes havoc on Bidar||The southwest monsoon has gathered pace in north Karnataka as most parts of Kalyana Karnataka and several Mumbai Karnataka districts continued to experience downpour on Sunday. Bidar district, which is witnessing unrelenting rain for the past three to four days, remained the worst-hit with acres of crops going under water and road infrastructure suffering heavy damage. A spell of sharp showers in the early hours of Sunday left many streams and rivulets in spate rendering several villages inaccessible in Bidar and Aurad taluks. A portion of the embankment below the Sirsi (A)-Sangolgi bridge across a stream caved in affecting the vehicular movement. Acres of soya crop in Bavagi have been damaged due to unrelenting showers. A woman and her daughter were struck dead by lightning at Khudavandpur in Bhalki taluk on Sunday. The incident occurred when Bhagyashree Metre (32) and her daughter Vaishali (9) were returning home from their farm. Hosapete town, Hampi and parts of Vijayanagar district also experienced spells of heavy showers. Intermittent spells of rains failed to hundreds of tourists, who had come to the world heritage centre in their droves to get a glimpse of the Vijayanagara ruins. Moderate to heavy rain lashed Belagavi city and several taluks on Sunday.  Coastal districts - Uttara Kannada, Udupi and Dakshina Kannada - received bountiful showers on Sunday. The region has been experiencing heavy showers since Thursday evening. Wet weather to continue The Malnad and coastal districts are likely to receive incessant rain till July 16. With monsoon having picked up pace, Uttara Kannada, Udupi, Dakshina Kannada, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, Kodagu and Shivamogga districts are likely to experience heavy showers. An orange alert has been sounded in the aforementioned seven districts till July 16, according to the weather department. Also, most parts of north interior Karnataka is expected to witness thundershowers and a yellow alert has been issued to these districts till July 16, the IMD release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/unrelenting-rain-unleashes-havoc-on-bidar-1007502.html
11-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Two Shivamogga tourists drown in sea||Two tourists, part of four-member group from Shivamogga district, drowned in Arabian sea in Murudeshwar, Uttara Kannada, on Sunday. The police gave their names Mani and Nagaraj, residents of Masuru in Shikaripura taluk. All four had ventured into choppy sea despite warnings. While two were swept away by high waves, two others managed to hold onto rocks to save themselves. The body of Mani has been recovered while search operations are on to trace the body of Nagaraj.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/two-shivamogga-tourists-drown-in-sea-1007506.html
11-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Rise in fuel prices proves costly for farmers||With the mechanisation of farm activities appearing to be viable due to the shortage of labourers and rising wages, the hike in fuel prices has turned the farmers’ calculations during this Kharif season upside down. The farmers who had engaged tillers and tractors on rental basis for tilling the paddy fields during the season will be forced to spend more money when compared to the corresponding period in previous year. Diesel price has touched Rs 94.49 per litre while the price of petrol has reachedRs 103.49 per litre. “Increase in fuel prices resulted in the hike of tractor, tiller and transplanter machine rental charges. A year ago, they were charging Rs 900 per hour for tilling paddy fields. This year, the rental charges have increased to Rs 1,000 to Rs 1,100 per hour,” Srinivas, a farmer, said. While the tillers were available for Rs 450 to Rs 500 per hour a year ago, today the rental charges have increased to Rs 550 per hour. Even the rental charges for transplanter have increased, the farmers complained. “On one hand, farmers have been hit by the shortage of skilled labourers withknowledge of transplantation of paddy seedlings. The increase in fuel price is an additional burden on them,” lamented another farmer from Puttur. Rising fuel prices will also result in increased cost of transportation of harvested agricultural produce, sourcing of seeds and fertilisers. As a result, the overall cost of cultivation has increased, farmers added. Farmers feel that government can help farmers by increasing minimum support price (MSP).  Rajya Raitha Sangha Hasiru Sene General Secretary Manohar Shetty said, “Government should announce diesel subsidy for Yantradhara – Custom Hire Service Centres that rent out machines used in farming on the lines of diesel subsidy declared for fishermen. The diesel subsidy will help in reducing rental charges. The government should also chalk out a plan to procure paddy from farmers by fixing scientific price after calculating production cost through cooperative societies.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rise-in-fuel-prices-proves-costly-for-farmers-1007524.html
11-07-2021||West||4.4 magnitude earthquake hits Maharashtra's Yavatmal, nearby areas||An earthquake of 4.4 magnitude hit Maharashtra's Yavatmal district and neighbouring areas on Sunday, officials said. There was no report of any casualty or damage to property, they said. The earthquake was experienced at 8.33 am, with its epicentre at Sadhunagar in Yavatmal district, Dr Vipin Itankar, the collector of neighbouring Nanded district, told PTI while quoting data of the National Centre for Seismology. He said shocks were also felt in Nanded, located about 200 km from Yavatmal and 140 km from Latur. The Nanded collectorate was in touch with officials of neighbouring districts, the official said in a release, and asked people not to panic. Latur witnessed a massive earthquake in September 1993, killing around 10,000 people and injuring several others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/44-magnitude-earthquake-hits-maharashtras-yavatmal-nearby-areas-1007344.html
11-07-2021||West||BJP MLA writes to Centre to acquire Bhanu Athaiya’s collection||With a collection of saris belonging to late Oscars winner and ace costume designer Bhanu Athaiya set to be auctioned, BJP MLA Ashish Shelar has urged the Centre to acquire the collection and display it at the Textile Museum coming up in Mumbai. The epitome of Bhanu Athaiya's career spanning nearly six decades was Sir Richard Attenborough’s 1983 film Gandhi, when she dressed Ben Kingsley to essay the role of Apostle of Peace and the Father of the Nation.  The film went on to win 8 Oscars from 11 nominations at the 55th Academy Awards including for best costume design – which was bagged jointly by Bhanu Athaiya and her British collaborator John Mollo. Bhanu Aythaiya, a Padma Shri recipient, passed away on 15 October, 2020, aged 91 in Mumbai. Shelar, a senior politician, made the request to Union Textiles Minister Piyush Goyal. Noting that the collection of 200 plus saris and textile fabrics is going to be auctioned, Shelar wrote: “The rich legacy of Maharashtra and Indian culture, once auctioned to private hands, may end up in foreign museums or private hands and would be lost to generations of Indians from public viewing.” Shelar urged that the Textile Ministry should acquire the collection and display it at a sub-section of NIFT at the Textile Museum coming up in Mumbai. “This section can be named as Bhanu Athaiya section,” he said, pointing out that beautiful fabric design and traditional Indian wear had been an integral part of Indian cinema. The Kolhapur-born Bhanumati Rajopadhye (Bhanu Athaiya) has designed costumes in over 100 Indian films and had worked with top filmmakers like Guru Dutt, BR Chopra, Raj Kapoor, Yash Chopra, Vijay Anand, Raj Khosla, Ashutosh Gowariker. She started off as a freelance fashion illustrator – but she immediately became part of Guru Dutt’s team with C.I.D (1956). The designed costumes for several hit movies like – Pyasa (1957), Kagaaz ke Phool (1959), Ganga Jamuna (1961), Sahib Bibi aur Ghulam (1962), Leader (1964), Mere Sanam (1965), Guide (1965), Waqt (1965), Janwar (1965), Kaajal (1965), Teesri Manzil (1966), Patthar ke Sanam (1967), Brahmachari (1969) Mera Naam Joker (1970), Anamika (1973), Nagin (1976), Jaani Dushman (1979), Mr Natwarlal (1979), Abdullah (1980), Karz (1980), The Burning Train (1980), Nikaah (1982), Prem Rog (1982), Razia Sultan (1983), Pukar (1983), Ram Teri Ganga Maili (1985), Hiro Hiralal (1988), Chandni (1989), Agneepath (1988), Heena (1991), 1942: A Love Story (1993), Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar (2000) She dressed a long list of stars including Kamini Kaushal, Guru Dutt, Dev Anand, Pran, Dilip Kumar, Waheed Rehman, Raj Kapoor, Amitabh Bachchan, Dharmendra, Hema Malini, Sanjeev Kumar, Jaya Bachchan, Naseeruddin Shah, Aamir Khan, Shah Rukh Khan, Naseeruddin Shah, Meena Kumari, Madhu Bala, Balraj Sahni, Sridevi, Vinod Khanna, Shammi Kapoor, Rajendra Kumar, Sunil Dutt, Raj Kumar, Sadhana. In March 2010, Athaiya had released her book The Art of Costume Design, published by Harper Collins.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-mla-writes-to-centre-to-acquire-bhanu-athaiya-s-collection-1007383.html
11-07-2021||West||Curfew imposed in Rajasthan's Baran after teen's murder||A curfew was imposed and internet services suspended for 24 hours in Rajasthan’s Baran district following the brutal murder of a teenage boy, police said on Sunday. Azad, a resident of Shramik Colony in Talab Para area, was reportedly killed on Saturday evening by Hemant Rathore and his accomplices over a one and half-year-old dispute. “The brutal murder is the result of personal enmity and rivalry between two groups with no communal angle,” ASP Vijay Swarnkar said. The victim was shot twice and then attacked using iron rods outside Baran Grain Mandi gate, police said, adding the “panic-stricken” passers by remained mute spectators. A CCTV footage shows the accused thrashing Azad till his body goes lifeless, they said. The accused strolled up and down the street for around 5 minutes after committing the crime, they added. A video of the incident was posted on the internet on Saturday night, following which, the district administration imposed a curfew under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) and banned internet services for 24 hours till 3 am on Monday. A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code was lodged against Rathore and some unidentified persons on the complaint of the victim’s family, Station House Officer (SHO) Mangilal Yadav said. The victim's body was handed over to his family after postmortem late on Saturday night, police said, adding efforts were on to nab the accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/curfew-imposed-in-rajasthans-baran-after-teens-murder-1007400.html
11-07-2021||West||Maharashtra: No berth for Pritam Munde in Union cabinet, 20 BJP office-bearers quit in Beed||More than 20 office-bearers of the BJP from Beed district in Maharashtra resigned in protest against local MP Pritam Munde Khade not finding a place in the newly-expanded Union council of ministers, a local leader said on Sunday. He also said members of Beed Zilla Parishad and Panchayat Samiti along with BJP councillors from Ambajogai have left for Mumbai to submit their resignations. Among those who have quit over the last two days included a member of the Beed Zilla Parishad and a member of the Panchayat Samiti besides BJP district general secretary, student wing president, district vice president, tehsil president, and district vice president of the BJP youth wing. They handed over their resignations to BJP district president Rajendra Maske, the leader said. "Pritam Munde was in the reckoning to get a cabinet berth, but her name was dropped at the last minute. Thousands of workers of BJP were waiting to see Pritam Munde get a place in the expanded council of ministers. However, their dream was shattered when her name did not figure in the final list. In protest, I am resigning from the post," said BJP Beed district general secretary Sarjerao Tandle. However, BJP national secretary Pankaja Munde had denied reports that her MP sister Pritam Munde Khade was upset over not getting a berth in the Union cabinet. Pankaja, a former minister in the then BJP government in Maharashtra, had also said that the party workers were confident that Pritam will be inducted into the council of ministers. Pankaja had clarified that any decision made by the BJP is acceptable to her and her sister as they are loyal workers of the saffron party. During the recent expansion of the Union cabinet, Vanjara community leader Dr Bhagwat Karad, a Rajya Sabha MP, who hails from neighbouring Aurangabad district was inducted as the minister of state. Karad had been groomed by BJP stalwart late Gopinath Munde, a Vanjari leader, largely credited for expanding the BJP organisation among OBCs and other caste groups. Denying reports that a lobby within the BJP was active to finish her political career, Pankaja had referred to the legacy of her late father Gopinath Munde. Meanwhile, sources said Pankaja will meet BJP office-bearers on Tuesday and convince them to withdraw their resignations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-no-berth-for-pritam-munde-in-union-cabinet-20-bjp-office-bearers-quit-in-beed-1007408.html
11-07-2021||West||Ruckus outside Goa BJP MLA’s house as AAP workers protest against him||Ruckus prevailed outside Goa BJP MLA Wilfred D'Sa’s residence at Nuvem village in the state on Sunday after the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) held a protest against him, claiming that his supporters had allegedly verbally abused the party workers the previous day. The AAP alleged that during the party's “silent protest” held outside D’Sa’s house on Sunday, his supporters hurled eggs and tomatoes on them. The MLA, however, denied any such attack by his followers. A group of AAP leaders, led by its state vice president Pratima Coutinho, had visited D'Sa's house in South Goa on Saturday as a part of the party’s campaign to target the 10 MLAs, who had switched over to the ruling BJP from the Congress exactly two years ago. D'Sa, who represents Nuvem constituency, was among the 10 legislators who had joined the saffron party on July 10, 2019. Under this exercise, the AAP visited the residences of these legislators with cakes to mark the second anniversary of their crossing over from the Congress to the BJP. AAP leaders said that while majority of these MLAs silently accepted the cakes, they were verbally abused outside D'Sa residence on Saturday. Talking to PTI, AAP's Goa convener Rahul Mahambrey alleged, “On Sunday, we had gone to the residence of D’Sa to hold a silent protest against the verbal abuse, but we were stopped by the police. Eggs and tomatoes were hurled on us by the supporters of the MLA.” He said that the attack on the AAP workers was unprovoked. Eyewitnesses said that AAP leaders and workers, including Coutinho, had to be stopped when they tried to cross the barricades put up by the police. “But there was no lathicharge or any kind of action by the pollice. We just stopped them, following which returned,” a senior police officer said. He said that the protest continued for around two hours outside D’Sa’s residence of D'Sa. When asked, D’Sa said the AAP protest was meaningless. “That party cannot question me over my move of joining the BJP. It is the right of the Congress,” he said. “They (AAP workers) gathered outside my house simply to get cheap publicity,” he said. He denied any attack by his supporters on the AAP workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ruckus-outside-goa-bjp-mla-s-house-as-aap-workers-protest-against-him-1007415.html
11-07-2021||West||Post of Maharashtra Assembly Speaker to remain with Congress||The post of Speaker of the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly will remain with Congress. The post has been vacant since the resignation of Nana Patole, who has taken over as the President of Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC). Deputy Speaker Narhari Zirwal is discharging the official duties of the Speaker. Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari has shot off letters to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray twice – in March and in June – over the issue of the vacant post. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis had been raising the issue and had flagged it with Raj Bhavan. It may be mentioned that during the two-day brief monsoon session, Shiv Sena’s Bhaskar Jadhav, who is part of the Speaker’s panel – had an exchange with BJP members after which 12 MLAs were suspended for a year. Thereafter, he had dropped indications about his interest in the post. Patole and state Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat has refused to give away the post of the Speaker to the Shiv Sena. Meanwhile, on Sunday, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, who is the chief architect of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, chose to settle the issue once for all. “The three parties had decided that the post of Speaker would go to Congress. We will all support whosoever the Congress nominates,” Pawar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/post-of-maharashtra-assembly-speaker-to-remain-with-congress-1007430.html
11-07-2021||West||Goa allows reopening of gyms at 50% capacity amid Covid||The Goa government on Sunday extended till July 19 the coronavirus-induced statewide curfew, but announced further relaxations as part of which it allowed gyms to reopen and operate at 50 per cent of their capacity. The government had last week allowed social, political, cultural gatherings, marriages and other congregations of up to 100 people or 50 per cent of the venue capacity. State Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said in a tweet, “The State Level Curfew Order will be extended up to 7 am, 19 July 2021, with further relaxations that will allow opening of gym with 50 per cent capacity, sports complex without spectators, religious places with up to 15 persons.” The State Level Curfew Order will be extended upto 7am, 19 July 2021, with further relaxations that will allow opening of gym with 50% capacity, sports complex without spectators, religious places with upto 15 persons. The coronavirus-induced curfew was first imposed in the state on May 9, which has been extended several times so far. Meanwhile, Goa's Covid-19 caseload went up by 131 to reach 1,68,716 on Sunday, while the death of two patients took the fatality count to 3,097, a health department official said. A total of 241 patients recuperated from the infection during the day, which pushed the state's overall recovery count to 1,63,771. The number of active Covid-19 cases is 1,848 at present, the official said. "With 4,197 new tests, the overall test count of Goa has gone up to 9,71,186,” he added. On Saturday, the state had reported 155 cases and seven deaths. Goa's Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 1,68,716, new cases 131, death toll 3,097, discharged 1,63,771, active cases 1,848, samples tested till date 9,71,186.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-allows-reopening-of-gyms-at-50-capacity-amid-covid-1007457.html
