12-07-2021||First Edit||Quitting the Afghan quagmire||The US's 'war against terrorism' in Afghanistan, which began almost two decades ago, has come to an end with American and Nato troops fully vacating the Bagram airbase. Although a few hundred American troops remain in Afghanistan and will leave in the coming weeks, the exit of all foreign troops from Bagram effectively ends major US military operations in the country. Bagram served the Soviets and the Americans during their occupation of Afghanistan. It was the heart of US military power in Afghanistan over the past 20 years, the staging post of its military hardware and personnel in its war against the Taliban, the Al-Qaeda and the Islamic State-Khorasan. When the US-led forces toppled the Taliban regime in end-2001, there was jubilation across much of the world. After all, a brutal regime that had unleashed unspeakable violence on the Afghan people had been ousted. However, the Taliban was far from finished. It melted away and returned to wage a long and brutal insurgency. Looking back, it is clear that the ouster of the Taliban was the easiest part of the US’ two-decade-long war in Afghanistan. Twenty years after the US ousted the Taliban, the insurgent group is knocking on the doors of Kabul. Its return to power seems a matter of time. If preventing Al-Qaeda from sheltering in Afghanistan was the main stated objective of the US invasion, there is little evidence to indicate this was achieved. Therefore, the US war achieved little militarily. However, under the security umbrella provided by the US troops, some development work did happen. Besides, Afghanistan got a new Constitution, democratic institutions and processes were established and women’s rights took a leap forward. The question is whether the positives of the past two decades will survive the exit of US troops. A couple of years after its withdrawal from Afghanistan, the Soviet Union disintegrated. While this may not be the fate awaiting the US on its exit from the country, it is hard to ignore the fact that the US, which was at the peak of its power as the world’s undisputed and sole superpower when it invaded Afghanistan, is not unchallenged today. While there are other reasons for its decline, its failure to defeat the Taliban, a rag-tag army of mullahs with medieval mindsets, has damaged its image in the eyes of the world. The US exit from Bagram has left the world dealing with a strange paradox. The ending of the US military occupation of Afghanistan was long overdue. Yet, its exit from Afghanistan amounts to an abandonment of the Afghan people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/quitting-the-afghan-quagmire-1007617.html
12-07-2021||First Edit||With a singular aim — to harass citizens||There have often been questions about the rule of law in the country, and numerous instances of the law not being followed or enforced are known. But strangely, the country is also ruled by laws that do not exist and have expired. This was clear from a case before the Supreme Court which said that Section 66A of the Information Technology (IT) Act, which was struck down by the court in 2015, is still alive and kicking, and is being used by the police to book people. The court said it was “shocking’’ and “distressing’’, noting that the number of cases registered under the section had increased five times after 2015. The petitioner, People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL), told the court that while there were 229 cases pending in 11 states when the law was scrapped,1,307 cases were added in the next seven years. Section 66A authorised the police to arrest people for social media posts construed as “offensive” or “menacing”. The court, in the Shreya Singhal case, struck down the section as arbitrary and violative of fundamental rights. It also barred registration of fresh cases under it and ordered a stop to prosecutions pending before courts. It directed state chief secretaries and police chiefs in 2019 to sensitise police departments about the scrapping of the section. High Courts were told to give copies of the judgement to district judges to ensure that cases under the defunct law were terminated. However, police continued to book cases, and trial courts framed charges under it. In Delhi, a non-bailable warrant was issued against an accused under the section and a trial was held in Karnataka, though it ended in the acquittal of the accused. The Attorney-General told the Supreme Court that the section remained on the statute, with a footnote saying that it has been struck down, but police officers failed to notice it and registered cases under it. He suggested that the section be marked as “struck down” with the footnote reading that it did not exist anymore. It is a bad situation in which a law that does not exist is invoked to file cases against people and courts even conduct trials under it. The excuse that the police failed to read the footnote is worse. It is an absurd, Kafkaesque situation when people are charged with an offence that does not exist. What is imagined in Kafka is actually experienced in real life. It is for the executive to ensure that the highest court’s orders and directions are enforced without fail. Existing laws are often misused, and now there is a rule of no-law to aid harassment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/with-a-singular-aim-to-harass-citizens-1007912.html
12-07-2021||In Perspective||#NorthEastMatters: Even beyond a Twitter trend||A few weeks ago, the hashtag #NorthEastMatters trended on Twitter to highlight the need for authorities concerned to educate people and spread awareness about Northeast India. The social media storm was an initiative of a group of organisations from the region, after a YouTuber from Punjab called a sitting legislator of Arunachal Pradesh Assembly “Chinese”. The intention of the organisations, among many others, was to include a chapter on the Northeast (NE). A separate hashtag #AChapterForNE was also introduced. The initiative caught the attention of many people including journalists, celebrities and politicians. Member of Parliament Shashi Tharoor tweeted: “There is absolutely no doubt that the #NorthEastMatters. It’s essential that a chapter on the Northeast is included in the NCERT syllabus.” On the contrary, the mysterious deaths of Samuel Sangma and Rosy Sangma, both residents of Nagaland, in Gurgaon a few days ago raised a huge question mark on the effectiveness of our efforts to ensure the safety of Northeast Indians in their own country. Racial discrimination against the people of NE is a serious criminal and social issue, but it will be too narrow an approach if other prominent factors, that are interconnected, are ignored. It requires a comprehensive approach for an effective solution. The peculiar physical features of NE people have attracted a series of unsolicited remarks and unwarranted racial slurs against them. There are hundreds of tales of how they have been abused verbally and physically. Racial discrimination can be broadly classified as unintentional and intentional. A lot of instances have occurred wherein people from the region are treated as foreigners in their own country because of the complete absence of knowledge that an Indian could look the way people from the region physically appear. But there are many other instances when people from the region are called ‘foreigners’, ‘Chinese’, ‘Momo’, and recently ‘Corona’, just to rebuke them, knowing very well that they are Indians. In a few cases, they are physically and sexually assaulted and even killed. Tales of misconceptions There are myriad wrong notions about the NE and its people. Post-pandemic, people from the region are mistaken to be carriers of the novel coronavirus because of their physical affinities to the Chinese. Here are a few of the many myths: Hindus are minorities in NE and are often subjugated; people from the region have similar food habits and language as that of China that make them Chinese sympathisers; snakes and bats are common delicacies of the region. Such misconceptions further strengthen the notion of “foreignness” of Northeast people. The people from the region are of the opinion that systemic negligence of the region since the British days has been uncorrected and, in fact, replicated by successive governments, which have further alienated the place.  At any platform where development issues of NE are discussed, a main concern that naturally crops up is militancy. For several decades, armed revolutions have indeed been a stumbling block for development to make inroads into the region. However, a lot has changed in the past couple of decades; many armed groups have rejoined the mainstream by signing ceasefire agreements with the government. The outcome is the much-needed germination of unhindered development activities in the region, in addition to a much-improved law and order situation. Assam is one such example, that has fared remarkably well after the state government’s initiative to resolve militancy issues. Still, a lot needs to be done on this front.  Considering the systematic negligence of the region and realising its undeniable strategic importance, matters and concerns of Northeast India should be given special focus for an ‘equal India’. The issue of racial discrimination needs a holistic approach; it is a virus that needs not just one but a combination of multiple effective medicines. But yes, our education system, which has hitherto failed to sensitise people to the basic demography of India, needs a chapter on Northeast India to start with. The idea of one nation should be viewed as one resembling a rainbow — the oneness of which is not hampered by the presence of different colours. Same religion, same dress code, same language, same food habits and same physical appearances should not define our oneness as citizens of India. In line with that beautiful ethos, it is time we realise that the people of Northeast, however different they may appear to us, are no less Indians and their concerns no less important. (The writer is an author and freelance writer based in Mumbai)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/northeastmatters-even-beyond-a-twitter-trend-1007612.html
12-07-2021||In Perspective||Online education is not the solution||School closures since March 2020 have allowed students limited opportunities for structured learning, causing learning loss, and aggravating malnutrition, child abuse, child labour, school dropout and early marriage. Online education is seen as a solution to the education emergency. A survey conducted by Karnataka Education Department indicates 55 per cent students in the state, have “good Internet access”. However, research across India, and our teaching initiative in Bengaluru South (the district reported to have the highest Internet access of 74.64 per cent), suggest that not even 25 per cent students may be able to meaningfully connect to online education— this means having uninterrupted access to an online platform for a few hours daily. Students need to use a device that is owned and used by a parent. Many parents share a device, which will need further sharing amongst siblings for online education. Feature phones, which do not support internet access, exceed smartphones in India. Mobile phones are relatively fragile, repair has become difficult due to intermittent lockdowns and production affected by supply-chain bottlenecks. All these affect device availability. Most households lack broadband; mobile internet is of prepaid connections, where data is limited. As online education uses audio and video, data consumption is high. Students drop out due to ‘data pack’ getting exhausted. Budget smartphones have limited storage, which is quickly exhausted given multiple users. Poor connectivity affects online teaching. Even in Bengaluru, we see connectivity drop and become intermittent or patchy. The available connectivity does not permit all students to turn their video on, to simulate a classroom, and online teaching mostly feels like talking to a vacuum. Media stories on students’ brave attempts to access Internet from treetops to bus stops may inspire, but reveal a bleak state of affairs. Online learning is different from a videoconference; the potential for students to ‘make up’ for intermittent connectivity is vastly lower in an intense process like learning. Disconnections make it difficult to follow the class. All literature and our experience suggest that the quality of interaction and instruction is much poorer online than in a classroom. 24/7 electricity is rare; villages can suffer power cuts for hours daily, affecting the charging of devices. As devices get older, they need frequent charging. The education department distinguishes between the availability of toilets and functional toilets in schools (a significant number of toilets do not have water supply or sanitation), similarly, we should distinguish ‘internet access’ from ‘meaningful internet access’. Statistics on mere ‘access’ to a device or internet ignoring ‘meaningful access’ can lead to dangerous conclusions about online education’s potential. While teachers are usually better off with access to devices, connectivity and electricity, most use mobile phones rather than computers; this limits instructional effectiveness. A phone is good for conference calls but cannot effectively display visuals necessary for teaching. While a small minority of schools may conduct classes with a 4-6 hour timetable, online education is not a systemic option. However, as the pandemic appears a long term threat, digital education, combining asynchronous sharing through apps such as WhatsApp and synchronous interaction through a video-conference platform, should not be summarily dismissed due to its current non-availability. Digital education can complement face-to-face teaching and help teachers to reach and interact with students. As students from privileged groups already use devices for self-learning and interacting, depriving others will worsen inequity. Hence, we must establish public digital infrastructure in schools, panchayats, public libraries, for individual and community access by students. Donations of new and refurbished devices can complement public provisioning. Teachers must be encouraged to acquire computers, including through interest-free loans. Providing free connectivity to students is technically possible through ‘zero rating’. The government can install a free and open-source (FOSS) platform like BigBlueButton (BBB) on its server and ISPs can provide free connectivity on BBB connections. Only teachers and students will find this connection valuable, hence misuse is difficult. The government can negotiate to directly compensate ISPs, minimising the connectivity hurdle to digital education. Governments could install Matrix, a FOSS equivalent to WhatsApp, to allow more functionality in asynchronous sharing. This includes ‘threading’ discussions, ‘grouping’ groups and localizing language interface, for more intelligent and easier interactions. Moodle FOSS learning system for online courses can equip teachers to adapt to pandemic contexts. Using FOSS is essential because proprietary platforms harvest user data, harmful to our security and privacy. Relying on online education will worsen educational inequity. The only solution available and ignored, is to carefully, gradually re-open schools, with necessary precautions. Additionally, universalising digital education must be an ongoing systemic program to improve the educational prospects of all students over the long term. (The writer is a director of IT for Change and a member of the ‘Education Emergency’ national coalition)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/online-education-is-not-the-solution-1007921.html
12-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Intermittent rain continues to lash Dakshina Kannada||Intermittent rain continued to lash various parts of Dakshina Kannada on Monday. A huge tree uprooted and fell at Kadri Shivabhagh in Mangaluru following the rain. The fire and forest department personnel cleared the tree on Monday morning. Following the rain, the sea is also rough in Ullal, Someshwara and other areas in the district. The district administration has cautioned the people living in low-lying areas to remain alert. Visitors to the beaches have been warned not to venture into the water due to the strong waves and currents. The fishermen too have been advised not to venture into the sea. The IMD in its weather update for next 48 hours stated that there would be cloudy skies and rain all over the coast. Surface winds too are likely to be strong. Since April this year, 61 houses are fully damaged and 318 partially damaged in DK till date.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/intermittent-rain-continues-to-lash-dakshina-kannada-1007646.html
12-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Bantwal gets KSRTC's 'ICU on wheels' bus service||To treat the patients from rural areas, the Sarige Suraksha, ‘ICU on wheels’ service has arrived at KSRTC depot in Mangaluru's B C Road. Built in-house by the KSRTC at an estimated cost of Rs 10 lakh, the ICU on wheels is the second such effort by KSRTC to pitch in during the pandemic. The ICU on wheels had arrived for the first time to KSRTC Puttur division comprising Dakshina Kannada and Kodagu districts. MLA Rajesh Naik had placed a demand with Transport Minister Lakshman Savadi to sanction ICU on wheels for Bantwal. The five-bedded bus cum ambulance is equipped with a ventilator, oxygen system for each bed, patient monitor (BP, Oxygen Amount, ECG, Temperature) system, emergency medicine system along with a generator to power the equipment.  The bus has a siren facility similar to that of an ambulance. It also has a notice board. MLA Rajesh Naik will flag off the ICU on wheels at Polali on July 13. The Sarige Suraksha, ‘ICU on wheels’ service will visit villages once in two months. The bus will have a doctor and health assistant from the health department, said KSRTC BC Road depot Manager Shreesha Bhat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bantwal-gets-ksrtcs-icu-on-wheels-bus-service-1007671.html
12-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||6 from Mysuru injured in a mishap at M M Hills||Six persons from Mysuru district were injured when the car they were travelling rammed into a tree, on the road leading to Male Mahadeshwara Hills, in Hanur taluk, Chamarajanagar district, on Sunday night. The injured have been identified as three 23-year-olds Basavaraju, Ganesh, Naveen, Prathap, aged 25, D Srinivas aged 25 and Ajay, 22 years, all from Vajamangala village, in Mysuru district. They have been admitted to the government hospital in Kollegal. Basavaraju and Ganesh have sustained serious injuries, according to police. The youths were on their way to Male Mahadeshwara Hills in their car when the vehicle rammed into a tree and toppled. The car engine caught fire. The incident occurred at around 1.30 am. Fire and Emergency Services personnel and M M Hill police visited the spot. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/6-from-mysuru-injured-in-a-mishap-at-m-m-hills-1007786.html
12-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Focus is on NEP implementation in govt institutes this year: Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan||Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan on Monday stated that the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 being implemented in higher education in the state from this academic year is not mandatory for all institutes this time. "The focus is to start the implementation of the NEP in State-run universities and their constituent colleges from 2021-22 itself, while private institutes can also come forward voluntarily. Discussions are already held with the stakeholders in this regard, and universities can develop content based on the NEP framework," he said. Ashwath Narayan, who also holds the higher education portfolio, noted that a decision about starting offline classes in colleges has not yet been taken, though preparations in this regard are on. "A decision would be taken after the anti-Covid vaccination drive for students gets completed. Though there is the possibility of another wave of Covid-19, we have to be well-equipped to manage it, life should go no, and learning should continue," he said. In reply to Tamil Nadu's objection to the Mekedatu project, Ashwath Narayan stated that unnecessary politics should not be played in this issue. "Karnataka has planned a viable project to utilise the Share of Cauvery water allocated to it. This project would not only help Karnataka but would also be useful in accurate measurement of water to be released to Tamil Nadu," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/focus-is-on-nep-implementation-in-govt-institutes-this-year-deputy-chief-minister-c-n-ashwath-narayan-1007886.html
12-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||College reopening: Decision after jab drive, says DCM||Deputy Chief Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan has said that a decision on starting offline classes for colleges would be taken after completion of vaccination drive for students. Speaking to reporters on Monday, Narayan said that the state was well-equipped to tackle another possible wave of Covid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/college-reopening-decision-after-jab-drive-says-dcm-1007902.html
12-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Elephant strays into Chikkamagaluru||Fear gripped the residents of Chikkamagaluru town on Monday morning with the spotting of a surprise visitor --- an elephant. The elephant was found roaming around the premises of the Coffee Day Global unit office. The forest officials tried to drive the elephant away by bursting crackers and other methods.  The drive to chase the elephant continued till late at night. From Chikkamagaluru, the elephant passed through Erehalli, silver tree plantation, Nallur kere to reach Mathavara. "The elephant has moved around in the wee hours of Monday. The gate of a school was damaged," Mahesh of Erehalli said. Assistant conservator of forest Muddanna said that the elephant would have strayed into the town from Belur and would have passed through Baskal and K R Pete. Now, the elephant is hiding somewhere at Mathavara. Efforts will be made to chase the elephant at night with the help of 50 men, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/elephant-strays-into-chikkamagaluru-1007918.html
12-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah suspects political reason behind Kumaraswamy-Sumalatha spat||"If illegal quarrying is going on near KRS dam, as alleged by Sumalatha, concerned departments should conduct inspection, stop such activities, and should take action against the guilty. If the ruling party leaders are not speaking about this issue, they might have been involved with illegal miners," he said. "BJP government in the state is using Covid-19 situation as a shelter, to protect themselves from corruption charges. Corruption is rampant, administration lacks transparency and BJP leaders are shameless. They lie about vaccination also. People are not getting vaccines, because the Union Government has failed to supply them. But, BJP leaders are blaming the Congress itself," Siddaramaiah noted. "This government is against social justice, and therefore it is not tabling the caste census report before the legislature," the former chief minister added. Siddaramaiah also reiterated that there is no groupism or confusion in the Congress, while the chief ministerial candidate has to be selected by MLAs and the high command. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-suspects-political-reason-behind-kumaraswamy-sumalatha-spat-1007830.html
12-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka Congress forms plan to woo women voters||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar discussed strategy with party leaders on Monday to reach out to women across the state keeping the 2023 assembly polls in mind.  Shivakumar, who spent nearly three hours with the party’s Stree Shakti committee, set a December deadline for party workers to establish a women-oriented organization in all 224 assembly constituencies.  He also asked each card-holding woman member of the party to connect with 1,000 women. According to sources, Shivakumar urged the women leaders to not lure women into the party. Only those who volunteer should be welcomed, he said. “Identify local women leaders and bring them in. No man should be seated in your meetings. Once the organization is in place, we will reach out to women voters,” Shivakumar is learnt to have suggested.  During the day, Shivakumar inducted scores of BJP and JD(S) leaders from the Devanahalli constituency into Congress. Speaking on the occasion, Shivakumar said the party should aim at doing well in all 224 segments, including four in the Bengaluru Rural district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-congress-forms-plan-to-woo-women-voters-1007870.html
12-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||No going back on Mekedatu project, says Karnataka Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai||Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday said the state government will “100%” go ahead with the Mekedatu project, stressing that Karnataka was well within its rights to take this up. He said this even as an all-party meeting convened by Tamil Nadu Chief M K Stalin on Monday passed a unanimous resolution asking the Centre not to sanction permission to Karnataka for construction of a reservoir in Mekedatu across river Cauvery.  “Karnataka has got all the right to do the project and safeguard the interests of people because drinking water is the main component in this,” Bommai said, adding that Karnataka’s detailed project report was with the Central Water Commission. “The government of India has to consider Karnataka's request as per law.” The Mekedatu project was first announced in 2013 and it is estimated to cost Rs 9,000 crore.  Bommai pointed out that Tamil Nadu’s share in the river waters was released as per the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal. “There’s the Cauvery Water Management Authority that monitors the whole thing. Hence, everything is settled,” he said.  “This project will store additional water for drinking water and hydroelectricity. Also, it is for the distribution of water among the two states during distress time. So, there’s no reason for us to stop the project. We will go ahead with the project and we’re 100% committed. We will put all our might into getting the necessary clearances and I’m confident that the Centre will give justice to Karnataka,” Bommai said.  Meanwhile, Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar urged Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa to stand firm against Tamil Nadu. “Tamil Nadu will oppose this for another 100 years because politics is their agenda. Yediyurappa should have the political will to go ahead. There’s information that the project has received clearance from the central pollution board,” Shivakumar said, adding that the project involved “our money, our land and our water”.  Shivakumar said the project will be located in his Kanakapura constituency and “not even 10 acres will be irrigated”. “If there’s a double engine government, then what’s taking them so long,” he asked, adding that there was no need for Karnataka to also lead a delegation to New Delhi. “All we need to do is implement the project.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/no-going-back-on-mekedatu-project-says-karnataka-law-minister-basavaraj-bommai-1007871.html
12-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Don't treat DK Shivakumar slap episode as crime, Congress tells BJP||Speaking to media persons, on Monday, he said State BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel is projecting it as a major crime. BJP leaders must focus on solving issues in their party.  He said Shivakumar slapped him casually with the sole intention of disciplining him. BJP must not use it for political gains. It must stop poking its nose into the affairs of Congress.  He warned that Congress workers would picket the programmes attended by the Chief Minister and ministers in Karnataka if BJP leaders drag the issue further. Congress workers Kavita Raghavendra, Arjun, Nishad Ahmed, Nhal Singh and others were present at the press conference. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/dont-treat-dk-shivakumar-slap-episode-as-crime-congress-tells-bjp-1007946.html
12-07-2021||Main Article||Protect India's minorities||Two nuns travelling along with two novitiates from New Delhi to Odisha's Rourkela by the Haridwar-Puri Kalinga Utkal Express on March 19 were harassed by some youths of the Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad (the student wing of the Bhartiya Janata Party). While the nuns of the Sacred Heart Congregation of Delhi province were in their religious attire, the novitiates were in their normal gear. When the goons tried to initiate a talk with the four women passengers, they cold-shouldered them. The irked youths began accusing the nuns of taking the novitiates for forced conversion. When they demanded that they show their Aadhaar card, the girls informed that they were Christians already and even produced the Aadhaar card as proof of their being so. This, despite the fact that these rowdy elements had no authority to question or check the Aadhaar cards. Despite the two postulants proving their credentials, the vigilantes continued to harass them and went to the extent of informing the Railway Police helpline and a VHP activist, of two nuns taking two women along with them for conversion. Their ordeal did not end there. When the train reached Jhansi railway station, Government Railway Police (GRP) personnel began questioning the four and then asked them to detrain. From 8 pm till midnight, these hapless women were detained at the GRP post for questioning. A formal complaint was lodged against the four by a local resident of Jhansi who had travelled in the train. Around midnight, they were allowed to go after the intervention of local officials of St Jude’s Shrine, who took them to their place for stay and arranged their departure the following day. This was not the first instance when Christian passengers were asked to detrain. Earlier, on July 22, 2017, four women including a nun were forced to get off the train at Satna railway station by the GRP and Hindutva activists on the charge of taking a girl to Bhopal to convert her to Christianity. On investigation by the sub-divisional magistrate and the GRP in-charge, the allegations were found to be baseless and they were released. But for the elections that were scheduled to take place in Kerala, the incident would not have drawn much attention. On March 24, addressing a poll rally in Kochi with a Christian population of nearly 40%, Union Home Minister Amit Shah assured “the people of Kerala that the culprits behind this incident will be brought to justice at the earliest". As the incident became an election issue, two activists of the VHP and Gau Raksha Samiti were rounded up for breach of peace. What is shocking is the statement of Arun Kumar, Director General of Police of the Railway Protection Force, that no wrong has been done as “any person can inform the police in order to prevent any cognisable offence". The RPF escort in the train could have checked the veracity of statements of the four women and put a lid on the issue. But the mindset of police being what it is, they chose to detain the four women for three hours for no fault. Were the statements of the two postulants and their Aadhaar cards not enough to prove their credentials? When senior officers give such ridiculous statements, the goons and their own subordinates get very clear signals. They can choose to harass minorities at will and the powers that be will turn a blind eye. In March this year, activists of the Gau Rakshak Dal led by its district head barged into the house of a person named Mubin in Mewat. On finding a cow and a bull and some machete, they got an FIR registered that the place was being used for cow slaughter. This drew the ire of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, which questioned the authority of the vigilantes to raid houses of denizens and observed that “such actions are prima facie illegal and amount to taking law into their own hands by private individuals. This is contrary to the Rule of Law”. What is baffling is the fact that the Bichhor Police Station immediately filed an FIR under Haryana Gauvansh Sanrakshan and Gausamvardhan Act 2015 and IPC without application of mind. That persecution of minorities is on the increase in recent years is amply evident from the figures released by the Alliance Defending Freedom. From 147 attacks on Christians in 2014, the figure shot up to 177 in 2015, 208 in 2016, 240 in 2017, 290 in 2018 and 325 in 2019. The Religious Liberty Commission of the Evangelical Fellowship of India reports that there were 327 incidents of attacks on Christians last year in which five people were killed and six churches razed to the ground. With 95 incidents, Uttar Pradesh tops the list, followed by Chhattisgarh with 55. According to the Open Doors International World Watch list, India has ranked 10th for the last three consecutive years among countries listed as most dangerous for Christians. It was at 28th position in 2014. If the present trend of persecuting minorities continues, days may not be far off when we will overtake the nine countries that are above us in the ranking. The bogey of conversions touted by fundamentalists needs to be demolished. Had conversions to Christianity taken place in the way it is projected, the Christian population should have cranked up and not dwindled to 2.3 % (2011 Census) from 2.44% (1981 Census). In an article that Justice (Retd) Markandey Katju wrote recently about the Jhansi incident, he stated that "the allegations that they do forcible conversions is palpably false”. Nothing can be farther from the truth. The perceptions about Christians need to change and the government needs to come down heavily with punitive action on fundamentalists who shame the country by persecuting Christians and Muslims. We cannot allow our global image to be tarnished by hooligans who are on a rampage with impunity. (The writer is Inspector General of Police (Retd), CRPF)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/protect-indias-minorities-1007611.html
12-07-2021||Main Article||Arunachal, next finger on China’s list||Writing to US Secretary of State Cordel Hull in 1943, Averell Harriman, US Ambassador to the Soviet Union, averred that, “If the policy is accepted that the Soviet Union has a right to penetrate her immediate neighbours, penetration of the next immediate neighbours becomes at a certain time equally logical.” The logic of expansionism delineated by Harriman becomes acute when applied to the Himalayan frontier, characterised as it is by a peculiar historical geography that compels a power sitting to the north to always seek to exude influence south in what Mao called the five fingers of Tibet, i.e., Ladakh, Nepal, Sikkim, Bhutan and Arunachal Pradesh. Conversely, the power sitting to the south must also seek to exert influence north, and this creates a bedrock of tension, tempered only by a balance of military capability. Perceived opportunities are difficult to let go of. For China, the power sitting to the north, an India beleaguered by waves of Covid seems like that ‘certain time’ to execute a strategy of forward movement in the five fingers. While China has already shown its hand in Ladakh and is probing all along the Himalayan range, it is the PLA’s activities along the McMahon line that should be of the greatest concern to New Delhi. Indeed, there is a likelihood that Arunachal Pradesh could be the next finger on Beijing’s list, especially if India experiences a problematic third wave. At the moment, however, media attention in India seems more focused on PLA Ground Force (PLAGF) exercises in the Gobi Desert, given that the Chinese have essentially reneged on the ‘written agreement’ that was reached in early February to disengage in the Hot Springs-Gogra area, much less the Depsang Plains. Besides continuing to block Indian patrols from reaching traditional patrolling points (PPs) in these areas, the PLAGF also seems to be involved in major construction activity, as indicated by commercially available satellite images. New Delhi should be particularly concerned about Chinese activities in and around the PLA’s Tianwendian forward post in the Depsang Plains. An analysis of imagery of the sector reveals that the Chinese are constructing a new border lateral which, when extended, has the potential to bisect points between PP-4 & PP-5. The PLA also continues to put pressure on the Indian side through a general expansion of their sustenance bases in Western Tibet and the Tarim Basin, as well as through heightened drone activity. Regardless of these trends, the Chinese seem to have already extended themselves as much as they wanted to in Eastern Ladakh. Their operational tempo in the region is designed to keep the Indian side preoccupied there, while the PLA probes other sections of the LAC. Indeed, contrary to expectations that they will keep it localised, the Chinese have also been rather active near the stretches claimed by them across the watershed in Himachal Pradesh and even Uttarakhand. However, Chinese claims across the watershed in these states are relatively modest and aimed at tying down some Indian formations in static defence. Likewise, Chinese activity in the passes to the north of Sikkim is also unlikely to turn into a forward movement, since India has credible options for a riposte in this vicinity. Also, for what it is worth, the Chinese premier publicly stated in 2005 that Sikkim was “no longer a problem between India and China.” This is in sharp contrast to the periodic Chinese reiteration of their main claim on Indian territory — Arunachal Pradesh. Having never accepted the McMahon line, China has been overtly stating its claim in a variety of forms since 2006, including the arbitrary ‘renaming’ of locations in the Indian state. Beyond cartographic aggresion, the PLAGF has been sending long-range reconnaissance patrols into areas where Indian infrastructure is still rudimentary, besides apprehending Indian nationals who they claim have strayed into ‘Chinese territory.’ Most egregiously, it was revealed earlier this year that the Chinese had expanded an erstwhile border post into a 101-home ‘village’ on the banks of the Tsari Chu, some 4.5 km south of the watershed in Upper Subansiri district of Arunachal Pradesh. China, perhaps, would like to argue that this Tsari Chu development and the creation of other ‘model’ border villages is in keeping with its 2021 White Paper on Tibet, which calls for improving the conditions of border populations. However, it doesn’t take a lot of imagination to see that such villages could well be thinly disguised staging grounds. As such, the PLAGF certainly seems to be preparing for an escalation. While the summer exercises in Xinjiang and Western Tibet have been much discussed, what has been less talked about is a major exercise in Shannan Prefecture opposite Arunachal Pradesh that involved not only units from the Tibet Military District, but accretion forces from the 76th Group Army as well. This exercise, which carried on till late June, saw several new pieces of hardware, such as the 122-mm PCL-171 mounted gun system, being tested. It also coincided with a PLA Joint Logistics Support Force exercise which was aimed at augmenting the resources of Nyngchi, the main military hub in Shannan. Nyngchi today hosts a vastly expanded airbase, protected by a PLAAF S-400 surface-to-air missile unit, and was recently connected with a high-speed rail link to Lhasa. Simply put, the augmentation of Nyngchi means that the PLA is now much better placed in the region for long standoffs than it was at the time of the Sumdorong Chu incident in 1986-87. Such a standoff could well ensue during a third Covid wave in India, which is expected to peak in October, which incidentally also marks the beginning of ‘campaign season’ along the McMahon line. The PLA would be especially tempted if it leads to a diversion of Indian military resources, quarantines and a fall in the output of defence industries as was witnessed during the second wave. Indeed, the Indian Army vacating a strategic peak in the Kailash Range that had been kept as surety to negotiate further disengagement in Eastern Ladakh in the middle of the second wave would do nothing to discourage the Chinese. Beijing would also think that a Covid wave is when cross-domain threats such as cyberwarfare or pharmaceutical supply chain disruptions would be effective in deterring Indian counteractions to an encroachment. China may be planning to present India with a moth-eaten Arunachal Pradesh, and it is up to India to stand firm, no matter how trying the circumstances. To begin with, New Delhi must authorise more substantive human intelligence operations in places of interest along the Eastern Himalayas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/arunachal-next-finger-on-china-s-list-1007920.html
12-07-2021||Mysuru||Woman arrested for cheating, misusing actor Darshan's name||Mysuru city police took a woman into custody for allegedly trying to cheat a man in the name of actor Darshan Thoogudeepa. Arunakumari is accused. She was blackmailing one Harsh Melanta, who had applied for Rs 25 crore loan in a bank. Arunakumari, who introduced herself as a bank manager, approached Melanta and accused him of furnishing fake documents related to actor Darshan. She had demanded Rs 25 lakh and later, Melanta had lodged a police complaint with Hebbal Police, who took her into custody. Actor Darshan visited N R subdivision ACP in this regard on Sunday. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/woman-arrested-for-cheating-misusing-actor-darshans-name-1007732.html
12-07-2021||National||DH Toon | Do you know inspiring people for Padma award?||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday invited nominations from citizens for the Padma award of ordinary people doing exceptional work. “India has many talented people, who are doing exceptional work at the grassroots. Often, we don’t see or hear much of them. Do you know such inspiring people? You can nominate them for the #PeoplesPadma. Nominations are open till 15th September,” the prime minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-do-you-know-inspiring-people-for-padma-award-1007567.html
12-07-2021||National||Number of ministers have increased, but not Covid-19 vaccines: Rahul Gandhi slams Modi government||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday took a swipe at the central government, saying the number of ministers has increased but not the Covid vaccines. He also shared a chart of the average vaccinations per day, which are falling short of the target to vaccinate all adults by December 2021. "The number of ministers has increased, not of vaccines," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi, using the hashtag "WhereAreVaccines" His comments came after 43 ministers were inducted into the Modi government, taking the total number of ministers to 77. The chart shared by Gandhi was on India's vaccination equation that aims to stop the third wave of Covid-19. The chart stated that the target is to vaccinate 60 per cent of the population with both doses by December 2021 and the required vaccination rate per day is 8.8 million. However, it pointed out that the actual vaccinations in the last seven days were at an average of 3.4 million per day, leaving a shortfall of 5.4 million per day. It also highlighted that the actual vaccination on Saturday (July 10) was 3.7 million, leaving a shortfall of 5.1 million for the day. The Congress leader also highlighted Mahatma Gandhi's use of oxygen as a metaphor and attacked the government using the hashtag "dissent". He shared a report that stated why Mahatma Gandhi used oxygen as a metaphor during the freedom struggle and how it has resonance for India today. The report quoted Mahatma Gandhi as saying that freedom of opinion and freedom of association are "the two lungs that are absolutely necessary for a man to breathe the oxygen of liberty". The Congress has been raising the issue of shortage of vaccines in the country and has urged the central government to speed up inoculations, saying it is the only way to stop the third wave of Covid-19. The BJP had hit back at the opposition party by targeting the performance of Congress-ruled states and also accused it of encouraging vaccine hesitancy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/number-of-ministers-have-increased-but-not-covid-19-vaccines-rahul-gandhi-slams-modi-government-1007591.html
12-07-2021||National||Petrol nears Rs 102/L in Delhi, diesel marginally down: Check rates in your city||Petrol prices across the country were hiked on Monday while diesel prices came down marginally after the months-long surge in the prices that have sparked protests in various states. Petrol price was up 28 paise in the national capital and while prices of diesel reduced marginally, according to a price notification by the Indian Oil Corporation.  After petrol crossed the Rs 100-a-litre-mark, diesel rates in major cities have neared the century mark. The price of petrol in Delhi stood at Rs 101.19 per litre, while diesel now costs Rs 89.72 per litre. In the financial capital of Mumbai, the first of the metros to hit the three-digit mark, the price of petrol has gone up to Rs 107.20 per litre and diesel in the city costs Rs 97.29. Kolkata's petrol rate climbed to Rs 101.35 per litre, and diesel costs Rs 92.81 per litre. Meanwhile, in Bengaluru, petrol is priced Rs 104.58 and diesel at Rs 95.09 per litre. Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri, the former Civil Aviation Minister, took charge of the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas last week following a reshuffle in Modi's Cabinet of Ministers. Puri had refused to comment on the rising fuel prices. "It will be very wrong for me to comment on it (fuel prices) when I have just stepped into this building." he'd said.   Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as value-added tax (VAT) and freight charges. Oil companies revise rates of petrol and diesel daily based on the average price of benchmark fuel in the international market in the preceding 15 days, and foreign exchange rates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-nears-rs-102/l-in-delhi-diesel-marginally-down-check-rates-in-your-city-1007592.html
12-07-2021||National||India's daily Covid cases fall below 40,000; recoveries top 3 crore||With 37,154 new coronavirus infections, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 3,08,74,376, while the total recoveries crossed three crore, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll climbed to 4,08,764 with 724 fresh fatalities. The active cases have declined to 4,50,899 and comprise 1.46 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has increased to 97.22 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A decrease of 3,219 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 14,32,343  tests were conducted on Sunday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 43,23,17,813, while the daily  positivity rate was recorded at 2.59 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for 21 consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate stands at  2.32 per cent, it said. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,00,14,713 and the case fatality rate stands at 1.32 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 37.73 crore under the Nationwide Vaccination Drive. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-daily-covid-cases-fall-below-40000-recoveries-top-3-crore-1007593.html
12-07-2021||National||PM Narendra Modi greets people on occasion of Rath Yatra||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday greeted people on the occasion of Rath Yatra. The yatra is associated with Lord Jagannath and will be taken out in various parts of the country on Monday. "Greetings to everyone on the special occasion of the Rath Yatra. We bow to Lord Jagannath and pray that his blessings bring good health and prosperity in everyone's lives. Jai Jagannath," Modi said in a tweet. Greetings to everyone on the special occasion of the Rath Yatra. We bow to Lord Jagannath and pray that his blessings bring good health and prosperity in everyone’s lives. Jai Jagannath!||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-greets-people-on-occasion-of-rath-yatra-1007599.html
12-07-2021||National||Over 1.54 crore unused Covid vaccine doses available with states, private hospitals: Centre||More than 1.54 crore balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states, UTs and private hospitals to be administered, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday. Over 38.86 crore vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far through all sources and a further 63,84,230 doses are in the pipeline, it said. Of this, the total consumption including wastage is 37,31,88,834 doses, according to the data available at 8 am. The new phase of universalisation of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from June 21.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-154-crore-unused-covid-vaccine-doses-available-with-states-private-hospitals-centre-1007647.html
12-07-2021||National||Ashwini Kumar Choubey takes charge as Minister of State for environment||Increasing forest cover will be a priority, Union Minister Ashwini Kumar Choubey said on Monday after he took charge as the Minister of State (MoS) for Environment, Forests and Climate Change. The MoS, who also planted a sapling at the ministry premises, said the Environment Ministry has done unprecedented work in the last seven years. He said increasing the forest cover further would be a priority, according to an official note. Choubey was welcomed by Environment Secretary R P Gupta and other senior officials of the ministry. In a tweet, the MoS thanked the prime minister for giving him the new role. "Today, I officially took charge as the Union Minister of State in the Ministry of Forest, Environment and Climate Change at Paryavaran Bhawan, Jorbagh, Lodhi Colony. I thank the prime minister for giving me a new responsibility @narendramodi Thank you from the bottom of my heart.@moefcc," he posted on Twitter. Choubey, 68, was the Minister of State in the Health Ministry before the Cabinet rejig. He is also the MoS for the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ashwini-kumar-choubey-takes-charge-as-minister-of-state-for-environment-1007666.html
12-07-2021||National||Arvind Panagariya feels India's daily Covid-19 vaccination rate is 'simply not good enough'||He further questioned whether the cause is vaccine hesitancy among people or insufficient production. "India's current vaccination rate of 3 to 4 million (30-40 lakh) per day is simply not good enough. We need to up our game to achieve a daily rate of at least 5 to 6 million (50-60 lakh) jabs. Not clear whether the cause is hesitation or insufficient production," Arvind Panagariya tweeted on Sunday. India’s current vaccination rate of 3 to 4 million per day is simply not good enough. We need to up our game to achieve daily rate of at least 5 to 6 million jabs. Not clear whether the cause is hesitation or insufficient production. As per the Union Health Ministry, 37,73,52,501 vaccine doses have been administered as of July 12 morning. India administered a record number of 91.74 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses on June 21. In the last 24 hours, 12,35,287 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been given, out of which 7,86,479 were the first dose and 4,48,808 were the second dose. According to the Union Health Ministry, the Centre has provided more than 38.86 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses to the state and union territories and 63,84,230 doses are in the pipeline. It has also said that more than 1.54 crore unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are available with private and government hospitals of the states and union territories across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arvind-panagariya-feels-indias-daily-covid-19-vaccination-rate-is-simply-not-good-enough-1007669.html
12-07-2021||National||New IT rules take care of inflammatory posts: SC says on plea to probe Tablighi-related Islamophobic content||The Supreme Court on Monday said new Information Technology rules took care of inflammatory posts as it gave an advocate — seeking action on alleged Islamophobic content — a week's time to study the new guidelines. Petitioner, Khaja Aijazuddin, sought a direction to CBI or NIA probe against Twitter, and its users involved in putting out "inflammatory posts”. He sought guidelines for media companies against posting content to hurt religious sentiments. The petitioner-in-person was aggrieved by the reportage by media on the Tablighi Jamaat incident in New Delhi as an alleged cause for the spread of coronavirus. "This issue was forgotten…..why you want to rake up these issues again? There are number of other petitions pending in this court,” a bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana asked him. To this, he said his plea has raised important issues in connection with posting of the inflammatory posts and hashtags against a particular religious community on social media platforms. “Have you examined the recent IT rules. It takes care of it," the bench asked him. The court further quizzed him on whether he made any representation to the Union government. It asked him to study the new IT rules, 2021 and posted the matter for one week later. The petitioner sought a direction from the top court to direct the appropriate agency, i.e. CBI or NIA, to conduct an investigation against Twitter and its users who were involved in inflammatory posts.  The plea also sought directions to the Centre to frame guidelines as envisaged under the provisions of IT Act, 2000, pertaining to hate messages against any religious community including Islamophobic posts on various social media platforms. The top court had earlier admitted for consideration a separate PIL by Jamiat Ulama-I-Hind which claimed that multiple fake news on the Nizamuddin Markaz issue damaged the secular fabric of the nation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-it-rules-take-care-of-inflammatory-posts-sc-says-on-plea-to-probe-tablighi-related-islamophobic-content-1007670.html
12-07-2021||National||Building in which Suniel Shetty stays sealed amid Covid-19||A posh upscale building in Mumbai, which is home to actor and businessman Suniel Shetty, has been sealed in the wake of increasing Covid-19 cases. The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has seized the 30-storied building – Pratiksha Apartments – which has 120 flats, on Altamount Road. As per BMC protocol, any building with five active cases of Covid-19 is sealed by the civic body. At present, around 10 residential buildings have been sealed in the D-ward of Mumbai – which includes Malabar Hill and Peddar Road. Shetty and his family are currently out of town and are not affected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/building-in-which-suniel-shetty-stays-sealed-amid-covid-19-1007675.html
12-07-2021||National||Parliament to be in session from July 19 with Covid protocols: Om Birla||The Monsoon Session of Parliament will be held between July 19 and August 13, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla announced on Monday. The Parliament will be in session for 19 business days during this time. Birla said that all members and media will be allowed in accordance with Covid rules. "RT-PCR test is not mandatory, but will request those who have not undergone vaccination to undergo test," he said. The Speaker said that a majority of MPs have taken at least one dose of the Covid vaccine and that all Covid-related norms will be followed during the Monsoon Session. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-to-be-in-session-from-july-19-with-covid-protocols-om-birla-1007684.html
12-07-2021||National||PM Modi says farm sector needs post-harvest revolution; govt impetus on scientific ecosystem||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said there is a need for a "post-harvest revolution" in the farm sector, which has been witnessing an increase in production. Modi said the hardworking farmers have made record production of commodities despite the unprecedented challenges of the Covid-19 pandemic. "With the ever increasing agricultural production, there is a need of post-harvest revolution and value addition," Modi said in a message to commemorate the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development's foundation day, which was read out at an event hosted by the state-run lender. "We are striving relentlessly to intensify our speed and scale to achieve this. We have been taking comprehensive steps to get a complete solution, from irrigation to sowing, harvesting and earnings that are technology enabled," he added. Last year, the union government passed three new farm laws but its implementation has been postponed amid farmers' protest. However, in January this year, the Supreme Court had stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse. Modi had also promised to double farmers' incomes by 2022. The Prime Minister said the government's focus is to encourage youth and promote startups associated with the agricultural sector. "We are giving the impetus to create a scientific ecosystem, speed up development according to the wishes and expectations of the villages and transform the agricultural sector of the economy through holistic approach," he added. The PM said a self-reliant rural economy is necessary for 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' or self-reliant India, and added that the government has taken concrete measures over the last seven years for the same. The government is committed to empower close to 12 crore small farmers and help them become the driving force of the rural economy, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-says-farm-sector-needs-post-harvest-revolution-govt-impetus-on-scientific-ecosystem-1007698.html
12-07-2021||National||Average daily vaccination declines to 34.32 lakh between July 5-11||After a high of 61.14 lakh average daily doses of Covid-19 vaccines in the week from June 21-27, the immunisation drive against the disease has slumped to 34.32 lakh doses in the week ending July 11. The decline in vaccination numbers has been pronounced in states such as Haryana, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Gujarat and Chhattisgarh since the June 21-27 week, while a mixed trend was visible in Kerala, Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Jammu and Kashmir, according to data available on the Co-WIN platform. In the last seven days, Uttar Pradesh has administered 36.9 lakh doses of vaccines followed by Maharashtra (21.2 lakh), Madhya Pradesh (19.2 lakh). Karnataka (14.4 lakh), Bihar (12.1 lakh), West Bengal (12 lakh). “The number of ministers has increased, but not of vaccines,” Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said. In the states of Assam and Tripura which recently reported a rise in fresh Covid-19 cases, a declining trend in the administration of average daily vaccine doses can be seen. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is meeting chief ministers of Assam, Nagaland, Tripura, Sikkim, Manipur, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram to review the Covid-19 situation in the north-eastern region. On Monday, the Health Ministry said over the states, including private hospitals, had 1.54 crore balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses. More than 38.86 crore vaccine doses have been provided to States/UTs so far, through all sources and a further 63,84,230 doses are in the pipeline. The health ministry had said a total of 12 crore vaccine doses would be available in July, which could allow an average of 38 lakh doses every day throughout the month. States such as Maharashtra, which recorded the highest number of Covid-19 cases on Monday, raised the need for more vaccine doses. Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope said the state needs a minimum of three crore vaccine doses per month to inoculate the entire eligible population against coronavirus at the earliest. Gujarat, on the other hand, said it has so far received an “adequate” number of vaccine doses from the Centre to inoculate people against Covid-19 and the state still has a stock of around seven lakh doses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/average-daily-vaccination-declines-to-3432-lakh-between-july-5-11-1007701.html
12-07-2021||National||PM Modi expresses pain at loss of lives due to lightning, announces ex-gratia||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday expressed pain at the loss of lives in various parts of the country due to lightning and announced an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each to the next of kin of the deceased. At least 18 people died in Rajasthan and 10 in Uttar Pradesh, according to reports received on Sunday night, and the toll could go higher. Casualties have also been reported from Madhya Pradesh.  In a tweet quoting Modi, the PMO said, "Saddened by the loss of lives due to lightning in parts of Madhya Pradesh. The State Government will provide all possible assistance to the affected. From the PMNRF, Rs. 2 lakh would be given to the next of kin of the deceased and Rs. 50,000 would be given to the injured: PM Modi." Saddened by the loss of lives due to lightning in parts of Madhya Pradesh. The State Government will provide all possible assistance to the affected. From the PMNRF, Rs. 2 lakh would be given to the next of kin of the deceased and Rs. 50,000 would be given to the injured: PM Modi The prime minister also expressed anguish at the deaths caused by lightning in two other states and announced similar relief.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-expresses-pain-at-loss-of-lives-due-to-lightning-announces-ex-gratia-1007708.html
12-07-2021||National||5G rollout: Delhi HC defers hearing on Juhi Chawla's plea till July 29, judge recuses||The Delhi high court on Monday deferred hearing on the plea by Bollywood actress Juhi Chawla in connection with the dismissal of her lawsuit against 5G wireless network technology. Justice Sanjeev Narula recused from hearing Chawla's plea and directed that it be listed before another bench on July 29. “Subject to the order of the Chief Justice, list before another bench on July 29,” the judge said. Last week, Justice J R Midha had directed that Chawla's application, which seeks that her lawsuit against 5G rollout be declared “rejected” instead of “dismissed”, be placed before Justice Narula after the deposit of previously imposed Rs 20 lakh costs. Chawla's counsel argued that the plaint, which “never went up to the level of suit”, could only be rejected or returned in terms of the Civil Procedure Code, and not dismissed. The court had also granted a week's time for deposit of costs after Chawla decided to not press the application for its waiver. Application for refund of court fees was also withdrawn by Chawla. In June, the court had described the lawsuit by Chawla and two others against 5g rollout as "defective", "abuse of process of law" and filed for "gaining publicity" and dismissed it with costs. Justice Midha said the plaint in which questions have been raised about health hazards due to the 5G technology was "not maintainable" and was "stuffed with unnecessary Scandalous, frivolous and vexatious averments" which are liable to be struck down. The court said the suit filed by actress-environmentalist and others was to gain publicity which was clear as Chawla circulated the video conferencing link of the hearing on her social media account which resulted in the repeated disruptions thrice by unknown miscreants who continued disruptions despite repeated warnings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/5g-rollout-delhi-hc-defers-hearing-on-juhi-chawlas-plea-till-july-29-judge-recuses-1007713.html
12-07-2021||National||UP, Tamil Nadu record massive jump in UAPA cases in five years||Six states, including Manipur, Uttar Pradesh and Assam, account for around 87 per cent of the arrests made under the contentious Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in the five years since 2015, according to an analysis. UP saw a massive jump in arrests -- by 19 times --from 26 people arrested under UAPA in 2015 to 498 in 2019 while Tamil Nadu detentions under UAPA rose from just two in 2015 to a massive 308 in 2019. The analysis of data in NCRB's Crime in India reports also threw up an interesting fact -- Manipur arrested 2,158 people in 2,426 UAPA cases in five years while UP put 1,397 people behind the bars in just 343 cases under UAPA during this period. Assam has 1,003 arrests in 995 cases during this period. Though on top of the list of arrested people, Manipur reported a declining trend -- 692 people arrested in 2015 fell to 386 in 2019, a drop of 44.22 per cent. Altogether, 7,050 people were arrested under UAPA during this period in 6,104 cases registered during the period. There has been a 72.7 per cent rise in arrests -- 1,128 in 2015 as against 1,948 in 2019 -- while the corresponding rise in the number of cases is 36.38 per cent -- 897 to 1,226, showing that the number of people arrested under UAPA was much sharper than the rise in the number of cases registered. At the same time, 10 states and union territories, including Haryana, Tripura and Sikkim, incidentally have not made a single detention under the law, which activists describe as "draconian", during this period. "The trend appears to indicate that the draconian provisions of the UAPA are increasingly being used against citizens who have no previous association with extremism or militancy. The popular belief that the law establishment is using UAPA to curb dissent and voices of protest or simply to harass human rights defenders and social justice activists appears to be well supported by the data published by NCRB," Nayak told DH.The analysis by transparency activist Venkatesh Nayak comes against the backdrop of the renewed interest in the law that is alleged to be used often by the governments in recent times to curb dissent. The analysis showed that Manipur had the highest number of 2,158 arrests followed by Uttar Pradesh (1,397) and Assam (1,003). Bihar (567), Jharkhand (516) and Jammu and Kashmir (505) are the states which also have high number of arrests under UAPA. Besides Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, the biggest increase in the number of persons arrested under UAPA were in Jammu and Kashmir and Jharkhand. Jharkhand reported 44 arrestees in 2015 but the number rose to 202 in 2019 with a dip reported only in 2017 (57) while Jammu and Kashmir had only 10 people arrested in 2015, which rose to 227 in 2019. Analysis of south Indian states showed that the case rose exponentially in the past five years – from 43 in 2015 to 335 in 2019 – basically due to Tamil Nadu registering 270 cases two years ago. Tamil Nadu has the highest number of cases (278) and arrests (328) followed by Kerala 175 145 cases and 85 arrests. Karnataka has 22 cases and 14 arrests during the five year period while Andhra Pradesh has 27 cases and 13 arrests, Telangana one case and five arrests. Puducherry and Lakshadweep did not register a single UAPA case during this period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-tamil-nadu-record-massive-jump-in-uapa-cases-in-five-years-1007719.html
12-07-2021||National||IIT Mandi develops AI-based model for detecting disease in potato crops||Scientists from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Mandi have developed a computational model for automated disease detection in potato crops using photographs of its leaves. The research led by Dr Srikant Srinivasan, Associate Professor, School of Computing and Electrical Engineering at IIT Mandi, in collaboration with the Central Potato Research Institute, Shimla, uses Artificial Intelligence (AI) techniques to highlight the diseased portions of the leaf. Funded by the Department of Biotechnology, Govt of India, the results of this research have recently been published in the journal Plant Phenomics, in a paper co-authored by Dr Srikant Srinivasan and Dr Shyam K. Masakapalli, along with research scholars, Joe Johnson, and Geetanjali Sharma, from IIT Mandi, and Dr Vijay Kumar Dua, Dr Sanjeev Sharma, and Dr Jagdev Sharma, from Central Potato Research Institute, Shimla, according to a press statement. Potatoes, in the history of the world, have been the cause of the world’s great famine of the mid-nineteenth century that killed over a million people in Ireland and rang the death knell for the Irish language. The reason? Potato Blight. The Blight is a common disease of the potato plant, that starts as uneven light green lesions near the tip and the margins of the leaf and then spreads into large brown to purplish-black necrotic patches that eventually leads to rotting of the plant. If left undetected and unchecked, blight could destroy the entire crop within a week under conducive conditions. “In India, as with most developing countries, the detection and identification of blight are performed manually by trained personnel who scout the field and visually inspect potato foliage,” explained Dr Srinivasan. This process, as expected, is tedious and often impractical, especially for remote areas, because it requires the expertise of a horticultural specialist who may not be physically accessible. “Automated disease detection can help in this regard and given the extensive proliferation of mobile phones across the country, the smartphone could be a useful tool in this regard,” said Joe Johnson, Research Scholar, IIT Mandi, while highlighting the practical usage of his research. The advanced HD cameras, better computing power and communication avenues offered by smartphones offer a promising platform for automated disease detection in crops, which can save time and help in the timely management of diseases, in cases of outbreaks. In order to develop a robust model, healthy and diseased leaf data were collected from fields across Punjab, UP and Himachal Pradesh. It was important that the model developed should have portability across the nation. Even though potato is not a staple food in most regions of the world, it is a cash crop, and failure in it can have disastrous consequences, particularly to farmers with marginal landholding. Thus, early detection of blight is important to prevent financial catastrophe to the farmer and the country’s economy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iit-mandi-develops-ai-based-model-for-detecting-disease-in-potato-crops-1007720.html
12-07-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: Millions pushed into poverty sell gold heirlooms to make ends meet||Paul Fernandes, a 50-year-old waiter in India, last year took out a loan using his gold as collateral to pay for his children’s education after losing his job on a cruise liner. This year, he is selling his gold jewellery to meet expenses, after failed attempts at starting a home business and finding another job. “A gold loan is after all a debt that I am taking on,” he said from his hometown in the coastal state of Goa. “Selling my jewellery means I am not obligated to pay someone back along with an additional interest on that.” Even as the fresh Covid-19 cases have been declining across India, it has hit the economy hard. Small businesses may be the bedrock of the Indian economy, helping expand its industrial base and creating jobs by the millions, but the pandemic has shown it’s better to be bigger, according to research by Societe Generale.  The nation reported 37,154 new coronavirus infections on Monday, taking the tally to 3,08,74,376, while the total recoveries crossed three crore, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The death toll climbed to 4,08,764 with 724 fresh fatalities. The active cases have declined to 4,50,899 and comprise 1.46 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has increased to 97.22 per cent.  An ongoing study at Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research suggests that as many as between 15 per cent to 20 per cent of people vaccinated with two doses would definitely require a booster shot. “This is due to the fact that only 80 per cent of 300 fully vaccinated healthcare workers subject to an antibody test showed ‘effective’ levels of antibodies a month later,” explained Dr C N Manjunath, Director of Jayadeva. Along the same lines, Pfizer plans to meet top US health officials Monday to discuss the drugmaker's request for federal authorisation of a third dose of its Covid-19 vaccine as President Joe Biden's chief medical adviser acknowledged that "it is entirely conceivable, maybe likely” that booster shots will be needed. Dr Jameel suggested that a quick serosurvey be conducted to determine what percentage of the population had been exposed to the coronavirus and explained that the situation would vary hugely based on whether 50 per cent of people were exposed to Covid-19 or 70 per cent. Earlier this month, Zydus Cadila said it had submitted only safety and tolerability data on children to the regulator and would take about a month to analyse and submit the efficacy data on kids. The indigenous DNA vaccine ZyCoV-D has been found to be 66.6 per cent effective in adults.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-millions-pushed-into-poverty-sell-gold-heirlooms-to-make-ends-meet-1007721.html
12-07-2021||National||SC to consider Bihar's appeal against acquittal of 13 people in 1999 Senari massacre||The Supreme Court on Monday decided to examine an appeal filed by the Bihar government against the Patna High Court judgment which had set free 13 people convicted for the Senari massacre in 1999. As many as 34 upper caste people were killed allegedly by cadres of the banned Maoist Communist Centre (MCC). A bench of Justices S Abdul Nazeer and Krishna Murari admitted the appeal by the Bihar government for consideration and asked for it to serve notice on all acquitted accused persons. The High Court had in May 2021 set aside the judgment of a trial court and acquitted 13 accused. In 1999, extremists allegedly linked to the MCC had executed 34 members of an upper caste in an open field in Senari. On November 18, 2016, the Jehanabad district court had sentenced 10 persons to death and awarded life imprisonment to three others. The district court had acquitted 23 others for lack of evidence. Bacchesh Singh, Buddhan Yadav, Butai Yadav, Satendra Das, Lallan Pasi, Dwarika Paswan, Kariban Paswan, Godai Paswan, Uma Paswan and Gopal Paswan were awarded the death penalty. Arvind Yadav, Mungeshwar Yadav and Vinay Paswan were given life imprisonment by the court. The prosecution claimed that in the evening of March 18, 1999, the alleged MCC members forced 34 people, belonging to the upper caste Bhumihar community, to line up near a temple at Senari village and killed them by slitting their throats and shooting them. The police had filed the case on information provided by Chintamani Devi, whose husband and son were among the 34 victims. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-consider-bihars-appeal-against-acquittal-of-13-people-in-1999-senari-massacre-1007727.html
12-07-2021||National||Amit Shah condoles loss of lives due to lightning||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday condoled the death of people in various parts of the country due to lightning. At least 18 people died in Rajasthan and 12 in Uttar Pradesh due to lightning strikes. Casualties have also been reported from Madhya Pradesh. "Deeply saddened by the heartbreaking news of the death of many people in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh due to lightning. I express my deepest condolences to those who have lost their loved ones in this tragedy. May God give them the strength to bear this grief," Shah said in a tweet in Hindi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-condoles-loss-of-lives-due-to-lightning-1007746.html
12-07-2021||National||Capacity building over next 6 months through recent Covid package: Mansukh Mandaviya||The government has made adequate provisions for paediatric care in all hospitals as it undertakes capacity-building measures under a comprehensive plan over the next six months through the recently approved Rs 23,000 crore Covid-19 emergency response package, Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said Monday. He was speaking at the virtual inauguration of two 1000 LPM (litres per minute) capacity oxygen plants at the government-run Sir Takhtasinhji Hospital, Bhavnagar, which have been installed by the Deendayal Port Trust at Rs 2.53 crores through its Corporate Social Responsibility, a statement said. "We have learnt a lot from the second wave like oxygen supply, hospital beds and medicines. We have now ensured adequate funds in every district for buying critical care medical requirements in an emergency," Mandaviya said on the continuing challenge of Covid-19. He said the Union Cabinet recently approved a Rs. 23,000-crore financial package for Covid-19 emergency response through which a comprehensive plan and capacity-building over the next six months is being taken up. "We have made adequate provisions for paediatric care in all hospitals to provide the most effective healthcare for children. We are also developing a system of buffer stock at state and centre level that can be used in case of any health crisis," he was quoted as saying in a health ministry statement. Reiterating Prime Minister Narendra Modi's vision for the country, Mandaviya said India is working in the spirit of Lok-Bhagidari through a "whole of society" approach to keep itself safe from Covid-19, the statement said. "It is an evidence of sheer cooperation among different stakeholders from both public and private sector that we ramped up our oxygen capacity that was mere 4,000 MT (metric tonne) to more than 12,000 MT in a short span of time," he stated. Mandaviya inaugurated the two PSA plants in the presence of Sarbananda Sonowal, the Union Minister for Ports, Shipping and Waterways. Along with the two oxygen generation plants, a copper piping network and associated facilities like a fire-fighting system and an automatic oxygen source changeover system were also inaugurated, the statement said. The installed PSA oxygen generator units have the capacity of 1,000 LPM (litres per minute) each, i.e. 60,000 liters/hour at 5-6 bar pressure of each unit totalling 1,20,000 liters/hour, which can be utilised for the treatment of Covid-19 as well as other patients, the statement said. The system will ensure a smooth and continuous oxygen supply to the hospital, the statement said. A PSA unit generates pure oxygen by the continuous process of pressure swing adsorption and desorption methods through imported molecular oxygen sieves in pressurised and de-pressurised state in the unit and finally delivers oxygen of minimum 93 per cent purity, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/capacity-building-over-next-6-months-through-recent-covid-package-mansukh-mandaviya-1007759.html
12-07-2021||National||Farmers' hard work made Agri, allied sectors resilient to Covid crisis, says Tomar||The agriculture and allied sectors remained strong during the pandemic, registering a growth of 3.5 per cent in 2020-21, mainly due to the hard work of farmers, skills of scientists and the government's farmer-friendly policies, Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Monday. "Our agriculture and rural sector, which has been showing strength for years, has stood strong even during this pandemic and has contributed to the Indian economy. The tireless hard work of the farmers, the skill of the scientists and the farmer-friendly policies of the government and the resolve of the progress of the villages showed a new ray of hope in the Corona crisis," the agriculture minister said. He was speaking at the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) 40th foundation day function. Despite the constraints, Tomar said, there was no shortfall in the food supply in the country and the agriculture and allied sector registered a growth rate of about 3.5 per cent in the last financial year. The minister further stated that despite the Covid-19 crisis, Kharif and Rabi sowing grew compared to the previous year, due to which food grain production reached a record level of 305.4 million tonnes in 2020-21, 8 million tonnes more than the previous year. "In the year 2020-21, the production of horticultural crops has also reached a record level of 326.6 million tonnes and this growth is continuing,” he added. Even the country's agricultural exports have increased since May 2020, with food grains contributing the most, said the minister. "The export of agriculture and allied products has increased by 34 per cent during the year 2020-21 to USD 41.25 billion," he added. The government is continuously working towards improving the lives of rural people and increasing the income of farmers, Tomar noted. "Collaborative institutions like NABARD have also helped in taking forward the innovative policies and reforms of the central government. Progress of small and medium farmers is the main goal of the government. Under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Scheme, the government has directly transferred Rs 1,30,000 crore to the accounts of more than 11 crore farmers," he said. Keeping in view the cost of cultivation and to make it remunerative to the farmers, the government has continuously increased the minimum support price (MSP) and the procurement through the state agencies, he said. In this, the minister stated that NABARD has played an important role in this record purchase by disbursing about Rs 50,000 crore to the State Marketing Federations. NABARD has also made available crop loans to farmers at concessional rates through cooperative and regional rural banks, he added. Emphasising on rural and agricultural infrastructure, under Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, the minister said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given packages of more than Rs 1.5 lakh crore for the development of agriculture and allied sectors, which will benefit the farmers in the country. “The objective is to promote investment through a special 'Agriculture Infrastructure Fund' of Rs 1,00,000 crore. NABARD is also an important participant in this scheme, which has set a target of developing 35,000 primary agricultural cooperative societies as 'one-stop shops',” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-hard-work-made-agri-allied-sectors-resilient-to-covid-crisis-says-tomar-1007767.html
12-07-2021||National||SC notice to Karnataka govt on plea against taking over ancient Hindu temples in Bengaluru||The Supreme Court on Monday decided to examine the Karnataka government's "arbitrary" decision to take over three ancient Hindu temples in Bengaluru by appointing managing committees over there. A bench of Justices U U Lalit and Ajay Rastogi issued notice to the state government on a writ petition filed by advocate Balaji Srinivasan on behalf of Prashanth M and others. The court posted the matter, along with other appeals, for consideration on July 27. The petitioners are Pradhan Archakas of Sri Anjaneyaswamy Temple, Sri Channarayaswamy Temple, and Sri Venkataramanaswamy Temple, Bengaluru. They sought a direction to strike down the Hindu Religious Institutions and Charitable Endowments Act, 1997 and subsequent amendments for being in violation of Articles 14 (equality), 25 (freedom to practice religion) and 26 (freedom to manage religious affairs) of the Constitution. They also asked the court to quash the notification of March 26, 2021 issued by the Karnataka government for constitution of management committee for enlisted temples as per Section 25 of Karnataka Hindu Religious and Charitable Institutions Amendment Act, 2011. With the notification, the government sought to appoint the managing committees, which "would have a far reaching and irreversible consequences", their plea claimed. "Moreover, the arbitrariness of the impugned notification is evident from the fact that there are in all 137 temples under C category in Bangalore East Taluk, Bangalore Urban District. However, the government chose to pass the order with respect to three temples in Bangalore East Taluk, Bangalore Urban District," it added. The petitioners further submitted that they were serving the temple deity with true devotion and are dependant on it for their livelihood. But now, they will be divested of managing the temples and thrusting new managing committee would undermine the sanctity of these age old temples. The Karnataka High Court had on November 17, 2015 struck down the Karnataka Hindu Religious Institutions and Charitable Endowments Act, 1997 and subsequent amendment. However, acting on an appeal filed by the state government subsequently, the top court stayed the High Court's order. The notification was passed, taking advantage of stay, their plea claimed. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-karnataka-govt-on-plea-against-taking-over-ancient-hindu-temples-in-bengaluru-1007775.html
12-07-2021||National||SC gives more time to A-G, Centre to reply on plea against Constitutional validity of sedition||The Supreme Court on Monday gave two more weeks to the Centre and the Attorney General to file a reply to a plea, questioning the validity of penal provision of sedition for infringing upon the citizens' right to free speech. A bench of Justices U U Lalit and Ajay Rastogi posted a joint petition filed by journalists Kishorechandra Wangkhemcha and another, for consideration on July 27 as Attorney General K K Venugopal and Solicitor General Tushar Mehta sought time to file their response. The top court had on April 30 issued notice to the Union government in the matter. The petitioners claimed that the Supreme Court's judgement in Kedar Nath Singh Versus State of Bihar (1962), which upheld the validity of sedition provision in IPC, may require reconsideration. The plea claimed sedition as mentioned under Section 124-A of the India Penal Code, with a maximum sentence of life term, was unconstitutional and void for imposing unreasonable restrictions on freedom of speech and expression guaranteed under Article 19 (1)(a) of the Constitution. Wangkhemcha, who is a journalist from Manipur, has faced several FIRs since 2018 "with a view to silence him". He has remained in jail for 210 days and lost his job. A co-petitioner, Kanhaiya Lal Shukla is a cartoonist from Chandigarh. The top court had in the Kedar Nath Singh case had then clarified that only those acts, which involved incitement to violence or violence, constituted a seditious act under Section 124-A of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-gives-more-time-to-a-g-centre-to-reply-on-plea-against-constitutional-validity-of-sedition-1007777.html
12-07-2021||National||Sputnik V 2nd dose shortage to delay full India rollout, says Dr Reddy's||Dr. Reddy's had received about 3 million first doses by June 1 and about 360,000 doses of the second by early this month, the company and the Indian government have said. "As a matter of responsibility, we would not like to announce a full-fledged commercial launch until we have an equivalent quantity (of the second dose)," Dr. Reddy's said in an e-mail to Reuters. Dr. Reddy's, which originally planned a full rollout in mid-June, is currently running a pilot programme under which more than 195,000 doses have been administered at hospitals across the country. "It is our commitment to ensure supply of component 2 in equal quantity and on time to all partner hospitals to whom we have supplied dose 1," the company said, declining to share more details ahead of its financial results. The Russian Direct Investment Fund, which markets the vaccine abroad, did not immediately respond to a request for comment. India has administered more than 375 million vaccine doses, the world's most after China, inoculating 32% of its estimated 944 million adults with at least one dose. It is mainly relying on the AstraZeneca shot and one developed at home by Bharat Biotech and the state-run Indian Council of Medical Research. Daily vaccinations hit a national record of 9.2 million doses on June 21 but have dropped to around 4 million per day. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sputnik-v-2nd-dose-shortage-to-delay-full-india-rollout-says-dr-reddys-1007781.html
12-07-2021||National||Third Covid wave imminent: IMA says pilgrimage, tourist travel can wait||The IMA also warned the governments on allowing tourists to popular destinations saying such permissions can wait for a few months as global evidence suggested that the third wave was imminent and inevitable. The IMA statement comes at a time when Uttar Pradesh has permitted the Kawad yatra from July 26, while Uttarakhand was discussing with other states on allowing pilgrims to enter the hill state. The Rath Yatra also began in Puri in Odisha and Ahmedabad. “Tourist bonanza, pilgrimage travel, religious fervour, all are needed, but can wait for a few more months,” the doctors' association said. “Opening up these rituals and enabling people without vaccination to go scot-free in these mass gatherings are potential super spreaders for the Covid third wave,” the IMA said. The IMA said it was painful to note that at a crucial time when everyone is working to mitigate the third wave, in many parts of the country, both governments and the public were complacent and engaged in mass gatherings without following Covid protocols. On the experience of the last one-and-a-half years of the war with the virus and the emerging evidence, it is obvious that by making the universal vaccination drive reach the maximum number of people and strictly following Covid-appropriate behaviour, people can face the third wave with confidence and mitigate its impact, the IMA said. “The consequences of treating a patient with Covid in a hospital and its impacts on the economy will be much better than the economic loss we suffer by avoiding such mass gatherings. It is the duty and responsibility of everyone at this moment to strictly enforce Covid-appropriate behaviour for minimum three more months and ensure that everyone near our houses is getting vaccinated,” the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/third-covid-wave-imminent-ima-says-pilgrimage-tourist-travel-can-wait-1007785.html
12-07-2021||National||IIT-Madras develops AI-based algorithm to identify cancer-causing alterations||Researchers at the prestigious Indian Institute of Technology-Madras (IIT-M) have developed an Artificial Intelligence (AI)-based mathematical model to identify cancer-causing alterations in cells. The researchers said the new algorithm uses a relatively unexplored technique of leveraging DNA composition to pinpoint genetic alterations responsible for cancer progression. Results of the research, led by Prof B Ravindran, Head, RBCDSAI, and Mindtree Faculty Fellow IIT-M and Dr Karthik Raman, Faculty Member, Robert Bosch Centre for Data Science and AI (RBCDSAI), IIT-M, and also the Coordinator, Centre for Integrative Biology and Systems Medicine, IIT-M, was published in the reputed peer-reviewed International Journal Cancers. Cancer is caused due to the uncontrolled growth of cells driven mainly by genetic alterations, and in recent years, high-throughput DNA Sequencing has revolutionised the area of cancer research by enabling the measurement of these alterations.  Explaining the rationale behind this study, Prof B Ravindran said one of the major challenges faced by cancer researchers involves the differentiation between the relatively small number of ‘driver’ mutations that enable the cancer cells to grow and the large number of ‘passenger’ mutations that do not have any effect on the progression of the disease.” The researchers hope that the driver mutations predicted through their mathematical model will ultimately help discover potentially novel drug targets and will advance the notion of prescribing the “right drug to the right person at the right time.”  “In most of the previously published techniques, researchers typically analysed DNA sequences from large groups of cancer patients, comparing sequences from cancer as well as normal cells and determined whether a particular mutation occurred more often in cancer cells than random. However, this ‘frequentist’ approach often missed out on relatively rare driver mutations,” Dr Karthik Raman said. In this study, the researchers decided to look at this problem from a different perspective. The main goal was to discover patterns in the DNA sequences – made up of four letters, or bases, A, T, G, and C surrounding a particular site of alteration. Highlighting the performance of the algorithm, Dr Ravindran said the new model could distinguish between well-studied drivers and passenger mutations from cancer genes with an accuracy of 89 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iit-madras-develops-ai-based-algorithm-to-identify-cancer-causing-alterations-1007789.html
12-07-2021||National||Couple under CBI radar for pocketing Rs 62.24 lakh from Central government for publishing advertisements||By publishing just 500 to 1,000 copies of six newspapers but claiming to have a circulation of 1.5 lakh daily, a couple and their accomplice have allegedly cornered Rs 62.24 lakh from the Central government for publishing advertisements between 2016 and 2019. However, they are now under the CBI radar after the agency concluded a more two-year-old investigation and registered a case against the trio and unnamed officials of the Bureau of Outreach and Communication (BOC) under the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting for illegally empanelling six newspapers owned by the couple for central advertisements. While the CBI FIR pegs the amount at Rs 62.24 lakh for the period between 2016 and 2019, it said the amount may be more if calculated from the starting of the empanelment of the newspapers.  All started with a tip-off and a surprise check on 30 August 2019 during which investigators found out that the newspapers -- Arjun Times (Delhi), Health of Bharat (Delhi), Dainik Aman, Delhi Health, Arjun Times (Gwalior) and Health of Bharat (Gurgaon) -- did not meet the criteria set for being empanelled with the Ministry. Harish Lamba, his wife Arti and their accomplice Ashwani Kumar, publisher of Arjun Times, have been named in the FIR on charges of submitting false documents, including certificates of Chartered Accountants. "The newspapers are shown to have printed and circulated around 1.5 lakh copies (each containing eight pages) per day whereas the collective circulation of the said newspapers may not be more than 100-150 copies per day," the FIR said quoting the complaint by Inspector Sunil Kumar who conducted the preliminary enquiry. In the case of Arjun Times published from Delhi, Lamba submitted the name of the printing press as that of Dolphin Pictography but its owner Darshan Singh Negi told the CBI that the newspaper was never printed from his press. Ashwani Kumar was shown as the publisher. The declaration submitted in the name of Negi was found to be forged. However, BOC never released any advertisement to this newspaper and so no payment was made. Arjun Times published from Gwalior received Rs 3.97 lakh. The Health of Bharat (Delhi) was printed from Ajanta Printers where 500 to 1,000 copies were printed but not regularly with documents showing that 18,421 copies were printed daily. The BOC had released Rs 19.63 lakh for publishing advertisements during 2016-2019. Dainik Aman was claimed to have printed 27,600 copies daily and cornered Rs 35.58 lakh from the BOC during this period. Delhi Health Code also claimed to have inflated its printed copies to 40,000 and managed to get a payment of 35,931.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/couple-under-cbi-radar-for-pocketing-rs-6224-lakh-from-central-government-for-publishing-advertisements-1007790.html
12-07-2021||National||NEET 2021 to be held on September 12||The National Eligibility and Entrance Test (NEET) for medical courses, which was scheduled for August 1, will now be conducted on September 12, Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said Monday. “The NEET-UG 2021, will be held on 12th September across the country following Covid-19 protocols. The application process will begin from 5 pm tomorrow (Tuesday) through the NTA website,” Pradhan said. The NEET (UG) 2021 will be held on 12th September 2021 across the country following COVID-19 protocols. The application process will begin from 5 pm tomorrow through the NTA website(s). He said to ensure adherence to Covid-19 protocols, face masks will be provided to all candidates at the centre. “Staggered time slots during entry and exit, contactless registration, proper sanitisation, seating with social distancing etc will also be ensured,” he said. The minister said in order to ensure social distancing norms, the number of cities where the examination is conducted will be increased from 155 to 198. The number of examination centres will also be increased from 3,862 used in 2020. Last year, the NEET was conducted on September 13 amid strict precautions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. A total of 13.66 lakh candidates had appeared in the exam of whom 7,71,500 qualified. Students will be able to give the test in 11 languages – English, Hindi, Assamese, Bengali, Gujarati, Kannada, Marathi, Odia, Tamil, Telugu and Urdu. From the last year, the admissions to MBBS courses in 13 All India Institute of Medical Sciences and the Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research, Puducherry, are also being made through NEET following the amendment in National Medical Commission Act, 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/neet-2021-to-be-held-on-september-12-1007802.html
12-07-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Rajinikanth announces he has no plans to take the political plunge in the future||In your evening news update, Rajinikanth announces he has no plans to take the political plunge in the future; Dr Reddy's Laboratories Ltd says India's full rollout of the Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine will have to be put on hold until the Russian producer provides equal quantities of its two differing doses; Speculations rife about a reshuffle in the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust and Flash floods triggered by heavy rain in Himachal Pradesh’s Dharamshala.  Dr. Reddy's Laboratories Ltd told news agency Reuters today that India's full rollout of the Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine will have to be put on hold until the Russian producer provides equal quantities of its two differing doses. Dr. Reddy's and the Indian Government said the company had received about 3 million first doses by June 1 and about 360,000 doses of the second by early this month. Meanwhile, the Indian government expects 100 million locally produced and imported Sputnik V doses to be available in the country between August and December. Speculations were rife about a reshuffle in the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust which was overseeing the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya. This follows allegations of irregularities against its general secretary Champat Rai in the purchase of land in the temple town. According to the sources, Rai was summoned by the RSS leadership to 'explain' the matter. Rai reportedly claimed innocence and explained to the RSS leaders that more land was needed for the expansion of the proposed Ram Temple and that there were no irregularities in the land purchase. Flash floods triggered by heavy rains in Himachal Pradesh’s Dharamshala today swept away buildings and cars at tourist spots as bad weather also led to the closure of the airport. Union Home Minister Amit Shah spoke to Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today to take stock of the situation arising due to the floods in several districts of the state and assured him all possible help from the Centre. Tamil superstar Rajinikanth announced today that he has no plans to take the political plunge in the future, and dissolved his political outfit Rajini Makkal Mandram (RMM), formed as a precursor to his political entry. The actor's announcement came after he met office bearers of the RMM today morning. Rajnikanth said in a statement, "the office-bearers of the RMM would continue to be part of Rajinikanth Fan Club Association that will involve itself in public services." Source: DHNS/PTI/Reuters||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-rajinikanth-announces-he-has-no-plans-to-take-the-political-plunge-in-the-future-1007819.html
12-07-2021||National||NRAI files additional information with CCI against 'anti-competitive practices' by Zomato, Swiggy||The National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI) on Monday said it has filed additional information with the fair trade regulator CCI alleging "anti-competitive practices" by Zomato & Swiggy. In the additional information NRAI has filed, it has alleged that Zomato and Swiggy are charging a commission in the range of 25 to 35 percent of the order value in 2020-21 and there have been numerous instances of delay in payment by the two aggregators which have affected the entire cash flow of its partners. "Zomato & Swiggy are forcing restaurant partners to give discounts on their platforms to maintain good visibility on the platform. They have shifted the entire cost burden on the restaurants," it added. The aggregators are threatening to delist the restaurants if they do maintain price parity. There have been instances wherein some partners have been delisted from the platform since they offered some better rates to consumers on other channels, NRAI said. "We are committed to the cause of our partners, and we will put our best efforts with the CCI to ensure that the practices of these marketplace platforms are aligned to the benefit of the entire F&B industry," NRAI President Anurag Katriar said. E-mails sent to Zomato and Swiggy seeking comments on the matter did not elicit any immediate response. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nrai-files-additional-information-with-cci-against-anti-competitive-practices-by-zomato-swiggy-1007824.html
12-07-2021||National||SC raps Centre for 'dilly-dallying' over MDS counselling dates||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Ministry of Health as to why it was "dilly-dallying" on finalising dates for counselling for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test and Masters of Dental Surgery courses (NEET-MDS) 2021. "You are just dilly-dallying. Make a statement now. These doctors will be in service of patients," a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah told Additional Solicitor General K M Nataraj, representing the Centre. The counsel, for his part, sought a week's time in the matter. "We expect an expeditious decision will be taken in this week and we would be informed when the Centre proposes to conduct counselling," the bench said, allowing him time. The bench also pointed out that the Centre must be aware of the issues students were facing due to the delay in the counselling. The plea had submitted that the entrance exam was conducted on December 16, 2020, but there is no update on counselling so far. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-raps-centre-for-dilly-dallying-over-mds-counselling-dates-1007839.html
12-07-2021||National||Maharashtra forms dedicated Covid-19 task force for industries||The announcement was made by Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray at a meeting of Indian industry leaders called to discuss arrangements to ensure that the economy keeps rolling even if the state had to come out with restrictions. “Maharashtra has set an example to the whole country when industries continued to operate without hindrance even during the Covid-19 pandemic,” Thackeray said. The task force on industries would be the third one – after the state-level task force on Covid-19 and state-level paediatric task force. The new Task Force for Industry would be monitored directly by the CMO to ensure that the state's economic cycle and industrial production continues unhindered even during the Covid-19 pandemic situation. According to the chief minister, the state was fully geared to combat the potential ‘third wave’ with oxygen production and stocks, planning mass vaccination of industrial workers, continuing the economic cycle despite tightening of restrictions, arrangements for temporary field accommodation for the employees in the company premises, and other measures. It may be recalled, last week, the government has asked industries to set up “field residences” in industrial areas and hubs so that productivity is not affected during the third wave. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-forms-dedicated-covid-19-task-force-for-industries-1007856.html
12-07-2021||National||Study suspects link between irrational use of steroids, post-Covid-19 complications||While weakness, fatigue was the symptom reported the maximum, many patients also complained of newer symptoms like insomnia, gynaecological, neuropsychiatric issues among others. “We were seeing many such Post-Covid-19 patients in our hospital but this survey gave us the true picture of the Post-Covid syndrome. If this is an indication to go by then we are looking at over one crore people in India who have recovered from Covid-19 but are still having certain symptoms,” said Dr Nageshwar Reddy, chairman, AIG Hospitals, revealing the findings on Monday. The majority of the about 2,400 respondents were affected during the second wave of the pandemic in the country. 937 people i.e. 39 per cent required hospitalisation because of the coronavirus infection. The study found that 74 per cent of the hospitalised patients had received steroids but only 34 per cent had required oxygen support.  “We believe there is some correlation between irrational use of steroids and Post Covid-19 complications because as per the guidelines steroids are supposed to be given to only those patients requiring oxygen support. Further research is required on this aspect,” Dr Reddy said. 48 per cent of the hospitalised and 37.6 per cent of the non-hospitalised patients reported post-Covid-19 symptoms, showing that the severity of the disease is related to a higher incidence of post-recovery illnesses. 53 per cent of patients received steroids and 36.41 per cent of those who did not have developed post Covid-19 symptoms. AIG Hospitals has announced the launch of “India’s first dedicated Post Covid-19 Care Clinic,” comprising experts from internal medicine, cardiology, gastroenterology, neurology, nephrology, rheumatology, psychiatry, orthopaedics, among others to evaluate and provide comprehensive care for the patients. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/study-suspects-link-between-irrational-use-of-steroids-post-covid-19-complications-1007868.html
12-07-2021||National||Covid-19 third wave may have set in on July 4, says Hyderabad scientist||A senior physicist, who was pro-vice chancellor of University of Hyderabad and has thoroughly analysed the Covid-19 pattern in India, said on Monday that the third wave appeared to have set in on July 4. Dr Vipin Srivastava, who has developed a method to observe the pattern of the number of cases and deaths for the past 463 days, said July 4 appears to be similar to what it was during the first week of February this year when the second wave was said to have set in. According to his analysis, whenever there is a crossover from an increasing trend to a decreasing trend in daily deaths or vice versa, the Daily Death Load (DDL) fluctuates 'wildly'. "We had such wild fluctuations in DDL, starting at the end of the first week of February though the daily deaths were on the order of 100 or even less and we were rejoicing that the pandemic was over! But what was in store was so devastating. A similar behaviour is beginning to show since July 4," he told PTI. With 37,154 new coronavirus infections, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 3,08,74,376, while the total recoveries crossed three crore, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The toll climbed to 4,08,764 with 724 fresh fatalities. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths were due to comorbidities. "Let us hope and pray that DDL stays negative," Dr Srivastava said. He said the bottom line was that having suffered a devastating second wave, people and administrations need to be extremely cautious and that any suspicion of the onset of a new wave should be treated with utmost care. He however, said even a large negative DDL is not good because that indicates that the number of new cases added in 24 hours is catching up with the number of patients recovering during the same period. Positive values of DDL are always "undesirable" as they are associated with the increasing number of deaths in 24 hour periods, the physicist said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-third-wave-may-have-set-in-on-july-4-says-hyderabad-scientist-1007869.html
12-07-2021||National||Jaishankar, Wang to be in Dushanbe, Tashkent this week: Opportunity to break deadlock in talks to end LAC stand-off?||India and China may get another opportunity to end the impasse in negotiation to resolve the 15-month-long military stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), as the foreign ministers of both nations will visit Dushanbe and Tashkent this week. Both External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his counterpart in the Chinese Government, Wang Yi, will take part in a meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization in the capital of Tajikistan on Tuesday and Wednesday. It will give them an opportunity to hold a bilateral meeting on the sideline, although neither New Delhi, nor Beijing so far announced any such engagement between the two. Jaishankar and Wang will also get an opportunity to hold a bilateral meeting in Tashkent, as both of them will attend a conclave on connectivity between Central Asia and South Asia, which the Government of Uzbekistan will host on Thursday and Friday. Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi too will attend both the conclaves in Dushanbe and Tashkent. A source in New Delhi said that a bilateral meeting between the External Affairs Minister and the Chinese Foreign Minister in Dushanbe or Tashkent might help break the deadlock in negotiation for disengagement of troops in the remaining face-off points along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. The source however added that although the officials of the two governments were in touch, no such meeting had been scheduled yet. A bilateral meeting between Jaishankar and Wang on the sideline of an SCO conclave in Moscow on September 10 last year had resulted in resumption of talks between the senior commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) and led to disengagement of front-line troops from the northern and southern banks of Pangong Tso. The last bilateral engagement between the External Affairs Minister and the Chinese Foreign Minister was a phone-call on February 25 – shortly after the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA had completed mutual disengagement of troops from both banks of Pangong Tso. Jaishankar then conveyed to Wang that both sides should “quickly resolve the remaining issues along the LAC in eastern Ladakh”. He had told his Chinese counterpart that complete disengagement at all friction points would set the stage for the two sides to look at broader de-escalation of troops in the area and restore peace and tranquillity. Though the diplomats and the military commanders of the two sides had several rounds of talks since then, they could not agree on disengagement from the other face-off points along the LAC, like Hot Springs, Depsang and Gogra Post, over the past four months. The diplomats of the two nations had a video conference on June 25 and agreed that the senior commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA would hold the next – the 12th since the stand-off started – round of talks soon. But although a fortnight passed since then, the two sides could not even schedule talks between the military commanders. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-wang-to-be-in-dushanbe-tashkent-this-week-opportunity-to-break-deadlock-in-talks-to-end-lac-stand-off-1007889.html
12-07-2021||National||Sourav Ganguly moves HC for enforcement of 2018 arbitration award||Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) president Sourav Ganguly has approached the Bombay High Court seeking that the 2018 order of an arbitration tribunal that awarded him compensation payable by his former management companies, Percept Talent Management Ltd and Percept D Mark (India) Ltd, be enforced. The former Team India captain has sought that the two companies be directed to disclose their assets and on Monday, Percept Talent Management and Percept D Mark told a single bench presided over by Justice AK Menon that they will do so by July 20. The total money to be paid by the two companies, according to the retired cricketer, is more than Rs 36 crore, which includes around Rs 14.50 crore original compensation plus interest accumulated on it for non-payment. As an interim relief, Ganguly has also sought that the companies be restrained from carrying out any transactions on their properties. Ganguly, in his plea, raised concern that the directors of the companies had siphoned off funds from their accounts to other firms. Advocate Shardul Singh, appearing for the companies, said they will disclose the assets by July 20. As per a HC order, the arbitration between the parties arose out of a "Player Representation Agreement" through which the respondent companies were to act as as the exclusive manager for Ganguly. After disputes arose between the parties, the agreement was terminated and Ganguly invoked the arbitration clause in the pact. The arbitration led to an award through which the respondent companies were directed to pay Ganguly a sum of Rs. 14,49,91,000 with interest at the rate of 12 per cent per annum from November 21, 2007, till the realization of the payment. A little over Rs 2 crore was paid by the companies, as per Ganguly's counsels. And the amount which is due currently is over Rs 36 crore, his plea stated. Ganguly, therefore, filed an execution application before the High Court for realisation of the balance amount of the total compensation along with interest. The HC will hear the plea further on July 26.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sourav-ganguly-moves-hc-for-enforcement-of-2018-arbitration-award-1007898.html
12-07-2021||National||Centre sitting on Rs 25 lakh crore fuel tax; inflation, petroleum price rise will dominate session, says Mallikarjun Kharge||Stating that the issue of inflation and the rise in fuel prices will dominate the Parliament session beginning July 19, senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge on Monday alleged the Centre had collected Rs 25 lakh crore through fuel tax but it is neither using this fund for the welfare of people nor giving it to state governments. Addressing a press conference, the Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha said the Narendra Modi government had made the lives of ordinary people "miserable" in the last seven years. ' 'Prices of fuel, LPG, edible oil are at an all-time high. The Centre has collected Rs 25 lakh crore as tax on fuel but it is not being used for people's welfare or being given to state governments,'' Kharge alleged. He said the Modi government had raised prices of fuel "326 times including 38 times in the last two months". The Central tax on fuel during the UPA rule was Rs 9.48 (per litre) which is now Rs 32.90 (per litre). During the tenure of the UPA, the rate of crude oil was Rs 111 per barrel and the petrol price was Rs 71 (per litre). Contrary to this, when the rate of crude oil is $44 per barrel the price of petrol is Rs 107 per litre now," he said. He said while the Union government has "collected Rs 25 lakh crore in the fuel tax" and the rate of LPG cylinder has reached Rs 834 the subsidy has also been withdrawn. "The prime minister had said direct benefit transfer (DBT) would ensure savings of Rs 15,000 crore, which means the government has saved almost Rs one lakh crore this way. But the Modi government is not using this money for the welfare of people and also not providing it to state governments," Kharge said. He said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had suggested that Rs 6,000 be transferred in bank accounts of the poor, but that idea was rubbished. "During the UPA rule, 27.1 per cent people were lifted above the below poverty line whereas 23 crore people were below the poverty line (BPL) as of last year. Due to the wrong policies of the Modi government, the income of 97 per cent of families had reduced," Kharge said. He said 1.33 lakh people lost their jobs during the Covid-19 pandemic while the per capita income fell by Rs 10,000 and GDP dipped by 9 to10 per cent. Kharge said Maharashtra is yet to receive Rs 32,000 crore in GST refund from the Centre. The Congress is one of the ruling constituents in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government comprising the Shiv Sena and the NCP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-sitting-on-rs-25-lakh-crore-fuel-tax-inflation-petroleum-price-rise-will-dominate-session-says-mallikarjun-kharge-1007922.html
12-07-2021||National||IMD issues red alert in Goa, Maharashtra, orange alert in Rajasthan, Jammu and Kashmir for July 13||The India Meteorological Department has issued an orange alert for Rajasthan and Jammu and Kashmir, and yellow alert for Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh for Tuesday with warning of heavy rains. Red alert has been issued for Konkan and Goa, and central Maharashtra, while an orange alert warning has been issued for Gujarat, parts of Karnataka, Maharashtra and Assam, it said. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has four colour-coded warnings based on the intensity of a extreme weather event and issues them in the ascending order of green, yellow, orange and red. The IMD said that a yellow alert has been also issued for Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, parts of West Bengal and Kerala. After the revival of the Southwest Monsoon, on Sunday, several parts of the country have been experiencing heavy rains while some witnessed thunderstorms and lighting. The IMD said heavy to very heavy rains are expected at isolated places over Konkan and Goa, Madhya Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Assam and Meghalaya on Tuesday. Heavy rains are also expected over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Vidarbha in Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura, coastal Andhra Pradesh, Yanam, Kerala and Mahe on Tuesday, the IMD said. Isolated places over Rajasthan, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Gangetic West Bengal, Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, coast Andhra Pradesh, Rayalseema and Yanam, and Telangana could witness thunderstorm and lighting, it added. On Sunday, flash floods triggered by heavy rains swept away buildings and cars at tourist spots as bad weather also led to the closure of the airport in Himachal Pradesh. At least 18 people died in Rajasthan and 10 in Uttar Pradesh, according to reports received on Sunday night, and the toll could go higher. Six people were also killed due to lightning in Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/imd-issues-red-alert-in-goa-maharashtra-orange-alert-in-rajasthan-jammu-and-kashmir-for-july-13-1007940.html
12-07-2021||National||Treasure trove of Parliament proceedings from 1854 available online||Lok Sabha has bet big on digitisation by making available legislative council proceedings dating back to 1854 online for researchers and history buffs and soon plans to roll out a special mobile app for members to keep track of parliamentary proceedings. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said proceedings of the first meeting of the Legislative Council of India, held on May 20, 1854, and the subsequent years that trace the evolution of parliamentary democracy in the country have been made available on the website of the parliamentary library. “It took almost five years to digitize these documents to place them on this portal which acts more like a search engine. There are more than 4.2 lakh documents comprising nearly 45 lakh pages,” a senior Lok Sabha official said. Birla said a meta-data search was now possible for the proceedings of the 11th Lok Sabha to the 17th Lok Sabha and efforts were on to make a similar search facility available for the proceedings of the first Lok Sabha to the 10th Lok Sabha. The Speaker said a special mobile app was being developed for members to access parliament papers, debates, question hour submissions and even live-streaming of proceedings. “This app will be a one-stop solution for all matters related to Parliament,” he said. A senior Lok Sabha officer said a beta version of the app would be available by next month for use to members and later for the general public. Plans were also afoot to link the libraries of Parliament and that of state assemblies to ensure seamless access to debates for members as well as researchers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/treasure-trove-of-parliament-proceedings-from-1854-available-online-1007941.html
12-07-2021||National||Ravi Shankar Prasad praises Ashwini Vaishnaw's IT rules stand||Former IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Monday lauded his successor Ashwini Vaishnaw for insisting that social media companies must follow the new IT rules. “Greetings to the new IT Minister @AshwiniVaishnaw for firmly reiterating that the new IT Rules are designed to empower the safety & security of users against misuse and redress their grievances,” Prasad tweeted.   The former minister further added that “Assuring to note that Twitter too has taken some steps to comply with the new Rules.”   However, soon after assuming charge, Vaishnaw reiterated that all those who live and work in India will have to abide by the rules of the country. Defending new IT rules, Vaishnaw on Sunday posted on Koo platform, "These guidelines are empowering and protecting users and will ensure a safer and responsible social media ecosystem in India." Vaishnaw on Sunday held a review meeting on Saturday to discuss the controversial social media and intermediary guidelines, and was updated on the status of compliance. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ravi-shankar-prasad-praises-ashwini-vaishnaws-it-rules-stand-1007942.html
12-07-2021||National||Cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India crosses 38 crore||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has surpassed 38 crore, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday. More than 37.03 lakh doses were administered on Monday, as per a provisional report till 7 pm. The ministry said 16,61,804 first doses and 1,40,806 second doses were given to beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 on Monday. Cumulatively, 11,41,34,915 people in the age group of 18-44 have received their first dose and 38,88,828 have received their second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine since the start of phase-3 of the vaccination drive in the country. Eight states -- Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra -- have administered more than 50 lakh first doses of Covid-19 vaccines in the age group of 18-44 years, the ministry said. Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 10 lakh beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 with the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cumulative-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-crosses-38-crore-1007950.html
12-07-2021||National||Amit Shah will do a good job as Union cooperation minister: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Monday welcomed the Centre's decision to create the Cooperation Ministry saying Home Minister Amit Shah, who has been given the additional charge of the new portfolio, will do a "good job" as he had been part of the cooperative movement in Gujarat. An editorial in the party mouthpiece 'Saamana' also said that there is not much difference in the field of politics and the cooperative sector, and that "everything happens as per convenience". Notably, NCP chief Sharad Pawar, who is the architect of the Sena-headed Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra, on Sunday said the Centre cannot interfere in the state's cooperative sector. “If Amit Shah has decided to develop and expand the cooperative sector then there is no need to be disturbed. Attempts are being made to create fear among people that Shah will dig out old cases of leaders of the Congress and NCP and launch inquiries and will form a government in Maharashtra through 'cooperation'. However, saying so is like defaming Shah," the editorial said. The Sena said Shah will do a good job as he had worked as an "activist in the cooperative movement in Gujarat before joining politics". "There is not much difference in the field of politics and the cooperative sector in terms of qualities like good and bad, true and false, moral and immoral. Everything happens as per convenience. Finally, everyone is the same in politics," it said. The Central government recently carved out a new ministry for cooperation, which earlier was a small department in the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare. Amit Shah on Saturday said the government is determined to make cooperatives and all cooperative institutions more empowered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-will-do-a-good-job-as-union-cooperation-minister-shiv-sena-1007952.html
12-07-2021||National Politics||RJD leader meets Chirag Paswan, says anti-BJP alliance needed||RJD leader Shyam Rajak on Monday met LJP MP Chirag Paswan in Delhi, calling for Opposition unity against NDA in Bihar, days after Chirag's uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras was inducted as a Union minister in the Narendra Modi cabinet. Chirag, the son of former Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan is out in the cold after his uncle Paras pulled off a coup in the party, and with the help of four other Lok Sabha MPs replaced the former as the Leader of LJP in Lok Sabha and then as party president. Chirag had opposed his uncle's induction in the Union Cabinet and had met Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and even approached the court but could not get any respite. Immediately after the internal rebellion in LJP in which Nitish Kumar's party JDU backed Paras, RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav had reached out to Chirag reminding him how his father Lalu Prasad had helped late Ram Vilas Paswan become a Rajya Sabha MP in past when Paswan had lost Lok Sabha polls in 2014. While the options for Chirag are running out with the BJP having cold-shouldered him, the absence of any elections in Bihar in near future could be a reason for no immediate tie-up between RJD and Chirag as the latter has not much to gain from it. However, the coming together of the two leaders- Tejaswi and Chirag, could redraw a new social coalition and could also test whether Chirag had inherited the political legacy of his father or LJP's social base has shifted to his uncle Paras. In the last Assembly polls in October 2020, Chirag had fielded candidates against JDU despite being in NDA and helped the BJP become the number one party in Bihar. Chirag later voiced anguish over BJP's role after the rebellion by his uncle Paras, who had earlier opposed the decision of LJP to contest against JDU. "Politics is indeed discussed when politicians meet," was the cryptic reply of Rajak when asked what transpired in his meeting with Chirag. He nevertheless asserted that in the interest of backward classes and scheduled castes (Dalits), leaders from the Opposition parties should join hands against the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rjd-leader-meets-chirag-paswan-says-anti-bjp-alliance-needed-1007652.html
12-07-2021||National Politics||Priyanka Gandhi holds strategy meet with UP Congress leaders; party vows to hit streets against Yogi govt||AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra Monday brainstormed with senior Congress leaders from Uttar Pradesh on the preparations for the next year's assembly polls, as the party resolved to hit the streets against the BJP government over issues such as unemployment, price rise and law and order. With the Congress seeking to intensify organisational activities in the run-up to the polls, Priyanka Gandhi held a virtual meeting with the party's advisory council to the general secretary and the working group on strategy and planning for the state. They discussed the rising prices, the coronavirus situation, the recently held panchayat elections in the state and organisational training camps, sources said. The Congress general secretary in-charge of Uttar Pradesh noted during the meeting that people are troubled by soaring inflation with prices of petrol, diesel, mustard oil, fruits and vegetables "sky high". She also pointed out that though the input costs of farmers had doubled, their income had come down. Priyanka Gandhi also flagged the violence during the panchayat polls and alleged that BJP workers indulged in stone-pelting and firing. The Congress leaders who participated in the meeting denounced the Yogi Adityanath dispensation, saying it had failed on all counts. It was resolved at the meeting that Congress will take the fight against the BJP government to the streets over issues such as rising prices, unemployment and the "jungle raj" prevailing in the state, the party sources said. Congress' state unit chief Ajay Kumar Lallu, senior party leaders Salman Khurshid, Rajiv Shukla, Pramod Tiwari and Rashid Alvi, among others, participated in the meeting. The meeting comes a day after Priyanka Gandhi met Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, who the sources said is likely to play a key role in preparing the Congress organisation in Uttar Pradesh for the assembly polls with a focus on strategising and booth management. Last week, Lallu had expressed confidence that his party has the capacity to fight the elections without aligning with either the SP or the BSP and form the next government on its own. His remarks had come days after the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party ruled out forging any major alliances for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls. In an interview with PTI, Lallu had also said the Congress would fight the assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh next year under Priyanka Gandhi's "dekh-rekh (supervision)", and that under her leadership, the party would make a comeback in the state after over three decades.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-gandhi-holds-strategy-meet-with-up-congress-leaders-party-vows-to-hit-streets-against-yogi-govt-1007742.html
12-07-2021||National Politics||Union minister Rajeev Chandrasekhar briefly loses 'blue badge' on Twitter after he changes username||Junior minister for Electronics and IT Rajeev Chandrasekhar briefly lost the verified blue badge on his Twitter handle on Monday after he changed his username on the microblogging platform. He lost the verified blue badge after he changed his username from @rajeev_mp to @Rajeev_GoI. The blue badge was restored within a few hours. Chandrasekhar had taken charge as the MoS of the IT Ministry last week. The microblogging platform said it was in touch with the minister's office and had worked swiftly to restore the verified blue badge. The development also comes at a time when Twitter is locked in a tussle with the government over the new social media rules. The brief loss of the blue badge triggered criticism from some netizens. The coveted 'blue badge' helps users distinguish the authenticity of accounts that are of high public interest, and gives Twitter users more context about who they're having conversations with, the microblogging platform had said earlier. Twitter has been at loggerheads with the Indian government over its failure to comply with the IT rules, despite repeated reminders. Twitter -- which has an estimated 1.75 crore users in India -- lost its legal shield as an intermediary in the country, becoming liable for users posting any unlawful content. Amid tensions with the government, Twitter has appointed a Resident Grievance Officer, days after it designated a Chief Compliance Officer, and also released its first India Transparency Report on Sunday to comply with the new IT rules. The US social media giant's website has listed Vinay Prakash as the new grievance officer, providing contact details and procedures for users to report potential violations of its rules and terms. Meanwhile, former IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad tweeted that it is "assuring to note that Twitter too has taken some steps to comply with the new rules". He also lauded the new IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw for firmly reiterating that the new IT rules are designed to empower the safety and security of users against misuse and redress their grievances. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/union-minister-rajeev-chandrasekhar-briefly-loses-blue-badge-on-twitter-after-he-changes-username-1007793.html
12-07-2021||National Politics||VHP asks UP govt to remove one-child norm from its draft population control bill||The Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) has suggested to the Uttar Pradesh government to remove the one-child policy norm from its draft population control bill, saying it is likely to lead to furthering of the imbalance between different communities and contraction of the population as well. The saffron outfit has also asked the Yogi Adityanath government to remove "the anomaly" of rewarding or punishing the child, instead of the parents, from the Uttar Pradesh Population (Control, Stabilisation and Welfare) Bill, 2021. "The preamble of the bill states that this is a bill, inter alia, to stabilise the population and promote the two-child norm. The Vishva Hindu Parishad agrees with both objects," the organisation's working president, Alok Kumar, said in a letter to the Uttar Pradesh State Law Commission (UPSCL) on Monday. However, sections 5, 6(2) and 7 of the bill, which incentivise public servants and others to have only one child in the family, go "well beyond the said objects", he said. "Therefore, we suggest the deletion of section 5, and the consequential sections 6(2) and 7 to avoid the contraction of the population as also the undesirable social and economic consequences of a one-child policy, and also the removal of the anomaly of rewarding or punishing the child instead of the parents," Kumar added. He also suggested to the UPSCL to reconsider the objective of the bill that seeks to bring down the total fertility rate (TFR) in Uttar Pradesh to 1.7 within a certain time frame. Placing the draft bill in the public domain recently, the UPSCL has invited suggestions from people. In his suggestions, the VHP working president said a two-child policy is considered desirable for achieving population stability. The population in a society stabilises when the average number of children born to a woman in her reproductive life is marginally above two, he said. "This happens when the TFR is 2.1. At this level of TFR, on an average, there are two children born to replace the two parents and the additional 0.1 child provides for the possibility of some children dying before reaching the reproductive age and similar other wastage," Kumar added. In a contracting population, he said the ratio between the working-age population and the dependent population gets disrupted. In an extreme case, the one-child policy would lead to a situation where there is only one working-age adult to look after two parents and four grandparents, he said. China had adopted the one-child policy in 1980, but had to withdraw it within three decades to get over such a situation, the VHP leader said. He added that the imbalance between different communities has been "growing" in several states. "It is becoming alarming in states like Assam and Kerala, where the overall growth of population has declined. In both these states, the TFR of Hindus has declined far below the replacement rate of 2.1, but that of Muslims is 3.16 in Assam and 2.33 in Kerala," Kumar said. In these two states, one of the communities has thus entered the contraction phase while the other is "still expanding", he added. "Uttar Pradesh should avoid getting into that situation," the VHP leader said, adding that the one-child policy in the state "is likely to lead to furthering of the imbalance between different communities because they are known to respond differently to the incentives and disincentives related to family planning and contraception".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/vhp-asks-up-govt-to-remove-one-child-norm-from-its-draft-population-control-bill-1007795.html
12-07-2021||National Politics||Uttar Pradesh draft population Bill: Congress cautious, Nitish Kumar unimpressed||Ahead of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's 'Mission UP' that kicks off with her visit to Lucknow and district tour plans from April 14, Congress plans to flesh out BJP leaders' remarks on having more children to counter Yogi Adityanath's proposed draft bill on population control but "not to oppose it". An over two-hour-long meeting of UP Congress leaders called by Priyanka Gandhi in Delhi on Monday to work out a strategy for UP polls saw most of the participants wary of the party getting a Muslim appeasement tag on the issue that could be an advantage to BJP and batted for caution on the issue. Most of the leaders felt that Congress should not fall into the "BJP trap" and be seen as siding with any particular community by opposing the bill and instead raise questions on the intent of bringing it months before assembly polls in the state. "Many BJP leaders like Sakshi Maharaj have said in the past Hindus must have at least four children. We will cite their comments and ask whether they were right or Yogi is right," said a leader who was part of the meeting. While the UP BJP is treating it as a masterstroke for the polls as the issue could further polarise elections, given the past history of the campaigns of many in the saffron family about Muslims having more children, what could really turn out to be an embarrassment for the party is the 'more than two children' campaign by a number of its party leaders in past. Congress, which had concluded in A K Antony Committee report after the 2014's worst poll debacle (winning only 44 Lok Sabha seats) that one of the reasons for it was also a perception that the party is pro-Muslim, an agenda peddled by the BJP. Since then, the party has tried to play safe on issues which could polarise voters. There is a view in the party that going hammer and tongs against the bill will help BJP to create an impression of Congress trying to favour one community at the cost of national interests. "We will wait for what happens to the draft bill. It is still a draft. But Congress will ask why the BJP is not bringing such a bill in the Parliament and enact a national law instead of bringing it in UP months before the polls," a party leader said. Meanwhile, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Monday said while every state is independent to do what they want and his opinion is very clear that "population control can't be attained by just making laws". Kumar felt that when women are educated, they will become conscious enough and the fertility rate will decrease. "Everybody has his own way of thinking. Some think they can control the population by making laws. We have our thinking," Kumar said. Surprisingly, even the Vishva Hindu Parishad jumped into the fray by asking the UP government to remove the one-child policy norm from its draft population control bill as well as do away with the anomaly of rewarding or punishing the child, instead of the parents. Aware that the UP polls could be challenging for the party given its organisational inadequacies, Priyanka Gandhi in the meeting put emphasis on the need for senior party leaders from the state to hit the ground and visit each district. Sonia Gandhi is the only MP of Congress among 80 Parliamentarians in the state. Priyanka Gandhi, who held interactions with former Union Minister Salman Khurshid and Rajiv Shukla, UPPCC chief Ajay Kumar Lallu, former state chief Pramod Tiwari and Raashid Alvi, has decided to hold another round of meetings with UP leaders in the coming days. She will hold meetings with all Pradesh Congress Committee members and district and city presidents, as the party plans to grill the UP government over issues such as unemployment, price rise and the state law and order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/uttar-pradesh-draft-population-bill-congress-cautious-nitish-kumar-unimpressed-1007851.html
12-07-2021||National Politics||BJP MPs to introduce Bills on population control, uniform civil code in upcoming Parliament session||The private members' Bill on population control comes close on the heels of the law commission of BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh, the most populous state in the country, putting up a draft Bill on the issue on its website, inviting suggestions from the public till July 19. BJP Lok Sabha MP from Uttar Pradesh Ravi Kishan and Rajya Sabha MP from Rajasthan Kirori Lal Meena are scheduled to introduce the private members' Bills on population control and uniform civil code respectively in the very first week of the Parliament session which is starting from July 19. A Bill introduced by a member other than a minister is known as a private member's Bill and there is little possibility of it becoming a law without the government's support. The proposed legislations on population control and uniform civil code, issues that usually trigger heated polemics in the country, are in line with the BJP's ideological agenda. Opposition parties have criticised the BJP's moves in this regard, claiming that they are aimed at targeting one specific community, while the BJP has accused them of pursuing appeasement politics. According to the details available with Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha secretariats, Kishan and Meena will get an opportunity to introduce their respective private members' Bills on July 24, which was decided through the lottery system. A notice for a similar Bill on population control has also been given by BJP MP in Rajya Sabha Rakesh Sinha. The proposed legislations on population control emphasise on disincentivising couples having more than two children, by making them ineligible for government jobs and subsidies on various facilities and goods given by the government. Similar legislation is under discussion in another BJP-ruled state Assam. Meanwhile, Vishva Hindu Parishad, a member of the ruling BJP's ideological family, has objected to the one-child policy norm of the draft population control Bill in UP, saying it is likely to further increase the imbalance between different communities and contract the population as well. "The preamble of the Bill states that this is a Bill, inter alia, to stabilise the population and promote the two-child norm. The Vishva Hindu Parishad agrees with both objects," the organisation's working president, Alok Kumar, said in a letter to the Uttar Pradesh State Law Commission (UPSCL) on Monday. However, Sections 5, 6(2) and 7 of the Bill, which incentivise public servants and others to have only one child in the family, go "well beyond the said objects", he said. Asked about the Bill he intends to introduce, Sinha said population growth has been ringing an "alarm bell" for the country and asserted that a central law is "most required" as it will be applicable across the nation. The unchecked population growth needs to be regulated, he said. Noting that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had made a critical intervention in the debate over the issue during his speech on August 15, Sinha said that Modi had called for a balance between resources and population. The discourse over the issue should not be seen through caste and religious angles, Sinha said. According to PRS Legislative, no private members' Bills have been passed by Parliament since 1970. A total of 14 such Bills have received Parliament's nod. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-mps-to-introduce-bills-on-population-control-uniform-civil-code-in-upcoming-parliament-session-1007872.html
12-07-2021||National Politics||Beware of sycophants, Surjewala cautions CM aspirants in Congress||Amid factional fights in Karnataka Congress, AICC General Secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala told DH in an interview that chief ministerial aspiration was good so long it did not violate party discipline. He also cautioned party leaders of sycophants trying to earn “brownie points” by praising them. Do you think Congress is in a position to earn the trust of the people with Siddaramaiah and D K Shivakumar at loggerheads with each other? Why this sudden urge to project the next chief minister when assembly polls are two years away?  Congress Party is the only trustworthy political outfit as BJP and other parties are plagued by political bankruptcy, rank opportunism, defaulting ideology and myopic vision for the development of the State. The Congress government between 2013-2018 executed ‘Vision Karnataka’ by concrete schemes and welfare measures, be it the ‘Indira Canteens’, the subsidized cooked food programme; ‘Krishi Bhagya’ for helping the farmers in rain-fed areas; ‘Anna Bhagya’ for food grains for the poor for free; ‘Pashu Bhagya’ to help farmers from SC/ST to rear cattle and poultry; ‘Ksheera Bhagya’ for free milk to schools and anganwadis and ‘Arogya Bhagya’ for free healthcare. Let me remind you that Bengaluru emerged as the most entrepreneurial city and Congress executed 42 kms of Metro lines in five years besides setting up the world’s largest solar power project. We also built Asia’s largest drip irrigation facility in Bagalkot. As against this, the Yediyurappa government is founded upon an illicit majority, unsanctioned by the vote of the people of Karnataka and guided by the ‘maximum loot, zero governance’ principle. The word ‘trust’ is alien to this government of defectors, by defectors and for looting the spoils of power. As qua certain statements of Congress leaders projecting one or the other individual as possible chief minister, I will say that aspiration is good and necessary as long as it does not violate the party’s discipline and commitment to serve the people. All leaders, including Siddaramaiah and D K Shivakumar recognises this and have publicly acknowledged the same. Party will accept no indiscipline from anybody and the leaders should also be wary of the sycophants trying to earn brownie points by being more loyal than the king. Congress is the only party that has immense talent and wisdom in Karnataka and we will utilize every individual for taking the State forward. As per the time-tested practice, we will fight the election unitedly and Congress legislators as also the Congress leadership will decide the issue of leadership. Does the AICC plan to revamp the Karnataka Congress? Shivakumar says he wants to remove existing office-bearers. Organization building is a continuous process. The State Congress Committee had been dissolved, except for the President and the Working Presidents. We have held elaborate discussions on the new PCC office bearers. I am also visiting some parts of the State again in the coming week. We shall be reorganizing the PCC very shortly. The purpose is not restricted to State office bearers alone but we shall examine and review the effectiveness of every District & Block Congress Committee Presidents and make changes as the need arises. The purpose is to give a new leadership role to the members of Scheduled Castes (both Left and Right), the Backward Classes, the Scheduled Tribes, the young, the agrarian communities as also the aspirational classes. I have discussed with the PCC President and CLP Leader the need for the constitution of village and ward committees across the State. I believe that a strong, dedicated and committed organisation is the key to power and service of the people. What is your assessment of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic in Karnataka? Chief Minister and his Cabinet are guilty of criminal negligence and mismanagement of pandemic and loss of over 35,000 lives, which are just officially reported deaths. Of course, the Civil Registration System (CRS) in Karnataka has recorded over 1,70,000 deaths between April, 2020 to May 2021. Do Yediyurappa and his Cabinet colleagues have no remorse, for over 50% of these innocent Kannadigas could be saved with proper preparation & planning? The Health Department in Karnataka became a game of musical chairs as between the first and the second wave, the Chief Minister abruptly removed the Health Minister, B. Sriramulu and replaced him with K Sudhakar. There was neither any cohesion or coordination but utter chaos in handling the pandemic with no access to public information or accountability. People suffered and gasped for breath owing to the unavailability of oxygen, Remdesivir-Tocilizumab-Dexona injections and medicines, ICU beds and ventilators. The government seriously floundered in the test-track-isolate-treat policy altogether. The private hospitals had a field day overcharging hapless patients and there was rampant black marketeering of essential medicines. All through the pandemic, Shri Yediyurappa was preoccupied in ‘Dissident Control’ rather than ‘Disease Control’. ‘Saving the Chief Minister’s Chair’ instead of ‘Saving the People’ has been the sole object of the Chief Minister. No wonder, the BJP Govt in Karnataka has endangered people’s lives. Sadly, it continues to do so even today with gross mismanagement of the vaccination programme. Time has come that the Chief Minister went beyond ‘managing the dissidents’ to ‘managing the disease’. The BJP appears to be in a disarray in Karnataka with dissidents openly questioning Chief Minister, Yediyurappa. Your comments. BJP is running an illegitimate government in Karnataka. Naturally, the contradictions of hijacking the people’s mandate through defectors are apparent. The truth is that the Yediyurappa government is crumbling every day like a house of cards and the people of Karnataka are paying the price for this gross mal-governance, maladministration and corruption. Never in the history of India would a sitting minister have written to the Governor citing ‘authoritarianism’ of the Chief Minister as witnessed in the case of Rural Development & Panchayati Raj Minister, K S Eshwarappa. If he is right, why not sack the Chief Minister and if he is wrong, why not sack the minister? Senior BJP leaders including Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, A.H. Vishwanath, C P Yogeeshwara, Arvind Bellad, M.P. Renukacharya and dozens of others have raised the banner of revolt citing rampant corruption, zero governance, absolute misrule, paralyzing inefficiency and illicit hold of Chief Minister’s son and his family members over the government. All this is happening as everybody shares the spoils of power. Most intriguing is the fact as to why is the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi absolutely ‘mum’? What, in your opinion, is the solution to what ails the Yediyurappa government? The solution is simple. Sack the illegitimate BJP government and hold fresh elections. How can a Chief Minister facing an ongoing corruption probe remain in office? The latest verdict of the court rejecting the closure report against Yediyurappa is sufficient to remove him and dismiss this government. Can a Chief Minister lord over a corruption investigation against himself and can the police investigate fairly? If not, how can he continue in office? Moreover, this is the ‘One Scam a Day’ government. There has been no investigation of the BDA tender Scam, wherein specific allegations and WhatsApp chats involving CM’s grandson, Shri Shashidhar Maradi were released and the name of CM’s son was mentioned. There was evidence of a trail of money. The latest revelation regarding alleged corruption in the Chairmanship of Karnataka State Pollution Control Board has further shocked everyone. The truth is that continuation of the BJP government in Karnataka even for a second is harmful to the interests of Karnataka as also its people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/beware-of-sycophants-surjewala-cautions-cm-aspirants-in-congress-1007887.html
12-07-2021||North and Central||Haryana extends lockdown till July 19, but announces slew of relaxations including for students||The Haryana government on Sunday extended till July 19 the lockdown in the state to curb the spread of the coronavirus, but allowed a slew of relaxations, including for students. According to an order issued by Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan, in exercise of powers under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, "the Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana is extended for another week, that is from July 12 (5 am onwards) to July 19 (till 5 am) in the state of Haryana." Through the order, the state government also allowed several relaxations. Universities and colleges are allowed to open for students for doubt clearing classes, practical classes in laboratories, practical examinations and offline exams with strict adherence of requisite social distancing norms and other guidelines, the order stated. Hostels in universities and colleges are allowed to open only for those students who are appearing in examinations, it said. Gatherings in weddings, funerals, in open spaces have been increased while cinema halls and spas have been allowed to open. The order stated that these gathering should be done by adopting requisite social distancing norms, regular sanitisation and Covid appropriate behavioural norms and following other government guidelines. The vice chancellor of the National Law University, Delhi, is allowed to hold Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) on July 23 in the state, the order said. Gatherings in weddings, funerals or cremations are allowed up to 100 persons from the earlier 50, subject to strict observance of Covid-19 appropriate behavioural norms and social distancing. However, weddings can now take place at places other than courts and homes also, it said. In open spaces, gatherings will be allowed up to 200 persons, the order said. Spas are now allowed to open from 6 am to 8 pm with 50 per cent capacity after adopting requisite social distancing norms, regular sanitisation and Covid appropriate behavioural norms, it said. Swimming pools are also allowed to open only for such athletes or swimmers who are competing or practicing for a competitive event, the order said. Cinema halls in malls and standalone are allowed to open with a maximum 50 per cent seating capacity, it said. Open training centres in Haryana established under the aegis of Haryana Skill Development Mission are also allowed to open by staggering of trainees for maintaining social distancing. Coaching institutions, libraries and training institutes, whether government or private, are also allowed to open with strict adherence to requisite social distancing norms and other guidelines of the government, the order said. Industrial Training Institutes are allowed to open for students for doubt clearing classes and practical classes, it said. Earlier on July 9, the Haryana government had announced to reopen schools for Class 9 to Class 12 from July 16, saying students of these classes will be allowed to join schools with the permission of their parents. Besides, students of Class 6 to Class 8 will also be able to come to schools with effect from July 23, a government statement had said. However, it would not be mandatory for the students to come to school as online classes will continue. Meanwhile, the lockdown relaxations, with respect to opening of shops, malls, restaurants, religious places, corporate offices, will continue as currently in place. "Now, after duly considering the fact that although the Covid positivity rate and the number of new Covid positive cases have declined, so as to continue the preventive and precautionary measures to contain the Covid pandemic… the 'Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana' is extended for another week..,” according to the order. The state government has termed the lockdown "Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana (Epidemic Alert-Safe Haryana)". The number of daily Covid-19 cases have now come down to under 50 while the Covid fatalities have also registered a sharp fall. The Haryana government had imposed the lockdown in the state on May 3 in view of the prevailing Covid situation. It has now been extended for the tenth time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-extends-lockdown-till-july-19-but-announces-slew-of-relaxations-including-for-students-1007554.html
12-07-2021||North and Central||Priyanka to hold virtual meet with UP Cong leaders to strategise for polls today||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will hold a meeting with senior Uttar Pradesh Congress leaders on Monday as the party seeks to intensify organisational activities in the run up to the assembly polls next year. Preparations for the assembly polls, strategy as well as ways to energise cadre will be on the agenda of the virtual meeting, sources said. The development comes after a meeting between Priyanka Gandhi and Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, who sources said is likely to play a key role in preparing the Congress organisation in Uttar Pradesh for the assembly polls with a focus on strategising and booth management. Baghel, who had played a crucial role in the run up to the Assam Assembly polls with his team carrying out extensive booth training of party workers, met Congress general secretary in-charge Uttar Pradesh Priyanka Gandhi at party chief Sonia Gandhi's 10 Janpath residence. Last week, Congress' Uttar Pradesh unit chief Ajay Kumar Lallu had expressed confidence that his party has the capacity to fight the elections without aligning with either of them and form the next government on its own. His remarks had come days after the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party ruled out forging any major alliances for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls. In an interview with PTI, Lallu had also said the Congress would fight the assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh next year under Priyanka Gandhi's "dekh-rekh (supervision)", and that under her leadership, the party would make a comeback in the state after over three decades.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/priyanka-to-hold-virtual-meet-with-up-cong-leaders-to-strategise-for-polls-today-1007557.html
12-07-2021||North and Central||15 militants killed in 12 days in Kashmir||After witnessing a decline apparently due to Covid-19 lockdown in May and June, encounters between security forces and militants are on rise again in Kashmir with 15 ultras killed in six gun battles in the last 12 days. While 43 militants were killed in separate encounters across Kashmir in the first four months of this year, only 16 ultras were neutralised in May and June during the Covid-19 lockdown. However, in the last 12 days, 15 militants were killed in six separate encounters with security forces. Incidentally, all the six encounters were reported in south Kashmir districts of Kulgam (3), Pulwama (2) and Anantnag (1). However, no gun fight was reported in Shopian district of south Kashmir in July. Out of 15 slain militants, 14 were affiliated with Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba outfit while one belonged to Jaish-e-Mohammad. “Less movement by militants during Covid lockdown was one of the reasons for decline in encounters during May and June this year. Also as police and paramilitary forces were engaged in imposing Covid lockdown, it resulted in lesser killing of militants,” a senior police officer, involved in counter-insurgency operations, told DH. He also attributed less number of encounters and killings of militants this year compared to previous years to decline in local recruitment into militancy and less infiltration from across the border. Local recruitment into the militancy is still taking place but the numbers are less compared to the previous years. Besides, the infiltration has also come down sharply. These two factors combined with militant strategy to restrict their movement was the reason for decline in encounters in previous months,” the officer revealed. Over 200 militants were killed in Kashmir in 2020 while the number of 157 in 2019. In 2018, the number of militants killed stood at 257– which was the highest in a decade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/15-militants-killed-in-12-days-in-kashmir-1007639.html
12-07-2021||North and Central||UP population control Bill part of BJP's assembly poll propaganda: SP MP||Terming the Uttar Pradesh population control Bill as a part of the BJP's "election propaganda" ahead of assembly polls, local Samajwadi Party (SP) MP Shaqfiqur Rahman Barq has hit out at the state government, saying it should ban marriages if it wants to stabilise rising population. The Uttar Pradesh Population Policy 2021-2030 was unveiled on World Population Day on Sunday by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to steady the growing population in the state and reduce maternal and infant deaths in a time-bound manner while bringing down the gross fertility rate among women to 2.1 by 2026 and to 1.9 by 2030. In the 40-page policy document released by the state, it is mentioned that “attempts would be made to ensure there is a population balance among various communities in the state. Extensive campaigns would be run in communities, groups, and geographical areas where fertility rates were higher." "It (draft Bill) is an electoral propaganda. They (BJP) look at everything from a political angle. They just want to win elections and do not take any decision in the interest of the people. Since UP assembly election is coming, they are concerned about it. By the grace of Allah, we will not let them win," Barq said here on Sunday evening. "It would be better to stop marriages. No one should be allowed to get married for the next 20 years and no children will be born," he added. "Those who will challenge the law of Allah will get finished," the MP from Sambhal said further. Barq said while China was encouraging its citizens to have more children, India was doing the opposite which might backfire in case of a war. "A lot of births are taking place in China and you (India) are stopping people from having children. A time will come when we will be very few. If there is a war, then from where will you bring people to fight," Barq said. He also alleged that the recently held block panchayat chief polls were rigged by the ruling BJP. According to the draft of the population control Bill put up on the state law commission website, people having more than two children in the state will be debarred from contesting local bodies polls, applying for government jobs or receiving any kind of subsidy. The draft Bill, for which suggestions have been invited from the public till July 19, also prohibits promotions in government jobs for such people, while offering incentives to those limiting their children to two. The draft says it is necessary to control and stabilise the population of the state for the promotion of sustainable development with more equitable distribution. If enacted, the provisions of the proposed legislation titled The Uttar Pradesh Population (Control, Stabilisation and Welfare) Bill, 2021 will come into force after one year from the date of publication in the Gazette, according to the Uttar Pradesh State Law Commission (UPSLC) website. Assam, which is another BJP-ruled state, too has announced that it will gradually implement a two-child policy for availing benefits under specific schemes funded by the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-population-control-bill-part-of-bjps-assembly-poll-propaganda-sp-mp-1007650.html
12-07-2021||North and Central||Fire at open godown in Delhi's Tikri Kalan doused after 10 hours||It took over 10 hours for more than 200 fire-fighters to douse the blaze at an open godown in Tikri Kalan area where a major fire broke out on Sunday night, Delhi Fire Service (DFS) officials said. However, no casualty was reported, they added. PVC materials in huge quantities were stocked up at the open godown and the fire spread at a faster pace due to high wind speed last night, a senior fire official said on Monday. "The fire was brought under control by 7 am. Twenty fire-tenders are still working at the spot where the cooling process is underway but the process will continue for longer period because of the nature of materials that were stored at the open godown," he said. Since the godown did not have a boundary wall, the risk of fire spreading to other adjoining areas was high. The fire was, however, brought under control in the late night operation. DFS Director Atul Garg said a call about the fire in PVC market was received around 8.35 pm on Sunday. The fire that started from the open godown had spread over a large area. More than 200 personnel and over 40 fire tenders were deployed to contain the fire, he said, adding the cause of the fire is yet not known. This is not the first time that a major fire has occurred at PVC market in Tikri Kalan area. On May 24, a medium category fire took place at the market and a total of 32 fire tenders were used to contain the massive fire that started from a plastic waste spread in an open area of approximately three acres, the DFS officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-at-open-godown-in-delhis-tikri-kalan-doused-after-10-hours-1007667.html
12-07-2021||North and Central||Supreme Court cancels bail to man accused of conspiring to kill sister's husband||The Supreme Court on Monday cancelled the bail granted to a woman's brother in a case of killing her husband, in the name of honour, for marrying against the wish of the family. A bench, presided over by Chief Justice of India N V Ramana, set aside the order of the Rajasthan High Court which granted bail to the accused Mukesh Choudhary and directed him to surrender. "The order passed by the High Court is not sustainable and is accordingly set aside. The bail granted is cancelled. We direct the respondent to surrender before the district judge. Taking into nature of the offence, we allow the appeal," the bench said in its order. The court also directed for expediting the trial in the case.  A Kerala youth, Amit Nair, was shot dead in 2017 allegedly at the insistence of his in-laws for marrying Mamta, a Jaipur-based woman of another caste Mamta, the wife of the deceased, had approached the apex court challenging the High Court order of granting bail to her brother, who is accused of conspiring to murder her husband. Her brother was released on bail December last year. After getting bail, Mamta said her brother Mukesh tried to intimidate her, directly and indirectly through relatives and others. In 2017, Mamta's parents and two other men are stated to have barged into the couple's home in Rajasthan and shot her husband before attempting to drag her back to her parental house. Mamta was six months pregnant at the time. After hearing the alarm raised by Mamta and her niece, the neighbours intervened and Mamta could not be taken away, said the plea. The plot to kill her husband was hatched by her parents and brother along with other co-conspirators hired to carry out the act, Mamta said in her appeal. Senior advocate Indira Jaising argued for Mamta in the top court that this court had earlier denied bail to Mukesh Choudhary. Amit had studied civil engineering and started a construction business while Mamta is an LLB and had interned with an NGO. Mamta had married Amit, who was the friend of her brother Mukesh, against the wishes of her parents in August 2015.  On May 17, 2017, the FIR was lodged by Amit’s mother Rama Devi in Jaipur under sections 452 (house trespass), 302 (murder) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-cancels-bail-to-man-accused-of-conspiring-to-kill-sisters-husband-1007672.html
12-07-2021||North and Central||23 killed, 27 hurt in incidents of lightning strike in Rajasthan||Twenty-three people, including 12 in Jaipur, were killed and 27 injured in incidents of lightning strikes in Rajasthan, officials said on Monday. Besides Jaipur, the deaths were reported from six other six districts -- Kota, Jhalawar, Baran, Dholpur, Sawai Madhopur and Tonk -- according to the Disaster Management and Relief Department. In a major tragedy in Jaipur, 12 people, mostly youngsters, were killed and 11 injured in an incident of lightning strike at the iconic watchtower near the Amber Fort, the officials said. Some of them were taking "selfies" on the watchtower, while the others were on the hill nearby, they said, adding that those on the tower fell on the ground when the lightning struck late on Sunday evening. "Twenty-three people, including seven children, were killed in lightning strikes in seven districts of the state on Sunday and 27 were injured," Anand Kumar, Principal Secretary, Disaster Management and Relief Department, said.  He said the state government has released Rs 1.65 crore to the district collectors concerned for ex-gratia assistance to the dependents of the deceased and the treatment of the injured. According to the department, 16 livestock animals, including 11 goats, also died in lightning strikes and the figure is likely to rise. Kumar said Rs 80 lakh for Jaipur, Rs 25 lakh for Kota, Rs 20 lakh for Dholpur and Rs 10 lakh each for Sawai Madhopur, Tonk, Baran and Jhalawar have been released. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Governor Kalraj Mishra, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot have expressed grief over the incidents of lightning strikes and conveyed their condolences to the families of the deceased. Many political leaders went to the state-run Sawai Man Singh Hospital here on Monday to enquire about the health of the injured. Expressing his condolences over the deaths, Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted, "Many people have lost their lives due to lightning in some areas of Rajasthan. Deeply saddened by the demise of people. I express my deepest condolences to the families of those killed: PM @narendramodi.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/23-killed-27-hurt-in-incidents-of-lightning-strike-in-rajasthan-1007690.html
12-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi shuts Janpath market over violation of Covid-19 norms||The Delhi government Monday ordered the closure of Janpath Market here for the violation of Covid protocols and for not following the guidelines issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), according to an order. "The Janpath market is, hereby, closed till further orders for violation of DDMA order and for not following Covid appropriate behaviour norms. The Director (Enforcement), NDMC and SHO, Connaught Place are hereby directed to enforce the order with immediate effect and submit a compliance report," the Delhi government said in the order. Delhi was under a lockdown from April 19 to May 30 during the second wave of the Covid pandemic. Markets were allowed to open from June 7 under a phased reopening plan of the city government. Markets in Lajpat Nagar, Laxmi Nagar, Kamla Nagar, Sarojini Nagar and parts of Sadar Bazar and Karol Bagh were among those shut in recent weeks by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) for violation of Covid-19 norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-shuts-janpath-market-over-violation-of-covid-19-norms-1007692.html
12-07-2021||North and Central||Cars, buildings swept away in flash floods in Himachal Pradesh's Dharamshala||Flash floods triggered by heavy rains swept away buildings and cars at tourist spots as bad weather also led to the closure of the airport here. A drain near Bhagsu Nag in upper Dharamsala adjoining Mecleodganj changed its course owing to heavy rains, sweeping away four cars and several bikes, video clips showed. A government school building at Bhagsunag was also damaged and adjacent hotels there were inundated, it showed. "Due to inclement weather and heavy rains, all incoming flights to Dharamshala airport at Gaggal have been cancelled," said the airport's traffic in-charge Gaurav Kumar. Owing to a flash flood at Manjhi Khad area adjoining Dharamsala, two buildings were swept away while several others were reported to be damaged, the video clips. Heavy rains leading to flash floods also damaged a bridge on the Mandi-Pathankot highway after which traffic was stopped on both sides, leading to a traffic jam. Union Home Minister Amit Shah spoke to Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Monday to take stock of the situation arising due to the floods in several districts of the state and assured him all possible help from the Centre. Thakur also expressed concern over the losses due to heavy rain and directed the administrations of various districts to ensure speedy relief and rescue operations in the affected areas. He also urged the local people and tourists to refrain from going near the river banks to avoid any untoward incident. Deputy Commissioner Dr Nipun Jindal said, "Instructions have also been given to people to not go to sensitive places prone to landslides. Some people have also been shifted to safer places due to flood conditions in some areas of the district." Officials have been directed to complete relief and rehabilitation immediately, he said, adding that control rooms have also been set up and steps have also been taken to make the weather forecast available to people. Jindal said according to the Meteorological Department forecast, heavy rain on July 13 as well as from July 14 to 16 has been predicted. Keeping this in mind, orders have been issued under the Disaster Management Act 2005 to district officers of all the departments in Kangra district to remain alert.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cars-buildings-swept-away-in-flash-floods-in-himachal-pradeshs-dharamshala-1007700.html
12-07-2021||North and Central||Over 47,000 private schools suspend online classes in MP||More than 47,000 private schools in Madhya Pradesh suspended online classes indefinitely on Monday to press for their various demands, including waiving off their recognition fee in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and resumption of physical sessions for Classes 9 to 12. There are around 45,000 private schools affiliated to the Madhya Pradesh Board of Secondary Education (MPBSE) and 2,800 affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) in the state. “We suspended online classes indefinitely from today after failing to get a positive response from the state government," said Ajeet Singh, president of the MP Private School Association, an umbrella body of about 45,000 schools affiliated to the MPBSE. He said their major demands were that authorities stop inspecting the already closed schools and renew the recognition certificates of these institutions for five years, instead of one. "Looking at the losses that we have incurred, the state government should not charge the annual school recognition fee during these testing times," he said. He also alleged that officials were bothering them under the garb of inspection of schools. Besides, the state government should pay the dues pending with it under the Right to Education (RTE) since the last three years, he said. “Under the RTE, schools provide education to underprivileged children and the government is supposed to pay for it,” Singh added. VR Modi, president of another private school association covering nearly 2,800 CBSE schools in the state, also said that they have suspended their online classes from Monday. "Among other things, we want resumption of physical classes for standards IX to XII immediately. When all other things have reopened, why senior classes in schools are not being allowed to re-open?" he asked. MP School Education Minister Inder Singh Parmar and education commissioner Jayashree Kiyawat could not be contacted for their comments over the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-47000-private-schools-suspend-online-classes-in-mp-1007729.html
12-07-2021||North and Central||Woman sells her baby for Rs 50K, cooks up story of his kidnap||A woman allegedly sold her three-month-old son for Rs 50,000 here and fabricated the story of his kidnap to cover up the incident, police said on Monday. With the help of CCTV footage, the baby was found within two hours of the incident. His mother and the other woman to whom he was sold have been detained for questioning, police said. On Sunday evening, Salma Khatoon, resident of Ilahibagh area under Gorakhnath police station limits, informed police about the kidnapping of her son. She told them that a woman, clad in red sari, escaped in an SUV after snatching her son from her near a marriage hall in Rasoolpur area. SP (City) Sonam Kumar along with a police team reached the spot and launched a search for the baby. "Suspicion grew as the mother kept changing her statements and narrated the story of kidnapping. When police scanned CCTV footages of the area, it was found that Khatoon handed over her son to another woman and then left in an e-rickshaw. "With the help of footage, police started tracing the other woman and her location was found at Humayunpur road. The baby was recovered," the SP said. The child's father is a ragpicker and the woman sold their son under extreme poverty conditions, police said, adding one party claims that it is a case of adoption while the other says the baby was handed over in exchange for Rs 50,000. A probe into the matter is underway and things will be clear after investigation, police said. However action will be taken against the mother for falsely claiming that the child was kidnapped, they said. According to sources, the mother sold her son without informing her husband and when he asked her about the child, she cooked up the story of his kidnap.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-sells-her-baby-for-rs-50k-cooks-up-story-of-his-kidnap-1007741.html
12-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi riots: Ishrat Jahan asks if it is wrong to have political affiliation||Former Congress Councillor Ishrat Jahan, arrested under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), on Monday sought bail in the northeast Delhi riots conspiracy case, asking before a court here that whether it wrong to have a political affiliation.  “There is no evidence. Is it wrong to have a political affiliation? What wrong have I committed? Stifling voices was the reason behind imposing UAPA. UAPA must be scrutinized,” said advocate Pradeep Teotia, appearing for Ishrat Jahan before Addistion Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat. Ishrat Jahan has served as Congress councillor from 2012-17 and has been a member of the All India Congress Committee (AICC), according to her sister Sarwer Jahan.  Teotia argued bail plea for her on the grounds that there is no evidence to show her connection with the co-accused and that the witnesses are planted.  During the course of proceedings, the advocate objected to the prosecution's allegations that Ishrat Jahan helped in financing the protest and violence, saying that they have just weaved a story and that there was no change in the pattern of her expenditure before and during the violence.  Meanwhile, Special Public Prosecutor Amit Prasad asked for the supply of the video relied upon by the counsels of the accused. The Judge will further hear the matter on July 23. Ishrat Jahan, along with several others has been booked under the anti-terror law in the case and they are accused of being the "masterminds" of the February 2020 violence, which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured.  This is the first time the accused has sought regular bail in the matter. In November last year, the court had denied interim bail to her considering the gravity of the offences including those lodged under UAPA.  Earlier, Ishrat Jahan was granted interim bail for 10 days to get married and was directed not to tamper with the evidence or influence the witnesses. Jahan's marriage was fixed for June 12, 2020. Besides Ishrat Jahan, Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha, JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, former student leader Umar Khalid, Jamia Coordination Committee members Safoora Zargar, former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain and several others have also been booked under the anti-terror law in the case. The Delhi High Court had recently granted bail to Tanha, Narwal, and Kalita in the case, saying the State blurred the line between the right to protest and terrorist activity in anxiety to suppress dissent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-ishrat-jahan-asks-if-it-is-wrong-to-have-political-affiliation-1007743.html
12-07-2021||North and Central||Lightning strikes kill more than 50 across India||More than 50 people were killed in lightning strikes across several states in India, authorities said Monday, including 11 people at a historic fort. Hundreds of people are killed each year in intense storms at the start of monsoon. At least 42 people died Sunday in different districts of Uttar Pradesh, according to disaster-response authorities. In Jaipur, bolts hit two watchtowers at the 12th-century Amer Fort, which were packed with visitors watching the storm cross the city. "It was already raining when the people were there. They huddled in the towers as the rainfall intensified," Saurabh Tiwari, a senior Jaipur police officer, told AFP. People had flocked to the fort, which gives a panoramic view across Jaipur, after several weeks of intense heat in the state. Eleven people were killed and another 17 were injured, with three in critical condition, according to police. Tiwari said up to 30 people were on the towers when the lightning struck. "Some of the injured were left unconscious by the strikes. Others ran out in panic and extreme pain," Tiwari added. Emergency teams were checking on Monday whether any victims had fallen into a deep moat on one side of the watchtowers. Media reports said about 10 other people were killed by lightning strikes across Rajasthan. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said special payments would be made to the families of people who lost their lives, as he offered condolences.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lightning-strikes-kill-more-than-50-across-india-1007747.html
12-07-2021||North and Central||Monsoon reaches Jaisalmer, Delhi's periphery but gives national capital a miss||Southwest Monsoon rains reached the desert district of Jaisalmer and Ganganagar, its last outposts, on Monday, but gave Delhi and parts of Haryana a miss. It rained in the periphery of Delhi -- Aligarh in Uttar Pradesh and Karnal in Haryana -- but clouds hovered over the national capital, without giving any relief from the heat. The rains also covered west Rajasthan, Punjab and other parts of Haryana. The Northern Limit of Southwest Monsoon (NLM) currently passes through Jaisalmer, Nagaur, Bharatpur, Aligarh, Karnal and Ganganagar, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The Southwest Monsoon covers Ganganagar and Jaisalmer in Rajasthan after it has covered almost the entire country. "In association with continued prevalence of moist easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal in the lower levels since the past three days, enhanced cloud cover and scattered to fairly widespread rainfall during past 24 hours, the southwest monsoon has further advanced and covered most parts of Rajasthan and Punjab and some more parts of Haryana and west Uttar Pradesh on July 12," the MeT office said. IMD Director General Mrutyunjay Mohapatra said the Southwest Monsoon clouds are hovering over the national capital since Saturday, even the wind pattern has changed and easterlies have brought moist winds. "But it has not rained so far. This is a very peculiar situation," he said. Mohapatra said the arrival of monsoon over Delhi will be declared as soon as it rains since the other conditions have been fulfilled. The IMD had earlier said monsoon would hit Delhi on June 15, but then revised its forecast. On July 5, it said the conditions are favourable for the Southwest Monsoon to arrive over Delhi by July 10. However, it has not rained since July 10. The IMD said it is continuously monitoring the further progress of monsoon into the remaining parts of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/monsoon-reaches-jaisalmer-delhis-periphery-but-gives-national-capital-a-miss-1007749.html
12-07-2021||North and Central||Speculations rife about Ram Temple Trust reshuffle as RSS concerned over allegations of corruption in land purchase||Speculations were rife about a reshuffle in the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, which was overseeing the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya, following allegations of irregularities against its general secretary Champat Rai in the purchase of land in the temple town. The speculations gained ground after Rai met senior RSS functionaries in Chitrakoot, where a meeting of the Sangh was going on, reportedly to put forth his side of the story with regard to the allegations. According to the sources, Rai was summoned by the RSS leadership to 'explain' the matter. Rai reportedly claimed innocence and explained to the RSS leaders that more land was needed for the expansion of the proposed Ram Temple and that there were no irregularities in the land purchase. Sources also said that RSS leaders expressed serious concern over the allegations as they felt they could 'hurt' the sentiments of the Hindus. The Sangh leadership, however, was in a dilemma over removing Rai barely months ahead of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, which are due to be held early next year as it could tantamount to accepting the allegations. The opposition parties could also then sharpen their attacks on the BJP and the Trust, it felt. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Samajwadi Party (SP) have accused Rai of purchasing a piece of land worth Rs two crore for a whopping Rs 18.5 crore. AAP leader and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh and SP leader Tej Narayan Pandey had claimed that the price of the land in question, which was at Bagh Bijaisi area in Ayodhya town, had shot up from Rs two crore to Rs 18.5 crore within a span of ten minutes. ''The land was first registered in the names of two people for Rs two crore.....ten minutes later the Trust bought the land from them for Rs 18 crore and the registry was also done the same day," Singh had alleged. Incidentally. in both the registrations, the witnesses were the same people. They were Trust member Anil Mishra and the Mayor of Ayodhya Rishikesh Upadhyaya. The two leaders demanded a CBI probe into the matter. Rai, however, rejected the allegations and said that the land was purchased below the market value. ''It's a political conspiracy to malign the Trust....we have a record of everything,'' he had claimed.  The Trust has been on a land-buying spree ever since it was entrusted with the task of constructing the Ram Temple. The central government had allotted 70 acres of land for the Temple. The Trust later decided to expand the area of the Temple and purchased several temples adjacent to the Ram Janambhoomi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/speculations-rife-about-ram-temple-trust-reshuffle-as-rss-concerned-over-allegations-of-corruption-in-land-purchase-1007755.html
12-07-2021||North and Central||Opposition parties attack Uttar Pradesh government over draft population control bill||Opposition parties have hit out at the Uttar Pradesh government over the proposed draft bill on population control, with the SP terming it as an "election propaganda" while a Congress leader asked the state government to tell how many "legitimate and illegitimate children" its ministers have. The remarks come a day after the Uttar Pradesh Population Policy 2021-2030 was unveiled by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to steady the growing population in the state and reduce maternal and infant deaths in a time-bound manner. The 40-page policy document mentions that "attempts would be made to ensure there is a population balance among various communities in the state. Extensive campaigns would be run in communities, groups, and geographical areas where fertility rates were higher." A draft of the Uttar Pradesh population control bill has been uploaded on the state law commission website. Terming the bill as a part of the BJP's "election propaganda" ahead of assembly polls, Samajwadi Party (SP) MP from Sambhal, Shaqfiqur Rahman Barq said the state government should ban marriages if it wants to stabilise rising population. "It (draft bill) is an electoral propaganda. They (BJP) look at everything from a political angle. They just want to win elections and don't take any decision in the interest of the people. Since assembly election is coming, they are concerned about it. By the grace of Allah, we will not let them win," Barq said here on Sunday evening. In Farukhabad, Congress leader Salman Khurshid said, "before making the law government should tell how many legitimate and illegitimate children its ministers have. "Politicians should declared how many children they have. I will also declare how many I have and then it should be discussed," he told reporters on Sunday. When asked to elaborate on his statement on legitimate and illegitimate children, he said, "Those who consider it wrong should talk to me." Leader of Opposition in the state assembly, Ram Govind Chowdury charged that the state government had failed on all fronts be it law and order or providing employment. "To divert attention from its failure, it is bringing a bill. Population can be controlled through awareness. People are now themselves aware and considering two child norm," Chowdhury told reporters in Ballia. "If someone has two daughters, will he not go for the third in the hope that it will be a son. There is a population control law already," he said. Attacking the state government further, Barq said, It would be better to stop marriages. No one should be allowed to get married for the next 20 years and no children will be born". "Those who will challenge the law of Allah will get finished," the MP from Sambhal said further. Barq said while China was encouraging its citizens to have more children, India was doing the opposite which might backfire in case of a war. "A lot of births are taking place in China and you (India) are stopping people from having children. A time will come when we will be very few. If there is a war, then from where will you bring people to fight," Barq said. He also alleged that the recently held block panchayat chief polls were rigged by the ruling BJP. According to the draft of the population control bill, people having more than two children in the state will be debarred from contesting local body polls, applying for government jobs or receiving any kind of subsidy. The draft bill, for which suggestions have been invited from the public till July 19, also prohibits promotions in government jobs for such people, while offering incentives to those limiting their children to two. The draft says it is necessary to control and stabilise the population of the state for the promotion of sustainable development with more equitable distribution. If enacted, the provisions of the proposed legislation titled The Uttar Pradesh Population (Control, Stabilisation and Welfare) Bill, 2021 will come into force after one year from the date of publication in the Gazette, according to the Uttar Pradesh State Law Commission (UPSLC) website. Assam, which is another BJP-ruled state, too has announced that it will gradually implement a two-child policy for availing benefits under specific schemes funded by the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/opposition-parties-attack-uttar-pradesh-government-over-draft-population-control-bill-1007758.html
12-07-2021||North and Central||Bitter times for Agra’s ‘petha’ industry due to Covid-19||Agra's famous petha industry has seen a drastic decline in business due to the second wave of Covid-19 impact, according to the traders. "Traders were affected more after the second wave. We were trying to restart the business after the first wave of the pandemic but after the second wave, we were left with no hope of revival," Rajesh Agrawal, a trader at Agra's popular petha market at Noori Darwaja, told PTI. “Seventy-five per cent units, producing petha, have been closed due to the pandemic and only 25 per cent reopened after the lockdown. Besides, there has been a 70 to 75 per cent decline in sale," he said. Agra’s popular sweetmeat, petha, is made with ash gourd or white pumpkin, which is also called petha in Hindi. Before the advent of the pandemic, there were about 500 units producing petha, but the Covid-induced lockdown left about 125 running, Agrawal said. For their situation, the traders blame the decrease in tourist inflow in the city of Taj Mahal that attracts maximum number of visitors from abroad. The 3,000 retail shops that provide employment to about 50,000 people, including workers, shopkeepers, farmers, and others were severely affected due to the pandemic, according to Agrawal. "Traders should be given some financial support to restart their business, otherwise it will be difficult (for us) to survive," he said. Another trader, Sonu Yadav, claimed that the price of ash gourd was Rs 25 per kilogram before the lockdown in 2020. Currently, it costs around Rs 5 per kg in the vegetable market, he said. "The weekend lockdown is also impacting the sale as Taj Mahal remains closed on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday…other monuments are also closed on Saturday and Sunday," he added. A retailer at Fathebad Road, Arun Kumar said: "Before Covid, the daily sale at my shop was about Rs 5,000 to Rs 8,000 but these days, it is about Rs 2,000 or less. The government should now lift the weekend lockdown, so the flow of tourists can increase.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bitter-times-for-agra-s-petha-industry-due-to-covid-19-1007770.html
12-07-2021||North and Central||Mayawati questions timing of arrests by Uttar Pradesh ATS as politics over issue hots up||After Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, BSP supremo Mayawati also raised questions on Monday on the Uttar Pradesh police's claim of arresting two Al Qaeda-linked terrorists in the state capital, saying such an action ahead of assembly polls leads to doubts in the minds of people. ”If the UP police's claims of busting a terrorist conspiracy in Lucknow and the arrest of two people having links with Al Qaeda are right, then it is a very serious matter and appropriate action should be taken, but no politics should be done in its garb, as such an apprehension has been expressed," she tweeted in Hindi. 2. यूपी विधानसभा आमचुनाव के करीब आने पर ही इस प्रकार की कार्रवाई लोगों के मन में संदेह पैदा करती है। अगर इस कार्रवाई के पीछे सच्चाई है तो पुलिस इतने दिनों तक क्यों बेखबर रही? यह वह सवाल है जो लोग पूछ रहे हैं। अतः सरकार ऐसी कोई कार्रवाई न करे जिससे जनता में बेचैनी और बढ़े। The former chief minister raised the issue of the timing of the arrests. "This type of action only when the UP Assembly elections are approaching creates doubts in the minds of the people. If there is any truth behind this action, then why were the police oblivious (to such activities) for so long? "This is the question being asked by the people. Therefore, the government should not take any action which increases unrest among the people," she said in another tweet The Anti-Terrorist Squad of the UP Police on Sunday said it had arrested two terrorists belonging to Al-Qaeda supported 'Ansar Ghazwatul Hind' from the outskirts of Lucknow. Explosive material was also recovered from them. “We cannot rely on Uttar Pradesh police, especially the BJP government,” Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav had remarked on the arrests on Sunday. Akhilesh Yadav's statement came in for strong criticism from the BJP's state unit president Swatantra Dev Singh who asked whether the security of the country was important for the SP chief or the politics of appeasement. “For which country are you batting. This question is in everyone's mind today,” Singh said on Twitter with a video of Yadav's remarks. “…Instead of taking pride in this success, the former chief minister has humiliated the Uttar Pradesh Police by raising questions. Akhileshji should tell whether the security of the country is important for him or the politics of appeasement,” he tweeted. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mayawati-questions-timing-of-arrests-by-uttar-pradesh-ats-as-politics-over-issue-hots-up-1007800.html
12-07-2021||North and Central||6 killed, 11 injured in lightning in parts of Madhya Pradesh||Six people, including two minors, were killed and 11 others injured in separate incidents of lightning in parts of Madhya Pradesh, officials said on Monday. In Gwalior district, two persons died on Sunday evening when lightning struck them at Sunarpura village while they were grazing their cattle, Bijouli police station in-charge KPS Yadav said. The deceased were identified as Hakim Adivasi (24) and Ravi (10). Two other persons were also injured and admitted to a hospital for treatment, he said. In another incident, a man and his son suffered serious burns in lightning strike at Tapriyan village in Sheopur district on Sunday evening, Sesaipura police station in-charge Reena Shakya said. Villagers rushed both the victims, Hariom Yadav (65) and Kuber Yadav (30), to a hospital in Karahal town where they died, he said. Another villager also suffered injuries and is undergoing treatment in a hospital, the police said. Besides, a person, identified as Kishore (17), died in lightning strike at Barodi village in Shivpuri district on Sunday, Amola police station in-charge Raghvendra Singh Yadav said. Seven other people were injured due to lightning in Barodi, Narhi and Salaiya villages of Shivpuri and admitted to hospitals, the official said, adding that five goats were also killed in the nature's fury. In another incident, one Amritlal Choudhary (35), a resident of Balbahra village in Shahdol district, was working in his paddy field when lightning struck him. He was rushed to the district hospital in neighbouring Anuppur where he was declared dead, an official from the medical facility said. Another villager from Shahdol was seriously injured and was undergoing treatment at the hospital in Anuppur, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/6-killed-11-injured-in-lightning-in-parts-of-madhya-pradesh-1007817.html
12-07-2021||North and Central||Centre, Himachal Pradesh govt working together to deal with floods, says Anurag Thakur||He urged people not to leave their houses unnecessarily and be careful. Thakur, who recently took charge of the Information and Broadcasting Ministry as well as of the Sports and Youth Affairs Ministry, hails from Himachal Pradesh. "The Central and State Governments are working with better coordination to deal with the fierce form of natural calamity in Devbhoomi Himachal. There is an appeal to all the tourists and the general public to take full care, do not leave the houses unnecessarily and do not go towards the water sources," he tweeted. देवभूमि हिमाचल में प्राकृतिक आपदा के रौद्र रूप से निपटने के लिए केंद्र व प्रदेश सरकार बेहतर समन्वय के साथ काम कर रही है। सभी पर्यटकों व आमजनों से अपील है की पूरी सावधानी बरतें,अनावश्यक घरों से ना निकलें व जलस्रोतों की ओर ना जाएँ । Flash floods triggered by heavy rains swept away buildings and cars at tourist spots in Himachal Pradesh while bad weather also led to the closure of the airport in Dharamshala. The Dharamshala district administration also instructed tourists to postpone their visit to Dharamsala in view of the heavy rains. A drain near Bhagsu Nag in upper Dharamsala adjoining Mecleodganj changed its course owing to heavy rains, sweeping away four cars and several bikes, video clips showed. A government school building at Bhagsunag was also damaged and adjacent hotels there were inundated, it showed. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-himachal-pradesh-govt-working-together-to-deal-with-floods-says-anurag-thakur-1007818.html
12-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi BJP demands CBI probe into 'scam' in DTC bus procurement||BJP MLA Vijender Gupta on Monday wrote to Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal demanding a CBI inquiry into the alleged scam involving procurement of 1,000 low floor buses by the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC). A three-member committee that probed the matter has recommended scrapping the tender of the AMC (annual maintenance contract) of buses finding various "lapses", he said. There has been "irrefutable evidence of irregularities and violations in the AMC bid", he said, alleging "criminal conspiracy and connivance" was responsible for it. "The committee underlined the need to take special measures to ensure that there is competition in the tendering process to avoid monopoly pricing. However, it found that such concerns were not addressed when the DTC floated a tender for the purchase of the AMC," Gupta wrote. The three-member committee, including transport commissioner and vigilance secretary of the Delhi government, was formed by Baijal last month. The committee in its report stated there was no "infirmity" in the procurement of buses but pointed to various "procedural lapses" in the AMC. Senior AAP leader and Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday accused the Delhi BJP leaders of obstructing procurement of buses by the DTC that was doing so after a long gap of over a decade and demanded that they apologise to the people. He also claimed that the committee report gave a "clean chit" to the Kejriwal government that there was no "scam" in the procurement of the buses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-bjp-demands-cbi-probe-into-scam-in-dtc-bus-procurement-1007834.html
12-07-2021||North and Central||3 arrested in ISIS module case, NIA continues raids in Kashmir||On Sunday, the NIA had conducted multiple raids in Srinagar and south Kashmir’s Anantnag district during which it arrested three persons - Umar Nisar, Tanveer Ahmad Bhat and Rameez Ahmad Lone. “Examination of the arrested accused led to searches on 12.07.2021 at 02 more locations in Anantnag district in which a number of digital devices and other materials have been seized,” a spokesperson of the NIA said. He said the probe agency had earlier conducted searches at the premises of the arrested accused and recovered a large number of incriminating documents, multiple digital devices and T-shirts with the ISIS logo. “Preliminary examination of the seized material and examination of the accused persons revealed that they are active cadres of ISIS and have been using cyberspace to propagate inciting material by the online magazine VOH (Voice of Hind),” he said. The case was registered by NIA on June 29 in connection with alleged conspiracy of the proscribed terrorist organisation ISIS to radicalise and recruit impressionable youth in India to wage violent jihad against the Indian state. “ISIS terrorists operating from various conflict zones along with ISIS cadres in India, by assuming pseudo- online identities, have created a network wherein ISIS related propaganda material is disseminated for radicalizing and recruiting members to the fold of ISIS. In this connection an India-centric online propaganda magazine the VOH is published on monthly basis with an aim to incite and radicalize impressionable youth,” the NIA investigation reveals. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-arrested-in-isis-module-case-nia-continues-raids-in-kashmir-1007847.html
12-07-2021||North and Central||Court grants bail to 2 men accused of damaging Red Fort during Republic Day violence||A Delhi court on Monday granted bail to two men arrested in a case filed by the Archeological Survey of India (ASI) alleging their complicity in damaging of heritage Red Fort during the Republic Day violence this year. Accused Boota Singh and Gurjot Singh were arrested on July 8. The arrest was made on the day Boota was granted bail in another matter related to the violence. Gurjot was admitted on bail in the same matter a day after his arrest in the ASI case. While granting relief, Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Gajender Singh Nagar said that they have been made accused in both cases on the basis of the same act and no specific role is attributed to them. The judge granted bail to them on furnishing a personal bond of Rs 50,000 with one local surety of like amount. He also imposed various other conditions on them. Boota and Gurjot have been directed to join the investigation as and when called, not threaten the witnesses or tamper with the evidence. Advocate Jaspreet S Rai, representing the two accused, said argued that even though they were present at the Red Fort, no overt act was committed by them. Meanwhile, Public Prosecutor Rajiv Kamboj asserted that if they are released on bail, they might run away from justice, destroy the evidence as they have done in the past by destroying their clothes and phones. For Gurjot, the police said that he was seen in at least three photographs at the spot of hoisting of flag at the Red Fort with the riotous mob. This case was registered on the complaint of Gunjan Shrivastava of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). On January 26, protesting farmers had clashed with police and stormed into the fort, hoisting religious flags on its domes. Notably, actor-activist Deep Sidhu, who is accused of being the key conspirator of the violence, was also arrested in this case moments after being released from jail in another case related to the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/court-grants-bail-to-2-men-accused-of-damaging-red-fort-during-republic-day-violence-1007850.html
12-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi records 45 Covid cases, lowest single-day rise in over a year||The national capital on Monday recorded 45 Covid-19 cases, the lowest single-day rise in over a year, and three deaths while the positivity rate stood at 0.08 per cent, according to data shared by the health department here. Delhi has recorded 14,35,128 coronavirus cases since the pandemic started last year. Over 14.09 lakh patients have recovered so far. The death toll stands at 25,018. On Sunday, Delhi had recorded 53 cases with a positivity rate of 0.07 per cent and three deaths. On Saturday, it had logged 76 cases with a positivity rate of 0.19 per cent and one death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-45-covid-cases-lowest-single-day-rise-in-over-a-year-1007862.html
12-07-2021||North and Central||16-year-old girl attacked with axe in southwest Delhi||A 16-year-old girl was attacked with an axe on Monday in southwest Delhi by a man in his early 20s, police said. A call was received at 1.20 pm at the South Campus police station about the incident near south Moti Bagh jhuggi, they said. The girl had suffered an injury near her eyebrow after being hit with the axe, police said. The accused has been identified as Praveen alias Pradeep, who is in his early 20s. He is a resident of the same area where the girl lives, police said. The girl was admitted to the Safdarjung hospital following the incident which took place a day prior to her birthday. A case has been registered at the South Campus police station and efforts are being made to arrest Praveen, a senior police officer said. Preliminary investigation revealed that the accused was harassing the girl for days, police said. However, the call details record will be checked, they said, adding that the motive of the crime will be clear after Praveen is arrested. Further details are awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/16-year-old-girl-attacked-with-axe-in-southwest-delhi-1007935.html
12-07-2021||North and Central||Failure by numerical models in prediction of monsoon advance over Delhi rare, uncommon, says IMD||Facing criticism over consecutive errors in forecasting the advancement of the Southwest Monsoon over Delhi, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday said such type of failure by numerical models in the prediction of monsoon over the capital is "rare and uncommon". The weather department said its latest model analysis had indicated that the moist easterly winds in the lower level from the Bay of Bengal would spread to northwest India, covering Punjab and Haryana by July 10, leading to the advancement of monsoon and an increase in rainfall activity over the region, including Delhi, from July 10 onwards. Accordingly, the moist easterly winds have spread to northwest India, the IMD said in a statement. These moisture-laden winds have led to an increase in cloudiness and relative humidity. The winds have also led to a revival of monsoon over the region and the occurrence of fairly widespread or widespread rainfall activity over east Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Jammu and Kashmir and scattered rainfall over Punjab and west Rajasthan, the Met office said. However, it did not cause significant rainfall activity over Delhi, even though there was rainfall activity over places around the national capital. It rained even in the desert district of Jaisalmer and Ganganagar -- the two last outposts for monsoon to cover -- and in the peripheral areas of Delhi, but not in the capital. "Such type of failure by numerical models in the prediction of monsoon advance over Delhi is rare and uncommon," the IMD said. "It is needless to mention that IMD has predicted well with high accuracy about the advance of monsoon over Delhi in the recent past years and also the advance of monsoon over different parts of the country during monsoon 2021, about four to five days ahead," it added. On June 13, the IMD had said the Southwest Monsoon would reach the national capital by June 15. The wind system continued to advance over the country till June 13, in association with favourable atmospheric circulation and a low-pressure system over the Bay of Bengal after the onset of monsoon over Kerala on June 3, it pointed out. By June 13, it had covered most parts of the country except northwest India. On June 13, numerical weather prediction (NWP) models suggested favourable conditions with moist lower-level easterly winds reaching northwest India, which would have helped monsoon advance over most parts of Madhya Pradesh, the remaining parts of Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana and Punjab in the subsequent 48 hours. "Accordingly, a press release was issued on June 13 indicating the likely advance of monsoon into Delhi by June 15," the IMD said. On June 14, however, the weather analysis based on satellite and NWP model consensus indicated the approach of a trough in the mid-latitude westerly winds, leading to the weakening of the easterly winds over northwest India. Due to an adverse influence of this mid-latitude westerly winds, the further advancement of monsoon into the remaining parts of northwest India, including Delhi, was not expected, the IMD said. Accordingly, it issued an updated press release on June 14 indicating that the further advancement of the Southwest Monsoon into the remaining parts of northwest India, including Delhi, would be slow and delayed. "However, this development of interaction with westerlies could not be anticipated by the weather prediction models," the IMD explained. On June 16, another press release was issued indicating a delay in the advancement of monsoon into Delhi and a slow progress into some parts of northwest India. Accordingly, monsoon advanced into some more parts of northwest India by June 19. It did not progress further due to weak or break conditions from June 20. Press releases were issued on June 22, 24, 26 and 30 and July 1 indicating such delays in the advancement of monsoon into the remaining parts of northwest India, including Delhi, and weak monsoon conditions over the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/failure-by-numerical-models-in-prediction-of-monsoon-advance-over-delhi-rare-uncommon-says-imd-1007960.html
12-07-2021||Oasis||Anxiety can't change the future||We all have experienced anxiousness in our life at one time or the other. To be anxious is quite natural when things don’t work out the way we expect. Anxiety is a thin stream of fear trickling through the mind. It is our body's natural response to stress and a feeling of fear or apprehension about what's to come. Occasional anxiety is natural and acceptable. But, when it becomes our second nature to be anxious about anything and everything, it can lead to anxiety disorder which can become chronic or severe enough to impair our daily functioning. In this context, Lord Krishna says: "What have you lost for which you weep? What did you bring with you, which you have lost? You did not bring anything when you were born. Whatever you have taken, it is taken from here. Whatever you have given, it is given here. You came empty-handed and you will go the same way. Whatever is yours today, will be somebody else's tomorrow. And it will be some others' later. This change is the law of the universe and the theme behind my creation. Don’t be anxious and worry much in life. Just say to yourself: 'Whatever happens, happens for good'”. God created us to live a purposeful, meaningful and contented life each day without any worries about tomorrow. If God can look after the animals and birds of this universe, will he not look after us? As said in the Holy Bible, Mathew Chapter 6: "Do not be anxious about your life, what you will eat or what you will drink, nor about your body or what you will put on? Is not life more than food and the body more than clothing? Look at the birds of the air: They neither sow nor reap nor gather into barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow: They neither toil nor spin. Are you not of more value than they? And which of you, by being anxious can add a single hour to his span of life?" Let us not add tomorrow’s unseen burden to the deeds of today and make it weigh more than we can bear to carry, nor try to lessen yesterday’s insoluble problems from today’s deeds. No amount of guilt can change the past. No amount of anxiety can change the future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/anxiety-cant-change-the-future-1007908.html
12-07-2021||Opinion||Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik looks beyond himself||As he gets older and several of his senior party colleagues distance themselves from him, Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik has started looking to the future of the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) beyond himself.  When Naveen Patnaik founded the BJD as a regional party in December 1997 following the demise of his father and former chief minister Biju Patnaik, many had doubts about the party's longevity. But Naveen Patnaik won election after election - he is currently in his fifth successive term as Odisha CM - dispelling all conjectures about his party and leadership. The sons of many former chief ministers in the BJD strengthened the party's base across the state. Their support enhanced the BJD's image as the true successor to the Biju Patnaik legacy rooted in Odia sub-nationalism.  Although those former chief ministers were detractors of Biju Patnaik, their sons accepted Naveen Patnaik's leadership without hesitation.   Soumya Ranjan Patnaik, the son-in-law of one of the longest-serving Congress chief ministers of Odisha, JB Patnaik, who ruled the state for 15 years, also joined the BJD and became a Rajya Sabha Member in 2018, adding to the BJD's strength. But just before the last general elections, former chief minister Nandini Satpathy's son and editor of an Odia daily, Dharitri, Tathagata Satpathy, a four-term MP, decided to quit politics to refocus on journalism. Satpathy had earlier left the BJD after his first term in the Lok Sabha and returned ahead of the 2004 polls. Meanwhile, Soumya Ranjan Patnaik, who quit the Rajya Sabha and successfully contested the Assembly election in 2019, has started expressing his displeasure over the state government's functioning in recent days. As the editor of the largest circulated Odia daily, Sambad, who also owns a regional television channel, Soumya Ranjan has taken to question the party leadership, ostensibly because he was not made a minister. The BJD's senior Lok Sabha member Bhartruhari Mahtab, son of former chief minister Harekrushna Mahatab, has for some time now expressed his unhappiness with the party's functioning. He, too, has used his newspaper, The Prajatantra, to question the state government. Mahtab was given a Lok Sabha ticket at the last moment in 2019. There is now speculation that he is becoming closer to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Bijayshree Routray, son of former chief minister Nilamani Routray, had not turned critical of the party leadership until his death in June. He had left his seat to his son in the 2019 polls. But AU Singh Deo, senior leader and son of former chief minister Rajendra Narayan Singh Deo, is also dissatisfied with the party. He started distancing himself from the BJD when he was not given a Rajya Sabha berth for the second time in 2018. Both his sons, Kalikesh Narayan Singh Deo and Arkesh Singh Deo, lost the Lok Sabha and Assembly elections in 2019. His family's control over the Balangir district has diminished. However, they have little opportunity to leave the BJD. Members of their family, Sangeeta Kumari Singh Deo, a Lok Sabha MP, and her husband and former Odisha minister Kanak Vardhan Singh Deo are in the BJP for a long time. When the sons of former chief ministers are distancing themselves from him and the desertion of the party's leading lights, including former BJD Lok Sabha MP Baijayant Panda, Naveen Patnaik has started the process to bring a generational change in the party. Since its former ally, the BJP, has replaced the Congress as the BJD's main rival in Odisha, Naveen Patnaik leaves no stone unturned to checkmate the saffron party's growth and has increasingly entrusted party work to the younger leadership. With the gram panchayat and civic body polls around the corner in the state, Naveen Patnaik has started reorganising the party and its frontal organisations by giving responsible posts to younger leaders. Pranab Prakash Das, Jajpur MLA and former minister, was appointed organisational secretary of the BJD last year. He is the son of veteran Janata Dal leader, the late Ashok Das, a close associate of Biju Patnaik but never joined the BJD. Naveen Patnaik has prepared a roadmap to make the BJD a permanent political force in the mineral-rich eastern state. Political observers speculating that BJD will have a bleak future after Naveen Patnaik becomes older and infirm are now changing their assessment. The BJD, which has been in power since 2000, never had a permanent office for its headquarters in Bhubaneswar. It functioned from a government quarter. But Naveen Patnaik has now allotted government land to the party to build an impressive modern structure to house its headquarters. On the governance front, apart from making his party organise blood donation camps even during the two waves of the pandemic, Naveen Patnaik recently created a separate department in his government for women's empowerment and taken welfare measures for farmers and tribal people. The Odisha CM continues to build his image by naming welfare schemes after his late father and Lord Jagannath, revered as Odisha's presiding deity. Patnaik has launched initiatives like 'Mo Sarkar' or `my government' to receive feedback on the government's programmes. (The writer is a Bhubaneswar based journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the authors’ own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/odisha-cm-naveen-patnaik-looks-beyond-himself-1007683.html
12-07-2021||Opinion||OPEC is letting the oil bears play||By Julian Lee, Oil producers beware. Far from being bullish for prices as initially thought, the rift at the heart of OPEC and the information vacuum it has created risks sending them into a tailspin. When the 23-nation OPEC+ oil producer alliance repeatedly failed to reach an agreement to raise production earlier this month, the concern in the market was that the world would be short of oil. Saudi Arabia and Russia, the alliance’s largest producers and de facto leaders, had devised a plan for the group to raise its production target by 400,000 barrels a day each month until the end of the year, and possibly longer. For good measure, they wanted to extend the output pact until the end of 2022, instead of letting it expire at the end of April. The first part looked easy. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’ 13 members and their allies agreed on the need to pump more oil to meet rising demand as the world recovers from the pandemic. But not everyone backed extending the deal, at least not in its current form. The United Arab Emirates refused to do so if the alliance didn’t address what it sees as an unfairly low baseline production level from which its cuts are measured. Saudi Arabia balked at fiddling with that starting point and, more importantly, it wouldn’t approve the output increases without the extension. It blamed the UAE for blocking an agreement to pump the extra oil the market will need in the coming months. As news of the failure sunk in oil prices soared, with U.S. West Texas Intermediate hitting its highest since 2014. The mood ought to still be extremely bullish, but OPEC+’s failure has left a void that’s being filled by a bearish narrative. The day after WTI hit its six-and-a-half-year high, it had dropped by $6 a barrel. With no date set for the full group to meet again, the existing deal holds, which means no more output increases until May 2022. But nobody sees that as credible. Even if the UAE doesn’t quit OPEC or embark on a production surge — it has said it won’t do either, at least not yet — it’s unlikely that producers will stick to their output targets when customers clearly need more of their crude. None of the producers wants a return to the free-for-all that followed the last breakdown in their relationship in March 2020. But that’s what they risk repeating. The recovery in prices this year has been underpinned by OPEC+’s extraordinary cohesiveness. One of the strengths of the deal has been its credibility, with the group meeting frequently to adjust the targets to a recovery that was initially slower than expected. The group now needs to remain just as nimble in raising production more quickly than it had previously anticipated. There’s a real risk that happens in an uncontrolled way if they can’t agree to a compromise. Until one is found, every scrap of data, every ministerial utterance and every oil analyst’s note will be pored over and markets will react to the tiniest change in intonation. Don’t be surprised if you find Twitter awash with rumors that suggest a price war is coming. This is what discord does: It creates fertile conditions for uncertainty and speculation. For that reason, if no other, it’s in the two nations’ shared interests to find common ground and a singular message. The longer they don’t, the more risky the oil market becomes for bulls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/opec-is-letting-the-oil-bears-play-1007751.html
12-07-2021||Panorama||Apathy, faulty policies cripple Karnataka's workers in second wave||The deadly second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic has proved to be far more severe by all measures than the first wave. Consider this: The daily peak during the first wave in Bengaluru was 5,800 cases, whereas the daily peak in the second wave was close to 25,000 cases. The nationwide daily cases were peaking at around 3-4 lakh, alongside valid concerns of low testing rates and systemic under-reporting of Covid-19 deaths. The fault lines within our healthcare system were exposed brutally, with reports of shortage of hospital beds, oxygen and essential medicine. The PM’s grand announcement of vaccine for all from May 1 proved to be yet another case of bluster and ended a dud, with most state governments suspending the largely symbolic vaccine drive for the age group of 18-44 years. The desperate attempt to widen the gap between doses seemed like a hasty cover-up for the shortage of vaccine supply. The decisions on lockdown and procurement of the vaccine were left to state governments. The Centre, by all accounts, abdicated responsibility and policy paralysis prevailed all around. It was left to the high courts of the country to instil the much-needed urgency and direction in the battle against the second wave. The government of Karnataka announced a phased lockdown beginning from April 24. There has been a great deal of ambiguity in the guidelines regarding the functioning of the industrial sector. The guidelines for the first phase specifically excluded the garment sector from the list of industries allowed to function. Predictably, the government backtracked and allowed 50% functioning of the sector within two days of the announcement. Almost all other industries were allowed to function at full strength. During the second phase of “stricter” lockdown, the guidelines allowed only essential and process industries. Industries such as steel and chemical require furnaces and boilers to function through the day, therefore categorised as process industries. Yet again, following the announcement of the “stricter” guidelines, the industry bodies exerted pressure to allow their functioning and lo, the government obliged allowing almost every industry to function through an addendum issued to the original guidelines. Even automobile industries have been allowed as essential industries to function. The deliberate ambiguity designed within the guidelines allows virtually all industries to function. In fact, the spineless government has only “requested” and not mandated full wages and employment protection during the lockdown. The stepmotherly treatment of the government towards the working class is beyond doubt. A few progressive industries/industry bodies have voluntarily taken a decision to lock down (some partially) with the payment of full wages to the workforce, in spite of the permission to function at full capacity. The primary sector of agriculture and mining and the secondary sector of manufacturing and industry, which processes raw materials and produces commodities for the larger society, are extremely critical to any society. While trade and commerce can afford to pause, agriculture and manufacturing cannot. This is undeniable. The industrial sector not only mass-produces essential medicines and equipment in the fight against the pandemic but also produces essential commodities to keep our markets stocked. The worker fulfils an indispensable function in our society. The industrial worker produces, the transport worker distributes and the gig worker delivers. It is the labour-power of these workers which allows the rest of society the luxury of working from home. The organisation of production processes in most factories do not allow for Covid-19-appropriate physical distancing norms to be followed. Transport and canteen facilities in most factories are crowded and ill-equipped to handle such requirements. In the case of an infection, home-quarantining is often very difficult in small, low-income housing facilities in and around industrial areas. Some progressive industries have arranged for isolation and Covid care facilities in some cases. However, what we witness is a complete and total disregard towards the industrial worker from all quarters of the government. There is a complete absence of policy surrounding the safety and welfare of the worker, save an order for 14 days paid Covid quarantine leave which came about only in January 2021 after pressure was exerted by Karnataka High Court. The urgency shown by the government in allowing industries to function is not seen in framing health and safety policies for workers. In this total disregard and policy lacunae lies a real danger. There are thousands of workers infected in the industries today. Many fatalities of young workers are reported on a daily basis in the second wave. Added to the risks of working in factories in close proximity for an extended period of time is the well-documented shortage of healthcare facilities in the state. There are around 16,900 factories in Karnataka employing around 16.5 lakh workers. The rest of the society depends on these workers for the production of all essential commodities. The health and safety of these workers is the collective responsibility of society, and therefore, by implication the responsibility of the government. It is a logical proposition to demand that all workers required to work during lockdowns be considered as frontline workers. It is important to declare all workers as frontline workers and provide benefits and free vaccination at their workplaces immediately on a priority basis if we are to fight this second wave and prepare for the third wave in all seriousness. Surely, vaccinating these workers is a small collective price to pay for the risks and sacrifices of the working class in this continuing battle against the pandemic. It is high time the government focused on the issues of the working class in the larger interests of society. (The writer is Secretary, All India Trade Union Congress, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/apathy-faulty-policies-cripple-karnatakas-workers-in-second-wave-1007613.html
12-07-2021||Panorama||On reincarnation||The late Sathya Sai Baba was once asked about crises in the different parts of the globe and why he was not doing something about it. Sri Ramana Maharishi was asked a similar question at the height of the Korean war. Sri Ramana replied: “How do you know I am not doing something about it? Just because I do not go around giving speeches and drawing attention to myself, does not mean I am inactive.”  It reminds us of a line from the Bhagavad Gita: “The wise man is active in inaction and inactive in action’. Sai Baba replied by saying it is the responsibility of the five elements to look after the universe. The economists play a very small role in effecting that correction. These utterances from self-realised masters need to be understood and put in proper perspective. The raging pandemic is a good illustration: We are utterly helpless in engaging it. All over the world, there is abject insecurity, fear and uncertainty. The idea of reincarnation is an integral part of Hindu doctrine. It is an incontrovertible fact and widely accepted and recognised as such. It is affirmed in Hindu, Buddhist and Tibetan scriptures. Reincarnation was a widely accepted belief in even the Catholic Church until the Pope banned it in the fifth century to preserve the unity of the laity.  Sri Ramana Maharishi's The Journey Continues is another astonishing work that records past life experiences. His past lives are revealed to him in meditation and the result is a deeply moving account that will leave the reader spellbound. The Gita informs us that the cause of rebirth is our thoughts at the time of death. The desires we have during these moments occasion rebirth. This is why the Gita teaches us to contemplate the supreme being at the time of death because what our minds are fixed upon during these moments is what we become.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/on-reincarnation-1007623.html
12-07-2021||Panorama||Off The Record: July 12||An awkward crash during protest In an awkward and embarrassing moment, a bullock cart on which Congress workers were protesting against the fuel price hike, crashed in Mumbai. The protesters included Mumbai Regional Congress Committee president Bhai Jagtap. However, no one was hurt. A video of the incident went viral. Incidentally, the bullock cart collapsed when slogans were being raised hailing Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. In fact, more people climbed onto the cart than its capacity and the accident occurred. Mrityunjay Bose, Mumbai Covid-19 and liquor dens in Assam Assam government has launched a crackdown against country liquor dens across the state following reports that the huge crowd throng the place— a cause of the spread of Covid-19. On July 9, Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said: “Such liquor dens are responsible for the rising number of cases in some districts. An order has been issued to dismantle such liquor den immediately.” The state government declared seven districts as containment zones where Covid-19 cases are still high, particularly in areas where there are tea gardens. Country liquor is widely consumed by tea garden workers and large crowds gather, particularly during the evening at the dens. Assam still has over 20,000 Covid-19 cases and over 2,500 cases are being reported daily. Sumir Karmakar, Guwahati Monsoon Session: RT-PCR test for MPs MPs who are unable to take even a single dose of Covid-19 vaccination for various reasons will have to undergo an RT-PCR test prior to the start of the Monsoon Session of the Parliament and then undergo the test once in two weeks during the Session, according to the latest advisory. Those who have already received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine need not undergo the test prior to attending or during the Parliament Session, it says. Those who are yet to be vaccinated are being encouraged to get the jab at the earliest. However, those who have not completed three months after contracting the virus infection or for other reasons will have to undergo the RT-PCR tests. Shemin Joy, New Delhi Phone calls and Cabinet reshuffle Reasons for the removal of Ravi Shankar Prasad as IT and Law Minister and Prakash Javadekar as I&B Minister remain a mystery. On the day of the Cabinet reshuffle (July 7), most of the ministers received a call from BJP national president J P Nadda asking them to resign to make way for other leaders. Apparently, both Prasad and Javadekar received a phone call from the Nadda around 3 pm on Wednesday to submit their resignation immediately as both were preparing to go to Rashtrapathi Bhavan to attend the oath-taking ceremony. The BJP insiders say both may be given party work ahead of the elections in five states next year. Ajith Athrady, New Delhi Congress missing out on an opportunity The recent decision of Kitex Garments to backtrack from a Rs 3,500 crore investment proposal in Kerala alleging harassment by government agencies has triggered criticism against the ruling CPM-led LDF government for the anti-investor climate allegedly prevailing in the state. But the Opposition Congress-led UDF is not aggressive when it comes to criticising the government on the matter. This could be due to the allegations raised by senior Congress MLA P T Thomas against Kitex recently, especially with regard to polluting the water bodies near the company’s plant at Kizhakambalam on the outskirts of Kochi. Some other Congress MLAs were also reported to have raised complaints against Kitex. This may be a reason why the UDF seems to be in a dilemma that if they attack the government over the Kitex issue, it may invite criticisms of double standards. Arjun Raghunath, Thiruvananthapuram Priyanka relinquishing UP charge? The All India Congress Committee (AICC) is abuzz about the possibility of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra relinquishing the charge of Uttar Pradesh, where the Congress does not expect to do well in the upcoming Assembly elections early next year. Priyanka entered active politics ahead of the Lok Sabha elections in 2019 and was tasked with rejuvenating the party in Uttar Pradesh. The then Congress president Rahul Gandhi had also said that Priyanka’s task is the Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh in 2022 was tough. Under her charge, Rahul lost the Amethi Lok Sabha seat to Smriti Irani. Congress managers appear keen to shield Priyanka from being blamed for the party’s defeat in Uttar Pradesh and save the “trump card” for later. Sagar Kulkarni, New Delhi||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/off-the-record-july-12-1007624.html
12-07-2021||Panorama||Assess schools for better results||The government has affirmed its commitment to reform education through the National Education Policy (NEP). A key focus of the NEP is to transform assessments "from primarily testing rote-memorisation skills to one that is more diagnostic and tests higher-order skills."  To be effective, these reforms must percolate beyond the national and state-level and down to individual schools. The NEP has proposed examinations in classes 3, 5 and 8 that will test understanding of core concepts and higher-order skills. The results of these tests will be used for 'developmental purposes', implying support to teachers of these schools. Since close to 50 per cent of students in India study in private schools, a mechanism is needed so that these schools can be supported in the process and can take greater ownership of the reforms. Building on the NEP’s suggestion to assess and accredit all schools on the same benchmark, we propose a mechanism by which every non-government school will be required to participate in independent annual assessments conducted by an empanelled agency. The government would empanel these assessment agencies through a transparent process based on their research-based approach and track record of working with schools. Multiple agencies should be empanelled so that at least three are available to schools in every state. Thus, schools will necessarily have to undergo an external annual assessment but will have the flexibility to choose the agency.  Certain classes will be compulsorily assessed, though schools may voluntarily include other classes. Based on both absolute performance and improvement compared to the previous year, each school will be given a score. For the first three years, these scores will be shared only with the school and after that schools will be required to share them on their website and a state standards' website making the information transparent. Once the system is well-established, the government may consider allowing greater autonomy to higher-rated schools.  Students will be assessed in Mathematics, Science, the medium of instruction and optionally other subjects. Agencies will charge schools for these assessments within government-specified limits. On the question why would parents and schools agree to pay for these assessments? Parents will receive valuable information on their children's performance while schools will receive aggregated class-wise and comparative (anonymised) performance with other schools. Agencies would need to demonstrate value to win the school's trust. They can do this by being responsive to their questions, explaining how their assessments measure core learning and offering additional teacher workshops. The results will be based on statistical analyses of hundreds of school tests and this cannot be manipulated by a few schools or an agency.  All this is in line with the NEP's call to shift from "the overemphasis on inputs.. (while) incorporating educational outcomes and transparent disclosure in the assessment of schools." Currently, India may not have enough capable assessment agencies to support this initiative. This programme will lead to agencies developing these capacities. Governments would hold these agencies to high standards of rigour and integrity. Other countries too mandate schools to have learning outcomes regularly assessed by independent empanelled agencies. In Dubai, the Knowledge and Human Development Authority has empanelled agencies and mandated annual testing. Better-performing schools are allowed to charge higher fees.  The proposed mechanism can be a win-win-win for students, schools and the country. Students benefit because of the focus on learning in line with career goals. The best schools get recognised while all receive feedback that helps them improve. With no additional public expenditure, the country's assessment capabilities improve and stakeholders align towards improving student learning levels and skills. Reliable, anonymised data on student learning – invaluable for policy-making and research – gets generated. All of this will help achieve the NEP's vision of transforming assessments and improving student learning outcomes. (The writer is co-founder and chief learning officer, Educational Initiatives)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/assess-schools-for-better-results-1007911.html
12-07-2021||Panorama||On this farm, cows are in charge, or at least coequals||Tom will lay his head in the lap of anyone who sits down to rub his neck, while Tilda prefers just to nuzzle her young son. Cuddles are not really Chaya’s thing, but if she is in the mood, she will play pugnaciously with a bale of hay as if it is a giant ball. On any other farm, these three friends would no longer be alive. Tom was too small, Tilda too ill and Chaya too aggressive to survive on a modern industrial farm. Each was condemned to the slaughterhouse. Instead, the trio found their way to Hof Butenland, an ex-dairy farm turned animal retirement home that offers sanctuary to cattle, pigs, a few horses, chickens, geese and rescue dogs. No animal is there to serve a human need; all coexist as equals with Hof Butenland’s human residents and workers. “We need to think about how we can live differently, and we need to leave animals in peace,” said Karin Mück. She and her partner Jan Gerdes, both in their mid-60s, run Hof Butenland on the windswept flatlands of Germany’s Butjadingen peninsula, which juts into the North Sea. The idea of shifting away from meat and dairy products may sound revolutionary in a country better known for juicy bratwurst and Frisbee-sized schnitzel, along with afternoon indulgences of coffee topped with frothy milk and cheesecake. But Germans are consuming less meat — last year only 126 pounds per person, the lowest amount since 1989 — while the number of vegans has steadily increased to 2 million. Increasingly, even Germans who eat meat are purchasing vegan products as concerns over how livestock is kept are encouraging people to turn away from animal products, said Ulrich Hamm, a professor of agricultural sciences at Kassel University, who has studied trends in food consumption for decades. For the humans at Hof Butenland, the turn away from animals as commodities is not only a question of human morality but of planetary survival, given the role that industrial farms play in contributing greenhouse gases to the atmosphere. “For me, it is clear, if we want to save this planet, then we have to stop using and consuming animals,” Gerdes said over coffee, with a splash of oat milk. “We have the economic power to enact change, but we have to want it.” Gerdes took over Butenland from his father and introduced organic practices to the region in the 1980s. But even on an organic farm, he could not avoid what he called the “brutality” of how dairy cows are treated to produce milk: Removing newly born calves from their mothers, who for years are inseminated again and again. His discomfort with the process — and decades spent listening to calves cry out for their mothers — ultimately led Gerdes to quit the dairy business and adopt a policy of total egalitarianism for all the species calling the farm home. Now the animals are free to roam from the red brick barns built in 1841, down the tree-lined lane to the nearly 100 acres of grass-rich pasture and back again, at their own pace and on their own time. There are no milking hours to be met, and the pigs, buried deep in a pile of straw, regularly sleep long past noon. One of the pigs is Frederick, whose stall opens onto a shady yard with a muddy pond that he and three other swine friends share with the geese. He was found after tumbling from a trailer packed with piglets bound to become suckling pigs. The driver, contacted by police, scoffed at the idea of turning back for one lost animal, so he was brought instead to Hof Butenland. Now he snores snout-on-snout with Rosa-Mariechen, rescued seven years earlier from the corner of a feedlot, suffering from pneumonia and infected wounds from rat bites. Their stall mates — Eberhard and his son, Winfried — were rescued from a university research lab where experiments left them nearly deaf and blind. Lab animals have a special place in the heart of Mück, who spent weeks in solitary confinement in 1985 on suspicion of building a terrorist group, after she was caught breaking into a lab to free animals being used for experiments. Alone in her cell, she had a revelation. “One day I realized, it is the same thing that happens to the animals,” she said. “You don’t see the sun, you are separated from your friends, you have no idea what is going on around you, and you have no control over your own life.” After 20 years working as a psychiatric nurse, she met Gerdes just as he was preparing to quit farming and sell off Hof Butenland, including his herd. But when a trailer came to collect the cattle, a dozen did not fit. Gerdes turned them back out to pasture and decided to leave them there, undisturbed, for good. The sanctuary was born. To finance their undertaking, the pair initially rented out vacation apartments. Many guests wanted to donate to help support the animals, leading Gerdes and Mück to set up the Hof Butenland foundation that now serves as the financial backbone for their operations. Social media channels are filled with videos of Chaya playing; other cows dozing in the sun; and Hope, the gander (originally believed to be a goose), picking through Mück’s pockets. These clips have drawn a loyal fan base of donors, and the funds are enough to cover monthly vet bills, two workers and overhead costs. Electricity is generated on-site from a 1980s-era wind turbine. Packages arrive at random, addressed to a cow or to Omic, a Pekingese mix recently rescued from Romania. They hold feed bowls, treats and handwritten notes in envelopes that often include a 20-euro bill. Sponsors can sign up for group tours held twice a month, but uninvited visitors usually do not get past the gate. “We are called a retirement home for cows,” Mück said. “You don’t show up at a nursing home to pet the grandmas; why would it be any different here?” A neighbour, Henning Hedden, 60, is a second-generation farmer who now rents his land to a young man running a conventional dairy with 90 cows. He has come to accept the Hof Butenland project and regularly stops by for a coffee and a chat, although he insists, “I’m still going to eat meat.” Many neighbours who maintain working dairies argue their cows are healthy, well-treated and still able to meet the country’s still enormous demand for dairy. Some also view the farm’s philosophy as a threat to their livelihoods. “If we just cuddled the cows, it would be OK,” said Mück. “But what the other farmers don’t like is that we criticize the system.” Each week, dozens of people telephone, asking the sanctuary to rescue a farm animal. But the waiting list is long. Kristina Berning, 21, did not know this seven years ago when she gathered her courage and called to ask if they would let her bring Ellie, a cow from her father’s dairy farm she was trying to save from slaughter. Initially, Mück refused — they did not have room — but the girl’s love for Ellie wore her down. In 2015, Ellie joined the herd. But tears of joy turned to tears of sadness two days later when Ellie, 13, collapsed and had to be euthanized. Berning spent the night in the pasture stroking the cow and saying her final goodbye. “I’m just glad that I could be with her,” she said. “I think it was important, for both of us.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/on-this-farm-cows-are-in-charge-or-at-least-coequals-1007924.html
12-07-2021||Panorama||The Tuesday Interview | 'One dose of vectored vaccine for all first is not a bad strategy'||One of India’s foremost virologists, Gagandeep Kang, a professor at the Christian Medical College (CMC), Vellore, has been closely associated with Covid-related research and policy initiatives from the beginning. Since last year, Kang, the first Indian woman scientist to be elected a Fellow of the Royal Society, has been an ex-officio member of a working group on Covid-19 vaccines established by the Strategic Advisory Group of Experts at WHO. In an interview with DH’s Kalyan Ray, the noted scientist talks about the expected third wave, the Delta variant and India’s vaccination strategy. When do you think the third wave will happen, and will it be as ferocious as the second? The third wave would depend on our behaviour. If we have people who don’t pay attention to masking and crowding norms because restrictions on movement have been lifted, there is a strong chance of a third wave. But given the fact that a very large proportion of our population has already been infected, if we are careful, we may not have a bad third wave. If we get a new variant and if it is highly transmissible or if it can break through the immune response, then the chances (of a severe third wave) are high. Otherwise, the chances are that we won’t have a bad third wave. Respiratory viruses generally like the cold dry weather, mostly winters, and this virus is behaving reasonably similar to that. In winter, we could see a potential increase driven by weather and people’s behaviour. Do you think that Delta or Delta Plus variants will continue to have a role? At the moment, Delta is the most transmissible virus that we have. Delta Plus does not seem to be any different from Delta, though we haven’t seen enough cases of Delta plus. It does not appear to be a cause for concern. The same mutation that makes Delta into Delta Plus also happened in Alpha (variant), but we didn’t call it Alpha Plus. It did not behave differently from Alpha. What we find in the laboratory from sequence data can predict danger but doesn’t prove it. The proof has to come from people and the population. Though we see reports that for Delta, the antibodies are less and (vaccines) won’t protect, when we look at the actual data, people have been protected quite well from severe disease and death. The final proof always comes from field studies on people. Typically, how long does it take for a virus to mutate into a dangerous form? These are RNA viruses. They are mutating all the time. Since the mutations are random events, they can go into many different directions. There can be mutations that make no difference, mutations that are bad and mutations that are good for the virus, allowing them to be replicated even in people who have been vaccinated. The mutations that allow the virus to escape the immunity and give better transmissibility matter for the virus. As the virus is in so many people, it has multiplied trillions of times, but we began to see mutated viruses in December. Many such mutations were present earlier, but they reached a take-off point to spread in the population in December. Since then, we have seen five such viruses in seven months. To predict how often we are going to see mutants that are of concern to us, we need to see how many (Covid-19) cases we see in the world. Though we have some element of control, right now we are at a stage where we see half a million new infections every day and most of them are driven by Delta. The world will go through such a Delta wave at least for another two-three months. Is there any way to prevent the evolution of Delta into a more dangerous variant? The only way to prevent evolution is to check replication. If we stop the virus from multiplying, that’s the only way to suppress the virus’s ability to mutate. But to see what the future might look like we need more virological studies and sero-surveys that would tell us how much of the population is exposed. In India, we have done sero-surveys either for individual cities or in 70 out of 700 districts. But now, we should tell the individual states to do their own sero-surveys and use that to make their own decisions on vaccination. So far, breakthrough infections have been seen primarily among healthcare workers. Is it possible that more such infections are going to be seen in the general population? Of course. The question is, will they be picked up? If you have a mild infection and if you are a healthcare worker, it’s easy to get tested. But if you are in the general population, then the chances of getting tested for a mild infection is less. The other question is to consider whether breakthrough infections will increase with time. The protection from vaccines is very good initially, but will breakthrough infections start in six months or a year or in two years’ time? We would not know until we track them. Does a single dose of vaccine work as there are reports claiming that both doses are necessary? The data is showing that a single dose of vaccine works. The global thinking is that we should give one dose of vaccine to everybody around the world before we think of the second dose. Yes, it’s important to get the second dose, particularly for those who are vulnerable. But for the general population, even one dose offers good protection. We know from the UK data that one dose of AstraZeneca vaccine (same as Covishield) gives 71 per cent protection against severe disease and hospitalisation. It’s much better than what we had hoped for last year. The only question I have is that with inactivated vaccines (like Covaxin) we don’t understand the single-dose regimen better. For a vectored vaccine, a single dose for everyone first (before starting the second dose round) is not a bad strategy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-tuesday-interview-one-dose-of-vectored-vaccine-for-all-first-is-not-a-bad-strategy-1007926.html
12-07-2021||Right in the Middle||Dilip Kumar: The 'Kohinoor' that stayed in India||Whenever the conversation veered towards Indian cinema, my husband would ask my son, “hey, put on the video of Dilip Kumar and Noor Jehan." The tête-à-tête between the two legends, Yusuf Saab and "Mallika-e- Tarannum", is one the most endearing exchanges that I have come across. It became a ritual in our household, played ad nauseam. And it was watched again on July 7, 2021, when the news of the thespian’s demise came in. This time with moist eyes and choked murmurs. Kumar was a find of Devika Rani, who rechristened the young Muhammad Yusuf Khan Dilip Kumar, echoing the mood of the times. Herself a RADA product, she took him under her wings and the method actor who had no formal training set the near-impossible gold standard for histrionics in Indian cinematic firmament in the years to come.  The dashing 'Pathan', looking dapper in formal shirts and baggy trousers with the sweater casually tied around his neck set many a heart aflutter in Madhumati. The Bimal Roy classic with him as the hero, Pran as the villain and Jayanth in a character role set the scales unattainably high for cinematic excellence. His Howard Roark-ish (of Ayn Rand fame) on-screen persona made him the darling of the masses, especially with his female audience. In K Asif’s magnum opus, Mughal-e Azam, his on-screen clash with another Peshawari, Prithviraj Kapoor was titanic and sparks flew, for everyone to see. Kapoor’s thunderous oration was perfectly foiled by Kumar’s nuanced brooding glances, quizzical looks, silences, a twitch here, a blink there. Though barely talking to the timeless Madhubala, his lady love in the movie due to the Naya Daur court case, their romantic chemistry was riveting, to say the least. “Tum mujhe yaad karte ho ya nahin? (Do you think of me?)” she asked him once when in hospital. “Agar yaad nahin karta, toh kaise aata tumhare bulane par (If I didn't remember you, how else did I come to see you when you called),” the affable star comforted the ailing diva and stayed with her for an hour, recounts Madhur Bhasin, Madhubala’s sister. Kumar through his characters told the story of India as it unfolded after independence… The young nation’s tryst with destiny. He mirrored the aspirations and anxieties of every Indian, making him relatable.  “I can never forget his generosity in giving his time to help raise funds for SKMTH (the trust Pakistan PM Imran Khan set up in his mother’s memory) when the project was launched… his appearance in Pak and London helped raise huge amounts,” tweeted the Pakistan PM, remembering the veritable legend. The Padma Vibhushan awardee was probably the last of the cultural icons of pre-partitioned India, his heart beating for people on both sides of the border. He effortlessly transcended those man-made boundaries. The Kohinoor that, however, stayed in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/dilip-kumar-the-kohinoor-that-stayed-in-india-1007619.html
12-07-2021||Right in the Middle||The timing conundrum||I can recollect several instances of going out for something important. The occasion and importance of the impending event overwhelm my mental space. I am in no mood or frame of mind to meet anyone before I get done with what I am going for. However, it almost looks like the ‘whole world’ has lined up to talk to me just; that is exactly what I don’t want to do. Then there are instances where one is wishing and hoping not to bump into a certain person who one would want to avoid at all costs and yet that is the very person who suddenly seems omnipresent. Did I get my timing wrong?  Timing is a funny thing. I have often found myself at the receiving end of ‘timing’. There have been countless instances where I am looking forward to watching a match or a favourite program sitting in the comfort of my home on a certain day. Yet in ways I have never quite understood, meetings, invitations, guest visits and what have you all seem to end up quite diabolically on that very day I did not want these to happen. The message of the book Secret wherein it is said that what you think and wish for fervently happens, dawns on me once again, although in this case in a ‘sinister fashion. There are instances wherein my phone lies around in a moribund and lifeless state and just when I am beginning to enjoy the culinary delights of a hot fresh meal, it starts ringing. There is an important meeting in the office. I am alone at home and already running late. The doorbell rings and I find that it is the milkman. No sooner than I am done with him, the bell rings again and this time it is the maid. With some difficulty, I do a ‘Houdini act’, break free from the diurnal visitors only to find myself in the midst of bumper-to-bumper traffic. Besides, all the red lights right till the office seem to be in one of those rare ‘exuberant’ display modes. We have all heard about the importance of timing. However if one gets the timing wrong, one is almost assured of embarrassment if not failure. I have often agonised over whether there is anything I can do to befriend timing and increase the law of probability of the same in my favour. I have not yet found an answer and neither am I sure whether an answer to this conundrum can be found.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-timing-conundrum-1007909.html
12-07-2021||Second Edit||Illegality in the name of God||Religious places and structures are places for free and unhindered worship by the public, but there is no reason and justification for building them illegally on public land. This should be clear to anyone who has civic sense and is aware of the intent of laws, but the principle is wantonly violated in every part of the country. Courts have taken note of this and the Karnataka High Court’s admonition of the BBMP for its failure to demolish illegal religious structures built on public land in Bengaluru is only the latest expression of displeasure by the court over the matter. The BBMP submitted to the court that it had demolished only three out of 277 illegal structures in the city. This showed gross failure on the civic body’s part to implement repeated court orders to remove such illegal structures. The court has now directed state Chief Secretary Ravi Kumar and BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta to file affidavits on compliance with the Supreme Court’s and its own orders in the case of illegal structures in the state and in the city. The Supreme Court had ordered the removal of illegal religious structures from public land in 2009 and had directed the high courts in 2018 to ensure compliance with the order by state and civic authorities. In Bengaluru, the BBMP has totally failed to implement the orders. In the third survey of such properties, it found that there were 2,170 illegal structures and 277 of them, built after the Supreme Court’s cut-off date of September 29, 2009, were to be demolished. Its first survey had found only 17 illegal structures. The second survey found 251. The court rejected both. The BBMP has now been found wanting the third time too. Encroachment of public property for any purpose, including the construction of a religious structure, is wrong and cannot be condoned. The encroachment is done by both individuals and organisations, and the religious places are often used for private profit. There is political support and patronage for such endeavours, and it is likely that it is political pressure that is restraining the BBMP. Such constructions are sometimes deliberately put up to stop civic constructions like laying or widening of roads and other facilities. Sometimes, they cause traffic hazards and often inconvenience people. At times, they cause communal strife. Such wrong and illegal constructions also hinder planned development and the best utilisation of space. The court should ensure that its orders are implemented by officials on pain of penalties including an action for contempt of court. The rule of law demands compliance with court orders, and officials should not be allowed to get away with violations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/illegality-in-the-name-of-god-1007618.html
12-07-2021||Second Edit||Rescind move to thwart transparency||In a move that is certain to open the floodgates of corruption, the state cabinet recently approved an amendment to the Karnataka Transparency in Public Procurements (KTPP) Act exempting the Karnataka Rural Infrastructure Development Limited (KRIDL) from calling for tenders for works of up to Rs 2 crore. With this, the government has defeated the very purpose of the Act, which came into effect in the year 2000 with the objective of plugging irregularities in the process government bodies inviting, processing and accepting tenders. The Act, by its stringent provisions, had come in the way of MLAs and ministers awarding lucrative projects to their minions as the tendering process not only provided for a level of fairness but also ensured that a portion of the contracts went to the underprivileged sections in rural areas. The fact that the cabinet approved the amendment disregarding the strong opinion from the Advocate-General (A-G) that it would be contrary to law only indicates the pressure the government might be facing from vested interests. The cabinet has also ignored the A-G’s warning that a petition questioning a similar decision in the past is pending before the High Court. Even before the proposal was placed before the cabinet, small contractors for whom local projects had provided a lifeline had opposed the move fearing it would deprive them of their source of livelihood as the amendment would enable authorities to pick their favourites, especially the big fish from the city. It is also feared that this will rob SC/ST contractors of their jobs as at present about 25 per cent of projects below Rs 50 lakh are reserved for them. Senior officers have also pointed out that this decision could set a precedent as other departments, too, would seek similar exemptions, thereby rendering the transparency law redundant. It is perhaps a sign of brazenness that the government has taken this repugnant step at a time when it being accused of corruption and nepotism by ruling party legislators themselves. Ironically, KRIDL is under the purview of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa who had recently complained to the Governor that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa was not following due process in governance. The amendment will only vitiate the tendering process and draw a smokescreen around the awarding of projects worth crores of rupees. It appears that the sole purpose of the amendment is to facilitate corruption and not to serve any public good. The government should pay heed to the A-G and its own bureaucrats and rescind the decision immediately.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/rescind-move-to-thwart-transparency-1007913.html
12-07-2021||South||Supreme head of Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church of India passes away||The Supreme Head of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church of India, Moran Mor Baselios Marthoma Paulose II, died at Pathanamthitta district in Kerala on Monday. He was 74. The Catholica Bawa, as he was fondly known, was under treatment for post-Covid-19 ailments. He was also being treated for cancer. A native of Thrissur district, he was enthroned as the Catholicos of the East and Malankara Metropolitan on November 1, 2010. He was the 91st Primate on the Apostolic Throne of St Thomas and the eighth Catholicos of the East in Malankara The funeral services will be held at the Catholicate Aramana Chapel at Devalokam in Kottayam district in the afternoon. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in his condolence message that Catholicos Bawa was always in the forefront for helping those in distress and he also played a key role in bringing women to the forefront of the administration of churches.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/supreme-head-of-malankara-orthodox-syrian-church-of-india-passes-away-1007595.html
12-07-2021||South||No intention of joining politics in future: Rajinikanth dissolves Rajini Makkal Mandram||Tamil superstar Rajinikanth on Monday dissolved Rajini Makkal Mandram, which was formed as a precursor to his political party, and made a categorical announcement that he has no intention of donning the hat of a politician in the future. The statement puts at rest any doubts among Rajinikanth’s fans that he may take the political plunge in the future. The actor, who returned from the United States three days back after completing his medical check-up, made the announcement after meeting the office-bearers of the RMM at his Raghavendra Kalyana Mandapam here. “I had decided to take the political plunge and form a political party. That could not happen due to a range of reasons. I have no intention of joining politics in the future. I hereby inform you that I have decided to dissolve the Rajini Makkal Mandram. The office-bearers of the RMM would continue to be part of Rajinikanth Fan Club Association,” Rajinikanth said. He added that the Rajinikanth Fan Club Association would go continue its public service in its old avatar. After announcing that he would contest the next assembly elections on the last day of 2017, Rajinikanth converted his fan clubs into Rajini Makkal Mandram which enrolled lakhs of people into the organization. A series of issues, including his health, forced Rajinikanth to opt out of politics months before Tamil Nadu went to the polls in April 2021. After a definite announcement that he will announce the name of his political party on December 31, Rajinikanth released a statement two days earlier expressing his inability to form a party owing to his ill health. In the statement on Monday, Rajinikanth recalled that RMM was formed as a precursor to his political party. Though Rajinikanth made it clear in January this year that he had no intention of going back on his “no-politics” stand, the actor’s fans have been speculating on his next move. Rajinikanth’s political entry was keenly awaited by the BJP which suffered heartbreak on the day he announced his decision not to take the political plunge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-intention-of-joining-politics-in-future-rajinikanth-dissolves-rajini-makkal-mandram-1007651.html
12-07-2021||South||Kerala police to receive counselling to relieve stress||Police personnel need not suffer mental stress anymore in Kerala as the Home Department has launched a special programme to help them relieve their tensions in personal and professional life. Amidst reports of law investigators suffering from psychological stress, an official statement said those who need the support can seek expert counselling at the HATS (Help and Assistance to Tackle Stress) centre. HATS is a programme envisaged to identify those officers and personnel suffering from stress and to provide them counselling with the help of experts, it said. Those who suffer any stress related to personal and professional life are free to call on the Centre's designated number and the service of expert psychologists and counsellors would be available to them there. The period of counselling would be considered as the official duty performed by them and they would be sanctioned eligible TA/DA for attending counselling sessions, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-police-to-receive-counselling-to-relieve-stress-1007735.html
12-07-2021||South||Merchants in Kozhikode street protest over not being allowed to open shops||Merchants of S M Street or Mittai Theruvu in Kozhikode protested outside their shops on Monday morning against the bar on opening their establishments as the area falls in category C having a test positivity rate of 10 to 15 per cent. The shopkeepers claimed their businesses have been shut for the last two months and now it was becoming difficult to survive. However, district administration and police officers told the media that as the area falls in category C — places with a Covid test positivity rate (TPR) of 10 to 15 per cent — shops cannot be allowed to open in the area. Areas below TPR of 5 per cent are included in category A, those with 5 to 10 per cent are included in category B and areas with 10 to 15 per cent are included in category C and those above 15 per cent will be in category D. The officials also said that the protestors should follow the Covid protocols and not gather in such large numbers. The merchants on the other hand, said if liquor vends, where overcrowding can be seen, are being allowed to run, then why not shops and added that they will run their businesses by following all Covid protocols. On Sunday, there were 1,428 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection in Kozhikode. The protest began after police intervened to stop the opening of shops at S M Street, abbreviation for Sweetmeat Street, also known as Mittai Theruvu. The protesting shopkeepers said they were under huge debts and if they are not allowed to run their businesses, then they may have to resort to suicide as they are finding it difficult to survive presently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/merchants-in-kozhikode-street-protest-over-not-being-allowed-to-open-shops-1007766.html
12-07-2021||South||Kerala Industries Dept like 'frog in the well': Kitex Chairman Sabu Jacob||Dubbing the Kerala Industries department as a 'frog in the well', unaware of the investor-friendly atmosphere in other states, Kitex Group Chairman Sabu Jacob on Monday said Telangana has offered many incentives for his venture and assured no 'inspections' would be carried out. The Telangana government has offered cheap land, water and electricity for investors, which was unlike the attitude of the Kerala Industries Department, he told reporters here. "They are like a frog in the well and unaware of the investor-friendly atmosphere in other states," he said. On apprehensions of inspections, like 11 carried out in his units in Kerala in 30 days, he said the Telangana government assured him that no official would trouble any industry in that regard. They informed him that inspections would be held once in two or three years and that too with the knowledge of the Principal Secretary or the minister concerned. "Even that will be informed well in advance after getting our permission and as per our convenience only," Jacob said. He was told that even if any lapses were found during the inspection, steps would be taken to rectify it at the governmental level and not publish it to "defame and let the business run into losses". Jacob termed his discussions with Telangana Industries Minister K T R Rama Rao as "like a talk with the CEO of the state". He said Kerala's claim of a "single-window" clearance for investors was an "outdated system" as other states had implemented it around 25 years ago. "Kerala says we have single-window clearance. It's an outdated one. We are still discussing this method which was implemented by other states at least 25 years ago. Neither the Kerala government nor its officials know how well other states or countries are treating investors there and are only claiming that the state is investment friendly." The Kitex group head also said that the main allegation against his business was that it was a polluting industry. "But the minister (Telangana) said it was a psychological issue and whatever technology we use, the people and civil society would find it difficult to accept. He said it was the government's responsibility and asked us not to worry about the treatment of wastewater and they would handle it." Meanwhile, Leader of the Opposition in the Kerala assembly, V D Satheeshan asked Kitex officials to refrain from making statements that they would leave the state. "We don't want Kitex to leave Kerala. The management should refrain from spreading such campaigns. The government should take steps to resolve their issues," Satheeshan said. The Left government has been probing charges of four Congress MLAs and has said that the inspections were a result of various complaints to the National Human Rights Commission, Kerala High Court and other authorities against the company. Alleging harassment by the Kerala government officials, Jacob had in June end said his group was withdrawing its Rs 3,500 crore project from the state. The Kerala government had said that it has an "open approach" towards issues raised by the Kitex group, even as the company stuck to its decision to back out from investing in the state, with its chairman alleging that he was being "hounded and kicked out." "The government is still open...issues can be discussed with investors and take things forward," Industries Minister P Rajeev had told reporters in Thiruvananthapuram on Friday. He was responding to Jacob's statement that he was not leaving his home state on his own, but was being "hounded and kicked out."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-industries-dept-like-frog-in-the-well-kitex-chairman-sabu-jacob-1007772.html
12-07-2021||South||One more tests positive for Zika virus; 19 cases now in Kerala||A 73-year-old woman tested positive for Zika virus in Kerala on Monday, taking the total number of infections in the state to 19. Health Minister Veena George said the virus was detected in a sample sent to a Coimbatore-based laboratory by a private hospital where the woman was being treated. At the same time, five samples sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) unit at Alappuzha tested negative for the virus, she said in a release. On Sunday, three people, including a toddler, were foundinfected with Zika, following which the government arranged 2,100 test kits for testing facilitiesat four medical colleges in the state. The testing facilities have been arranged at Thiruvananthapuram, Thrissur and Kozhikode Medical colleges and at NIV, Alappuzha. The Minister on Sunday had said that hospitals had been instructed to test those patients, especially pregnant women, with fever, rashes and body pain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/one-more-tests-positive-for-zika-virus-19-cases-now-in-kerala-1007804.html
12-07-2021||South||Tamil Nadu all-party meeting opposes Mekedatu project; asks Centre to reject it||Speaking in one voice, an all-party meeting convened by Tamil Nadu Chief M K Stalin on Monday passed a unanimous resolution asking the Union Government not to sanction permission to Karnataka for construction of a reservoir in Mekedatu across River Cauvery. Representatives of 13 political parties that participated in the meeting expressed their “support and cooperation” to the government in its efforts to stop Karnataka from going ahead with the project. The meeting also said the state would continue to pursue all legal options including the case vis-à-vis Mekedatu in the Supreme Court. The meeting also resolved those representatives of the political parties will travel to New Delhi to personally hand over the resolution to the Union Government (Prime Minister Narendra Modi or Union Minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat). The two-hour-long meeting began with a detailed speech by Stalin in which he emphasized that the state has much to lose if Karnataka goes ahead with the construction of the dam and concluded with three unanimous resolutions being adopted. “The Supreme Court verdict is clear that no construction across River Cauvery should be taken up without consulting the lower riparian states. Karnataka fast-tracking its efforts to construct the reservoir despite the ruling is condemnable and the move will affect farmers of Tamil Nadu. “Karnataka’s action amounts to challenging the rule of law as enshrined in the Constitution. Therefore, the meeting appeals to departments concerned of the Union Government not to grant any permission vis-à-vis Mekedatu to Karnataka,” one of the resolutions passed by the meeting read. The all-party meeting came in the backdrop of Karnataka asserting that it will go ahead with the construction of a reservoir at Mekedatu across Cauvery despite strong opposition from Tamil Nadu. In his speech, Stalin rejected Karnataka’s claims that the reservoir will not affect Tamil Nadu and its farmers and asserted that the state will never allow a dam to be built across the river which flows through Tamil Nadu after beginning its journey in Tala Cauvery in Kodagu in Karnataka. The Chief Minister stressed it was imperative that political parties in Tamil Nadu demonstrate their unity on their issue not “just to Karnataka but also to the Union Government.” “There is not even an iota of truth in Karnataka’s claims that the Mekedatu dam will not affect Tamil Nadu. The truth is farmers of the state will be affected by o the project…Karnataka does not release water every month as stipulated by the Government. The state has the habit of just releasing excess water,” Stalin complained. He also said Tamil Nadu cannot accept Karnataka’s contention that the reservoir was being built to meet the drinking water needs of Bengaluru city. He contended that the project if implemented, will have a cascading effect on the livelihood of Tamil Nadu farmers as the water flows will get interrupted if a new reservoir comes up across Cauvery. “Cauvery does not belong to Karnataka alone. Tamil Nadu possesses equal rights over the river and in fact, Cauvery runs through for a longer distance in the state,” the Chief Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-all-party-meeting-opposes-mekedatu-project-asks-centre-to-reject-it-1007836.html
12-07-2021||South||Abhaya murder case: Parole granted to convicted priest and nun||Parole granted to a priest and a nun convicted in the Sister Abhaya murder case of Kerala is becoming controversial as it was suspected that the parole was granted to the influential convicts under the cover of measures to decongest prisons during Covid-19. The Kerala High Court on Monday issued notice to the Kerala government and the Prison Authorities on the matter based on a petition filed by human rights activist Jomon Puthenpurackal, who has been pursuing the Abhaya murder case for nearly three decades. Sister Abhaya was found dead in the well of St Pious X convent in Kottayam district in 1992 and the accused Father Thomas Kottoor and Sister Sephy were convicted to a life term in December 2020- 28 years after the murder. In May this year, the two were granted 90 days parole by the Director-General of Prions. After the matter became controversial, the prison authorities maintained that the parole was granted as per the recommendation of a high power committee set up as per Supreme Court direction to decongest prisons in view of Covid-19. But the committee clarified that it did not recommend parole to life-term convicts and the parole to the two were granted as per the order of the state government. Subsequently, Puthenpurackal approached the High Court urging that the parole to the two should be cancelled. The fresh row has triggered allegations that the two convicts managed to get parole owing to the influence of the church on the government. Despite several attempts to scuttle the probe, the CBI proved that Abhaya, who was a second-year pre-degree student of Kottayam BCM College, happened to see the accused in a compromising position when she came to the kitchen to drink water during the late hours. Subsequently, she was murdered by hitting using an axe and her body was dumped in the well of the convent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/abhaya-murder-case-parole-granted-to-convicted-priest-and-nun-1007867.html
12-07-2021||South||To remove hesitancy, Telangana Governor Soundararajan takes Covid-19 vaccine in a tribal hamlet||To dispel the myths about immunization and remove the hesitancy among the common people, Telangana Governor Dr Tamilisai Soundararajan took the second dose of her Covid-19 vaccine in a tribal hamlet. Raj Bhavan officials said the governor was concerned about the reports indicating a low percentage of vaccination among the tribal people. So, on Monday, Dr Soundararajan got her Covishield second dose along with the women of KC Thanda, a tribal habitation in Maheshwaram near Hyderabad. In her speech in Telugu at the event, the governor motivated the tribal people to get vaccinated in order to protect themselves from the Covid-19 pandemic. The presence of the governor, officials said, got the locals interested in getting vaccinated at the centre set up for the purpose. “Indigenous vaccine development is a big achievement for us. Even many developed countries do not have their own vaccine,” the governor said in reference to the homegrown Covaxin of the biotech firm Bharat Biotech, based in Hyderabad. “We have helped many countries by supplying them Covid-19 vaccines. We are witnessing the world’s largest vaccination in our country,” she added. The governor appealed that “each one of us should play the role of a vaccine ambassador motivating others to get vaccinated after their turn.” “I am positive that the tribal people across the state will now come forward to get vaccinated. I hope this tribal habitation will be 100 per cent covered in a couple of days,” she said. About 1.23 crore doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered in Telangana till now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/to-remove-hesitancy-telangana-governor-soundararajan-takes-covid-19-vaccine-in-a-tribal-hamlet-1007874.html
12-07-2021||South||AIADMK to boycott TV debates||Tamil Nadu’s principal opposition party, AIADMK, on Monday, decided not to send its representatives to television debates accusing television channels of “choosing topics” that bring “disrepute” to the party and its leaders. In a joint statement, AIADMK coordinator O Panneerselvam and joint coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami accused the media of not discussing people’s problems in their debates. They said representatives of the AIADMK will not participate in television debates and asked the news channels not to invite “others” and brand them as its representatives. “Instead of discussing people’s problems, the media channels are choosing topics for debates that “belittle and bring disrepute” to the AIADMK and its leaders. The action of the channels is against media ethics. It is very sad that such topics are chosen for debates,” OPS-EPS said in the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-to-boycott-tv-debates-1007875.html
12-07-2021||South||Girl choked to death while eating mixture||A day after a one and a half-year-old child at Kasargod died with a beetle found in the windpipe, a six-year-old girl died following choking caused while eating mixture. Niveditha, daughter of Rajesh and Kavita couple of Thiruvananthapuram's Thrikannapuram, died on Sunday evening. Her family told the police that she suffered uneasiness following choking caused by the mixture she was eating. Though she was rushed to a nearby hospital, life could not be saved. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/girl-choked-to-death-while-eating-mixture-1007895.html
12-07-2021||South||Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church head passes away||Supreme Head of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church of India, Moran Mor Baselios Marthoma Paulose II, passed away at Pathanamthitta district in Kerala on Monday. He was 74. The Catholica Bawa, as he was fondly known, was under treatment for post-Covid-19 ailments. He was also under treatment for cancer. A native of Thrissur district, he was enthroned as the Catholicos of the East and Malankara Metropolitan on November 1, 2010. He was the 91st Primate on the Apostolic Throne of St. Thomas and the eighth Catholicos of the East in Malankara. Funeral services will be held at Catholicate Aramana chapel at Devalokam in Kottayam district on Tuesday afternoon. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in his condolence message that Baselios Marthoma Paulose II left behind a rich legacy of service and compassion. Saddened by the passing away of His Holiness Moran Mar Baselios Marthoma Paulos II, the Supreme Head of Indian Orthodox Church. He leaves behind a rich legacy of service and compassion. In this hour of grief, my thoughts are with the members of the Orthodox Church. RIP. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that Catholicos Bawa was always at the forefront for helping those in distress and he also played a key role in bringing women to the forefront of the administration of churches. Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan and opposition leader V D Satheesan were among the others who condoled the death of Baselios Marthoma Paulose II. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/malankara-orthodox-syrian-church-head-passes-away-1007904.html
12-07-2021||South||Women's Commission member's smiling selfie triggers row in Kerala||Close on the heels of Kerala Women's Commission chairperson M C Josephine's resignation, a member of the commission landed in trouble after she posted a selfie picture of being in a jovial mood while travelling to high range in Idukki district of Kerala to meet the family of a minor girl who was raped and murdered. Women's Commission member Shahida Kamal has invited widespread criticism on social media after she posted her picture travelling to Vandiperiyar in Idukki to meet the family of a six-year-old girl who was allegedly raped and murdered by local youth. She posted her smiling picture while travelling in a car with the heading 'Traveling to Vandiperiyar'. Vandiperiyar is close to the popular tourist spot Thekkady. The post invited criticism that the Women's Commission member was on a leisure trip to Vandiperiyar. Subsequently, Kamal, who is a Congress turned CPM leader, withdrew the post with a clarification that she used to try to suppress sadness with a smile. The Vandiperiyar rape-murder case is already caught up in a political row as the accused Arjun is a DYFI worker. He was suspected to have sexually abused the child in his neighbourhood several times. She was murdered after she fell unconscious following a sexual assault and her body was hanged in the house. Meanwhile, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights also registered a case suo motu in the incident and sought a report from the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/womens-commission-members-smiling-selfie-triggers-row-in-kerala-1007925.html
12-07-2021||South||Kerala traveller to be India's first space tourist aboard Virgin Galactic||As Virgin Galactic's space passenger flight took off, the hopes of Kerala-based traveller Santosh George Kulangara to explore space is also nearing fulfilment. He was selected for the flight after rigorous training including zero-gravity training at Kennedy Space Centre and more is expected to begin soon. He also did a travelogue of his initial training sessions. He said that the schedule for the flights is tentative. A native of Marangattuppilly in Kottayam district, Kulangara is well known for his travelogues. He visited about 130 countries and also runs Safari Television channel apart from heading Labour India Publications that brings out educational materials. Kulangara's travelogues were well known for their in-depth coverage and narration. They won several honours for Kulangara, who is now aged about 50. His travelogue titled 'Sancharam' (meaning travel) was being published in television channels since 2001. He started Safari TV in 2013. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-traveller-to-be-indias-first-space-tourist-aboard-virgin-galactic-1007936.html
12-07-2021||South||2 Maldivian women to be heard in Kerala ex-DGP's bail plea||A court in Thiruvananthapuram considering the anticipatory bail plea of Kerala former DGP Siby Mathews accused in the ISRO espionage conspiracy case would be hearing those who were accused in the espionage case, including the two Maldivian women. Hearing the anticipatory bail pleas of Mathews, Thiruvananthapuram principal sessions judge P Krishnakumar said that ISRO former scientist Nambi Narayana and Maldivian women Mariyam Rasheeda and Fousiya Hasan would be also heard before deciding on the petition. All the three had filed impleadment applications opposing the anticipatory bail of Mathews. Mathews and 17 others, including former Kerala Police and IB officials, were arraigned in the conspiracy case registered by CBI as per the Supreme Court directive. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/2-maldivian-women-to-be-heard-in-kerala-ex-dgps-bail-plea-1007948.html
12-07-2021||State||Kerala SRTC resumes Bengaluru service||Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) resumed the Thiruvananthapuram-Bengaluru services from Sunday. The services were suspended on April 9 owing to Covid-19. Bus timings and reservation are available on the website www.online.keralartc.com or 'Ente KSRTC' mobile application.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kerala-srtc-resumes-bengaluru-service-1007577.html
12-07-2021||State||No plan for population control measure: Karnataka Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai||Karnataka Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday said the BJP government in the state had no plans to roll out an Uttar Pradesh-like population control law while adding that a decision will be taken after “discussion and deliberation”. Uttar Pradesh Law Commission has released a draft proposal on population control that seeks to exclude people with more than two children from availing government schemes, with incentives for those with less than two offspring. “These are policy matters that need to be discussed and deliberated upon,” Bommai said. “Population control has been there for a long time. There’s also family planning, which is different from incentivizing population control. It has to be deliberated. We will take a call,” Bommai said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-plan-for-population-control-measure-karnataka-law-minister-basavaraj-bommai-1007809.html
12-07-2021||State||HC upholds Karnataka govt's decision to conduct SSLC exams on Jul 19 and 22||The Karnataka High Court on Monday upheld the state government's decision to conduct the Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) or the 10th standard exam for the current academic year on July 19 and 22. The division bench, comprising Justices B V Nagarathna and Hanchate Sanjeevkumar dismissed the petition by S V Singre Gowda, who had challenged holding of the exam on the grounds that the Covid-19 pandemic was not yet over. He had argued that the government had cancelled the Pre- University College Second year exam. Advocate General Prabhuling Navadgi explained all the precautionary measures taken by the education department for the smooth conduct of the exam. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said that by dismissing the petition, the High Court has rewarded the state government's decision to conduct the exams, keeping in mind the interest of the children. While announcing the exam dates last month, Kumar had said that the SSLC exams are crucial for students to select their academic stream. The Karnataka government had successfully conducted the SSLC exam last year, as well during the peak of Covid-19, setting aside the apprehensions of the opposition members, parents, students and people at large.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hc-upholds-karnataka-govts-decision-to-conduct-sslc-exams-on-jul-19-and-22-1007816.html
12-07-2021||State||K S Eshwarappa bats for UP-like population policy in Karnataka||District in-charge Minister K S Eshwarappa stated that there was a need to implement a new population policy in many states in the country including Karnataka on the lines of measures taken by Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh government. Speaking to media persons on Monday, he said that the new population policy unveiled by the Uttar Pradesh government would be relevant to the entire country as the population is increasing day by day. He also claimed the Modi-led government in the Centre has taken enough measures. He said, "Even states must join hands with the Centre in controlling the population". He made it clear that he would hold discussions with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on a new population policy of the Uttar Pradesh government and take suitable steps after studying its pros and cons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/k-s-eshwarappa-bats-for-up-like-population-policy-in-karnataka-1007932.html
12-07-2021||State||Extension of time sought for completing 'Smart City' works: B A Basavaraj||Urban Development Minister B A Basavaraj (Byrathi) has urged the Union government to extend the duration for completing 'Smart City' works. "The project is being implemented in seven cities in the state, and they were delayed by eight to 10 months due to the Covid-19 situation. In addition, these works required proper co-ordination between different departments. I have already written a letter to Union urban affairs and housing minister, seeking extension of time," he said. Instructions are already given to the officials concerned to expedite the 'Smart City' works, he added. 'Build capacity of cities' Meanwhile, Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi suggested the state government to build the capacity of at least two municipal corporations outside Bengaluru, by filling up all posts, so that they can efficiently implement projects when huge funds are released. "The Union government is going to implement a Rs 100 lakh crore project for infrastructure development and job creation in the country. Cities should have a better capacity to implement such programmes," he said. Large & Medium Scale Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar stated that 5,000 acres of land near Belur in Dharwad would be acquired for the Bengaluru-Mumbai Industrial Corridor project.Earlier, they performed bhumi puja for old bus stand reconstruction works and inaugurated smart roads at Gokul Road Industrial Estate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/extension-of-time-sought-for-completing-smart-city-works-b-a-basavaraj-1007939.html
12-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Pending bills of contractors hit Rs 15,000 cr||The financial woes of the state government over the last couple of years have meant that pending bills to various contractors have now ballooned to over Rs 15,000 crore. According to government sources, the public works department (PWD) had bills worth Rs 4,500 crore due - which was the highest among all government departments. This was followed by the water resources department and BBMP, which had bills close to Rs 3,000 crore due. Representatives of the Karnataka State Contractors Association say that such pendency is unprecedented and questions remained over when the payment will be done to them. According to the government, pendency of bills is a regular phenomenon and the arrears will be cleared at the earliest. Highly placed sources in the government said that pending bills had started accumulating since the 2018-19 fiscal. When the coalition government under H D Kumaraswamy collapsed, bills due to various contractors was Rs 4,500 crore-Rs 5,000 crore, Since then, decline in state revenue - especially in the last two fiscals - has caused the bills to pile up, sources said. “PWD dues to contractors was around Rs 1,300 crore-Rs 1,500 crore in July 2019. It has tripled in the last two years. Bills are pending in a majority of the departments. The maximum is in PWD,” sources said. Other departments with high pending bills includes the rural development and panchayat raj department. D Kempanna, president of the Karnataka State Contractors Association, said that though bill payment was delayed in the past, the sheer amount kept pending is unprecedented. “I don’t recall any period when the pending amount was so high,” he said. When contacted, Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi said pending bills was a regular phenomenon. He claimed that almost all of the pending bills worth Rs 15,000 crore were inherited from the previous government. “We are clearing all the arrears,” he said. To a question, Savadi said that the current economic situation had hit revenue generation, which had an effect on the clearance of bills.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-pending-bills-of-contractors-hit-rs-15000-cr-1007555.html
12-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Choked lakes emitting tonnes of greenhouse gases||Living in a lakeview apartment may not be as refreshing as realtors want one to believe. The water bodies emit several tonnes of greenhouse gases, thanks to sewage flow and dumping of waste. A study by researchers from the Department of Environmental Science, Bangalore University, has shown that the annual CO2 emissions in six lake series, which are in turn connected to other lakes in a cascading manner, has gone up by more than half a tonne/year between 2017 and 2019. Byramangala lake, which is in the Vrushabhavati valley, had the highest amount of CO2 emission. In the three-year period, the annual emission also increased from 8.1 to 8.8 tonnes. During this period, Varthur lake also witnessed a 7.7 tonne to 8.4 tonne increase in annual CO2 emission. In Yalemallappa Chetty lake, it went up from 6.9 to 7.5 tonnes. Nandini N, professor and principal investigator at the department in Bangalore University, and the lead author of the study, said apart from CO2, methane, hydrogen sulfide and other gases are also emitted by lakes. While low levels of such gases are produced in a normal situation, she said the flow of untreated sewage and dumping of garbage have exacerbated the situation. “Sewage water is rich in nutrients and toxic chemicals. It enhances algal growth and leads to eutrophication of the lake. Algae on decomposition settles at the bottom of the lake resulting in production of greenhouse gases, which will enter into the lake column resulting in alteration of regional climate.” Long-term exposure to toxic gases can cause serious health issues. “This is particularly true for residents in the vicinity. It is important to stop the flow of untreated sewage to lakes. A detailed study is needed to understand the effects of emission of such gases from polluted water bodies,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/choked-lakes-emitting-tonnes-of-greenhouse-gases-1007556.html
12-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HC dismisses plea against conducting SSLC exam amid Covid-19||The Karnataka High Court on Monday dismissed a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) challenging the decision of the state government to conduct the Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) examination 2020-21. A division bench headed by Justice B V Nagarathna observed that the petitioner was not able to show any arbitrariness in the decision taken by the state government. As per the standard operating procedures (SOP) issued by the state government on June 21, 2021 SSLC examinations are scheduled on July 19 and 22. The petition was filed by one S V Singre Gowda, a resident of Bengaluru. It claimed that since all the students and most of the teachers have not been vaccinated, it will not be safe to hold examinations. The petitioner said over nine lakh students will be exposed to risk of Covid-19 infection. The bench agreed with the state government’s submission that the decision to hold the board examination was a collective decision involving both the students and the parents. As per the decision, the examination will be conducted in an encapsulated format with three subjects on each day of the duration of one hour per subject. The subjects contain objective type questions which are student friendly, the court noted. The bench also said that it will be in the interest of the students that they attend a crucial examination such as the board examination, instead of being just promoted as 'pass". The petitioner claimed that the SSLC students may be promoted on the basis of marks obtained in previous classes, starting from 7th standard onwards. Explaining the decision taken by the state government, Advocate General Prabhuling K Navadgi informed the court that the decision was taken after consulting experts. He said that only one student will be allowed to sit at one desk so as to ensure social distancing. He also said that the SSLC examination was conducted last year as well and the High Court had dismissed a similar PIL, which was later affirmed by the Supreme Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hc-dismisses-plea-against-conducting-sslc-exam-amid-covid-19-1007715.html
12-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sumalatha seeks govt to stop illegal mining in KRS vicinity||Mandya MP Sumalatha Ambareesh, who met Mines and Geology minister Murugesh Nirani on Monday, has urged the government to put an end to illegal mining around KRS dam and in the deemed forest areas of Mandya district. The government has to immediately conduct a drone survey to identify the extent of illegal mining and penalise the violators, who are causing a loss to the state exchequer, the MP demanded. She also alleged that her recent efforts to visit some of the areas where illegal mining was taking place, was thwarted by vested interests who had blocked the approach roads.  The MP had recently claimed that the KRS dam had cracks owing to the illegal mining, which was later refuted by the Cauvery Neeravari Nigam Ltd. This also led to a bitter war-of-words with JD(S) leaders led by former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sumalatha-seeks-govt-to-stop-illegal-mining-in-krs-vicinity-1007878.html
12-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Heavy showers continue to batter coast, Malnad||Heavy rains continued to lash coastal districts and Malnad on Monday. The regions have been experiencing incessant rain since Thursday. The unrelenting rains have swelled the west-flowing rivers. A 40-year-old man was feared to have been washed away in Mundalli river in Bhatkal taluk. Local fishermen made a vain effort to save Sridhar Devadiga. Several houses were damaged in the rain in Udupi and Dakshina Kannada districts. The IMD has forecast heavy showers in the coast till July 17. With winds reaching speeds of up to 60 kmph and high waves, the weather department has warned the fishermen not to venture into the rough Arabian Sea. Hilly districts Kodagu and Chikkamagaluru have been receiving good rainfall. The relentless downpour in the region have swelled the reservoirs in Shivamogga. On Monday, inflow to Linganamakki reservoir clocked 7,083 cusec while Tunga and Bhadra dams received 4,842 and 3,339 cusec respectively. Cauvery and Lakshmanathirtha rivers have been recording copious inflows in the last few days. Water level in Harangi reservoir in Kodagu has gone up by quite a few notches. Meanwhile, north Karnataka districts continued to receive intermittent spells of rain on Monday. However, Khanapur taluk in Belagavi district, where Malaprabha river and several rivulets originate, witnessed heavy rain. Parts of Bidar and Kalaburagi districts recorded good rainfall on Monday. The twin districts have been experiencing heavy showers in the last three to four days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/heavy-showers-continue-to-batter-coast-malnad-1007884.html
12-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government's Anubhava Mantapa runs into land trouble||The government’s ambitious Anubhava Mantapa project has run into land trouble with farmers demanding compensation on a par with the market value. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, who chaired a meeting of the Basavakalyana Development Board and other authorities on Monday, directed officials to sort out the issue with farmers amicably. The Rs 500-crore Anubhava Mantapa project is coming up on 101 acres at Basavakalyana in Bidar. The government had to acquire 69 acres of land for the project from local landowners, who have sought compensation on a par with market value. This, according to officials, delayed the land acquisition process. The government has already allocated Rs 200 crore for the project.  The CM directed officials to convene a state-level meeting on acquiring farmers’ land for various projects. Meetings of the Kaginele Development Authority and Sangolli Rayanna Authority were also held to approve the action plan for the fiscal year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-governments-anubhava-mantapa-runs-into-land-trouble-1007890.html
12-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Next Karnataka CM will be from NK, says Minister Katti||Food and Civil Supplies Minister Umesh Katti has said that the chief minister in BJP will be from North Karnataka this time. Speaking to media persons on Monday, Katti said he will not allow injustice to happen to the people of North Karnataka. If north Karnataka is neglected politically, the demand for separate Statehood would rise, he added. Patting his own back, the minister said, he is an eight-time MLA and has experience of handling six departments as a minister. “I have all the credentials to become the chief minister and there is no black mark in my political career or public life,” he expressed. “After becoming chief minister, I dream of becoming prime minister also,” he said, adding that there are many such political bigwigs in North Karnataka who aspire to climb up the political ladder. Dharwad MLA Arvind Bellad and Minister Murugesh Nirani too are in the race to become the next chief minister, he said. Joshi reacts Reacting to this, Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Prahlad Joshi said, a leader from north Karnataka should become the chief minister but not in this term. There are chances in the next term, he added. He said Minister Katti’s statement should be read as the next chief minister from North Karnataka and not in this term. On corruption charges, Joshi said, corruption and Congress are two faces of the same coin. They were the ones who sowed the seed of corruption. The BJP-led NDA government has been ruling the country for the last seven years and not even a single charge of corruption has been levelled against any of the central ministers, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/next-karnataka-cm-will-be-from-nk-says-minister-katti-1007892.html
12-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to try Ayurveda for treating anaemia in kids||The state government is planning to introduce ayurvedic treatment for addressing anaemia among children in the state.  According to officials in the Ayush Department, the programme will be launched on a pilot basis shortly and will focus on addressing anaemia mostly through food supplements and other Ayurvedic remedies. To begin with, the government will focus on Raichur and Yadgir, the two aspirational districts in Karnataka as identified by the NITI Ayog and prioritised under the National Nutrition Mission.  Speaking to DH, Ayush Commissioner Ramachandra said that while the allopathy medicine focused on tablets or other supplements, Ayush would lay emphasis on providing nutritional foods that would improve digestion and efficacy of nutrition absorption. "For example, food substances such as ghee, drumstick leaves, figs, raisins among others," he said. An expert committee of Ayurveda doctors has already been constituted and these professionals will recommend the nutrition to be given to children.  The government has allocated a budget of Rs 5 crore for the programme for the current fiscal. "We have now written to the government stating that Ayush department will provide the technical know-how, while the Department of Women and Child Development can be in charge of implementation. This is because the DWCD already has an existing network of Anganwadi workers who can be roped in for distribution of the food items," the official added. If the pilot programme achieves good results, it will later be expanded to other districts.  The government has meanwhile invited Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds and partners to take the programme forward.  According to information provided by the government in the Akanksha portal, more than 50% of children in Yadgir and Raichur are anaemic. The government also hopes to increase the supplementary nutrition provided under the Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS) to pregnant women. However, a Health department official involved in the project told DH that the Ayurvedic treatment cannot replace the allopathy medicine in all cases. "Ayurvedic treatment can be introduced in only mild and moderate cases of anaemia. The treatment of acute cases will require intervention of other medication," the official pointed out.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-try-ayurveda-for-treating-anaemia-in-kids-1007929.html
12-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Temple take over: SC orders notice to Karnataka||Supreme Court on Monday decided to examine the Karnataka government's "arbitrary" decision to take over three ancient Hindu temples in Bengaluru by appointing managing committees over there. A bench of Justices U U Lalit and Ajay Rastogi issued notice to the state government on a writ petition filed by advocate Balaji Srinivasan on behalf of Prashanth M and others. The court posted the matter, along with other appeals, for consideration on July 27. The petitioners are Pradhan Archakas of Sri Anjaneyaswamy Temple, Sri Channarayaswamy Temple, and Sri Venkataramanaswamy Temple, Bengaluru. They also asked the court to quash the notification of March 26, 2021 issued by the Karnataka government for constitution of management committee for enlisted temples. With the notification, the government sought to appoint the managing committees, which "would have a far reaching and irreversible consequences", their plea claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/temple-take-over-sc-orders-notice-to-karnataka-1007945.html
12-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka registers 1,386 new Covid infections, 61 deaths in last 24 hours||Karnataka reported 1,386 new Covid-19 cases and 61 deaths on Monday, taking the total number of infections to 2,87,26,84 and toll to 35,896. The day also saw 3,204 discharges, continuing to outnumber fresh cases, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 28,01,907. Out of the new cases reported, 319 cases and 9 deaths were from Bengaluru Urban. This is lower than the 352 cases reported on July 4. The total number of active cases in the state stands at 34,858. While the test positivity rate for the day stood at 1.26 per cent, which is a marginal increase from Sunday’s 1.24 per cent, case fatality rate was at 4.4 per cent, an increase from 2.83 per cent on Sunday. Out of the 61 deaths reported on Monday, 10 each were reported from Dakshina Kannada and Mysuru, followed by Bengaluru and others. Mysuru reported 177 cases, Dakshina Kannada 126 and Hassan 108. Cumulatively, a total of 3,60,44,017 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,09,399 were tested on Monday alone. On Monday, the state administered 2,47,840 Covid vaccine doses. So far, 2,58,76,280 doses have been administered. A total of 2,10,82,322 people have received the first dose, while 47,93,958 have got the second dose too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-registers-1386-new-covid-infections-61-deaths-in-last-24-hours-1007947.html
12-07-2021||West||Woman held with drugs worth Rs 1 crore in Mumbai||The Narcotics Control Bureau has arrested a woman and seized 'hashish', a banned drug, worth around Rs 1 crore from her possession in Mumbai, an NCB official said on Monday. As per preliminary investigation into the case, the contraband stock, which was seized on Sunday, was brought here from Jammu and Kashmir, the official said. As part of an operation against drug traffickers, the NCB apprehended the woman, identified as Hussain Bi (45), from Nagpada area in south Mumbai and seized 1.8 kg of 'hashish' from her, the official said. The woman was being questioned and a case was registered against her under relevant provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, he said. The official further said the NCB, during the operation, also found that of late, drug peddlers were using minors and women for the trafficking of contrabands. Earlier, the NCB arrested a drug peddler from Mahim area here on Saturday night. The accused allegedly used to sell drugs to youngsters, an NCB official said on Sunday. The accused was caught following a number of complaints from residents about drug trafficking in the area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/woman-held-with-drugs-worth-rs-1-crore-in-mumbai-1007753.html
12-07-2021||West||Bombay HC dismisses Sanatan Sanstha's 'sketchy' plea against Facebook for blocking its pages||Calling its petition challenging blocking of its pages by Facebook as "sketchy" and based on "unclear pleadings", the Bombay High Court bench in Goa on Monday, dismissed a petition filed by the Goa-headquartered Sanatan Sanstha, which had sought unblocking of three of its pages and to "allow publication of the petitioner's website" on the popular social media network. The petition was filed by the Sanstha some months back, after Facebook blocked three pages uploaded by the Sanstha, around a decade after the pages were created citing violation of the social media site's "community standards". "Even, otherwise, Mr. Punalekar (counsel for Sanatan Sanstha Sanjeev Punalekar) was unable to point out any provision under the Information Technology Act, based on which the petitioner could insist on maintaining a Facebook page on the platform provided by Respondents No.3 (Facebook India Online Services) and 4 (Facebook Inc.), without agreeing to be bound by the contractual terms that may have been proposed," the order said. "Based on the sketchy and unclear pleadings in this matter, however, there is no case made out for grant of any declaratory relief in this petition," states an order of the Court's division bench headed by Justices MS Jawalkar and MS Sonak. The Sanatan Sanstha in its petition had claimed that Facebook's right to edit and block pages on the social media site was "seriously prejudice the petitioner's right to equal treatment and the Petitioner's right to freedom of speech and expression" and pleaded to the Court to direct Facebook to unblock its three pages. In response to the petition, Facebook had argued "in the realm of contract (with Facebook) and if at all the petitioner has any grievance, the petitioner will have to seek redressal before any appropriate forum which is empowered to adjudicate the disputes between the two private parties" and said that the High Court was not the appropriate forum to adjudicate the dispute. In its order, the High Court bench also said that the pleadings made in the petition were linked to state policy matters and stated that "it is normally not for this Court to direct the Government to establish a mechanism to regulate the social media platform or provide some active, fast and cheap grievances redressal forum, as suggested by the petitioner". Headquartered in Goa, the Sanatan Sanstha has been in the news over the last few years, after some persons linked to the Hindu organisation were accused in the murder of rationalists including Karnataka-based intellectuals MM Kalburgi and Gauri Lankesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-hc-dismisses-sanatan-sansthas-sketchy-plea-against-facebook-for-blocking-its-pages-1007762.html
12-07-2021||West||Unease in Sena, NCP over growing Congress influence in Maharashtra: Patole||Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole has sought to suggest the state government is keeping an eye over his movement and claimed that Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) allies Shiv Sena and the NCP feel the ground was slipping from beneath their feet due to his party's growing influence. Speaking at a meeting of party workers in Lonavala, a hill station around 125km from Mumbai, during the weekend, Patole said the Congress is resurrecting itself in Maharashtra and this has caused disquiet among the Shiv Sena and the NCP. The MPCC did not name the two MVA partners while making a reference about them in his speech. The Congress is part of the three-party Shiv Sena-led MVA government. He also sought to hint that the government is keeping an eye on his activities. "Every morning at 9, intelligence report is submitted to the chief minister and the home minister on what is happening in the state. The Congress is resurrecting itself and the report is making the ground beneath their feet slip away. I am here in Lonavala but the report will go to them," he said. Meanwhile, Patole later told a Marathi news channel that his statement hinting at tracking of his movement has been misconstrued. "I have not made any comment that the state government is keeping a watch on me. My allegations were against the Centre. I will make a clarification when I return to Mumbai," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/unease-in-sena-ncp-over-growing-congress-influence-in-maharashtra-patole-1007782.html
12-07-2021||West||Nana Patole alleges system not letting him 'live peacefully'||In what signals that all is not well within Maharashtra’s ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi alliance, state Congress president Nana Patole alleged that Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar are keeping a watch on his movements. The statement created ripples in Maharashtra’s political circles and stunned the two other MVA partners — Shiv Sena and NCP. The opposition chose to hit out at the MVA saying that there is a deep sense of mistrust among the three ruling partners. Addressing a meeting in Lonavla in Pune district, Patole said that his entire day’s schedule is known to the chief minister and his deputy. “They receive reports about everything. Who is protesting where, everything needs to be updated. They even know what I am doing. The chief minister and deputy chief minister are keeping a watch on me,” Patole said. Patole’s statement incidentally came hours after NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, reacting to his statement of Shiv Sena-NCP backstabbing Congress. “They are small people, why should I comment on them? If (Congress president) Sonia Gandhi had said something, then I would have commented on it,” Pawar had said. After Patole’s statement snowballed into a controversy, he said that he said that the government was stable. “False news is being circulated about me by the opposition,” he said, adding that the MVA government was stable and would last its full term. Meanwhile, NCP chief spokesperson and state minority affairs minister Nawab Malik said that Patole has made such a comment because of lack of information. “The SID keeps details of movements of the chief minister, deputy chief minister, ministers, senior leaders, labour leaders and important persons for security…if anyone does not want security they can give in writing,” he said. Malik also said that Patole can also get more information and clarification from the former chief ministers of their party – Ashok Chavan, Prithviraj Chavan and Sushilkumar Shinde. Meanwhile, Leader of Opposition in Assembly and ex-chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said, “The statement (of Nana Patole) reflects the extent of mistrust they (MVA partners have).” His counterpart in Council Pravin Darekar said, “There seems to be some kind of unrest among Shiv Sena and NCP as the Congress has decided to go alone in polls.” Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nana-patole-alleges-system-not-letting-him-live-peacefully-1007812.html
12-07-2021||West||Elgar case: Mumbai court rejects bail plea of activist Anand Teltumbde||A special court here on Monday rejected the bail plea of activist Anand Teltumbde, 70, arrested in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case. Special Judge D E Kothalikar, presiding over matters probed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), refused bail to Teltumbde accepting the prosecution's argument that there was sufficient material against the accused. A copy of the detailed order of the court is awaited. Teltumbde, arrested by the NIA in April last year, had in January 2021 filed a bail application stating that the theory of the prosecution that he was “waging a war or attempting to wage a war or abetting others to wage a war or incite the public is humbug”. Teltumbde is presently lodged in the Taloja prison in Nav Mumbai. NIA counsel Prakash Shetty opposed the bail application arguing that there was sufficient material in the form of oral and documents to prove Teltumbde's complicity in the case. Shetty had claimed that Teltumbde was an active member of CPI (Maoist) and propagated its activities. In his bail application, Teltumbde, however, claimed the NIA had not produced any material to show that he is a member of the CPI (Maoist).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/elgar-case-mumbai-court-rejects-bail-plea-of-activist-anand-teltumbde-1007896.html
