13-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Three of a family die under mysterious circumstances in Chitradurga||Three of a family reportedly died under mysterious circumstances near Bharamasagar in the taluk on Monday night. The condition of two other members of the family is said to be critical. According to police, the deceased have been identified as Thippa Naik (45), Gundi Bai (80), Sudha Bai (40). Rahul (19) and Ramya (16) are battling for life in the hospital. It is suspected that they might have consumed poison to end their lives. All members of the family had slept around 10 pm after having dinner together. They complained of vomiting around 11.30 pm. They were taken to the district general hospital in Chitradurga after being given first aid at Bharamasagar Hospital. Gundi Bai and Sudha Bai died on their way to the hospital while Thippa Naik died in the hospital in Davanagere. The exact reason for taking the extreme step is yet to be ascertained. Additional Superintendent of Police Mahaninga Nandagavi DySP Panduranga visited the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/three-of-a-family-die-under-mysterious-circumstances-in-chitradurga-1008093.html
13-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||'Cycling lane project is unscientific in Mangaluru'||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee media panelist and corporator A C Vinayraj alleged that the cycling lane proposed to be taken up under Mangaluru Smart City Mission was unscientific. “We want a dedicated cycling lane on the lines of Bengaluru. However, the proposed path in Mangaluru is unscientific,” he told media persons on Monday. “We want to have a scientific cycling lane for Mangaluru that will benefit cyclists in the city. The foundation for the proposed project was laid in a hurry, which is condemnable. A letter too has been written to the urban development minister highlighting the anomalies in the project and urged to stop the project. If we fail to get any positive response from the government, then legal fight will be taken up,” said Vinayraj. The Mangaluru city had received Rs 8 crore from Directorate of Urban Land Transport for implementing Cycle for Change under Non Motorised Transport Project. The project is envisaged to construct cycling lanes that will pass near colleges, schools and markets for the benefit of people. The project is being taken up under two packages in Mangaluru. The first package is taken up at an estimated cost of Rs 34,66,04,145 and will pass through Bolara seashore-Gujjarakere Road-Jeppu Market Road-Marnamikatte Circle-Grama Sangha Road- Attavara Adda Rasthe-Vaidyanatha Nagara Road-Central Railway Station and Clock Tower. The second package is taken up at an estimated cost of Rs 40,41,09,255 and will pass through Pathumudi Soudha Road-Atal Seva Kendra Road-Bhagavathi Temple Road- Dongarkery Temple Road-Naganakatte Road-Car Street School-Car Street Flower Market-Raghavendra Mutt Road-Bhavanthi Stree-Central Market Road-Lady Goschen Hospital-Clock Tower-Railway Station Road-Attavara Katte Road-S L Mathias Road-High Land Hospital-Fr Muller’s Circle-Nandigudda-Marnamikatte Circle and Railway Over Bridge. ‘Not enough space’ The cycling lane should be laid after providing enough space for movement of vehicles, footpath, stormwater drains and developing greenery. However, there is not enough space for the same here under the project, he added. A majority of the roads in the proposed cycling lane locations are yet to be widened. The pipelines, gas pipelines and UGD pass through these roads. Without parking space on either side of the road, a majority of the people park their vehicles by the side of the roads in the proposed cycling lane stretch. If the cycling track is three-meter wide, then the road will become narrow and traffic congestion will increase, Vinayraj said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cycling-lane-project-is-unscientific-in-mangaluru-1008146.html
13-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||No differences with Nalapad, says Raksha Ramaiah||State Youth Congress President Raksha Ramaiah said that there were no differences between him and Mohammed Haris Nalapad, who will take charge of the Youth Congress after January. “Both of us are happy with the power-sharing formula announced by the leaders. Both of us had a few confusions prior to the announcement of power sharing. All the issues have been sorted out,” he told mediapersons here in Mangaluru. “It is an opportunity to serve the party, which we are happy about. We are abiding by the decision of the leaders. I am ready to serve whether given two months or six months or a two-year term. In fact, I would suggest  the same formula of power-sharing be followed even in other states,” he said. “Both Nalapad and I have been friends for over 12 years and the friendship will continue in the coming years,” he said. To a query on a large section of youth supporting the BJP, he said "youth are understanding of the true colours of the BJP and the problems. The Youth Congress will take up a drive to enroll youth at the block, district, assembly constituency and parliamentary constituency levels shortly". Stating that the Youth Congress in the state had worked tirelessly during the Covid-19 pandemic, Raksha Ramaiah said that in Dakshina Kannada, the helpline set up by the Youth Congress received 2,322 calls seeking help. "About 240 ICU beds were arranged for the patients in the hospital so far in the district, discharge supports were given to 163 patients, oxygen supports were given to 48 patients, ambulance services were given in 319 cases during the pandemic," he said. Further, he said about 1,500 units of blood were arranged in the district for the needy. In addition, meals were supplied and ration kits were given to the needy. The service activities of the Youth Congress were carried out across the country as well. On Nalapad projecting D K Shivakumar as the next CM during his visit to Udupi recently, Raksha Ramaiah said “he may have said it by mistake". "The prime objective of the Youth Congress is to work as a base support to the Congress leaders in organising the party. We can not decidewho will be the CM.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-differences-with-nalapad-says-raksha-ramaiah-1008169.html
13-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah accuses Centre of betraying Kannadigas; calls Yediyurappa a 'mouse' over IBPS language row||Accusing the Centre of betraying Kannadigas by not allowing candidates to take the Institute of Banking Personnel Selection exams in Kannada, senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah on Tuesday called Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa a "mouse" for not standing up to the Centre on it. In a series of tweets with "#IBPSMosa" (#IBPSCheating) he hit out at the ruling BJP at the centre and the state on the issue and demanded the resignations of Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, a Rajya Sabha member from the state, and also Yediyurappa if they cannot ensure justice to Kannadigas. "Narendra Modi is betraying Kannadigas by not allowing candidates to take IBPS exams in Kannada. Latest notification by IBPS is an example for BJP's anti-Kannada stand. Central govt should immediately address this and ensure justice to Kannadigas," Siddaramaiah tweeted. IBPS had called for applications to fill more than 3000 vacant clerk positions in about 11 nationalised banks. Out of these, 407 posts are in Karnataka. Noting that Karnataka has elected 25 MPs to the Lok Sabha, he asked "What are these MPs doing? Though slavery is abolished, BJP Karnataka MPs are behaving like slaves of Narendra Modi. Shame on them!!" "Yediyurappa's followers call him Huli (Tiger) but in reality he is ili (Mouse). He hides in burrows when he has to stand up in front of Narendra Modi. Let him resign if he cannot ensure justice to Kannadigas," he added. Pointing out that IBPS had called for applications to fill more than 3,000 vacant clerical positions in 11 nationalised banks, of which 407 posts are in Karnataka, the former Chief Minister said injustice to Kannada will result in huge unemployment by leaving out Kannadigas in the competition. "Candidates were able to write IBPS exams in regional languages before 2014. After BJP came to power, rules were changed to allow English and Hindi only. We had even written a letter to Narendra Modi to protest against this," he said. Further, noting that most of the schemes of the Central and State governments are implemented through banks, on which farmers, labourers, women and many others are dependent, he said rural people are facing harassment from staff who don't know Kannada. "Being elected to the Rajya Sabha from Karnataka, Nirmala Sitharaman has constantly betrayed Kannadigas and Kannada. She has continued the same with respect to IBPS exams. She is unfit to represent people of Karnataka in Rajya Sabha. She should resign if she has any shame," he said. Karnataka has elected 25 MPs to Lok Sabha. What are these MPs doing?||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-accuses-centre-of-betraying-kannadigas-calls-yediyurappa-a-mouse-over-ibps-language-row-1008230.html
13-07-2021||National||254 Indian millionaires used ‘golden visa’ route to UK in 12 years: Report||A total of 254 millionaires from India have used the so-called “golden visa” to settle down in the UK through a large investment into the country since the route opened in 2008, according to a new report released by a UK-based anti-corruption charity on Monday. Spotlight on Corruption said that Indians ranked as the seventh nationality of super-rich to have availed of the Tier 1 (Investor) Visa, adding up to 254 between 2008 and 2020. China topped the list at 4,106, followed by Russia (2,526), Hong Kong (692), the United States (685), Pakistan (283) and Kazakhstan (278) ahead of India. Saudi Arabia at 223, Turkey at 221 and Egypt at 206 complete the list of top 10 countries to have been issued the visa allowing applicants residency rights in the UK, with around half the total now under review. “Golden visas allow wealthy individuals to buy the right to live in the UK if they invest in UK-registered companies. Individuals that invest 2 million pounds get an immediate right to live in the UK for three years, followed by a two-year extension,” notes the report entitled ‘Red Carpet for Dirty Money’. “Those that invest 10 million pounds can be fast-tracked to get indefinite leave to remain within two years, or within three years if they invest 5 million pounds. From indefinite leave to remain visa holders are on a steady path, after one year, to much prized UK citizenship,” it adds. Diamond merchant Nirav Modi, wanted in India on charges of fraud and money laundering in relation to the Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam and now fighting against being extradited to India in the High Court in London, is believed to have been living in the UK on an Investor Visa applied for in 2015. At the time, the route was relatively easier for super-rich individuals to acquire residency rights in the UK, based on a minimum of 2-million-pound investment. It is dubbed the “blind faith” period but since then the UK Home Office tightened the norms for the category and announced a review around three years ago of these visas issued between 2015 and 2018. Spotlight on Corruption claims that all 6,312 golden visas issued during the “blind faith” period are under review by the Home Office for “potential national security risks”, which amounts to half of all such visas issued overall. “The UK’s golden visa regime continues to pose a significant corruption, money laundering and national security risk to the UK,” said Susan Hawley, Executive Director of Spotlight on Corruption. “It is alarming and deeply unfair that the government is becoming draconian in other parts of its immigration policy but has yet to close major loopholes that allow dirty money to come to the UK. The government must commission an independent review of whether the regime provides any real benefit to the UK,” she said. The new report by the charity, which has a remit to fight corruption within the UK and wherever the UK has influence, has called on the government to urgently publish the findings of its review of the visas issued under the category in the 2008-2015 period. It includes detailed statistics on what action has been taken on specific cases, including referrals to law enforcement, revocation of visas, and denials of citizenship applications. Its report warns that the golden visa regime continues to pose a significant "national security, corruption, and money laundering risk" to the UK despite recent reforms. "Glaring loopholes remain, including that applicants using 'gifted' funds to apply for a golden visa still face no due diligence, and that the Home Office remains over-reliant on financial institutions for due diligence on wealth invested,” it warns. The UK Home Office said the route has been reformed in the last few years to crackdown on black money and that it will report on its pre-reform findings in due course. “We reformed the Tier 1 visa route in 2015 and in 2019 to crack down on dirty money and we have not ruled out making further changes, if necessary,” the Home Office said in a statement. “These changes include requiring banks to do extra due diligence checks prior to opening accounts and requiring applicants to provide evidence of the source of their funds. As part of our work to prevent this route from corruption we are reviewing all Tier 1 investor visas granted before these reforms were made, and will report on our findings in due course,” the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/254-indian-millionaires-used-golden-visa-route-to-uk-in-12-years-report-1007971.html
13-07-2021||National||Documents for Covaxin emergency use listing submitted to WHO; expect approval at earliest: Bharat Biotech||Bharat Biotech on Monday said it has submitted all documents required for the emergency use listing (EUL) of its Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin to the World Health Organization and expects a nod at the earliest. Last week, World Health Organization (WHO) chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan had said that the global health body is likely to take a decision on Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin in the emergency use listing within four to six weeks. "All documents required for Emergency Use Listing (EUL) of Covaxin have been submitted to WHO as of 9th July. The review process has now commenced with the expectation that we will receive EUL from WHO at the earliest," Bharat Biotech International Ltd Chairman and MD Krishna Ella said in a tweet posted by the company. According to WHO guidelines, EUL is a procedure to streamline the process by which new or unlicensed products can be used during public health emergencies. "We currently have six vaccines approved with EUL and have recommendations from our Strategic Advisory Group of Experts (SAGE). We continue to look at Covaxin. Bharat Biotech has now started uploading their data on our portal and that is the next vaccine that will be reviewed by our experts committee," Swaminathan had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/documents-for-covaxin-emergency-use-listing-submitted-to-who-expect-approval-at-earliest-bharat-biotech-1007976.html
13-07-2021||National||Mamata's election petition assigned to new HC judge||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's election petition before the Calcutta High Court challenging BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari's victory from Nandigram constituency in the assembly elections has been assigned to the bench of Justice Shampa Sarkar, court sources said here on Monday. The matter is likely to be listed before the court of Justice Sarkar on Wednesday, the sources said. Justice Kausik Chanda had on July 7 recused from hearing the Trinamool Congress supremo's petition challenging the election of Adhikari from Nandigram, and imposed a cost of Rs five lakh on her for the manner in which the recusal was sought. Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal assigned the matter to the court of Justice Sarkar. Adhikari defeated Banerjee from the Nandigram constituency by 1,956 votes in the assembly election held earlier in the year. Releasing the election petition of Banerjee on an application by her for recusal expressing apprehension of bias against her by his bench, Justice Chanda had said that he was doing so in order to thwart at the outset attempts by trouble-mongers to keep the controversy alive. Banerjee's lawyers had suggested that Justice Chanda should recuse himself from the case since he was associated with the legal cell of the BJP before his elevation as a Judge and had appeared in a number of cases on behalf of the said party before the high court as a lawyer. Her lawyer had suggested during his submissions before the court that there is a conflict of interest since Justice Chanda had a close relationship with the BJP and the petitioner has challenged the election of a BJP candidate. In its order, the court had said that it is preposterous to suggest that a judge having a past association with a political party as a lawyer should not receive a case involving the said political party or any of its members. Justice Chanda had noted that like any other citizen of the country, a judge also exercises his voting rights in favour of a political party, but he lays aside his individual predilection while deciding a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamatas-election-petition-assigned-to-new-hc-judge-1007977.html
13-07-2021||National||UP govt should bring 'no kid' policy which will benefit many 'childless' BJP and RSS leaders: NCP||The NCP on Monday took a dig at the Uttar Pradesh government's draft bill proposing the two children norm, with Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik saying the Yogi Adityanath government should bring a ''no children'' policy which will benefit many leaders of BJP and RSS who don't have children. The UP government's draft bill on population control says people having more than two children will be debarred from contesting local bodies polls, applying for government jobs or receiving any kind of subsidy. The draft bill also seeks to prohibit promotions in government jobs for such people, while offering incentives to those limiting their children to two. Speaking to reporters, NCP spokesperson and Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik said the "UP population policy" had created confusion. ''Instead of two children, the policy should be of more than two (children) as BJP leaders often say. Maharashtra already had a rule which says that people with more than two children cannot contest local bodies elections or avail of government benefits. Several leaders in BJP and RSS don't have children. Apart from Maharashtra, the two-child policy is being implemented in several other states. Ideally, the Yogi government should have a 'no children'' policy which will benefit many BJP leaders," Malik said. BJP's Sakshi Maharaj often speaks of the need to give birth to more children, he said, adding the Yogi government should frame its policy accordingly. On Sunday, UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath unveiled a policy aimed at stabilising the population in the northern state and reducing maternal and infant deaths in a time-bound manner. The Uttar Pradesh Population Policy 2021-2030, unveiled on the occasion of World Population Day, also aims at bringing down the gross fertility rate among women to 2.1 by 2026 and to 1.9 by 2030. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-govt-should-bring-no-kid-policy-which-will-benefit-many-childless-bjp-and-rss-leaders-ncp-1007988.html
13-07-2021||National||Mehul Choksi will 'only' return to Dominica to face trial when fit, media reports||Diamantaire Mehul Choksi will "only" return to Dominica to face trial for illegal entry into that country when a doctor "certifies" that he is fit to stand trial, the media there reported citing conditions laid down by the Dominica High Court while granting him bail. In a major setback to Indian efforts to bring him from the Caribbean country, Dominica High Court Judge Bernie Stephenson allowed the businessman to return to Antigua and Barbuda, where he has been living as a citizen since 2018 after leaving India, to seek medical advice from neurologist Hayden Osborne at the Mount St. John's Medical Centre, Dominica News Online reported. Choksi has a clot in his brain besides other health issues such as diabetes and hypertension, his legal team has submitted. The High Court also ordered that Choksi must intimate the court in the case of any change of specialist and his address in Antigua where he was going to stay. The judge said Choksi will only return to Dominica when a doctor certifies that he is fit to stand trial, the news website reported.  Choksi has sought a judicial review of case of illegal entry into Dominica brought upon him by the local police and decision of a minister there to declare him a prohibited immigrant.  The matter has now been deferred till January 26, 2022. His trial for illegal entry before a magistrate has also been stayed. The High Court also ordered he must notify the court of his address in Dominica once he returns and his bail will be reviewed within 48 hours. The hearing of bail was held as lawyers intimated the court of his worsening health.  The doctors recommend an urgent review of his medical condition by a neurologist and a neurosurgical consultant.  "The services are not currently available on the island. All courtesies extended to him would be greatly appreciated," the CT scan report dated June 29 signed by doctors Yerandy Galle Gutierrez and Rene Gilbert Veranes of Princess Margaret Hospital of Dominica said. The High Court order has come as a major jolt to Indian efforts to bring back Choksi, wanted in Rs 13,500 crore scam in Punjab National Bank, from Dominica where he was held for illegal entry after his mysterious disappearance from Antigua and Barbuda. His lawyers had alleged that he was abducted from Antigua and Barbuda in an elaborate plot hatched by men of Indian origin and a mystery woman, named Barbara Jabarica, who had befriended him during last six months. After news of Choksi being held in Dominica surfaced, India rushed a team of officials led by CBI DIG Sharda Raut to make every effort to bring him back on the basis of Interpol Red Notice against him.  His lawyer in London Michael Polak who filed a complaint with Scotland Yard said Choksi was removed from Antigua and Barbuda, where as a citizen he enjoys rights to approach the British Queen's Privy Council as last resort in cases on his citizenship and extradition, to Dominica where these rights are not available to him. The effort was unsuccessful as an army of Choksi's top lawyers moved with an unprecedented agility to file a Habeas Corpus petition before the Dominica High Court which was admitted for hearing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mehul-choksi-will-only-return-to-dominica-to-face-trial-when-fit-media-reports-1008004.html
13-07-2021||National||Ambassador Sandhu visits Atlanta, covers wide range of bilateral relations||India's Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu travelled to the city of Atlanta this past week during which he had multiple engagements with think tanks, academicians, corporate world, lawmakers and eminent members of the Indian American community to advance bilateral relationship between the two largest democracies of the world. Sandhu, in his address to the Atlanta Council on International Relations, touched upon key aspects of the India-US bilateral relations, including bipartisan support, increased trust, people as the focus, role of industry, civil society and strategic community. In his remarks, the top Indian diplomat also outlined the immediate priority areas -- strategic and defense, healthcare, digital, clean energy and climate change, and education and knowledge partnership. Sandhu's trip to Atlanta is part of his continued outreach focusing on key priorities, including healthcare, education and knowledge partnership. With Atlanta being the home of top two universities – Emory University and Georgia Tech – the Indian envoy had an interactive session with academicians and students at both the educational institutions. Emory University is the second oldest institution of higher education in Georgia. It has over 8,000 students enrolled in 150 programmes. There are about 300 Indian students and over 500 Indian-origin students who are enrolled in various programmes. Sandhu visited Woodruff Health Sciences Center. The Emory University has developed molnupiravir, a drug used to treat Covid-19 which was licensed by Merck to manufacture in India, as well as involved in clinical trials of Moderna vaccine for Covid-19 variants. During his visit, the Emory's team briefed the ambassador about their strong partnerships with institutes in India. Emory Vaccine Center and the International Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology established a Vaccine Center in New Delhi. Center for the Control of Chronic Conditions (CCCC) at Emory researches and treats chronic health issues in India. The Center is an international partnership between Emory, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, and the Public Health Foundation of India. Emory's health department is also working on developing joint center of excellence. Under the proposed MoU, CSIR-IGIB and Emory University will enter into research collaboration that will allow them to explore areas of mutual interests, in which CSIR-IGIB will provide collaborative expertise and research skills in the field of immunology, computational and systems biology, cell and molecular biology, genetics, epidemiology, clinical sciences, molecular and precision medicine and other allied scientific areas. At the prestigious Georgia Tech, the ambassador interacted with its leadership, faculty and students and discussed strengthening partnership in STEM areas. He also visited the Kendeda Building at Georgia Tech, which is one of the 28 "living buildings" in the world and one of the world's most ambitious and holistic green building achievement. Georgia Tech is among America's most research-intensive universities. It has tie-ups with Indian educational institutes, including Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru. Georgia Tech's students represent 50 states and 149 countries. Out of total 40,000+ students, Georgia Tech has over 5,000 Indian or Indian-origin students. During his trip to the city, the ambassador also met Senator Jon Ossoff, senior Congressman Sanford Bishop and Congresswomen Lucy McBath and Nikema Williams. In addition, the ambassador also interacted with a bipartisan group of legislators from Georgia Senate and House, during which healthcare as well as enhancing infrastructural, educational and trade connect between the State and India was discussed. Sandhu paid respects at the King Center for MLK and paid tribute to Gandhiji. Family members of Martin Luther King and local prominent leaders from Indian-American and African-American communities participated at the function. The Indian ambassador met prominent members of the Indian community in Atlanta belonging to diverse fields, including business, trade, research, education, IT and science. Separately he held an interaction with young professionals in the area, many of who are entrepreneurs/CEOs of firms based in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ambassador-sandhu-visits-atlanta-covers-wide-range-of-bilateral-relations-1008015.html
13-07-2021||National||PM Modi to interact with CMs of northeastern states on Covid situation today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with the chief ministers of eight north-eastern states on Tuesday to discuss the Covid-19 situation amid concerns over the coronavirus numbers in the region. Official sources said Modi will interact with the chief ministers of Assam, Nagaland, Tripura, Sikkim, Manipur, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram via video conferencing.  While most parts of the country have seen a steady decline in the Covid numbers, the northeast region has been a cause of concern with the number of cases either rising or not falling in line with the nationwide trend, experts have noted. A high-level review meeting chaired by the Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla and attended by top officials from the northeastern states reviewed the scenario in each of seven states, Sikkim and the union territories.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-interact-with-cms-of-northeastern-states-on-covid-situation-today-1008023.html
13-07-2021||National||PM Modi to interact with Tokyo-bound athletes on Tuesday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with the Indian athletes' contingent for the Tokyo Olympics on July 13 via video conferencing. The talk is expected to take place at 5 pm. The PMO said the interaction by Modi is an endeavour to motivate the athletes ahead of their participation at the Games. Modi had recently reviewed preparations for the facilitation of the Indian contingent at the Games. He had also discussed the journeys of some of the athletes on his Mann Ki Baat radio programme, besides urging the nation to come forward and wholeheartedly support them. A total of 126 athletes across 18 sports disciplines from India will be heading to Tokyo. This is the biggest-ever contingent India is sending to any Olympics, the PMO said, noting that the 69 cumulative events across 18 sport disciplines that India will participate in is also the highest ever for the country. With PTI inputs||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-interact-with-tokyo-bound-athletes-on-tuesday-1008025.html
13-07-2021||National||Sputnik V soft launched in over 50 cities in India: Dr Reddy's||Dr Reddy's Laboratories Ltd, which soft-launched Russia's Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V in India on May 14, has expanded the pilot project to over 50 other cities and towns in the country. In a tweet on Monday night, the city-based drug maker said it will strengthen the commercial rollout of Sputnik V in the coming weeks. "Starting initially in Hyderabad today, the soft launch rollout of Sputnik V has scaled up speedily and reached cities and towns all over India- including but not limited to Hyderabad, Vizag, Bengaluru, Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Kolkata, Delhi, NCR, Chennai, Miryalaguda, Vijayawada, Baddi, Kolhapur, Kochi, Raipur, Chandigarh, Pune, Nagpur, Nashik" it said in the tweet. Recently, Dr Reddy's received nearly 30 lakh doses of Sputnik V from the Russian Direct Investment Fund with which it has a pact to sell 12.5 crore people doses (25 crore vials) in India. The Indian drug regulator has granted permission for restricted emergency use of Sputnik V, developed by the Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology. Dr Reddy's has partnered with major hospitals across the country for this purpose all of whom have successfully administered Sputnik V in India including ongoing commercial rollouts to the public, the company added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sputnik-v-soft-launched-in-over-50-cities-in-india-dr-reddys-1008041.html
13-07-2021||National||India logs over 2,000 Covid deaths, 31,443 new infections||India's Covid-19 death toll climbed to 4,10,784 with 2,020 new deaths recorded after Madhya Pradesh reconciled its fatality data, while 31,443 new coronavirus cases were reported, the lowest in 118 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. India's total tally of Covid-19 cases mounted to  3,09,05,819. The active cases have declined to 4,31,315 and comprise 1.40 per cent of the total infections. The national Covid-19 recovery rate has increased to 97.28 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. As many as 17,40,325 tests were conducted on Monday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 43,40,58,138. The daily positivity rate has declined to 1.81 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for 22 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate stands at  2.28 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,00,63,720 and the case fatality rate stands at 1.32 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 38.14 crore under the Nationwide Vaccination Drive. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-over-2000-covid-deaths-31443-new-infections-1008043.html
13-07-2021||National||Citizens' group starts drive to vaccinate transgenders in Pune||A group of citizens working towards the Covid-19 vaccination of the underprivileged people has now extended its reach to the transgender community in Maharashtra's Pune city. As part of the 'VaxAll Initiative', 169 transgenders were vaccinated at a private hospital here on Monday, an official from the medical facility said. The volunteers' group has set up an exclusive vaccination centre at the Sancheti Hospital here for the transgender community from July 12 to 15. An outreach programme is in place to spread awareness among the transgender community members and ensure most of them get vaccinated via this camp, the group said in a statement. "Rapid vaccination is the only hope to control Covid-19, and we as citizens decided to support the wonderful work already being done by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the government," VaxAll Initiative founder Raj Hajela said. He said their mission is to ensure "vaccination for all". He thanked PMC Additional Commissioner Rubal Agarwal, Nyati Builders, Sancheti Hospital, Robin Hood Army (social organisation) and transgender activist Laxmi Narayan Tripathi for their help in making this happen. Tripathi lauded the initiative to support one of the most challenging sections of society. Adar Poonawalla, the CEO of Serum Institute of India, who was present at the vaccination drive for transgenders started at the Sancheti Hospital, tweeted, "I have always believed that healthcare and dignity should be fundamental human rights. I look forward to collaborating with @ImLaxmiNarayan in providing equal opportunities to the transgender community in India." The hospital's chairman, Dr Parag Sancheti, said 169 transgenders were vaccinated at the medical facility on the first day of the drive on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/citizens-group-starts-drive-to-vaccinate-transgenders-in-pune-1008046.html
13-07-2021||National||Not-so-happy meal: Man finds insect in his McDonald's fries||A McDonald's customer took to Twitter on Tuesday to share photos of his fries from the popular fast-food joint, a happy meal that he claims was not-so-happy after all. Why? The fries came with an unwanted add-on: a dead cockroach. The customer, Hemant Virmani, in a series of tweets wrote that when he flagged the issue to the food delivery app he ordered from, he met with what seemed like a bot-generated deadpan response and a refund. Swiggy's customer care responded to him saying “Thanks for your valuable feedback” before issuing a refund. At the receiving end of a serious violation of hygeine and health codes, the flabbergasted customer tagged the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare demanding that the restaurant be shut for 2 days to clean out pests and that checks be carried out to see how often pest control is done. He also said that his wife had wanted to speak to the restaurant 'multiple times' but her request was denied. My wife asked to talk to restaurant multiple times but was denied.My daughter wanted to have “Happy Meal” but see how happy was that. Virmani said that Swiggy refunded the money but that’s not the point. "I can give Rs 91 to Swiggy CEO and he can eat that fries with insect," he told DH. Stating that he is planning to lodge a complaint against the fast-food joint, he said, "A proof that proper pest control has been done at that restaurant is the compensation I can agree with." Another Twitter user shared a photo of his order via Swiggy rival Zomato which had a cockroach in it. He even said that he had eaten half of the food before getting a peek of the pest lying at the bottom.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-so-happy-meal-man-finds-insect-in-his-mcdonalds-fries-1008053.html
13-07-2021||National||NTPC REL to set up country's first green Hydrogen Mobility project in Ladakh||State-run power giant NTPC on Tuesday said its arm, NTPC REL, will set up the country's first green Hydrogen Mobility project in Ladakh. "NTPC REL, a 100 per cent subsidiary of NTPC, signed a MoU with the Union Territory of Ladakh, to set up the country's first green Hydrogen Mobility project in the region," a company statement said. According to the statement, the signing of the memorandum of understanding (MoU) was also marked with the inauguration of NTPC’s first solar installations in Leh in the form of solar trees and a solar carport. The MoU will enable NTPC to help Ladakh develop a carbon-free economy based on renewable sources and green hydrogen. This is also in line with the Prime Minister's vision of a ‘carbon neutral’ Ladakh, it added. The MoU was signed in the presence of Lt Governor R K Mathur, senior dignitaries of the government, NTPC and public representatives. The LG mentioned that he would like Ladakh to become a hydrogen state and is happy to partner with NTPC to achieve this long-term goal. NTPC has plans to ply five hydrogen buses to start with in the region, and the company will be setting up a solar plant and a green hydrogen generation unit in Leh towards this end. This will put Leh as the first city in the country to implement a green hydrogen-based mobility project. This would be zero emission mobility in true sense. NTPC has been aggressively pushing for greening its portfolio and the green hydrogen project is another step towards achieving a low carbon footprint. NTPC has also been promoting usage of green hydrogen-based solutions in sectors like mobility, energy, chemical, fertilizer, steel etc. NTPC has recently revised its target of achieving 60 GW renewables capacity by 2032, almost doubling the earlier target. Recently, NTPC has commissioned India's largest floating solar project of 10 MW at Visakhapatnam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ntpc-rel-to-set-up-countrys-first-green-hydrogen-mobility-project-in-ladakh-1008059.html
13-07-2021||National||Delhi HC directs activist Saket Gokhale to remove tweet against Lakshmi Puri||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday directed activist Saket Gokhale to delete immediately all "defamatory" tweets against former United Nations Assistant Secretary-General Lakshmi Puri, saying desecrating a public figure has become a child's play in social media. A series of tweets, posted between June 13 and June 23, 2021, appeared to have been "actuated by a clear desire to target her and her husband," Union Minister Hardeep Puri, (both 1974 batch IFS officers) "for reasons which seem, at the very least, to be recondite", it said.  Justice C Hari Shankar said in the age of social media, desecration of the reputation of a public figure has become child’s play. All that is needed is the opening of a social media account and, thereafter, the posting of messages on the account.   "Reputations, nourished and nurtured over years of selfless service and toil may crumble in an instant; one thoughtless barb is sufficient," the court said. Acting on a plea by Puri, former Assistant Secretary-General at the United States, against "false and factually incorrect, per-se defamatory, slanderous and libelous statements about the her", the court said it was incumbent on Gokhale to carry out a preliminary due diligence exercise. It restrained Gokhale, a Congress party sympathiser, from posting any defamatory or scandalous or factually incorrect tweet against Puri or her husband.  If Gokhale failed to delete those tweets within 24 hours, the court directed Twitter to take down those tweets accusing Puri of buying a flat in Switzerland from unknown sources and seeking an inquiry into the matter. After going through records by Puri, the court noted there has been complete disclosure regarding the purchase of the Swiss apartment, its value, as well as the loans taken from the UBS Bank for the purchase. "I am unable to find, prima facie, even a scintilla of impropriety, or lack of transparency, either in the purchase of the apartment, or in the disclosures made to the statutory authorities in that regard, either by the plaintiff or by her husband," the judge said. The court said the present case was an instance in point to show that social media, for all its unquestionable and undeniable benefits, as well as its indispensability in modern times, comes with its own sordid sequelae.   "The exponential fashion in which social media platforms have evolved, has provided fertile soil for the growth and mushrooming of this unfortunate human tendency (of indulging in vitriolic criticism)," the bench said. Senior advocate Maninder Singh, who argued for Puri, contended that Gokhale was a pseudo-activist, whose intent is only to blackmail vulnerable persons in public life, such as his client.  The court said since the order was being passed at an incipient stage, on the stay application, and the suit was yet to be tried, it would not wish to express any final opinion on this aspect.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-directs-activist-saket-gokhale-to-remove-tweet-against-lakshmi-puri-1008062.html
13-07-2021||National||2 dead due to heavy rains in Himachal Pradesh; rescue ops under way||Two people died in the last two days due to heavy rainfall in Himachal Pradesh. "Rescue operation for 10 missing people is underway in Kangra. I'll visit Dharmshala to take cognizance," Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister, Jairam Thakur, told news agency ANI. Heavy rains triggered flash floods in parts of Himachal Pradesh and the Jammu region disrupting normal life on Monday. The India Meteorological Department has issued an orange alert for Rajasthan and Jammu and Kashmir, and yellow alert for Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh for Tuesday with warning of heavy rains. In Himachal Pradesh's Dharamshala, flash floods triggered by heavy rains swept away cars and two buildings, videos of which were widely shared on social media. The flash floods also damaged several buildings, including one housing a government school, as bad weather led to the closure of the Kangra airport at Gaggal. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-dead-due-to-heavy-rains-in-himachal-pradesh-rescue-ops-under-way-1008063.html
13-07-2021||National||Southwest Monsoon covers entire country after delay of 5 days: IMD||The Southwest Monsoon covered the entire country on Tuesday after a delay of five days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The Southwest Monsoon usually covers the entire country on July 8. The monsoon covered its last outposts —- the desert town of Jaisalmer and Ganganagar in Rajasthan —- on Monday but evaded Delhi.  On Tuesday, several parts of the NCR received rainfall following which the IMD declared monsoon's arrival in Delhi. “In association with the continued prevalence of moist easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal in the lower levels since past four days, enhanced cloud cover and scattered to fairly widespread rainfall, the Southwest Monsoon has further advanced into remaining parts of the country including Delhi, remaining parts of Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan," the IMD said. “The Southwest Monsoon has covered entire country on July 13, against the normal date of July 8,” the IMD said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/southwest-monsoon-covers-entire-country-after-delay-of-5-days-imd-1008078.html
13-07-2021||National||Chidambaram slams govt's Covid-19 vaccination programme||Congress leader P Chidambaram on Tuesday hit out at the government's Covid-19 vaccination programme, terming its promise of vaccinating all adults by December end as an "empty boast". He said the states of Odisha and Delhi are facing vaccine shortages and asked the Union health minister to spell out his plans to ensure a regular and uninterrupted supply of vaccines to states. "Vaccine shortage is a fact. Vaccine production is exaggerated. Vaccine import is a mystery. Vaccinating the entire adult population by December 2021 is an empty boast," he said. "Will the new Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya tell the nation the truth about the vaccination programme," he asked. After Odisha, Delhi has run out of vaccines In a series of tweets, he said after Odisha, Delhi has run out of vaccines. "Will the new Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya please tell us how he plans to ensure regular, adequate and uninterrupted supply of vaccines to the States," he said. The former union minister said Odisha has reported that 24 out of 30 districts have run out of vaccines.  "Odisha is governed by the BJD, an ally of the BJP. What has the central government that dismissed complaints of vaccine shortage got to say now," Chidambaram asked. The Congress has been criticising the government over its vaccination programme alleging that it is slow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chidambaram-slams-govts-covid-19-vaccination-programme-1008079.html
13-07-2021||National||Matter of concern to see big crowds without masks in hill stations, markets: PM||Strongly disapproving of tourists flouting Covid-19 protocols at hill stations, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic “will not come on its own” and steps need to be taken to prevent a surge in fresh infections. Addressing chief ministers from northeastern states, Modi also stressed increasing genome sequencing to identify variants of the coronavirus and step up vaccination drive to keep the third wave away. “It is not good to have huge crowds at hill stations and markets without wearing masks. People say it with pride that they want to enjoy before the third wave. The third wave will not come on its own,” Modi said, appealing to the people not to compromise Covid-19 protocols. The virtual meeting was attended by chief ministers of Assam, Nagaland, Tripura, Sikkim, Manipur, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram. Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya were among the others who attended the meeting.  “We all need to work together to stop the third wave of Covid-19 pandemic,” he said, adding every step should be taken to avoid events that could lead to crowding. Modi stressed the need to keep a close watch on every variant of the coronavirus. “Experts are constantly studying how troubling the virus could be after mutations, but in such a dynamic situation, prevention and treatment are very important,” he said. The prime minister said the Covid-19 situation was worrisome in some districts of the North East and urged the chief ministers to stay alert and act fast to check the further spread of the virus. While most parts of the country have seen a steady decline in the Covid-19 numbers, the northeast region has been a cause of concern with the number of cases either rising or not falling in line with the nationwide trend.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/matter-of-concern-to-see-big-crowds-without-masks-in-hill-stations-markets-pm-1008087.html
13-07-2021||National||SII to produce Russia's Sputnik V Covid vaccine from September||India’s biggest vaccine manufacturer Serum Institute of India will manufacture 300 million doses of the Russian Sputnik-V Covid-19 vaccine, whose developers inked an agreement with the company on Tuesday. As per the pact between the Russian Direct Investment Fund, which sponsored the development of Sputnik-V, and Serum Institute, the Pune-based vaccine major is expected to roll out its first batch of the shots by September, 2021. In accordance with the technology transfer process, SII has already received cell and vector samples from the Gamaleya Center. The manufacturing process has begun following an approval by the Drug Controller General of India. With the RDIF signing such agreements with half a dozen local pharmaceutical firms, India has emerged as the leading production hub for the Russian vaccine, which has been registered in 67 countries. Agreements have been signed with Gland Pharma, Hetero Biopharma, Panacea Biotec, Stelis Biopharma, Virchow Biotech and Morepen for the production of the Russian vaccine. In addition, Dr Reddy’s Laboratory remains Sputnik's main distributor in India besides carrying out the clinical trial and obtaining the regulatory approval for the Russian entity. Notwithstanding so many partners in India, the expected supply of Sputnik-V for the government’s Covid-19 vaccination programme has now been lowered to 10 crore from the previous figure of 15.6 crore. Besides manufacturing Covishield – the mainstay of India’s Covid-19 vaccination programme – the SII has also tied up with the US firm Novavax to roll out its vaccine under the brand name Covavax. In a statement, DRL on Tuesday said Sputnik-V was soft-launched in over 50 cities in India since May 14, but didn’t say when it would be commercially rolled out. “Neither the ongoing soft commercial launch, nor work towards its ramp up in India have been put on hold,” the DRL said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sii-to-produce-russias-sputnik-v-covid-vaccine-from-september-1008090.html
13-07-2021||National||First-ever all-ladies Himalayan expedition flagged off in Pune||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, a team of seven girls from Pune-based adventure club Giripremi are all set to embark on an expedition from Leh to Kang Yatse I (6,400 m) and Kang Yatse II (6,250 m). This is the first-ever all-ladies Himalayan expedition.  The flagging-off ceremony for the expedition took place at Hanuman Hill near Fergusson College in Pune. Sarita Vijay Joshi was present at the ceremony as the Chief Guest, including Manasi Pathak. The Giripremi Club was founded in 1982. Ushaprabha Page, who is currently the President of the club, played a vital role in its establishment. For the past 40 years, she had a dream that a strong and capable mountaineering team of girls should be formed and they should empower themselves to be able to do a Himalayan Expedition. For the last one and a half years, 18 women from different parts of Maharashtra have been preparing for the expedition under the guidance of Shri Shiv Chhatrapati Award winning Giripremi’s senior mountaineer Umesh Zirpe. Out of these, a team of 7 women were selected for the Kang Yatse expedition in Leh. The expedition is being led by Priyanka Chinchorkar and Sneha Gude, Sayali Budhkar, Anjali Katre, Padmaja Dhanvi, Ketki Pathak, Smita Karivadekar are part of the team. They were prepared by coach Sameeran Kolhe in terms of fitness. Nikhil Pathak, who is part of a company called Yoga Centre manufacturing surgical equipment also extended financial support to the team was present for the event. Anand Palande, Ushaprabha Page, Umesh Zirpe, Chandan Chavhan and Everesters Bhushan Harshe, Anand Mali and Prasad Joshi joined the event and gave their best wishes to the team. Kang Yatse peaks are located in Markha Valley region of Leh. The area is a part of Hemis National Park, where one can witness rich biodiversity. Some challenges of Kang Yatse I peak are steep sections in climb, ice wall, crevasses, heavy winds, dry and cold air in this region etc. Similarly, as Kang Yatse II peak is attempted right from Base camp, it has a long and challenging summit attempt. The team will depart on July 17 from Pune for the expedition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/first-ever-all-ladies-himalayan-expedition-flagged-off-in-pune-1008117.html
13-07-2021||National||PM Modi to meet 6 Chief Ministers over Covid-19 situation on July 16||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with the chief ministers of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Odisha, Maharashtra, and Kerala on July 16 to discuss the Covid-19 situation in these states. These are among the states where the Covid-19 infection numbers have seen an increase in several districts or have not in general seen a dip as they have in most other states. Modi on Tuesday interacted with the chief ministers of eight Northeastern states, another region of concern, through video conferencing, and said the vaccination drive needs to be continuously ramped up to deal with the pandemic. He also said that it is a matter of concern that big crowds are thronging hill stations and market areas without masks and social distancing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-meet-6-chief-ministers-over-covid-19-situation-on-july-16-1008126.html
13-07-2021||National||India's free meals scheme in schools linked to improved growth in children of beneficiaries: Study||Women who received free meals in primary schools of India have children with improved linear growth, according to a study. The research, published in journal Nature Communications on Monday, suggest a potential pathway through which school feeding programmes may have inter-generational effects on child nutrition outcomes. The researchers at the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) in the US noted that India is home to the highest number of undernourished children and the largest school feeding programme in the world -- the Mid-Day Meal (MDM) scheme. However, long-term benefits of the scheme on nutrition are unknown. The researchers used nationally representative data on mothers and their children from 1993 to 2016 to assess whether MDM supports inter-generational improvements in child linear growth. They found that investments made in school meals in previous decades were associated with improvements in future child linear growth. "Our findings suggest that intervening during the primary school years can make important contributions to reducing future child stunting, particularly given the cumulative exposure that is possible through school feeding programmes," said study co-author Suman Chakrabarti from the University of Washington in the US. The findings also show that school meals may contribute to education, later fertility decisions, and access to health care, reducing the risk of undernutrition in the next generation, the researchers said. "School feeding programmes such as India's MDM scheme have the potential for stimulating population-level stunting reduction as they are implemented at scale and target multiple underlying determinants of undernutrition in vulnerable groups," said study co-author Samuel Scott from IFPRI. Study co-author, Harold Alderman from IFPRI, noted that findings from previous evaluations of India's MDM scheme have shown a positive association with beneficiaries' school attendance, learning achievement, hunger and protein-energy malnutrition, and resilience to health shocks such as drought. All of these may have carryover benefits to children born to mothers who participated in the programme, he said. Further research is required to understand whether improving the quality or quantity of meals provided and extending the programme beyond primary school might further enhance its benefits, the researchers added. The MDM scheme, initiated by the central government in 1995, was intended to cover all government schools under the National Programme of Nutritional Support for Primary Education, the authors of study wrote. Due to institutional challenges, only a few states scaled up the programme immediately, they said. According to the researchers, data from 1999 show that only 6 per cent of all girls aged 6-10 years received mid-day meals in school.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-free-meals-scheme-in-schools-linked-to-improved-growth-in-children-of-beneficiaries-study-1008127.html
13-07-2021||National||SC refuses to cancel bail of 12 in Kerala gold smuggling case, but agrees to examine legal issue||The Supreme Court on Tuesday agreed to examine if stringent anti-terror law, UAPA, could be applied in gold smuggling cases, in the backdrop of a conflicting ruling by two high courts.  The NIA approached the top court, seeking cancellation of bail granted to 12 accused by the Kerala High Court in the smuggling case, where 30 kg of 24 carat gold worth Rs 14.82 crore were seized at Thiruvananthapuram airport on July 5, last year, by the customs department.  Additional Solicitor General K M Natraj, representing NIA, submitted before a bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana that besides the grant of bail, the high court has interpreted the definition of terrorist act in relation to smuggling and this aspect needed to be considered. The bench, also comprising justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy, noted all accused are employees of the government. “We will not enter into bail cancellation aspect," the bench said, agreeing to consider larger issue on applicability of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. The top court declined to cancel the bail granted to 12 accused in the controversial case pertaining to smuggling of gold through diplomatic baggage from UAE to Thiruvananthapuram.  However, it issued notice to all the 12 accused who were granted bail. The Centre, before the top court, pointed out confusion, arising from the ruling of two high courts – Rajasthan High Court and Kerala High Court – which arrived at diametrically opposite conclusions.  In February, this year, the Kerala High Court, while granting bail to the 12 accused, had observed that gold smuggling does not come under the purview of terrorism.   The court added that gold smuggling clearly covered by the provisions of the Customs Act will not fall within the definition of terrorist act in Section 15 of UAP Act unless evidence is brought out to show that it is done with the intent to threaten or it is likely to threaten the economic security or monetary stability of India.  On the contrary, the Rajasthan High Court in February had ruled that a gold smuggler prosecuted under Customs Act could also be prosecuted under UAPA. The high court had refused to quash the FIR registered by the NIA under the offences of UAPA.  Mohammad Aslam, the petitioner in the matter, was caught at Jaipur International Airport for smuggling over 1.5 Kg gold. The high court rejected Aslam’s plea contending that registering the case under UAPA would amount to “double jeopardy”, as he was already facing prosecution under the Customs Act.  The high court had noted that smuggling gold with the intent to threaten the economic security of the country can be termed as a “terrorist act” UAPA.  Aslam had moved the top court, seeking stay of investigation and the proceedings connected with FIR, which was registered by NIA under provisions of UAPA.   In March, a bench led by Justice R F Nariman issued notice on his plea.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-to-cancel-bail-of-12-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-case-but-agrees-to-examine-legal-issue-1008133.html
13-07-2021||National||PM Modi expresses anguish at Yashpal Sharma's death||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday expressed anguish at the death of former Indian cricketer Yashpal Sharma and called him an inspiration for teammates, fans as well as budding cricketers.    India's 1983 World Cup hero, who was admired for being a gutsy middle-order batsman, died after suffering a massive cardiac arrest. Sharma was 66 and is survived by his wife, two daughters and a son.   "Shri Yashpal Sharma Ji was a much beloved member of the Indian cricket team, including the legendary 1983 squad. He was an inspiration for teammates, fans as well as budding cricketers. Anguished by his passing away. Condolences to his family and admirers. Om Shanti," the prime minister said on Twitter. Shri Yashpal Sharma Ji was a much beloved member of the Indian cricket team, including the legendary 1983 squad. He was an inspiration for teammates, fans as well as budding cricketers. Anguished by his passing away. Condolences to his family and admirers. Om Shanti.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-expresses-anguish-at-yashpal-sharmas-death-1008139.html
13-07-2021||National||Exempt taxes, customs duty on import of drugs for treatment of Spinal Muscular Atrophy: Stalin to FM||With many children being affected by Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA), Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Tuesday demanded that the Union Government take a policy decision to exempt Customs Duty, Integrated GST, and any other such taxes on import of life-saving drugs for the treatment of the rare disease.  In a letter to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Stalin recalled the Union Government waiving the tax for import of the drug for a child who was suffering from SMA.  “I request you to give necessary instructions to the Ministry of Finance to take necessary steps to exempt Customs Duty, Integrated GST/any other such taxes on import of life-saving drugs for the treatment of Spinal Muscular Atrophy, as a policy,” Stalin said in the letter.  Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA) is a rare disease, causing the loss of nerve cells, which carry electrical signals from the brain to muscles. For the children affected by it, gene therapy has to be given ideally before the child reaches two years of age. The treatment costs Rs 16 crore and many parents had taken to social media to seek funds for procuring the drug and subsequent treatment.  “In Tamil Nadu, annually 90-100 such cases are being reported. A single dose treatment (Zolgensma) or multiple dose treatments (Spinraza) gene-therapy treatment or Risdiplam oral syrup is expensive and the parents of the children who are affected by the rare disorder find it difficult to meet the cost of the treatment,” he said. As these drugs are imported, the Customs Duty and Integrated GST levied on them, further increase the cost of gene therapy, Stalin added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/exempt-taxes-customs-duty-on-import-of-drugs-for-treatment-of-spinal-muscular-atrophy-stalin-to-fm-1008143.html
13-07-2021||National||Digital initiatives taken in education during pandemic will be strengthened, institutionalised: MoE||Digital initiatives taken to ensure the continuity of education during the Covid-19 pandemic will be further strengthened and institutionalised, Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said on Tuesday. Pradhan said this after reviewing the digital initiatives taken by the ministry including the PM e-Vidya and the National Digital Education Architecture(N-DEAR). "New age education will leverage technology to be open, inclusive and accessible. The Covid-19 pandemic necessitated a shift towards digital medium of education. Digital initiatives taken during this time will be further strengthened and institutionalised. "A vibrant digital ecosystem in education will expand learning opportunities for the students, spur innovation and entrepreneurship in the education sector," the minister said after the meeting. The meeting was also attended by three ministers of state (MoS) for education -- Rajkumar Ranjan Singh, Subhas Sarkar and Annapurna Devi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/digital-initiatives-taken-in-education-during-pandemic-will-be-strengthened-institutionalised-moe-1008145.html
13-07-2021||National||Govt waives import duty on raw materials for Covid test kits, APIs for Amphotericin B||The government has exempted basic customs duty on imports of specified API/ excipients for Amphotericin B and raw materials for manufacturing Covid test kits. In a notification dated July 12, the Finance Ministry said the basic customs duty exemption on raw materials for manufacturing Covid test kits would be till September 30, 2021. While the exemption on specified API (active pharmaceutical ingredients)/ excipients for Amphotericin B would be valid till August 31. EY Tax Partner Abhishek Jain said this is a well thought exemption being granted by the Indian government to fight the Covid crisis and is a step to make the domestic industry self-reliant while fighting the pandemic. Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co Partner Rajat Bose said "this is likely to further bring down the cost of such items in India making it more affordable for the common man". Last month, the Finance Ministry's Revenue Department had notified the lower rates for 18 Covid related supplies, like hand sanitiser, pulse oximeters, BiPAP machine, testing kits, ambulances and temperature check equipment. These concessional rates would be applicable till September 30, 2021. GST on Covid-19 drug Tocilizumab and black fungus medicine Amphotericin B was reduced to 'nil', from 5 per cent. The rate on Remdesivir and anti-coagulants like Heparin is lowered from 12 per cent to 5 per cent. GST rate on ambulance was cut to 12 per cent from 28 per cent. Tax on medical grade oxygen, oxygen concentrator (including personal imports), ventilators, BiPAP machines and high flow nasal cannula (HFNC) devices has been reduced to 5 per cent from 12 per cent. Also, tax on Covid testing kits, pulse oximeter (including personal imports) has been brought down to 5 per cent from 12 per cent. Hand sanitisers, temperature check equipment, gas/electric furnaces for crematoriums too will attract lower 5 per cent tax, from 18 per cent earlier. Mahesh Jaising, Partner, Deloitte India, said that with the government preparing for a third wave of Covid which experts suggest to be around the corner, it is not surprising to see that the government has proactively exempted the customs duty on raw materials for Covid testing kits. Covid test kits attract 5 per cent GST rate (till September 30 and this exemption will further reduce the cost for the manufacturers and therefore, the general public. “This is aligned to the government’s support for “make in India”. This is also aligned to the larger rate reduction/ exemptions that the Government announced in the past few months specifically for Covid related drugs and equipment,” Jaising added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-waives-import-duty-on-raw-materials-for-covid-test-kits-apis-for-amphotericin-b-1008153.html
13-07-2021||National||Despite Covid concerns, Uttar Pradesh to allow Kawad Yatra with restrictions||Notwithstanding the concerns expressed by the Indian Medical Association (IMA), the Uttar Pradesh government has decided to allow the annual Kawad Yatra with restrictions. In the annual ritual, devotees carry earthen pitchers filled with waters from Ganga and offer the same at Lord Shiva temples.   According to the official sources here on Tuesday, the Covid-19 protocol would be followed strictly during the Kawad Yatra. ''The district officials have been directed to take steps to keep the number of pilgrims to the minimum,'' said a government official here. The government has, however, not yet decided if the RT-PCR negative report will be made mandatory for the pilgrims. ''We did not learn any lesson from the first wave as a result of which the second wave hit the country. Many lives were lost. The government should not allow pilgrims from other places to enter the state (Uttarakhand),'' Khanna had said in his letter. Thousands of 'kawadiyas' (devotees) visit Haridwar in Uttarakhand to fill their pitchers with Ganga waters and then carry them to offer to the temples of Lord Shiva. Devotees, carrying the earthen pitchers, walk on foot for miles to offer them at Shiva temples.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/despite-covid-concerns-uttar-pradesh-to-allow-kawad-yatra-with-restrictions-1008158.html
13-07-2021||National||Who was the first Indian to test positive for Covid-19?||On January 30 in 2020, a medical student of Wuhan University who returned to Kerala tested positive for the coronavirus. Covid-19 cases worldwide then stood at 7,711 and deaths due to the disease at 170, a health ministry official had informed.  The student, following the outbreak in China, reached Kolkata from Wuhan, where the virus was first found, on January 23. She then landed in Kochi and further travelled to her hometown in Kerala.   An advisory had been established to screen those with travel history from China. She then informed the local health officials about her travel from Wuhan. She was told to isolate for 28 days, maintain hygiene and wear a mask.  On January 27, she informed the District Surveillance Officer that she had developed symptoms of flu, which were then known to be the only symptoms of Covid-19. The medicos helped her move to an isolation ward at Thrissur General Hospital. Her samples were sent to the National Institute of Virology in Pune, which confirmed on January 30 that the test had turned positive.  "But I never thought that I would be the one as hundreds were under surveillance. But as news update came that the infected person was a girl under isolation at Thrissur general hospital, I was almost confirmed that it was me. Soon doctors also confirmed. Immediately I contacted those who traveled with me from China to India and asked them to be cautious," she had said. She had not reported any contact with a suspected or confirmed case of Covid-19. She also had not visited Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market, where several initial patients had traces of exposure.  However, she saw various people with respiratory symptoms on the train she was travelling in China, according to the Indian Journal of Medical Research or IJMR paper. At the hospital, she was asymptomatic on February 3, 2020. She tested negative on day 19 of her illness and was eventually discharged on February 20.  Now, a year and a half later, she has contracted the virus again when she was tested for her travel to New Delhi. She is asymptomatic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-was-the-first-indian-to-test-positive-for-covid-19-1008160.html
13-07-2021||National||Amid 'gross violation' of Covid norms, central teams sent to 10 states to fight virus||The government on Tuesday expressed concern over the "gross violations" of Covid-appropriate behaviour in several parts of the country and said this can nullify the gains made so far. The government also said that central teams have been sent to 10 states to help them in the fight against Covid-19. Addressing a press conference on the pandemic situation in the country, Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry, said people talk about the third wave as a "weather update" but fail to understand that adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour or the lack of it is what will prevent or cause any future waves. NITI Aayog Member (Health) Dr V K Paul, who was also present at the press conference, said globally, a third wave of Covid-19 is being seen and called on people to make efforts to ensure that it does not happen in India. Agarwal said approximately 73.4 per cent of the new Covid-19 cases reported so far in July were from Kerala, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha. He said 55 districts reported Covid case positivity rate of more than 10 per cent in the week ending July 13. Central teams have been deputed to Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Assam, Meghalaya, Odisha, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Nagaland and Tripura to support them in Covid-19 management, he added. India's Covid-19 death toll climbed to 4,10,784 on Tuesday with 2,020 new deaths recorded after Madhya Pradesh reconciled its fatality data while 31,443 new coronavirus cases pushed the infection tally to 3,09,05,819, according to Union health ministry data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-gross-violation-of-covid-norms-central-teams-sent-to-10-states-to-fight-virus-1008165.html
13-07-2021||National||Preparing for 2024, RSS formulates long-term strategy for Bengal, appoints three regional 'pracharaks'||After a stunning defeat of the BJP in the West Bengal elections despite a high-decibel election campaign by the saffron party with help from the well-oiled Sangh organisational machinery, and keeping in mind the general elections in 2024, the RSS has formulated a long-term strategy for the state to reach out to the people. According to sources, senior RSS functionaries, including the Sangh chief Mohan Bhagwat, deliberated on the results of the Bengal Assembly polls during the five-day long 'Chintan Shivir' at Chitrakoot, which concluded on Tuesday. Sources said that the Sangh had divided West Bengal into three parts -- South Bengal, Central Bengal and North Bengal -- from the organisational point of view and all the three divisions would have regional 'pracaharaks', who would concentrate on the districts allocated to them. ''The headquarter of South Bengal will be Kolkata while that of Central Bengal will be Bardhaman.....the headquarter of North Bengal will be Siliguri,'' said a BJP leader, who was privy to the discussions. Each of the divisions would have a regional 'pracharak', who would be tasked with expanding the RSS network into the areas under him.  Sources said that the change of strategy was prompted by the defeat of the BJP in the recent Assembly polls. ''West Bengal will be crucial for the BJP if it is to form the next government after 2024 Lok Sabha polls,'' said a Lucknow-based media analyst while speaking to DH. BJP could win only 77 seats in West Bengal Assembly polls despite all round efforts. The party had won 18 seats in the state in the 2019 LS polls. Although the BJP has been able to establish itself as an important political player in the eastern state, the party appeared to be in disarray after the electoral drubbing and several senior party leaders, including Mukul Roy, had rejoined the Trinamool Congress (TMC).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/preparing-for-2024-rss-formulates-long-term-strategy-for-bengal-appoints-three-regional-pracharaks-1008186.html
13-07-2021||National||NEET postgraduate exam to be conducted on September 11||The National Eligibility and Entrance Test – Post Graduate exams will be held on September 11, Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Tuesday. “We have decided to conduct the NEET Postgraduate exam on 11th September, 2021. My best wishes to young medical aspirants,” the minister tweeted. The NEET-PG, conducted by the National Board of Examinations in January, was first deferred to April due to the Covid-19 pandemic. As the second wave of the pandemic engulfed the country, the government announced that the exam will not be held before August 31. The exam is held every year to grant admissions to the 30,000 post-graduate seats in medical colleges. Government had drafted a large number of final year MBBS students and junior residents for Covid-19 duties such as teleconsultation and attending to patients with mild symptoms after an orientation program under supervision of the faculty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/neet-postgraduate-exam-to-be-conducted-on-september-11-1008193.html
13-07-2021||National||Congress to raise 'exorbitant' fuel prices, 'irrational' GST rates in Monsoon Session of Parliament||Congress will raise Narendra Modi government's "exploitation and greed" in levying cesses leading to exorbitant fuel prices, increase in import duties resulting in higher price of essential goods like pulses and palm oil and the "irrational" GST rates on an array of goods in the forthcoming Monsoon Session of Parliament. Cautioning the government that the issue of high inflation caused by the Modi government's policies would not go away even if it pretends that it does not exist, former Finance Minister P Chidambaram on Tuesday said the party wants the government to take steps to reduce fuel prices, import duty and GST rates. He said the party will raise these issues and demand a "full discussion on these as well as providing substantial relief" for the people, who are facing the "crushing burden of high inflation". The senior Rajya Sabha MP accused the NDA government of continuing to pretend that the concern about price rise is a false concern and if the government ignores it, the issue will go away. Referring to the retail inflation growing at 6.26 per cent in June, Chidambaram told a press conference, "Inflation even in normal times would be intolerable. In a situation of widespread distress due to Covid-19, inflation has broken the back of people and we hold the Modi government directly responsible for the high inflation." He said inflation has not been caused by a spurt in demand but by the "wrong policies" and "inept management" of the economy. Chidambaram said fuel prices hovering around Rs 100 at several places was not justified when the price of crude oil is around USD 75 a barrel. "When crude oil price was USD 125, the UPA government was able to provide petrol at Rs 65 a litre and diesel at Rs 44 a litre. The sole reason for the exorbitant prices is the levy of cesses. Total cesses levied by the Centre on petrol and diesel are Rs 33 per litre and Rs 32 per litre respectively," he said. "Through these cesses alone, the Centre collects around Rs 4.2 lakh crore every year and keeps all that money to itself. This is exploitation and greed of the worst kind," he said. On import duties, he said the duties increased by the Modi government remain despite a downward trend in the value of rupee and this has resulted in high prices on a large number of intermediary goods as well as essential goods like palm oil, pulses and household items. He also warned the government that the "irrational" GST rates, which are on the higher side, have the tendency to push up prices of goods and services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-to-raise-exorbitant-fuel-prices-irrational-gst-rates-in-monsoon-session-of-parliament-1008198.html
13-07-2021||National||Spectators without masks at Wimbledon: Bombay HC asks when India would see this day||All eyes may have been on Novak Djokovic at the Men's Singles final at Wimbledon last week as he won yet another grand slam title, but for the Bombay High Court the real sight to behold was a stadium full of spectators without masks. Wondering when India would see the return of this level of normalcy, the court noted that "vaccinating everyone" was the key to it. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni was hearing PILs (public interest litigation) on the Covid-19 pandemic situation in Maharashtra and the state government's preparedness to face a possible third wave. "The Wimbledon finals was the sight of the year. We don't know if you saw it, but not a single person was wearing a mask," the HC told Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni. "The stadium was jam-packed and nobody but one lone woman was wearing a mask. One Indian cricketer was also present and he was without a mask too," the judges said. "When will India see such a situation? Vaccinating everyone is the key to it," the HC said. A third wave of the pandemic has reportedly arrived in some states, it said. "There are reports saying third wave has set in in two states in the North-East. We have to take measures," the judges said, adding that "we are in much more comfortable situation now" but there should not be any "lowering of guard from here". They have read news reports about active cases of the delta-plus variant of coronavirus being detected in Maharashtra, and the state must act to prevent the spread of infection, the judges said. The HC will hear the PILs next after three weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/spectators-without-masks-at-wimbledon-bombay-hc-asks-when-india-would-see-this-day-1008200.html
13-07-2021||National||Kerala HC junks Fatima Isa repatriation plea from Afghanistan, asks her mother to approach single judge bench||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday dismissed the plea of the mother of Nimisha, also known as Fatima Isa, presently languishing in an Afghan prison following the killing of her alleged IS fighter husband in a battle with security forces there, seeking repatriation of her daughter and grand-daughter to India. A bench headed by Justice K Vinod Chandran asked Bindu K, the mother of Fathima, to approach a single judge bench following which she withdrew her plea. "Plea dismissed as withdrawn.This is not a proper remedy, you should go to a single judge," the court observed. Bindu had on July 3 moved the Kerala High Court seeking repatriation of her daughter and grand-daughter to India. Nimisha was a Hindu before embracing Islam. She changed her name to Fatima and later married an alleged Islamic State (IS) operative from Kerala and both were reported missing, along with 19 others from the southern state in June 2016 before reaching an ISIS-controlled territory in Afghanistan. Fatima gave birth there in 2016. In her plea, Bindu had said the return of her daughter and minor grand-daughter "shall not pose a threat to the security and sovereignty" of the country. She had contended that once they are repatriated, Fatima can face the due process of law and her minor daughter can be rehabilitated and reintegrated into society. She has also said in her plea that India has an extradition treaty with Afghanistan from 2019 and since there is a Red Corner Notice against Fatima who is also wanted by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), she can be brought back to face the due process of law here. Besides Fatima, three other IS widows of Indian origin, are also lodged in a Kabul jail. She and three other women had surrendered to the Afghanistan government in 2019 after their husbands were killed in the fight with the forces there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-hc-junks-fatima-isa-repatriation-plea-from-afghanistan-asks-her-mother-to-approach-single-judge-bench-1008206.html
13-07-2021||National||Uttarakhand govt cancels Kawad Yatra 2021 due to Covid-19 pandemic||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Tuesday announced suspension of the annual Kawad Yatra, taking into consideration the possibility of the Delta Plus variant triggering the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The decision was taken at a meeting convened by Dhami with senior officers of the Uttarakhand Government and health experts in Dehradun. “We have decided to suspend the upcoming Kawad Yatra,” Dhami told reporters in Dehradun. “We do not wish to make Haridwar the centre of Covid-19 pandemic. Protecting people's lives is of paramount importance to us,” the young chief minister said. “We appeal to everyone that saving people's lives is more important. Even gods will not like it if people lose their lives,” Dhami said when asked about Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath announcing that the yatra would begin from July 26. The decision came after Dhami discussed the Kawad Yatra issue with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the national capital over the weekend. Health experts and the Indian Medical Association had also written to the chief minister asking him to not allow the yatra in the interest of the people of the state and the country. Earlier in the day, Dhami had said that though Kawad Yatra is part of Sanatan culture, saving lives in the time of the pandemic was paramount. The yatra begins with the onset of the month of Shravan and goes on for a fortnight when devotees from Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh walk to Haridwar to collect water from river Ganga and offer it at Shiva temples in their areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttarakhand-govt-cancels-kawad-yatra-2021-due-to-covid-19-pandemic-1008219.html
13-07-2021||National||Students lag in learning as Covid-19 pandemic widens digital gap||Learning time for students has reduced during the Covid-19 pandemic to less than four hours daily while around 10 per cent of students have no access to devices like mobile phones or television for studying, according to a survey by UNICEF India. The survey conducted in six states -- Assam, Bihar, Gujarat, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh -- covering 6,435 respondents also said 50 per cent of teachers are spending more money on teaching materials now than before the closure of schools. The impact on students of migrant and Scheduled Tribe families are more striking with the survey saying that they were falling behind in learning and overall progress.  According to the survey, 75 per cent of parents of children aged 5-13 years feel their child is learning less or significantly less than in school, and 67 per cent report that their child's overall progress is significantly behind or somewhat behind where it would be if schools were open. "Migrant students and ST students are worse off," it said, adding that more than 80 per cent of parents of such children felt that students are learning less than they would in school. The survey showed that 97 per cent of students in urban areas spend three to four hours daily on studies now, the figure dips slightly in rural areas.  With more students perceived to be learning less, UNICEF India has recommended that the states could consider partnering with ed-tech platforms and NGOs to establish an assessment system for remote learning. Assessments will help government schools understand the concepts that need further teaching and how exams can be structured to ensure that the children are prepared for it. "This will help guide what extra remedial classes can be provided to those that require additional support. In addition, governments should consider providing students with non-academic support as they are falling behind, including in areas such as social skills, physical fitness, and career readiness." The Right to Education Act, 2010 stipulates an average school day of four hours over 200 days a year for Class 1-5 students and around 4.5 hours a day for 220 days a year for students in Class 6-8. Grade 9-12 students typically receive more instructional time. With 10 per cent of students not having access to technology and left out of e-learning, UNICEF India has suggested that distribution of textbooks and other print learning materials is especially relevant for states with a relatively high proportion of students without technology access and a relatively high proportion requesting additional support. The survey also showed that WhatsApp is reported to be the most commonly used mode for remote learning -- 47 per cent of students aged 5-13 years and 55 per cent in the 14-18 years age group -- followed by textbooks (46 per cent and 42 per cent, respectively). When it comes to gender, more boys (59 per cent) use WhatsApp for studies compared to girls (51 per cent). Among students aged 5-13 years, private school students are more likely than government school students to use WhatsApp and they are more likely to use tech-enabled tools in general. Students (5-13 years) in government schools mainly learn via textbooks, home visits by teachers and YouTube. There is a 24 per cent gap in usage of WhatsApp between urban and rural students aged 5-13 years, and 15 per cent gap for students aged 14-18 years. Most students who use remote learning do so through more than one channel with 48 per cent of students in the 5-13 years age group and 61 per cent in the 14-18 years age group using multiple channels. WhatsApp and textbooks are the most common combination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/students-lag-in-learning-as-covid-19-pandemic-widens-digital-gap-1008227.html
13-07-2021||National||DH Impact | IBPS exams put on hold over language row||The Finance Ministry said Tuesday that recruitment for 3,000 clerical posts in 11 banks will be put on hold in the wake of criticism that candidates did not have the option to write the exam in Kannada and other local languages. DH had reported Tuesday how the Institute of Banking Personnel Selection (IBPS) was under fire from language activists yet again for providing just English and Hindi as options to job aspirants. Of the 3,000 clerical posts up for grabs, 407 are in Karnataka. "In order to look into the demand for holding examination for clerical cadre in Public Sector Banks (PSBs) in local/regional languages, a committee has been constituted to look into the matter in its entirety. The committee will give its recommendations within 15 days. The ongoing process of holding the examination initiated by IBPS will be kept on hold until the recommendations of the committee are made available," the Nirmala Sitharaman-led Finance Ministry said in a statement. The DH report quoted Rajya Sabha member G C Chandrashekar saying that Sitharaman had assured that banking exams will be conducted in Kannada. "...it may be clarified that the Finance Minister’s statement referred to above was made in the context of Regional Rural Banks (RRBs) only. With a view to provide a level playing field to the local youths for availing employment opportunities, the Government in 2019 decided that for recruitment of Office Assistant and Officer Scale I in RRB, the examination will be held in 13 regional languages including Konkani and Kannada, besides Hindi and English. Since then, examination for these recruitments are being conducted in regional languages also," the statement said. Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said he met Sitharaman and brought up the issue of conducting exams in local languages. He thanked her "for prioritising employment of our youth and putting banking IBPS exam on hold". Meanwhile, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah launched a tirade at Sitharaman, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and BJP MPs for their "anti-Kannada" stand. "Being elected to Rajya Sabha from Karnataka, Sitharaman has constantly betrayed Kannadigas and Kannada. She is unfit to represent the people of Karnataka in Rajya Sabha," he said, demanding her resignation. "Yediyurappa's followers call him huli (tiger), but in reality he is ili (mouse). He hides in burrows when he has to stand up in front of Narendra Modi. Let him resign if he cannot ensure justice to Kannadigas," the Congress leader said. The former chief minister said most government schemes are implemented through banks. "Farmers, labourers, women, and many others are dependent on banks. Rural people are facing harassment from the staff who don't know Kannada," he pointed out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-impact-ibps-exams-put-on-hold-over-language-row-1008240.html
13-07-2021||National||Jaishankar meets Afghan counterpart ahead of key SCO meet||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday met his Afghan counterpart Mohammad Haneef Atmar here and discussed the situation in the war-torn country. Jaishankar arrived in the Tajik capital on Tuesday for a two-day visit to attend the meetings of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization Council of Foreign Ministers and the SCO Contact Group on Afghanistan. "Began my Dushanbe visit by meeting with Afghan FM @MHaneefAtmar. Appreciate his update on recent developments. Looking forward to the meeting of the SCO Contact Group on Afghanistan tomorrow," Jaishankar tweeted. The SCO contact group meeting on Afghanistan assumes significance as it comes amidst growing global concerns over Taliban fighters rapidly seizing control of a large number of areas in Afghanistan. India has evacuated around 50 diplomats and security personnel from its consulate in Kandahar in a military aircraft in the wake of intense fighting between Afghan forces and Taliban militants. Afghanistan has witnessed a series of terror attacks in the last few weeks as the US looked to complete the withdrawal of its forces from Afghanistan by August-end, ending a nearly two-decade of its military presence in the war-ravaged country. India has been a major stakeholder in the peace and stability of Afghanistan. It has already invested nearly $3 billion in aid and reconstruction activities in the country. India has been supporting a national peace and reconciliation process which is Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-meets-afghan-counterpart-ahead-of-key-sco-meet-1008248.html
13-07-2021||National||Book written by 3-year-old author released in India||Most three-years-old may find it difficult to even form a sentence, but not child prodigy Chryseis Knight who holds the rare distinction of being one of the youngest authors in the world. "The Great Big Lion", drawn and written by child prodigy Knight, is a story about lion and two children. It talks about friendship, inclusivity, wildlife conservation and the world of imagination. Earlier published independently abroad, the book was released on Monday for the first time in India under Penguin Random House India's 'Puffin' imprint. Knight, who is currently residing in Canada, learnt how to read at the age of one, started writing the story of "The Great Big Lion" in her notebook when she was three years old. She then shared it with her family and became determined to do the artwork with the motivation of getting the book published. Now seven-years-old, she hopes to inspire children all around the world to embrace the magic in books. "Tremendously excited that we are publishing this unique book that was written and illustrated by Chryseis when she was merely three! Her writings have an endearing quality; it speaks to children and resonates with them, and the themes she covers are wide-ranging: from wildlife conservation to developing empathy. It is not surprising that she was inducted into Mensa at age two for her linguistic talents. She's exceptionally gifted and we look forward to her writing career as she grows up," said Arpita Nath, commissioning editor, Penguin Random House. The book is available for sale on online and offline stores.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/book-written-by-3-year-old-author-released-in-india-1008254.html
13-07-2021||National||Govt planning to liberalise MDA policy to promote alternative fertilisers, says Mansukh Mandaviya||The government is planning to liberalise the Market Development Assistance (MDA) policy to promote the use of alternative fertilisers, Fertiliser Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Tuesday The MDA policy was earlier limited to city compost only, he said. At present, the government gives MDA of Rs 1,500 per tonne in the form of subsidy for scaling up production and consumption of city compost made out from city waste. "There were demands to expand this policy by incorporating organic waste like Biogas, Green Manure, organic compost of rural areas, solid/liquid slurry, etc," an official statement quoted Mandaviya as saying in a review meeting with ministry officials here. The government is planning to liberalise MDA Policy to promote the use of alternative fertilisers. The expansion of this policy will fully complement the government's 'Swachh Bharat Abhiyan,' he added. In the meeting, the minister was apprised that Matix Fertilisers Plant in Durgapur, West Bengal having capacity of 12.7 lakh tonne will commence soon. Mandaviya said the commencement of Ramagundam plant in Telangana has added 12.7 lakh tonne of indigenous urea production and  this will help realize the vision of the Prime Minister to make India self-reliant in urea production. The project should not only improve the availability of fertilizer to farmers but also give a boost to the economy in the region including development of infrastructure like roads, railways, ancillary industry etc. besides ensuring food security to the nation, he added.         Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilizers Shri Bhagwanth Khuba and Fertiliser Secretary R K Chaturvedi were among other senior ministry officials present in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-planning-to-liberalise-mda-policy-to-promote-alternative-fertilisers-says-mansukh-mandaviya-1008256.html
13-07-2021||National||No respite from Centre's economic mess: Rahul Gandhi||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday targeted the Narendra Modi government, saying whatever the situation, there is no respite from the "economic mess" it created. "Come rain or shine, no respite from GOI's economic mess," Rahul wrote on micro-blogging site Twitter. His comments came as a response to a report which said Indians were selling their gold as the second Covid-19 wave has pushed millions into poverty. Rahul's comments came as the Congress chalked out a plan to hold press conferences across the country till July 15 to highlight the "failures" of the government. Former Finance Minister P Chidambaram on Tuesday held a press conference attacking the Modi government and said the party would raise Modi government's "exploitation and greed" in the upcoming Monsoon Session of Parliament and demand a decrease in fuel prices, import duties and "irrational" GST rates. He expressed hope that other Opposition parties will join hands with it to evolve a joint strategy on the floor of Parliament and corner the government. Congress will be fielding leaders across 23 cities to hold press conferences before July 15. This includes Mallikarjun Kharge, Digvijay Singh, Bhupesh Bhagel, Salman Khurshid, Sachin Pilot, Shashi Tharoor and Dinesh Gundu Rao. Senior leaders Anand Sharma, Manish Tewari, Shashi Tharoor and Mukul Wasnik, who are part of 'Group of 23' or G-23 who had written to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi seeking an overhaul of the party, have also been asked to hold press meets. Sharma will address the media in Jaipur while Tewari will be in Ahmedabad and Tharoor in Chennai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-respite-from-centres-economic-mess-rahul-gandhi-1008263.html
13-07-2021||National||MHA orders CBI probe into deaths of siblings from Nagaland||The Union home ministry has decided to handover to the CBI the probe into the mysterious deaths of two siblings from Nagaland -- Rosy Sangma and Samuel Sangma -- in Gurgaon last month, officials said on Tuesday. The decision came after Meghalaya MP and former Union minister Agatha Sangma requested Union Home Minister Amit Shah for an investigation of highest order. The home ministry has decided to handover to the Central Bureau Investigation (CBI) the probe into the deaths of Rosy Sangma and her brother Samuel Sangma in Gurgaon in Haryana last month, an official said and added that they were from Dimapur in Nagaland. According to reports, Rosy Sangma and Samuel Sangma were working in Delhi-NCR. A few weeks ago, Rosy complained of a medical condition and was taken to the hospital for treatment, where she passed away later. Her brother, Samuel, who was attending to her, had alleged that there was medical negligence and registered a complaint regarding the events leading to her death, Agatha Sangma wrote in her letter to Shah. "The next day Samuel was found hanging in his hotel room by his friends and the circumstances leading to his death rose suspicion of foul play and now there is an enormous indignation in the public space and call for justice is growing with every passing day," the letter said. "Prima-facie this appears to be a case of orchestrated homicide, which requires investigation of highest order to unearth the truth leading to the death of two young persons in their prime," the parliamentarian, who is also a member of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Water Resources, said. The MP from Meghalaya has urged the Shah "to initiate necessary investigation at the earliest and book the perpetrators of the crime in consonance with the law of the land and deliver justice" to the family of Rosy Sangma and Samuel Sangma, Agatha Sangma's letter said. PTI ACB http://ptinews.com/images/pti.jpg “We bring the World to you" Disclaimer : This e-mail message may contain proprietary, confidential or legally privileged information for the sole use of the person or entity to whom this message was originally addressed. Please delete this e-mail, if it is not meant for you.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mha-orders-cbi-probe-into-deaths-of-siblings-from-nagaland-1008280.html
13-07-2021||National||NEET-UG to be conducted in 13 languages, exam centre opened in Kuwait, says Dharmendra Pradhan||In a first, medical entrance exam NEET-UG will be conducted in 13 languages with Punjabi and Malayam being the new additions, Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan announced on Tuesday. He also said that a new exam centre for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) has been opened in Kuwait to facilitate the Indian student community in the Middle East. "Registrations for the NEET(UG) 2021 has started on http://ntaneet.nic.in from 5:00 pm today. For the first time in the history of NEET(UG) exam and in order to facilitate the Indian student community in the middle east, an examination centre has been opened in Kuwait," he tweeted. "The NEET(UG) 2021 will be for the first time conducted in 13 languages with new addition of Punjabi and Malayalam," Pradhan said. The languages which are now being offered are Hindi, Punjabi, Assamese, Bengali, Odia, Gujarati, Marathi, Telugu, Malayalam, Kannada, Tamil, Urdu and English, he said. The Minister had on Monday announced that the NEET which was earlier scheduled on August 1 will now be conducted on September 12. The number of cities where examination is conducted will be increased from 155 to 198. The number of examination centres will also be increased from 3,862 used in 2020. Last year, it was conducted on September 13 amid strict precautions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. A total of 13.66 lakh candidates had appeared in the exam of whom 7,71,500 qualified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/neet-ug-to-be-conducted-in-13-languages-exam-centre-opened-in-kuwait-says-dharmendra-pradhan-1008287.html
13-07-2021||National||Five states account for over 73% Covid-19 cases in India||Five states – Kerala, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Odisha account for more than 73 per cent of Covid-19 cases in India, health officials said on Tuesday. In the first two weeks of July, Kerala contributed more than 30 per cent of the country’s total cases, while another 21 per cent came from Maharashtra. Kerala’s contribution was only 6.2 per cent in April and 10.6 per cent in May before rising to 17 per cent in June. Similarly Maharashtra’s contribution was 12.8 per cent in May and 13.8 per cent in June before the state’s share increased worryingly. Both Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh witnessed a rise in their contribution to India’s total Covid-19 cases in June but improved their position a little in July. Odisha, however, is a concern as the eastern state accounted for 6.5 per cent of total cases in June and July as against 1.4 per cent in April In the last few days, central teams have been deputed to 11 states to help their governments in Covid-19 management, said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry. Lamenting on gross violations of Covid-appropriate behaviour as being seen in tourist spots, the official said such behaviour could nullify the gains made so far in the management of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/five-states-account-for-over-73-covid-19-cases-in-india-1008305.html
13-07-2021||National||Centre unlikely to achieve July Covid-19 vaccination target of 51.6 crore doses||The Union Health Ministry is unlikely to meet its target of administering 51.6 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses by July end as it would require bridging a supply gap of more than 13 crore doses in the next 18 days. While the government had earlier informed the Supreme Court that 51.6 crore doses would be made available for administration by July 31, 38.5 crore shots have been given so far, leaving a gap of more than 13 crore that needs to be filled. Till 7 pm, only 34 lakh doses were administered on Tuesday as the low vaccination trend continued. Bridging such a huge gap would mean that for nearly three weeks, the government will have to administer more than 70 lakh doses every day, while the average number of jabs being administered at the moment is 40 lakh a day. In fact, for the second successive week, India witnessed a drop in its average daily vaccination number. “The drop in vaccination is largely due to non-availability of vaccine supplies. It is rather unfortunate that a global vaccine supplier such as India is struggling to meet its vaccine demand,” said Oommen John, a senior public health researcher at the George Institute for Global Health. After the Centre changed its vaccination policy so as to procure 75 per cent of the vaccine supplies from manufacturers and distribute them to the states, the vaccination figures rose sharply for a week. The week starting on June 21 saw an average daily inoculation of 61 lakh doses, including 91 lakh doses been administered on June 21. But the number dropped to 41.8 lakh from June 28 to July 4 and further nosedived to 34.4 lakh doses from July 5-July 12. Sources said that the Serum Institute of India had manufactured nine crore doses of Covishield and that production would be increased to 10 crore in July and August. But an analysis of the data that the government shared with the apex court suggests that the Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech together supplied at least 30 per cent less than their known production capacities in the first five months of 2021. Neither Serum Institute nor Bharat Biotech responded to DH's queries on their production capacities, production volume, the roadmap for the next three months and whether they were facing any problems in accessing the raw materials for the jabs. “The supply dynamics are complicated and are plaguing most nations in the world," said Giridhara Babu, an epidemiologist at the Public Health Foundation of India. "While making judicious use of available doses for completing the second dose for vulnerable people, strengthening micro-planning and mobilisation will be useful for vaccinating the eligible population in the days ahead when the vaccines become readily available.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-unlikely-to-achieve-july-covid-19-vaccination-target-of-516-crore-doses-1008318.html
13-07-2021||National Politics||BJP misused power to 'trample' on democracy in UP block panchayat chief polls: Priyanka||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath over violence during block panchayat chief polls in Uttar Pradesh, alleging that the BJP misused power in a bid to "trample" on democracy in the elections. In a Facebook post in Hindi, Priyanka Gandhi said that despite the "massive violence" during the block panchayat chief polls Prime Minister Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and UP Chief Minister Adityanath hailed the victory attributing it to their policies. But, the BJP including the prime minister, remained silent on the "violence and hooliganism" during the elections, the Congress general secretary in-charge Uttar Pradesh said. The people of the state saw the "violence and hooliganism" perpetrated by BJP workers and were angered by it, she said. Priyanka Gandhi listed several incidents to claim that the violence was perpetrated by BJP workers to secure victory. She alleged that by misusing power, the BJP tried to "trample democracy with its jungle raj" in these elections. The Congress leader also alleged that in the Badpura block of Etawah, Superintendent of Police (SP), City, Prashant Kumar was slapped by BJP MLA Sarita Bhadauria's workers, dozens of rounds were fired and the SP was heard saying on camera that the BJP workers had brought bombs. Weapons, sticks and inflammable substances have been recovered from the vehicle of BJP candidate's supporters in the first block of Sitapur, she claimed, adding that a young man has also been arrested. BJP leaders created a ruckus outside the Shivgarh block complex of Rae Bareli, she alleged. During the nomination on July 9 in Pasgawan block of Lakhimpur district, BJP supporters did not allow a woman candidate of the opposition party to file her nomination and her as well as her proposer's sari was pulled and they were beaten up, Priyanka Gandhi alleged. In her post, she also cited several other instances of violence and intimidation during the polls. BJP leaders and workers resorted to violence in at least more than 50 places in the election in which the victory was hailed by the prime minister and chief minister. The law and administration remained a mute spectator, Priyanka Gandhi said. Everyone, including the prime minister and the chief minister, know that there is a lot of resentment among the people due to their anti-people policies in UP, she said. "Now they have tried to hide their failure through kidnappings, shootings, bombings, beating police personnel, abusing power and mistreating women," she alleged. "But the question is, did the prime minister, who was congratulating BJP workers, not know how his workers pulled women's saris and beat them up?" Priyanka Gandhi said. "Did the BJP's exploits of bombs, bullets and stone-pelting happen under the supervision of the prime minister, the chief minister," she asked. She also asked whether the BJP knows that its last days are near, and is therefore busy tearing apart democracy through violence. The BJP on Saturday claimed victory on 635 of the total 825 seats of block panchayat chiefs in Uttar Pradesh, where the local bodies elections were held amid incidents of violence with the opposition alleging misuse of official machinery by the ruling party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-misused-power-to-trample-on-democracy-in-up-block-panchayat-chief-polls-priyanka-1007981.html
13-07-2021||National Politics||Cong chief Sonia Gandhi calls Parliamentary strategy group meet on July 14||Ahead of the Monsoon session of Parliament, which starts July 19, Congress president Sonia Gandhi has convened a meeting of the party's Parliamentary strategy group on Wednesday, sources said. Among those who will attend the July 14 meeting are Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge and leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury. Besides them deputy leaders of Congress in both houses -- Anand Sharma and Gaurav Gogoi -- and chief whips Jairam Ramesh and K Suresh, and Ravneet Bittu will be part of the meeting. During the virtual meeting, the party will evolve its strategy in cornering the government on key issues such as price rise, inflation and high petrol and diesel prices, besides the Covid situation and the state of the economy. The Congress will also raise the issue of alleged corruption in the Rafale fighter jet deal after the French initiated a probe into it. Leaders termed the meeting as routine as it is held ahead of every session of Parliament.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cong-chief-sonia-gandhi-calls-parliamentary-strategy-group-meet-on-july-14-1007982.html
13-07-2021||National Politics||PM Modi trims CCEA, strengthens Cabinet panel on political affairs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has reconstituted the Cabinet committees by inducting Smriti Irani, Sarbananda Sonowal and Giriraj Singh in the crucial Cabinet Committee on Political Affairs (CCPA), but curiously excluded the ministers of petroleum and chemical and fertilisers from the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA). The CCPA has also grown in numerical strength as it is now a 13-member panel against the 10 members earlier and has no place for representatives from the BJP's alliance partners. The first CCPA of the Modi 2.0 had Ramvilas Paswan (LJP), Harsimrat Kaur Badal (Akali Dal), and Arvind Sawant (Shiv Sena) as members. With Akali Dal and Shiv Sena quiting the NDA and Paswan passing away in October, the CCPA became an all-BJP affair. Besides Irani, Sonowal and Giriraj Singh, Environment and Labour Minister Bhupendra Yadav and Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya are new entrants to the CCPA.  The prime minister has chosen to trim the CCEA from being an 11-member committee to a nine-member panel after the ouster of Chemicals & Fertilisers Minister D V Sadananda Gowda and Communications and IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad from the Union Cabinet. Dharmendra Pradhan, the previous Petroleum Minister, has been retained in the CCEA despite a change of portfolio to Education and Skill Development. The new Petroleum Minister Hardeep Singh Puri, the new Railways, Communications and IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw and the new Chemical and Fertilisers Minister Mansukh Mandaviya too did not find a place in the CCEA. The Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs too has seen an expansion with the entry of Tribal Affairs Minister Arjun Munda, Social Justice Minister Virendra Kumar, Law Minister Kiren Rijiju, and I&B Minister Anurag Thakur. There are in all eight Cabinet committees – Appointments, Accommodation, Economic Affairs, Parliamentary Affairs, Political Affairs, Security, Investment & Growth, and Employment & Skill Development. Home Minister Amit Shah is a member of each of the eight Cabinet committees, Rajnath Singh, Nitin Gadkari, Nirmala Sitharaman and Piyush Goyal are on most of the panels. The new members of the Cabinet Committee on Investment and Growth are Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Minister Narayan Rane, Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia and Vaishnaw. The Cabinet Committee on Employment and Skill Development has Vaishnaw and Bhupender Yadav as new entrants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-trims-ccea-strengthens-cabinet-panel-on-political-affairs-1008037.html
13-07-2021||National Politics||Punjab cabinet to see rejig, Amarinder to remain CM: Report||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh is likely to retain his CM hat even as the state cabinet will undergo a rejig. “There will be no change in the CM. Nobody demanded any change at that level. People had a few issues. Those will be sorted out. Also, the party has to take many factors into consideration. It has to work out the right role for the right person,” he said. “Punjab will get a new PCC chief and a few new faces in the Cabinet of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh,” Rawat told the daily. The changes are expected to happen in 2-3 days. The Congress government in Punjab has been seeing dissent in its ranks over the chief minister’s style of functioning, the state government’s approach to the incidents of sacrilege dating back to 2015 and action against drug and transport mafia in the state. Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu has previously attacked the CM on issues like the alleged delay in the completion of a probe into the 2015 desecration of Sikh texts and the subsequent police firing on protesters. He has also criticised the chief minister openly on issues such as sacrilege, electricity shortages, and farmers’ issues among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/punjab-cabinet-to-see-rejig-amarinder-to-remain-cm-report-1008068.html
13-07-2021||National Politics||Draft population control Bill raises questions about BJP govt's intentions: Mayawati||BSP president Mayawati on Tuesday said the draft population control Bill has raised questions about the Uttar Pradesh government's intentions as people believe it lacks seriousness and has more to do with the ruling BJP's electoral interests. She said if the BJP government had been serious about the population control, then it would have started working towards it when the government was formed. The BSP chief's reaction comes in the wake of the Uttar Pradesh State Law Commission (UPSLC) posting the draft of the population control Bill on its website. "The new Bill being brought by the BJP government for population control, more than its merits and demerits, raises doubts over both the policy and intention of the government regarding the seriousness of this national concern. People believe it lacks seriousness and has more to do with electoral interests," Mayawati said in a tweet in Hindi. 1. यूपी भाजपा सरकार द्वारा जनसंख्या नियंत्रण हेतु लाया जा रहा नया बिल, इसके गुण-दोष से अधिक इस राष्ट्रीय चिन्ता के प्रति गंभीरता व इसकी टाइमिंग को लेकर सरकार की नीति व नीयत दोनों पर शक व सवाल खड़े कर रहा है, क्योंकि लोगों को इसमें गंभीरता कम व चुनावी स्वार्थ ज्यादा लग रहा है। "Failing to turn the growing population into the country's strength and honour by making them more aware and educated, the BJP is now trying to control the population by force and punishing most of the families like the previous Congress government, which is grossly unfair in the eyes of the public," she added. According to the draft Bill, people having more than two children in the state will be debarred from contesting local bodies polls, applying for government jobs or receiving any kind of subsidy. The draft Bill, for which suggestions have been invited from the public till July 19, also prohibits promotions in government jobs for such people, while offering incentives to those limiting their children to two. The draft says it is necessary to control and stabilise the population of the state for the promotion of sustainable development with more equitable distribution. If enacted, the provisions of the proposed legislation titled The Uttar Pradesh Population (Control, Stabilisation and Welfare) Bill, 2021 will come into force after one year from the date of publication in the Gazette, according to the Uttar Pradesh State Law Commission (UPSLC) website. On Monday, Mayawati had also questioned the timing of the arrest of two Al Qaeda-linked terrorists in Lucknow on Sunday. "If the UP police claims of busting a terrorist conspiracy in Lucknow and the arrest of two people having links with Al Qaeda are right, then it is a very serious matter and appropriate action should be taken but no politics should be done in its garb, the apprehension of which is being expressed,” she had tweeted. "This type of action only when the UP Vidhan Sabha elections are approaching creates doubts in the minds of people . If there is truth behind this action, then why was the police oblivious to it for so long? This is the question which is being asked by the people. Therefore , the government should not take any action which increases unrest among the people," she had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/draft-population-control-bill-raises-questions-about-bjp-govts-intentions-mayawati-1008132.html
13-07-2021||National Politics||Ahead of polls, Modi to inaugurate Rs 800 crore worth projects in Varanasi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit his Lok Sabha constituency Varanasi on Thursday to inaugurate a slew of development projects worth nearly Rs 800 crore, virtually kickstarting the campaign for the next year's Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections. During his day-long visit to Varanasi, the prime minister is scheduled to inaugurate a multi-level parking, a 100-bed maternal and child health wing in Banaras Hindu University, a three-lane flyover, and launch RO-RO vessels for tourism development on river Ganga. Besides offering prayers at the Kashi Vishwanath temple, the Prime Minister is also scheduled to address a public meeting. Modi is also scheduled to inaugurate Rudrakash International Cooperation and Convention Centre, which has been built with Japanese assistance, and lay the foundation stones of several projects and public works worth around Rs 839 crore. These include the Centre for Skill and Technical Support of Central Institute of Petrochemical Engineering and Technology (CIPET), 143 rural projects under Jal Jeevan Mission, and mango and vegetable integrated pack house in Karkhiyanv. The prime minister will also meet with officials and medical professionals to review Covid-19 preparedness. The Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh had faced criticism over its handling of the Covid-19 pandemic as people struggled to find hospital beds, oxygen support for patients. Uttar Pradesh goes to the polls early next year and the BJP is expected to build its campaign on development and fulfilling its long-time promise of constructing a Ram Temple in Ayodhya. The BJP performed poorly in the recent panchayat elections where arch-rival Samajwadi Party took a lead by ensuring victory of a maximum number of candidates backed by it. However, the BJP trumped its rivals by bagging maximum Zilla Panchayat President posts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ahead-of-polls-modi-to-inaugurate-rs-800-crore-worth-projects-in-varanasi-1008294.html
13-07-2021||National Politics||Rahul, Priyanka Gandhi meet Prashant Kishor: Punjab resolution soon?||Amid broad indications of a resolution of the vicious internal squabble in the party in poll-bound Punjab, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi met poll strategist Prashant Kishor, who has been appointed as political advisor of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. Sources said the two-hour-long saw discussions on various issues including the one related to Punjab politics. The meeting comes ahead of an impending Cabinet and party reshuffle in the state. After the meeting at 12, Tughlaq Lane, the official residence of Rahul Gandhi, AICC general secretary Punjab-in-charge Harish Rawat said "good news for both (Captain Amarinder and Navjot Singh Sidhu) will come out in three-four days".  Downplaying contentions that Gandhis met Kishor because he advises the Punjab chief minister, Rawat said, "It has nothing to do with who advises whom. Rahul Gandhi is a national leader. A number of people meet him to discuss important issues." The AICC leader had earlier said that Punjab will have a new state Congress chief but did not name Sidhu or anybody else even as he clearly stated that Captain Amarinder Singh is the Chief Ministerial candidate. While Singh and Sidhu had a vitriolic war of words in recent months, Sidhu off late had refrained from attacking the Captain. The party leadership cited his tweets critical of AAP and SAD as signs of a thaw days after both leaders held multiple rounds of meetings with a three-member AICC panel helmed by Mallikarjun Kharge to resolve the crisis. Sidhu's latest tweet saying our Opposition singing about "me and other loyal Congressmen'' has been seen as a sign that he is not thinking of leaving the party or joining AAP, which was in strong speculation. The next line of Sidhu's tweet parodied a famous Bollywood song to say: "There is no issue if you will join AAP but there will be a problem if you remain in Congress."  The original line in the song is "Tum Agar Mujhko Na Chaho Koi Baat Nahin, Kisi aur ko chahogi to mushkil hogi (There is no issue if you do not love me but there will be a problem if you love somebody else)." He earlier took potshots at AAP, saying the party which is now criticising him has praised him in the past. "Our opposition AAP has always recognised my vision and work for Punjab. Be it before 2017- Beadbi, Drugs, Farmers Issues, Corruption & Power Crisis faced by People of Punjab raised by me or today as I present "Punjab Model" It is clear they know - who is really fighting for Punjab," Sidhu said in a series of tweets. It remains to be seen whether Sidhu gets the coveted post of PCC chief. Jyotiradya Scindia, who had run in dispute with former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Kamal Nath, could not get PCC chief and later left the party and joined the BJP, which cost Congress a government in Madhya Pradesh, while the formulae of making Ashok Gehlot as Chief Minister and Sachin Pilot as PCC chief in Rajasthan in past, failed to resolve their mutual rivalry. There are different views in the party about handing over the baton of state party chief to Sidhu, who had met both Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi earlier. After meeting Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, Captain, on his part, said publicly that he will accept any decision taken by her. Sources in the party, however, say Captain will not like the idea of a double power centre in the state. AICC general secretary (organisation) K C Venugopal was also present in the meeting. Kishor met the Congress leaders days after he had a meeting with Amarinder Singh. Kishor had finalised the poll strategy of the Congress-Samajwadi Party alliance in Uttar Pradesh in 2017, coining the slogan 'UP Ke Ladke' for Rahul Gandhi and Akhilesh Yadav, and oversaw the entire campaign theme of Congress for Punjab.  While personality centric campaign strategy of Kishor around Captain Amarinder Singh helped Congress win the state, the Congress-Samajwadi Party alliance failed to yield results and Kishor had later complained that many of his suggestions were not accepted---including making Priyanka Gandhi the face of Congress in the state when it was planning to go solo. This was the first meeting of Rahul Gandhi with Prashant Kishor after 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-priyanka-gandhi-meet-prashant-kishor-punjab-resolution-soon-1008302.html
13-07-2021||National Politics||BJP, RSS running parallel governments in country, says Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday alleged that the BJP and the RSS were running parallel governments in the country and because of this people are suffering. He also alleged that while the BJP misuses the government's power and the RSS creates division in society. "Two parallel governments are running in the country. One is run by the BJP and the other parallel government of the RSS is implementing its agenda," Yadav said in a statement issued here. Between them people and opposition workers are crushed, he said. The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said that in the recently held panchyat polls there was "open misuse" of power. "The Samajwadi Party (SP) will not bow before such atrocities and injustice. Our fight to save the Constitution will continue. The BJP is trying to crush and silence the opposition and its is giving air to propaganda ahead of the assembly polls," he said. The next elections in the state will be to save the democracy and the SP will fight it with full strength, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-rss-running-parallel-governments-in-country-says-akhilesh-yadav-1008312.html
13-07-2021||North and Central||MP govt allows cinema halls to operate with 50% strength, restaurants to function normally||The Madhya Pradesh government has further eased the Covid-19 restrictions by allowing cinema halls to operate with 50 per cent strength and restaurants with the full capacity in the wake of a significant dip in the cases, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Monday. Until now, cinema halls remained closed and restaurants were being operated with 50 per cent capacity, officials said. "Covid-19 situation is now under control in Madhya Pradesh. Coronavirus cases fell to 18 while active cases stand at 296. There are no Covid-19 cases in 44 districts of the state. Now on, a maximum of 100 people will be allowed to attend wedding ceremonies while 50 people can attend funerals," Chouhan said in a statement. He said cinema halls can now function with 50 per cent capacity while restaurants are allowed to operate normally with 100 per cent capacity. Similarly, markets can now be opened till 10 pm, he added. Until now, a maximum of 20 people was allowed to participate in funerals and 50 persons in marriage ceremonies, officials said. Similarly, the markets were allowed to open till 8 pm. Chouhan held a review meeting with officials during which he told them to be alert on the projected third wave of the pandemic. "The cases are not coming down in Maharashtra and Kerala. The cases are also rising in southern and North-East states. It is suspected that the cases may rise in the month of August. But we are committed to flattening the third wave," the CM said. On Monday, Madhya Pradesh reported 18 fresh coronavirus cases, which pushed its infection tally to 7,90,193, state health officials said. The health department did not release Covid-19 death figures and active cases in the state for the second consecutive day on Monday. With 72,134 new tests, the total number of samples tested for coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh so far reached 1.30 crore. Coronavirus figures in MP are as follows: Total cases 7,90,193, new cases 18, death toll 1,0506, recovered 7,80,735 (no change), active cases (not disclosed), number of tests so far 1,30,19,105.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-govt-allows-cinema-halls-to-operate-with-50-strength-restaurants-to-function-normally-1007986.html
13-07-2021||North and Central||DH Toon | What's the need for a new population policy?||The Uttar Pradesh government plans to give incentives to couples who have one child while denying government benefits to those having more than two children in its new population policy, the draft of which was released in Lucknow on Saturday. It has invited several reactions from Opposition parties in the state and across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dh-toon-whats-the-need-for-a-new-population-policy-1007994.html
13-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi runs out of Covishield stock, vaccination centres likely to be closed||Delhi has run out of Covishield stock and some Covid vaccination centres are likely to be closed on Tuesday, officials said on Monday. The national capital had 19,000 doses of Covishield and 2,39,000 doses of Covaxin on Monday morning, according to a bulletin. Raising the issue of shortage of Covid vaccines in the city, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia tweeted, "Vaccines have run out in Delhi again. The central government gives vaccines for a day or two, then we have to keep the vaccine centres closed for several days." "Why is our country's vaccine programme faltering even after so many days?" he added. A total of 36,238 vaccine doses were administered on Monday, taking the total number of jabs given so far to 89,37,904, the bulletin stated. Government vaccination centres in the city were shut on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-runs-out-of-covishield-stock-vaccination-centres-likely-to-be-closed-1008027.html
13-07-2021||North and Central||Most-delayed monsoon in 19 years lands in Delhi, brings rain||The Southwest Monsoon finally reached the capital Tuesday, 16 days behind the usual date of onset, making it the most delayed in 19 years, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). In 2002, monsoon had covered Delhi on July 19. "The monsoon has arrived in Delhi," senior IMD scientist K Jenamani confirmed after a spell of rains drenched parts of South Delhi Tuesday morning. Normally, monsoon reaches Delhi by June 27. It covers the entire country by July 8. Last year, the wind system had reached Delhi on June 25 and covered the entire country by June 29. The weather department had a tough time forecasting the advancement of monsoon over Delhi this year. After several wayward forecasts, the IMD acknowledged Monday that "such type of failure by numerical models in the prediction of monsoon over the capital is rare and uncommon". The IMD had earlier said monsoon would hit Delhi on June 15, which would have been 12 days early, but the wind system entered a "break" phase. In early June, the Met office said the conditions will become favourable for the monsoon to advance to Delhi and other parts of northwest India by July 7. Later, it said Delhi will get its first monsoon rains around July 10. The weather department revised the forecast yet again on Saturday, saying the monsoon may reach the capital in the next 24 hours. But the wind system kept the city waiting on Sunday and there was hardly any rainfall on Monday too. As monsoon played truant in the region, Central Delhi is now the most rain-deficient district in the country, receiving only 8.5 mm rainfall against the normal of 132 mm since June 1, when the monsoon season starts. It has recorded a shortfall of 94 per cent. Overall, Delhi has so far received 67 per cent less rainfall than normal, putting it in the category of "large deficient" states. The IMD said it is continuously monitoring the further progress of monsoon into the remaining parts of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/most-delayed-monsoon-in-19-years-lands-in-delhi-brings-rain-1008032.html
13-07-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh adds 1,481 'backlog' Covid deaths||Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday added 1,481 'backlog Covid-19 deaths', taking the states' death toll to 10,506. India on Tuesday logged 31,443 new Covid-19 cases and 2,020 new deaths after Madhya Pradesh reconciled its data. While the BJP-led MP government said the fresh release showed it was functioning in a "transparent" manner, the opposition Congress said this has vindicated its claim about the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government "hiding" the Covid-19 death figures. Congress also demanded the resignation of state Home Minister Narottam Mishra. State Medical Education Minister Vishvas Sarang on Tuesday told reporters, “When the pandemic was at its peak, the fatalities occurred in private hospitals and the numbers of those who died in places other than their native districts were not reported. Besides, the deaths in home isolation were not reported. So, the data has been reconciled with these 1,478 deaths." However, state Congress media cell vice president Bhupendra Gupta said the release of fresh coronavirus death figures has proved his party's allegation of the state government "hiding" the data. “MP Congress chief Kamal Nath had alleged that the state government was hiding the death figures of coronavirus victims. These death figures are more than the fatalities declared during the second wave of the pandemic in March, April and May,” he said. Gupta sought the resignation of state Home Minister Narottam Mishra, claiming the BJP leader had said he would step down if the allegations of Congress were found correct. On the other hand, Sarang refuted all the allegations, saying Congress was sensing something "fishy in everything" because it believed in hiding the facts. "Our government's functioning is transparent," the BJP leader asserted. The Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led government has been under fire over the handling of the pandemic after reports of underreporting Covid-19 deaths came to the fore. Questions have been raised over the state government’s inept handling of the pandemic, as several news reports indicated a much higher toll than the official figures. Jolt to Chouhan's government There is a wave of widespread anger among the people against Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s "mismanagement" of the crisis, particularly after the second wave devastated Madhya Pradesh. The anger reflected in the Damoh Assembly seat where the Congress trounced the ruling party by over 17,000 votes in the BJP’s strong bastion in the April 17 by-election. After the by-poll jolt, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan accelerated efforts to improve health infrastructure.  Chouhan has been assuring people in his messages daily broadcast that no efforts will be spared to ensure treatment and vaccination for all.  (With DHNS/PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-adds-1481-backlog-covid-deaths-1008054.html
13-07-2021||North and Central||For second year, no holiday, no official function on Martyrs’ Day in Jammu and Kashmir||For the second consecutive year, there was no official holiday and official function to commemorate Martyrs' Day in Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday. There was also no shutdown call by separatists like they used to do till 2019 to commemorate the day. The day used to be commemorated officially from 1947 till 2019 to remember 22 Kashmiris, who were gunned down by the forces of autocratic Dogra ruler after the people rose against Maharaja’s rule for their rights on July 13, 1931. Till 2019, while the separatist leadership was prevented from holding a rally on this day, the heads of the local government used to visit the martyrs' graveyard in old city to pay homage to the martyrs. However, after the abrogation of Article 370 on August 5, 2019, the public holiday, on July 13 was omitted from the list by the administration. The regional National Conference blamed the administration for not allowing the party leaders to offer prayers and floral tributes at the martyrs’ graveyard. The party spokesperson Imran Nabi Dar said they had sought permission from the administration to offer prayers and floral tributes at the martyrs graveyard “but the administration did not respond to repeated calls.” NC president Farooq Abdullah and vice president Omar Abdullah while paying rich tributes to the martyrs, called the day a landmark in the history of Jammu and Kashmir. CPI(M) leader, Mohammad Yusuf Tarigami, while remembering the martyrs, said July 13 is commemorated as the struggle of the people of Jammu and Kashmir for upholding social justice, democratic and human values. “It is a historic event and its significance will remain for future generations as well,” he said. A senior official said there was no question of holding any function on July 13 as the government has already dropped the day from the list of gazzetted holidays. “Strict restrictions were imposed in old city areas of Srinagar to prevent anybody from visiting the martyrs’ graveyard,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/for-second-year-no-holiday-no-official-function-on-martyrs-day-in-jammu-and-kashmir-1008076.html
13-07-2021||North and Central||Kalyan Singh's health better: Lucknow hospital||The health condition of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, who is admitted to the ICU of Sanjay Gandhi Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences here, is better now, the hospital said on Tuesday. Singh, 89, who has also been a governor of Rajasthan, was admitted at the facility on July 4 evening following an infection and reduced consciousness level. "The condition of Hon'ble Shri Kalyan Singh ji is better. The vital parameters are under control. He is communicative and improving," the hospital said in a statement issued here on Tuesday. "The senior faculty of CCM, Cardiology, Neurology, Endocrinology and Nephrology are keeping a close watch on vital parameters and his daily investigations. Director, Prof RK Dhiman is supervising his treatment on daily basis," it said. Earlier, he was undergoing treatment at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kalyan-singhs-health-better-lucknow-hospital-1008081.html
13-07-2021||North and Central||Rain in Delhi brings with it traffic snarls and commuter woes||The long-awaited monsoon arrived in the national capital on Tuesday bringing with it waterlogged roads, traffic snarls in parts of the city and the familiar sight of snaking lines of vehicles stuck for interminable minutes. Many officer-goers reported late for office and several people posted their plight through videos and photographs on social media, some seeking help from police. There was heavy traffic at Dhaula Kuan with one commuter complaining he was stuck for almost 90 minutes (and counting), Azadpur and at the Delhi Cantt and Kalindi Kunj flyovers among other places. "Azadpur was totally blocked. I was stuck there for 50 minutes while I was going to meet a client regarding a case. I somehow managed to make my way," said Rahul Tomar, an advocate who was going from Shahdara in east Delhi to the Rohini court. Mukesh Shrivastav, who commutes from Laxmi Nagar in east Delhi to ITO, also reached office late. “I was coming from Laxmi Nagar to ITO. Generally, it takes around 15 minutes to reach my destination. Today, it took me double the time. The same thing happened to my colleague,” said Shrivastava. The southwest monsoon brought respite from the scorching heat with weather officials saying it was 16 days behind the usual date, making it the most delayed in 19 years. Normally, the monsoon reaches Delhi by June 27 and covers the entire country by July 8. Last year, the wind system had reached the capital on June 25 and covered the entire country by June 29. The IMD had earlier said the monsoon would hit Delhi on June 15, which would have been 12 days early, but the wind system entered a "break" phase.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rain-in-delhi-brings-with-it-traffic-snarls-and-commuter-woes-1008102.html
13-07-2021||North and Central||MP cabinet approves Rs 1,000 additional pension for widows of Bhopal gas leak victims||The Madhya Pradesh cabinet on Tuesday decided to provide an additional pension of Rs 1,000 per month to widows of the Bhopal gas tragedy victims, state Home Minister Narottam Mishra said. "This is in addition to the social security pension for the surviving widows of the Bhopal gas leak victims," Mishra, who is also the government's spokesperson, told reporters after the cabinet meeting. The decision was taken despite the finance department's objections to the proposal of providing additional Rs 1,000 to these women, he said. Mishra said the previous Kamal Nath-led Congress government had stopped the additional pension in 2019. He said the earlier BJP government started this pension in 2013 and now, the present ruling dispensation decided to resume it. Welcoming the decision, Rachna Dhingra of NGO Bhopal Group for Information and Action said, “Several announcements have been made in the last one year, but these widows are yet to receive a single rupee into their account.” She claimed the widows of the gas leak victims have not received their pension since December 2019, and said the arrears need to be paid immediately. Dhingra also said there is no clarity in the Gas Relief Department's policy due to lack of understanding on the needs of the Bhopal gas tragedy victims. Over 15,000 people were killed after methyl isocyanate leaked on the intervening night of December 2-3, 1984 from the pesticide plant of Union Carbide India Limited, then located on the outskirts of the state capital Bhopal. More than five lakh people were affected due to the toxic leak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-cabinet-approves-rs-1000-additional-pension-for-widows-of-bhopal-gas-leak-victims-1008130.html
13-07-2021||North and Central||Indore police website hacked, objectionable content posted about Narendra Modi||The website of Indore police was hacked on Tuesday and objectionable content against Prime Minister Narendra Modi was posted on it along with slogans like "free Kashmir" and hailing Pakistan, officials said. Hackers attacked the website's 'Contact Us' section which carries details, designations and phone numbers of senior Madhya Pradesh police officers, including director general of police, inspector general of the Indore range and other personnel, they said. According to officials, one 'Muhammad Bilal Team PCE' claimed to have hacked the website by writing a message on it. The hackers posted objectionable content and slogans on the 'Contact Us' page, they said. The Indore police website is maintained by the city crime branch. Efforts were being made with the help of technical experts to restore the website to its original form, Additional Superintendent of Police Guruprasad Parashar said. “We are conducting an in-depth probe into the matter to get details about the hackers and will take appropriate steps accordingly,” Parashar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indore-police-website-hacked-objectionable-content-posted-about-narendra-modi-1008188.html
13-07-2021||North and Central||Anti-terror law can't be used to muzzle dissent: Justice Chandrachud||Supreme Court judge D Y Chandrachud has said that anti-terror legislation or any other criminal law should not be used for muzzling dissent and that deprivation of liberty for even a single day is “one too many”. He stressed that courts must act as the “first line of defence” in such instances. Justice Chandrachud was speaking at Indo-US Joint Summer Conference on Indo-US legal ties on Monday evening. He emphasised that no law can be employed to harass citizens and take away their freedom. “Criminal law, including anti-terror legislation, should not be misused for quelling dissent or harassing citizens. As I noted in my judgement in Arnab Goswami Vs the State, our courts must ensure that they continue to remain the first line of defence against the deprivation of liberty of citizens,” he said. Justice Chandrachud said that deprivation of liberty for even a single day is “one too many” and that judges must always be mindful of the deeper systemic issues of their decisions.  “Today, the world’s oldest and largest democracy represent these ideals of a multicultural, pluralist society where their Constitution is focused on a deep commitment and respect for human rights,” the judge said. Justice Chandrachud’s observations came amid outrage over the death of 84-year-old tribal activist Stan Swamy, who arrested under the anti-terror law in the Elgar Parishad case last year. He died last week in a Mumbai hospital, even as his bail plea remained pending. Recently, Assam activist and MLA Akhil Gogoi was discharged in a UAPA case after spending about 17 months behind bars over violent protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/anti-terror-law-cant-be-used-to-muzzle-dissent-justice-chandrachud-1008199.html
13-07-2021||North and Central||One dead, nine feared trapped after landslide in Himachal Pradesh's Boh valley||Rescue operations are underway in Kangra district's Boh valley following a landslide in which one person died and nine others are still feared trapped beneath the debris. A team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) rescued four people on Monday and efforts are being made to pull others out of the rubble, an official said on Tuesday. Kangra SP Vimukt Ranjan said a woman died and nine others are still feared trapped under the debris after their houses collapsed due to a landslide triggered by heavy rains in Boh Valley on Monday. During his visit to Boh valley on Tuesday, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said the state government will provide new houses to those whose houses were destroyed in flash floods or landslides. He thanked Union Home Minister Amit Shah for immediately sending the NDRF team to Boh valley for relief and rescue operations. "A village in Boh was severely hit during heavy rains on Monday. I am sad to hear that a woman has lost her life in this landslide. Nine people are still trapped under the debris. We are trying our best to rescue them,” he told reporters at Gaggal airport. Thakur said eight houses were completely destroyed in the flash floods and the landslide. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said on Monday that the situation caused by heavy rains in Himachal Pradesh was being closely monitored with central authorities working in coordination with the state government. Kangra Deputy Commissioner Nipun Jindal and SP Ranjan had visited the remote hill area of Boh on Monday to take stock of the relief work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-dead-nine-feared-trapped-after-landslide-in-himachal-pradeshs-boh-valley-1008207.html
13-07-2021||Opinion||Why are smart cities and towns becoming more prone to floods?||Dharamshala, a mountain town in Himachal Pradesh, a designated smart city under the central government's Smart City Mission(SCM), saw flash floods on Monday, July 12. A few years ago, Bihar's capital Patna, another "smart" city, was flooded. The then deputy chief minister of the state, Sushil Modi, had to be rescued from his house. Varanasi, currently undergoing redevelopment work, was flooded a few months back. Lastly, the example of Delhi's Chandni Chowk, where a redevelopment project is nearing completion, flooded a few days ago when there was hardly any rainfall. In these cities and several others where public works are ongoing, such flooding has become a standard feature either because of redevelopment projects or under the smart city mission. Images and videos of Dharamshala are viral on social media, where a small rivulet turned its course onto a road and hit cars and buildings. Such episodes are bound to happen in the days to come as the monsoon advances and strengthens further. But it is not just excessive rainfall, as a section of the media portrayed, that caused flash floods in the mountain town. The town receives the fifth highest rainfall in the country, and such heavy rain is typical in Dharamshala. The flash flood in Dharamshala is surprising since floods do not take place in a mountain town. Instead, these are experienced in flatlands as the water washes down from the mountains. These rains play havoc in the hills due to shrinking open spaces and buildings constructed on the rivulets. But the blocking or changing course of normal water contours developed since millennia is causing floods in the plains. The smart city projects in most cities and towns have hit these water flows with the result that every year we now experience floods in areas where there were hardly any in the past. Take, for example, Shimla, the summer capital of India during the British raj. The British engineering manual barred construction on such water channels. It not only prohibited their concretisation but recommended embankment of these channels to ensure that water trickles down the mountain and recharges many other water sources below in the form of natural springs. However, in the last few decades, almost all stormwater drains and nullahs have been concretised. The concretisation of these stormwater drains leads to gushing of water and flooding in the lower areas. It has happened in Dharamshala and elsewhere. We know what happened in Dharamshala was not a cloudburst. The total rainfall in Dharamshala on July 12 was 120 mm in 24 hours. In a cloudburst, it is a minimum of 100 mm in an hour. In Palampur, another adjacent town, on the same day, there was 155 mm of rainfall in a day, but there were no flash floods in that small town. Perhaps it is yet to get the taste of the smart city infrastructure building. In Shimla town, several buildings, duly approved by the state statutory agencies like the town and country planning department and the municipal corporation, are built on some of the nullahs and can lead to disaster in times to come. Some of these large buildings include the Lawyers Chambers on the High Court Nullah, the Sports Complex on the Lift Nullah and two large complexes built on the Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) nullah. One of these is a 15 storey building meant to house the OPD of the hospital. Another building, more than ten storeys, is the large parking below Boileauganj, meant to be a transit point for the proposed ropeway. Not just the mountain towns but even in cities in the plains, it is universally done. The natural water collection centres or ponds have been usurped for real estate development, or their land use changed for some other purpose. In Gurgaon, for example, many ponds are now sites for buildings, parks and playgrounds. The United Nations' call for the decade implores decisive action to ensure this massive land-use change witnessed and mainstreamed in the development strategies is reversed to ensure more appropriate climate change adaptations. Unfortunately, the trajectory of development in urban India, especially after the smart cities projects, is for more concretisation and infrastructure projects without raising adequate and proper concern for the hydrology and ecology of a region. At least when designing projects, people who have known the region should be engaged and hydrologists and geologists to ascertain minimum loss to the ecosystems. (The author is a former deputy mayor of Shimla)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-are-smart-cities-and-towns-becoming-more-prone-to-floods-1008058.html
13-07-2021||Opinion||The pitfalls of the two-child norm||The timeline of a minor Twitter storm I was caught in on July 11 said it all. It was triggered by my response to a tweet by Shahid Siddiqui, journalist-politician, former parliamentarian, who recently rejoined the Rashtriya Lok Dal after traversing over almost the entire spectrum of non-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) forces for over nearly a quarter of a century. His tweet reflected the quandary of 'secular' politicians, especially Muslims, to the Uttar Pradesh and Assam governments' intent to incentivise people with two or fewer children while simultaneously debarring those with more than two kids from local body polls and various government subsidies. Siddiqui tweeted his support for the proposed two-child norm. "I demand that it should apply to Assembly and parliamentary polls as well. Anyone with more than two children should not become a minister or chief minister or prime minister. What do you say?" he tweeted. His tweet reflected the understanding that opposing the proposal would result in personal backlash and politically benefit the current regime. I support 2 child norm in UP&elsewhere. I demand that it should apply to Assembly& Parliamentary polls as well. Anyone with more then 2 children should not be allowed to become a Minister or CM or PM. What do you say? On its face, the proposal, not something new, ostensibly stems from concern at continuing inequality, poverty, and illiteracy in society. UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, while unveiling his government's new population policy 2021-30, a couple of days after the UP State Law Commission released the first draft of the proposed population control Bill, said: "Population explosion can create obstacles in the development of the state and the country." The 40-page document, Adityanath timed its release on World Population Day, stated a five-fold objective: population control; ending curable maternal mortality and illnesses; ending curable infant mortality and ensuring betterment in their nutrition status; the betterment of sexual and reproductive health-related information and facilities among the youth; and care of elders. None of these goals can be termed unnecessary, and most remain on the neglected list of governance. But the core intention of this move is to penalise and stigmatise families with more than two children and communities believed to have a higher population growth rate. The timing of the policy and the proposed law suggests that the move is politically motivated and initiated months before the state goes into Assembly election mode. That this move of the Adityanath government is essentially a classic example of dog-whistle politics in which a coded political message is being sent out to the BJP's core constituency without, on the face of it, offending anyone, was borne out by responses my tweet evoked. I had tweeted, "I don't (support Siddiqui's stance welcoming the move). The number of children cannot be the basis of inequality and discrimination. Law merely aims to stigmatise a section of society." Although this did not identify those that I think this proposed law aims to vilify, people understood. "Muslims can live in Hindu majority areas. Can you say the same about Hindus living in Muslim majority areas? Be liberal, but not at the cost of turning India into an Islamic state," said one angry response that attracted numerous endorsements. Another was viler, "So you agree that a "section of society" is reproducing like pigs." Note the use of "pigs" (proscribed for consumption in Islam), although the phrase in English is "breed like rabbits", which means to have a lot of children. Although Adityanath, and before him, Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had not used the "M" word, the responders on Twitter got the message right. Why does any proposal to control population and disincentivise people with more than two children automatically enthuse the proponents of the Hindutva idea? The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh and its affiliates that comprise the Sangh Parivar have long campaigned on the existence of a Muslim "conspiracy" to render the Hindus into a religious minority in "their country". Although scientific data suggests that male opposition to contraceptive practises, vasectomy or use of condoms is uniform across communities; it is suggested that Muslims are principally opposed to birth control. As recently as 2018, the RSS sarsanghchalak, Mohan Bhagwat, at the three-day lecture session in New Delhi, for chosen sections of the intelligentsia, called for the common law to ensure "demographic balance". Previously in October 2015, the Akhil Bharatiya Karyakarini Mandal (ABKM), a key decision-making body of the RSS, adopted the resolution titled "Challenge of Imbalance in the Population Growth Rate". It flagged, "Vast differences in growth rates of different religious groups, infiltration and conversion resulting in a religious imbalance of the population-ratio, especially in border areas may emerge as a threat to the unity, integrity and cultural identity of the country." Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also spoken on the issue linking population control with love for the country. Talking of people who are "responsible", he stated: "By having a small family, he manifests patriotism." In January 2020, Bhagwat demanded a population policy that "will decide how many kids one should have."  Adityanath and Sarma's steps are thereby in tune with the stated objectives of the Sangh Parivar, although the timing chosen by the two chief ministers may be a shade awkward for the leadership of the BJP and RSS. The RSS chief recently created an illusion of moderation with his address to Muslims saying, that "people who are lynching others are going against Hindutva." His efforts, however, may get undermined by the introduction of the two-child norm since this will resonate as being directed at Muslims. Likewise, Modi has been engaged in an unstated feud with Adityanath over the latter's insistence to plough the lonely furrow and project himself as a hardline Hindutva leader, unmindful of periodic moderations Modi makes. Consequently, this move may not be the most appropriate when multiple challenges confront Modi nationally and internationally. Ironically, the Sangh Parivar's campaign on population is being pushed vociferously now even though the "population explosion" theory is not substantiated by national or global data, especially on UP. Sector experts point out that the Total Fertility Rate (TFR) is consistently decreasing in India. Moreover, the Technical Group on Population Projections for 2011-2036, constituted by the National Commission on Population (NCP), has claimed that UP will achieve the replacement level of TFR by 2025. Adityanath and Sarma's initiatives are despite China's U-turn on its population policy after sensing that it was facing a demographic disaster. China witnessed a steep decline in birth rates besides the high male-to-female sex ratio and ageing population. For several decades, India has been unable to reverse a declining sex ratio. The two-child norm will likely further push up female foeticide and infanticide as people preferring male children may not want the girl child to live so that their "permissible limit" of children is not reached. Even before Sarma's initiative, in Assam, a two-child norm already exists for contesting panchayat polls. The state amended its Panchayat Act to this effect in 2018. The Assam government previously debarred those with more than two children from certain government jobs. Importantly, Assam is not the only state restricting services and rights to people with more than two children. In various forms, similar bars already exist in Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Uttarakhand, Karnataka and Odisha. Unfortunately, the Supreme Court validated several of the state laws. Additionally, proponents of the policy of benefits-for-those-with-two-or-less children and exclusion-for-others gain strength from constitutional flaws and the recommendation of the National Commission to Review the Working of the Constitution (NCRWC) headed by Justice MN Venkatachaliah during the Atal Bihari Vajpayee regime. The apex court upheld the Haryana Panchayati Raj Act, 1994, debarring those with two living children from holding specified offices in Panchayats. It implied in this judgement that fundamental rights to equality and liberty under Articles 14 and 21 could not gain precedence over "the lofty ideals of social and economic justice, the advancement of the nation as a whole." The court needs to be asked to revisit its position and examine if the right of individuals can be undermined for questionable government policies for "progress". The Supreme Court should not permit the government to decide the number of children citizens wish to have. It should remain their personal choice. (The writer is an NCR-based author and journalist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-pitfalls-of-the-two-child-norm-1008072.html
13-07-2021||Opinion||Inflation stays elevated: When will the RBI act?||Consumer price-index based inflation stayed above the central bank's comfort zone for the second consecutive month in June, which rose by 6.26 per cent after rising 6.3 per cent in May. Consumer Inflation remained elevated due to rising prices of fuel and food. While the number was lower than the consensus estimate of 6.6 per cent, food prices pressure remains elevated, and energy prices continue to increase. Food inflation in June accelerated to 5.15 per cent from 5.01 per cent in May. Inflation in the 'fuel and light' category stayed high at 12.68 per cent during the month as against 11.58 per cent in the previous month. "India's inflation is being driven by non-domestic factors, limiting policy options and squeezing profit margins," says Rahul Bajoria, chief India economist, Barclays. "As demand improves following India's second wave of Covid19 infections, we believe firms will increase prices to sustain higher volumes. As a result, even if imported price pressures recede, margin normalisation may keep CPI inflation elevated and sticky," Bajoria says. The RBI Act mandates the monetary policy committee of the central bank to keep inflation at 4 per cent, within a range of +/-2 per cent. Average inflation in the previous financial year was 6.22 per cent, and for the current year, it is projected at 5.1 per cent by the central bank during the last monetary policy review in June. It has been a tough balancing act for the central bank as growth continues to be fragile while inflation staying elevated. After the pandemic broke out last year in March and a nationwide lockdown was imposed, the RBI promptly reacted by cutting the key policy rate, which is the repo rate, by 75 bps in March and another 40 bps in May. Since then, the policy rate stayed at 4 per cent, and the RBI continued to maintain an accommodative stance by keeping ample liquidity in the banking system. The pandemic has taken a toll on the economy. The GDP growth contracted 7.3 per cent in the previous financial year – its worst performance since independence. While many projected double-digit GDP growth in the current financial year, such projections were revised downwards following the second wave. In its June monetary policy review meeting, the central bank revised its growth projection for 2021-22 to 9.5 per cent from 10.5 per cent, which it had projected during the April meeting. Rating agencies and brokerages also revised their GDP growth projections following the second wave. So far, there has been no indication from the central bank on when it plans to exit the ultra-loose monetary policy. The RBI had said it would maintain the accommodative stance "as long as necessary to revive and sustain growth on a durable basis and continue to mitigate the impact of Covid-19 on the economy." Economists see average retail inflation for the current financial year to stay close to the upper bound of the central bank's target. Most economists projected higher average inflation than the central bank's projection of 5.1 per cent. While concerns about growth are real, the average return to the savers has been negative for close to two years since inflation is higher than what most banks offer on fixed deposits, around 5 per cent for deposits maturing between one year to three years. However, it is unlikely that the central bank will start exiting from the accommodative stance any time soon. Such unwinding of the ultra-loose policy could only happen in 2022, economists said. "We continue to expect retail inflation at 5.5 per cent in FY22, led by higher core inflation at 6.1 per cent. Monsoon is now below normal and poses an upward risk to our inflation estimate," economists at Bank of Baroda said in a note to its clients. "We expect RBI to normalise monetary policy in Q4FY22 by reducing the wedge between reverse repo and repo rate and changing its liquidity stance," the report said. The Indian central bank's policy dilemma has come when many emerging markets central banks hiked interest rates in June to fight inflation while indicating more hikes in the coming months. Some of the emerging market central banks that increased interest rates are Brazil, Russia and Mexico. "After having risen sharply in May, June inflation has stabilised near the same levels, printing 6.26 per cent versus our expectations of 6.61 per cent. While the low base continued to impact the YoY headline print, the sequential increase has been much more muted than the sharp surge seen in May," says Madhavi Arora, Lead Economist, Emkay Global Financial Services. "The MPC (Monetary Policy Committee) may still choose to look through the spike in inflation in the near term, with the monetary reaction function currently hinging more on growth revival becoming sustainable. We still do not see any change in policy rates this year," she says. The six-member Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the RBI – which sets the interest rate – will meet on August 4-6 to review the policy. It is to be seen if the persistent inflation pressure will force the members to start contemplating exiting the accommodative stance sooner than later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/inflation-stays-elevated-when-will-the-rbi-act-1008142.html
13-07-2021||South||Female elephant dies of anthrax in Tamil Nadu||A female elephant, which was found dead in a forest area in Anaikatti on the outskirts, died due to anthrax, forest department sources said on Tuesday. The carcass of the jumbo, aged around 13 years, was found by a team of forest officials on patrol in the area coming under Coimbatore Forest Range on Monday. Veterinarians had collected blood samples oozing out from the mouth and anus of the elephant and on examination found the presence of anthrax bacterium, the sources said. According to the US CDC, anthrax is a serious infectious disease caused by gram-positive, rod-shaped bacteria known as Bacillus anthracis. Anthrax can be found naturally in soil and commonly affects domestic and wild animals around the world. This is the fourth elephant succumbing to anthrax in the last one decade in the district. In order to prevent cross infection to other animals, the carcass will be buried deep in the jungles this evening, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/female-elephant-dies-of-anthrax-in-tamil-nadu-1008088.html
13-07-2021||South||India's first Covid-19 patient contracts coronavirus again||India's first Covid-19 patient, a Malayali medical student at Wuhan in China, has again tested positive for the virus. The woman, aged around 20, was initially tested Covid positive on January 30, soon after her return to Kerala from Wuhan, the epicenter of Covid outbreak. She was planning to return to China but she again tested Covid positive. The Thrissur native is now under home quarantine as she is asymptomatic and has no health issues. Thrissur District Medical Officer K J Reena said that she was found positive in an RT-PCR test conducted for traveling to Delhi. She had not yet received even the fist dose of Covid vaccine. While she had shown some symptoms during the first infection, this time she was showing no symptoms. One of her family members told DH that since she was not having any symptoms, the reinfection could have gone unnoticed if she had not undergone the RT-PCR test as part of her Delhi travel. Health department sources said that the virus load in her could be very low this time. Her samples might be evaluated further. During her hospital stay after being tested positive first time, she was not very worried as the fatality rate was low. She had even resumed her studies before being discharged and attended online classes, followed by online examinations. Apart from this woman, several other medical students who came down from China in January 2020, had also got the infection. All the initial three Covid cases in the country were reported in Malayali students who returned from Wuhan. Though the rate of increase of Covid patients in Kerala was comparatively lower in the initial stages, the state started witnessing  a surge following return of Malayalis from other states and countries. Covid cases in Kerala still continues to be on the higher side with TPR remaining around 10 percent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/indias-first-covid-19-patient-contracts-coronavirus-again-1008140.html
13-07-2021||South||Two more persons test positive for Zika virus in Kerala||Two more persons, including a woman, tested positive for Zika virus in Kerala on Tuesday, taking the total number of infections in the state to 21. A 35-year-old man, hailing from nearby Poonthura and a 41-year-old woman, native of Sashtamangalam here, were found infected with the virus, state Health Minister Veena George said. She urged people to be vigilant as the number of those testing positive for Zika virus has increased in the State. The samples were tested at the virology lab at the government medical college here and at the Coimbatore-based laboratory respectively. The testing for Zika virus began at the government medical college here on Monday, the minister said, adding that a total of 15 samples had been tested on the initial day. One of the persons, whose sample was tested, was found positive for dengue and all the other 13 samples tested negative for any virus, the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-more-persons-test-positive-for-zika-virus-in-kerala-1008147.html
13-07-2021||South||Kerala Minister alleges threat after unearthing SC/ST fund fraud||Kerala Minister for Devaswom and SC and ST Welfare, K Radhakrishnan on Tuesday alleged that he received threat calls after 'misappropriation' of welfare funds of scheduled caste and scheduled tribes was exposed in the state. The minister claimed that a person had made several calls to the office landline recently and threatened him after it was clear that he won't support any kind of malpractice. People, indulging in such malpractices, may be very far-sighted, he said while speaking in a programme here. "Such fraudsters are very sad now as they have realised that we will not support cheating poor people. After that, one of such fraudster even called in the office phone and used abusive language and threatened me," Radhakrishnan said. He also said he would not give in to such threats. Later, the minister's office said a complaint had already been lodged with the concerned authorities in this regard. Radhakrishnan had recently made it clear that the government would not protect anyone involved in the alleged siphoning of the funds meant for the welfare of SC/ST people. Investigators recently recorded the arrest of a person allegedly involved in the embezzlement of funds meant for students belonging to the Scheduled caste and tribe categories. Kerala BJP president K Surendran had alleged that the ruling CPI(M) leaders turned a blind eye to party members siphoning off the funds given to local self government bodies by the Centre for the welfare of scheduled castes in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-minister-alleges-threat-after-unearthing-sc/st-fund-fraud-1008154.html
13-07-2021||South||Correct imbalance in vaccine allocation for Tamil Nadu: MKS to PM||With Tamil Nadu experiencing vaccine shortage forcing it to suspend the drive every now and then, Chief Minister M K Stalin on Tuesday complained to Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the state has not received vaccines in proportion to its population and asked him to “correct the imbalance.” In a letter, Stalin told Modi that Tamil Nadu received just 302 vaccine doses per thousand eligible population and pointed out that the number is very low when compared to doses given to states like Gujarat, Karnataka, and Rajasthan. While Gujarat got 533 doses per thousand eligible population, Karnataka got 493 doses, and Rajasthan (446). Except for Rajasthan, the other two states are ruled by BJP.  Tamil Nadu, which fared poorly on the vaccination front in the first few months, picked up pace after it opened up the drive to the 18-44 age group. The state has administered 1.66 crore vaccine doses to those above 18 years of age till July 12.  The vaccination drive was suspended for a few days due to a shortage of vaccine doses and resumed once supplies were received. After a smooth run for a few days, the drive was suspended in some parts on July 13 for want of doses. The state had also rushed its Principal Secretary (Health) Dr. J Radhakrishnan to New Delhi last week to appraise the Union Government of the state’s vaccine shortage issue.  Stalin said his government was finding it “extremely difficult” to meet the huge demand for vaccination due to a shortage of vaccine doses. “The success of my Government’s efforts to eliminate vaccine hesitancy and make the vaccination drive a mass movement now squarely rests on the doses made available to us,” he wrote in the letter.  Referring to the Union Government’s submission before the Supreme Court that states have been allocated vaccines in proportion to the population between 18-44 years of age, Stalin said Tamil Nadu has not received vaccines proportionate to its population size resulting in the current acute shortage of vaccines.  He asked the Prime Minister to “correct the imbalance” in the vaccine allocation for Tamil Nadu and make a special allocation of 1 crore vaccine doses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/correct-imbalance-in-vaccine-allocation-for-tamil-nadu-mks-to-pm-1008213.html
13-07-2021||South||Kerala fishermen lose man-days over 'inaccurate weather alerts'||The increasing number of rough weather alerts over the Arabian Sea and its lack of accuracy has triggered resentment among the fishermen in Kerala over the loss of man-days. While the fishermen allege that the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) and Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) were over forecasting after the criticisms they faced for inadequate alerts during the 2017 Ockhi that claimed over 140 lives, IMD officials maintain that the changes in climatic conditions were the reason for a higher number of forecasts these days. According to the fishermen, in the last two months alone fishing ban was imposed for at least 15 days, whereas a rough climate prevailed only on around five or six days. At the same time, there was no adequate warning when three fishermen were killed at Vizhinjam in May following rough weather. Kerala Swathantra Matsyathozhilali Federation leader Jackson Pollayil told DH that owing to loss of man-days due to the inaccurate weather alerts fishermen were now even tending to flout the restrictions and venture into the sea as their livelihood was being badly hit. A large chunk of fishermen ventures into the deep sea for weeks-long fishing activities. Hence weather alert systems should be able to give predictions for at least three or four days. In the case of Ockhi also most of the fishermen who died were those who were involved in deep-sea fishing, he said. Thiruvananthapuram native Sindhu Nepolean, who is associated with researches on marine weather alerts, said that it was quite evident that after Ockhi, the number of weather alerts being issued by the IMD through the KSDMA have gone up. Though the fishermen earlier used to ignore weather alerts as they have their own conventional methods, after the Ockhi the fishermen tend to follow the formal weather alerts. IMD Thiruvananthapuram Meteorological Centre director K Santhosh said that the agency was not at all involved in over forecasting after Ockhi. The Arabian Sea has been witnessing more weather systems over quite some time and IMD is bound to give alerts depending on its predictions. He also said that the general level of accuracy of weather alert systems in tropical regions is 75 per cent and there was no high level of inaccuracy in IMD's predictions. Meanwhile, an official at the KSDMA said that they were also quite concerned about the increasing number of weather alerts. They were still issuing alerts based on inputs from IMD. Though KSDMA had roped in the service of three private agencies the data available from those agencies were not yet used for issuing weather alerts to public as it was only under evaluation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-fishermen-lose-man-days-over-inaccurate-weather-alerts-1008239.html
13-07-2021||South||Don’t behave like reel hero, Madras High Court tells actor Vijay, imposes Rs 1 lakh fine||Popular Tamil actor Vijay has suffered an embarrassment after the Madras High Court imposed a cost of Rs 1 lakh on him for seeking exemption from paying entry tax to the Tamil Nadu government for his luxurious Rolls Royce Ghost Motor Car imported from Britain in 2012.  Justice S M Subramaniam, who passed the order on July 8, came down heavily on the actor, who is one of the highest-paid in the Tamil film industry, for seeking relief. The actor, who imported the vehicle in 2012, paid import duty to the Customs Department as levied under the Customs Act, but sought exemption from paying the entry tax.  The actor had bought the luxurious car in 2012 costing about Rs 8 crore and the Transport Department had sought Rs 1.5 crore as entry tax. But the actor refused to pay the amount and approached the court. “These actors are portraying themselves as champions to bring social justice in the society. Their pictures are against corrupt activities in society. But, they are evading tax and acting in a manner, which is not in consonance with the provisions of the statutes,” the judge said in his order. The judge said “cine heroes” are not expected to behave like “reel heroes” and opined that tax evasion is to be construed as “anti-national habit, attitude and mindset and unconstitutional.”  He said the court is of the opinion that the non-payment of entry tax by the actor can never be appreciated and that the “petitioner has not respected nor responded to the lakhs and lakhs of his fans, who have paid by viewing his movies and from and out of such money, the actor purchased the world's prestigious car for his personal usage.”  “The reputed persons of this great nation should realize that the money reaches to them is from the poor man’s blood and from their hard-earned money and not from the sky,” Justice Subramaniam observed. He said the system of taxation is the backbone of the nation's economy, which keeps Revenue consistent, manages growth in the economy, and fuels its industrial activity.  “Tax is mandatory contribution and not a voluntary payment or donation, which one decides on one's own,” he added.  The common man is motivated and encouraged to behave as a lawful citizen and pay tax and to thrive hard to achieve social justice in the society, the judge observed. “If the rich, affluent and reputed persons fail to pay the tax as applicable, then this Court with pain, records that it would be a long way to achieve the constitutional goals,” he said. Asking Vijay to pay the entry tax as demanded by the state government, the judge dismissed the writ petition and imposed a fine of Rs 1 lakh which is to be paid to the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister's Covid-19 Public Relief Fund, within two weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/don-t-behave-like-reel-hero-madras-high-court-tells-actor-vijay-imposes-rs-1-lakh-fine-1008245.html
13-07-2021||South||Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan to join fast against dowry||Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan will join a fast against dowry in Thiruvananthapuram on Wednesday (July 14). In view of a series of dowry death in the state recently, various Gandhian organisations have organised the fast at the Gandhi Bhavan in Thiruvananthapuram to create awareness against dowry. According to an official statement from the Raj Bhavan, the Governor agreed to join the fast from 8 am to 6 pm from Raj Bhavan. He will be going to the venue to attend a prayer meeting scheduled to be held at 4.30 pm following Covid-19 protocol. Khan had recently visited the house of one of the dowry victims to meet her family. He had also urged society to take a stand against dowry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-governor-arif-mohammed-khan-to-join-fast-against-dowry-1008253.html
13-07-2021||South||TTV Dhinakaran: From 'future' of AIADMK to a lonely man now||At the height of his rebellion against the current AIADMK leadership, T T V Dhinakaran was touted as the “future” of the party for his charisma helped him succeed late J Jayalalithaa as the MLA of R K Nagar Assembly constituency here. After successive election defeats – his Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) came as a cropper in the 2019 Lok Sabha and 2021 Assembly polls – Dhinakaran is now a lonely man.  The 57-year-old has gone into a shell after the election defeat – he lost from Kovilpatti in Southern Tamil Nadu – and his studied silence is leading to trusted lieutenants deserting him and joining arch-rival DMK. Three former MLAs – Jayanthi Padmanabhan, Mariappan Kennedy, and P Palaniappan – who are among the 18 persons disqualified as legislators in 2017 for siding with Dhinakaran have resigned from AMMK and joined DMK in the past few weeks.  Already, two leaders from the lot, V Senthil Balaji, and Thanga Tamilselvan had joined the DMK with the former now the Electricity Minister of Tamil Nadu. With his aunt, Sasikala also not welcome in the AIADMK, albeit, for now, Dhinakaran is now confined to his home just releasing statements on important issues. Dhinakaran, who was banished from AIADMK by late J Jayalalithaa in 2010, was rehabilitated by his aunt V K Sasikala in 2017 before she left for Bengaluru to serve a four-year jail term in a disproportionate assets (DA) case.  Sasikala appointed Dhinakaran as deputy general secretary of AIADMK and his problems began. Within months, the entire AIADMK cabinet, including Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, turned against him, allegedly at the behest of the BJP, forcing him to keep away from the party affairs.  Dhinakaran rebelled against the AIADMK when Palaniswami joined hands with O Panneerselvam, and that is when the 18 MLAs sided with him and lost their posts subsequently. After his victory in the R K Nagar Assembly bye-election, Dhinakaran launched his AMMK banking on his “charisma”, and according to his former aides, this move led to his downfall. “He (TTV) should not have come out of the AIADMK. He should have challenged the leadership by being part of the party though he was expelled. The moment he launched a new party, it gave considerable mileage to the AIADMK. We did tell him not to launch a party, but our advice was not heeded to,” a former aide of Dhinakaran told DH. With the AMMK’s performance in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls not being on expected lines – the party scored 5.25 per cent of votes – Dhinakaran went into a shell. His reading that his aunt Sasikala’s release from jail would create ripples in AIADMK and there would be an exodus to his party before the election also went wrong.  “TTV was isolated politically this election. No party was willing to align with him. The BJP’s efforts to bring AMMK into the AIADMK alliance also failed with EPS stonewalling the move. Though everyone expected his party to lose, his defeat from Kovilpatti was shocking. It is the defeat that has now led to the exodus,” a former MLA who was with him told DH. Prof Ramu Manivannan, Head of the Department of Politics and Public Administration, University of Madras, told DH that Dhinakaran was never bound to be a man possessing mass appeal who is at best a “good political manager.”  “Unless Sasikala (TTV’s aunt) finds the treasure (leadership of AIADMK), Dhinakaran is destined to play the peripheral role. He has no other choice or option. He never had the connection with the people in the R K Nagar constituency from where he won. He never visited the constituency,” Prof Manivannan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ttv-dhinakaran-from-future-of-aiadmk-to-a-lonely-man-now-1008257.html
13-07-2021||South||Consider opening liquor outlets in less crowded areas, High Court tells Kerala govt||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday asked the state government to consider opening state-run Beverages Corporation outlets in less crowded areas and avoid main roads. Justice Devan Ramachandran, who was hearing two PILs, one by a lawyer and other initiated by the court, relating to large crowds seen in front of the outlets, violating social distancing norms during the pandemic, suggested that the government consider opening the outlets away from main roads. The state government informed the court that it has taken steps to reduce the crowds in front of the Bevco outlets. BEVCO told the court that liquor shops were closed for a few days and were opened on June 17 and that was the reason for the queues. The matter will be heard again after two weeks. The Court had on July 8 lashed out at Kerala government over the overcrowding in front of the outlets and directed it's Managing Director and the State excise commissioner to file a report on the steps taken to reduce the crowd. It said customers lining up in front of liquor shops and spilling over to public spaces and roads was certainly an affront to the dignity of society as a whole. The court directed the state government to make sure that sufficient facilities are given to customers so that they can make their choice of purchase of liquor "in a civilised manner like any other commodity." It also said the queues before the outlets were being seen at a time when the Test Positivity Rate was still increasing. The lawyer, Vijayan, in his PIL, sought directions to the state to prevent overcrowding outside liquor vends during the pandemic, while the HC took up the matter on its own, based on a letter by one of its judges on the issue. Vijayan said that despite the Covid-19 infection rate being above 10 per cent, people thronged liquor outlets of BEVCO without following the protocols on social distancing to purchase alcohol as it was not available elsewhere.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/consider-opening-liquor-outlets-in-less-crowded-areas-high-court-tells-kerala-govt-1008270.html
13-07-2021||South||No move to rename Kasargod villages, says Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday informed Karnataka leader of opposition Siddaramaiah that there was no move to rename any places in Kasargod. Vijayan sent a letter in this regard to Siddaramaiah on July 7 in reply to an earlier letter of the latter raising apprehensions over the alleged moves to replace the Kannada names of some places in Kasargod with Malayalam names. Vijayan said that no decision was taken to change the name of any village in Kasargod. There need not be any apprehension in this regard. He also said that steps were being taken to relay classes in Kannada medium also as part of the online classes being conducted amid the closure of schools due to Covid-19. Vijayan had earlier stated that reports that the Kerala government was planning to rename some villages in Kasargod were baseless.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-move-to-rename-kasargod-villages-says-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-1008285.html
13-07-2021||South||Kerala Covid-free tribal panchayat comes under virus scare||A tribal panchayat in the forest areas of Idukki in Kerala that was so far keeping Covid at bay is now under a virus scare with two persons from the panchayat testing positive for the coronavirus. However, health authorities are suspecting that the two got the infection after they visited some hospitals in the district and since they did not return to the panchayat afterwards, the chances of the infection spreading to others in the panchayat was low. Edamalakkudy, situated about 35 kilometres from Munnar, a known tourist destination, was keeping Covid at bay by initiating self-quarantine measures. It was the lone panchayat in the state to be free from Covid. Idukki district medical officer Dr. N Priya said that after tracing the contact history of the two a Covid test camp would be initiated in the panchayat if necessary. Congress MP Dean Kuriakose had recently invited controversy as he took a vlogger to the panchayat flouting the self-quarantine norms being followed by the people.  Pressure on govt to relax restrictions Even as various sections have demanded the government to relax the existing lockdown restrictions, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that in the present situation it was not possible to allow relaxations at this point as the TPR was still remaining above 10 per cent. While various Muslim outfits have urged the Kerala government to allow at least 40 persons at mosques for prayers especially since Bakrid was approaching, a section of traders has also called for defying the lockdown restrictions like restricting the functioning of certain categories of shops for alternate days alone. The Indian Medical Association had also flayed the ongoing restrictions in the state citing that it was only causing rush at shops. The Covid scenario in Kerala continued to be grim as the TPR remained above 10.46 percent on Tuesday also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-covid-free-tribal-panchayat-comes-under-virus-scare-1008288.html
13-07-2021||South||HC dismisses PIL challenging Tamil Nadu panel on NEET||The Madras High Court on Tuesday dismissed a petition filed by BJP general secretary Karu Nagarajan challenging the constitution of a committee headed by Justice (retired) A K Rajan by the Tamil Nadu government to study the impact of NEET on students from economically underprivileged sections. Nagarajan had filed the PIL last week asking the court to quash the notification issued by the state government on the constitution of the committee.  After taking over, Chief Minister M K Stalin, whose party DMK has promised to do away with NEET for admission into medical college, formed a panel under the chairmanship of Justice Rajan to study the impact of the exam which has claimed the lives of 13 students. In his petition, Nagarajan had claimed that the committee was “'unconstitutional, illegal, unfair” and without legal justification and contended that it amounted to seeking the opinion of the public about the judgment of the Supreme Court. A division bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy rejected Nagarajan’s plea maintaining that mere constitution of a panel by the state government cannot be considered as an act of defiance to any order passed by the Supreme Court. Reacting to the judgement, Stalin said the judgement has exposed the “double standards” of the AIADMK and BJP. Meanwhile, the Justice Rajan Committee will submit its report to Stalin on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hc-dismisses-pil-challenging-tamil-nadu-panel-on-neet-1008298.html
13-07-2021||South||Forced contribution to CMDRF could not be allowed: HC||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday observed that forced contribution to Chief Minister's Distress Relief Fund could not be allowed. Justice Devan Ramachandran made the observation while considering a petition against deductions made from the pension of Kerala State Electricity Board employees towards the CMDRF for the 'Vaccine Challenge'. The court directed KSEB to refund the amounts deducted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/forced-contribution-to-cmdrf-could-not-be-allowed-hc-1008300.html
13-07-2021||State||EC should have consulted govt on zilla, taluk panchayat polls: KSE||Expressing his disappointment over the state election commission, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa stated that it should have held discussions with the government at least for the sake of courtesy before announcing zilla and taluk panchayat polls.  Speaking to media persons on Monday, he said the election commission has the right to conduct elections but it could have consulted the government before announcing them. The government would have given some suggestions which would have avoided resentment among political parties, he said. Leaders and workers of all parties have raised objections to the reservation for zilla and taluk panchayat polls. He urged the election commission to take a final call.  He said the government is of the view that elections must not be conducted till December as people are still struggling to overcome the loss they suffered due to Covid-19 lockdowns. Besides, the state is still reporting new cases. He also made it clear that BJP is ready to face the polls at any time and is confident would emerge victorious across the state on the lines of Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ec-should-have-consulted-govt-on-zilla-taluk-panchayat-polls-kse-1008002.html
13-07-2021||State||High time Karnataka brings in new population policy: BJP||BJP National General Secretary C T Ravi on Tuesday pitched for bringing in a new population policy in Karnataka, on the lines of party ruled Assam and Uttar Pradesh, to curb growing population amid limited natural resources. "It is high time Karnataka brings in a new population policy on the lines of Assam and Uttar Pradesh to control its growing population," Ravi, who is also a ruling BJP MLA from Chikkamagaluru said in a tweet. It is high time Karnataka brings in a new population policy on the lines of Assam and Uttar Pradesh to control its growing population. With the limited natural resources available, it will be difficult to meet the needs of every citizen if there is a population explosion. "With the limited natural resources available, it will be difficult to meet the needs of every citizen if there is a population explosion," he said. State Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday had said that a decision will be taken after discussion and deliberation. Uttar Pradesh Population Policy 2021-2030 was recently unveiled by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to steady the growing population in the state and reduce maternal and infant deaths in a time-bound manner. A draft of the Uttar Pradesh population control bill has also been uploaded on the state law commission website. Assam, which is another BJP-ruled state, too has announced that it will gradually implement a two-child policy for availing benefits under specific schemes funded by the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/high-time-karnataka-brings-in-new-population-policy-bjp-1008074.html
13-07-2021||State||Karnataka leaders seek Congress top brass intervention to stop infighting||Amid continued infighting among Karnataka Congress leaders, former Union Minister K H Muniyappa and former Minister K J George met Congress General Secretary (Organisation) K C Venugopal and General Secretary incharge Karnataka Randeep Surjewala here on Monday. Both the leaders sought the party high command intervention to end internal bickering among leaders in the State.  Despite the high command instructing state leaders to stop debating on who should be next Chief Ministerial candidate. Unless the debate ends immediately, it would harm the party prospects, both the leaders conveyed to the national leaders. George separately met Congress president Sonia Gandhi. However he said it was a courtesy call to enquire about her health, sources said. “First over priority to winning the elections. Who should be the next Chief Minister is not an issue now. I have requested the party leaders to intervene immediately to stop debate,” Muniyappa told reporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-leaders-seek-congress-top-brass-intervention-to-stop-infighting-1008304.html
13-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Admissions to Class 1 drop drastically in Karnataka||In an indication of the pandemic's impact on formal education, the enrolment of children to first grade across schools in the state has reached only 25 per cent of the anticipated number of over 10 lakh. One of the main reasons is the decision of parents to skip grade-1 based on the directions issued by the Department of Public Instructions to admit children to classes according to their age. Based on the number of children who have attained the age of 5 years and 10 months and yet to be enrolled, officials in the education department had estimated the number of admissions for first grade at 10,21,105. However, information from the department shows that the number of such children enrolled at government, aided and unaided private schools so far was 2,63,563. Of this 2.63 lakh, over 48 per cent were admitted at government schools, 38 per cent at aided schools and 10 per cent at unaided private schools. It has been nearly one month since the admissions for 2021-22 academic year began; classes commenced about 15 days ago. Though the last date has been extended to August 30, the response so far hasn't been encouraging.  "Even the Right to Education (RTE) Act insists on admission of children as per their age and we have instructed all our officials to follow the same," said a senior official from the department. Taking advantage of this, parents are asking school managements to admit children to grade-2 directly. "Many who did not enrol their wards to first standard last year are now seeking direct admissions to grade-2. The RTE Act allows age-appropriate admissions (aimed at out-of-school children), but it is being misused," said D Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka.  Such admissions will put additional burden on children. "Without any foundation, the child will be under pressure to learn grade-2 content without learning grade-1. It will be a physical, mental and psychological harassment for the child," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/admissions-to-class-1-drop-drastically-in-karnataka-1007974.html
13-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Lack of local language option in bank exam kicks up storm||The Institute of Banking Personnel Selection (IBPS) is under fire from language activists yet again for failing to respond to repeated demands of providing an option to choose the local language to write its exams. The trend of allowing only Hindi and English in IBPS exams has continued in a recent notification seeking applications to fill over 3,000 clerk posts in 11 banks, of which 407 are for Karnataka. According to the IBPS notification, the exam will have three tests — English language, numerical ability and reasoning ability — during the preliminary examination, and four tests — general/financial awareness, general English, reasoning ability and computer aptitude, and quantitative aptitude — in the main examination. “The above tests except the tests of English language will be available bilingually, i.e, English and Hindi,” the notification said. The Kannada Sahitya Parishat (KSP) criticised the IBPS for continuing to hold exams in only two languages despite the fact that 22 languages were recognised by the Constitution of India. KSP president Manu Baligar also wrote to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to urge the Union government to conduct banking exams in Kannada. The latest notification also renewed calls to reinstate the IBPS rules as it was in place till 2014, before the Centre amended them. Congress’ Rajya Sabha member G C Chandrashekar recalled the statements made by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in 2019, when she had assured holding banking exams in local languages. “Though our demand was to reinstate rules as it was prior to 2014, Sitharaman had assured to hold exams in Kannada. However, the IBPS has cheated us again. Applications are invited for clerk posts, but exams will not be held in Kannada. Vacant posts in Karnataka are also not reserved for local candidates,” Chandrashekar said in a tweet. “Kannadigas won’t get any justice until the rules prior to 2014 are brought back. In 2014, the domicile rule was removed to cheat Kannadigas,” JD(S) IT wing head Prathap Kanagal tweeted. Activist Chetan Jeeral said the silence of the state government and Opposition parties over the issue was a “fraud” committed on the part of Kannadigas. “This is a question of livelihood,” he said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-lack-of-local-language-option-in-bank-exam-kicks-up-storm-1007975.html
13-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Union Jalshakti minister has assured clearances for Mekedatu project: Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa||Union Jalshakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekawat has assured to see through clearances for all pending water projects in Karnataka, including the Mekedatu Balancing reservoir project, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said Tuesday. Speaking to mediapersons here after a meeting with the union minister who was in the city on Tuesday, Yediyurappa said the Karnataka government had impressed upon Shekawat to make way for pending environmental clearance for the Mekedatu project. That apart, the government also spoke about the pending Krishna Tribunal Award gazette notification along with required permissions from the Centre for Kalasa Banduri, Upper Bhadra and Yettinahole projects. "He has assured to help us with all the clearances," Yediyurappa said. State government officials also briefed the union minister on the progress of Jal Jeevan Mission. The state has been unable to meet the target set under the project for tap water connections to households in rural Karnataka. "We will make efforts to provide an additional 25 lakh tap connections at the earliest," the Chief Minister told mediapersons. In the Jal Jeevan Mission review meeting, Shekawat asked Karnataka to ensure that the project was implemented in a time bound manner. He advised the state to prioritise the aspirational districts (as identified by NITI Ayog) Yadgir and Raichur and provide tap water connections here at the earliest, an official release stated. Karnataka aims to provide 91.19 lakh tap water connections. In the current fiscal, the government hopes to provide 25.17 lakh connections, followed by 27.15 lakh in 2022-23 and the remaining 10.72 lakh by December 2023.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/union-jalshakti-minister-has-assured-clearances-for-mekedatu-project-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-1008125.html
13-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||We have got every right and we are going to start work: Yediyurappa on Mekedatu project||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday once again asserted that the state has got every right to implement the Mekedatu project across river Cauvery and will start the work, despite objections from neighboring Tamil Nadu. He held discussions with Union Jalshakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and sought clearances from the Centre for implementing Mekedatu and other irrigation projects in the state. "I don't want to discuss Tamil Nadu or any other state. We have got every right and we are going to start the work," Yediyurappa said in response to a question on Tamil Nadu's objection to the Mekedatu project. Speaking to reporters after the meeting with the union minister, he said detailed discussions took place regarding the irrigation projects in the state including Mekedatu. "Definitely in the coming days we are going to complete all the projects and he (union minister) is going to help from the Centre in all respects.. he has assured us to resolve all issues regarding providing clearances from the Centre for the implementation of the projects," he added. Discussions were regarding the gazette notification of the Krishna tribunal award, Environment Ministry clearance for Mekedatu project, Upper Krishna Project, Kalasa-Banduri Nala Project, implementation of Yettinahole project, among others. State's Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the CM has appraised the Union Minister on the Mekedatu issue and urged for the clearances, which are pending before the Government of India. "Detailed Project Report (DPR) has been submitted to Central Water Commission (CWC) and it has been referred to the Cauvery Monitoring Committee, the union minister is aware of the whole issue and has promised to look into and give justice to Karnataka," he added. Karnataka's assertion comes a day after the all party meeting called by Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin condemned attempts by Karnataka to build the dam at Mekedatu and urged the union government to not accord sanction for the proposal. Earlier in the day, pointing at the meeting between CM and the union Minister, Karnataka Congress President D K Shivakumar in a tweet said "..we hope that date of initiation of Mekedatu Project will be finalised. This project represents hope for Karnataka, and we expect CM will leave no stone unturned to fulfil it!" Yediyurappa had earlier written to Stalin urging him not to oppose the Mekedatu project "in the right spirit" and offered to hold a bilateral meeting to address any issues. In response, Stalin had urged Yediyurappa not to pursue the Mekedatu project, as he rejected Karnataka's stand that implementation of the project would not affect the interests of Tamil Nadu farmers. Karnataka has maintained that the project within its territory will benefit both states as the surplus water stored can be managed between the two during the distress year, and its implementation will in no way affect the interests of Tamil Nadu's farming communities, as there will be no impact on its share of water. While the neighbouring state is of the view that the project would "impound and divert" the uncontrolled water flow due to Tamil Nadu from Kabini sub- basin, the catchment area below Krishnarajasagara, and also from Simsha, Arkavathy and Suvarnavathi sub-basins besides other small streams. Also, according to Tamil Nadu, as per the Supreme Court verdict no construction across Cauvery should be taken up without consulting the lower riparian states. Mekedatu is a multipurpose (drinking and power) project, which involves building a balancing reservoir, near Kanakapura in Ramanagara district. The project once completed is aimed at ensuring drinking water to Bengaluru and neighboring areas (4.75 TMC) and also can generate 400 MW power, and the estimated cost of the project is Rs 9,000 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/we-have-got-every-right-and-we-are-going-to-start-work-yediyurappa-on-mekedatu-project-1008162.html
13-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 1,913 new Covid-19 cases, 48 deaths||Karnataka reported 1,913 new Covid-19 cases and 48 deaths on Tuesday, taking the total number of infections to 28,74,597 and toll to 35,944.  The day also saw 2,489 discharges, continuing to outnumber the fresh cases, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 28,04,396. Out of 1,913 new cases reported on Tuesday, 401 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 707 discharges and only eight deaths.  The total number of active cases stood at 34,234. While the positivity rate for the day was 1.53 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 2.50 per cent.  Out of 48 deaths reported on Tuesday, nine were from Dakshina Kannada, Bengaluru Urban (8), Kolar (7), Mysuru and Shivamogga (3), followed by others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 401, Dakshina Kannada 222, Mysuru 198, Hassan 191, Tumakuru 170, followed by others.  Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of cases with a total of 12,20,098, followed by Mysuru 1,70,151 and Tumakuru 1,16,516.  Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 11,91,673, followed by Mysuru 1,65,204 and Tumakuru 1,14,047.  Cumulatively a total of 3,61,68,611 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,24,594 were on Tuesday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-1913-new-covid-19-cases-48-deaths-1008249.html
13-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka vaccine drive sputtering amid poor supplies||Karnataka is getting less than half of the doses it requires to sustain its Covid vaccination drive, according to sources in the government. In the last 14 days, the state has been administering about 2.56 lakh doses on average daily, according to official statistics. One officer in the government said that Karnataka had actually asked the Centre to supply five lakh doses per day - based on the consumption in the state. “Although the Centre has agreed, the supply has not increased so far,” the officer, who did not want to be named, added. The deficit in supply means that whatever doses are coming in are used up in a span of a few days. The problem of high usage is also challenging the state’s ability to build up an adequate reserve of vaccine doses which it can use to plug the gaps. Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar acknowledged that there were no vaccine reserves. “We are distributing the entire stock of vaccines available,” he said, adding that the state has so far received 43,21,690 doses for government use since June 21, when the Centre took over procurement. An officer added: “All doses we receive are used up. The quantity of supply is evident in the dosage figures being achieved everyday.” Nevertheless, data shows that the state is attempting to retain a small portion of doses in order to service the population on the following day. On Monday night, for instance, Karnataka received 3 lakh doses from the Centre. Out of this, 1.51 lakh doses were administered as of 8 pm on Tuesday night. “Any balance will be used to cover shortfalls in subsequent days,” an officer explained. In B’luru In Bengaluru Urban, vaccination rates have dipped sharply since July 11. Whereas the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) administered 75,938 doses on average per day between July 4 to 10, the rate has fallen to an average of 48,197 doses since.  “The demand for vaccinations cannot be described as surging, but at the same time, what we have gotten has not been enough,” explained Dr Sudarshan, Reproductive and Child Health Officer (RCHO), BBMP, who helps manage the ongoing vaccination programme in the city. “We have made an effort to increase the number of doses at Primary Health Centres (PHCs) from 200 to 300. Today, we were allocated 57,000 doses by the state government and the doses were duly sent out. But in the last two to three days, the supply did not meet demand levels,” he added.  At Bommanahalli Zone on Tuesday, the shortages were stark. “I received a message saying that I was eligible to get my second dose today,” said Mohammad Asim. “I went to three PHC’s this morning. None had any vaccines. I am now worried.” At KC General Hospital in West Zone, doses ran out at around noon after 123 people were jabbed. Dr B R Venkateshaiah, Medical Superintendent said that between 200 and 300 people who were given tokens were sent home on the assurance that they will be vaccinated in subsequent days. “If we are supplied 5,000 doses per week, we could effectively plan,” he said. On Tuesday, 39,785 doses were administered in BBMP limits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-vaccine-drive-sputtering-amid-poor-supplies-1008259.html
13-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Check if Honnavar port expansion involves turtle nesting ground: HC tells govt||The High Court on Tuesday directed the state government to appoint National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management (NCSCM), Chennai, to carry out a survey to ascertain whether any part of the area of Honnavar port expansion project is within the ‘turtle nesting ground’. The project is taken up by Honnavar Port Private Limited at Kasarkod Tonka at Honnavar taluk in Uttara Kannada district. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka gave this direction in response to a PIL filed by Honnavara Taluk Hasimeenu Vyaparasthara  Sangha. The petition claimed that turtles will be seriously affected if the project work is given a go-ahead. The Environmental/CRZ clearance had been accorded in 2012. In 2019, the validity for the project was extended. The project involves development of barge/vessel loading facility on 44 hectares of land. The bench declined to look into the allegations regarding the extension of environmental clearance granted in 2019. The bench noted that though the petitioners claim to have participated in the public consultation, it is too late in the day to challenge the environment clearance accorded in 2012. “Considering the serious contentions regarding the turtle nesting ground, NCSCM, having its office in Chennai, to carry out a survey of 45 hectares of project site to ascertain if any part of the area is turtle nesting ground,” the court said. On the other challenge in the petition, the court directed the Uttara Kannada deputy commissioner to visit the site and record a conclusion whether the location of the project has undergone any change. The DC will take the help of the revenue department officials and site visits shall be made after serving notice to the parties concerned, the court said. The interim order in relation to about 0.8 hectares of forest land will continue to operate and any further work carried out will be subject to the outcome of the petition, the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/check-if-honnavar-port-expansion-involves-turtle-nesting-ground-hc-tells-govt-1008260.html
13-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Manipal student detects Google bug, wins $3133 as prize||Internet search giant Google’s Vulnerability Reward Programme has recognised Sohom Dutta, a Manipal Institute of Technology student and bestowed $3133.7 on him as part of a prize for identifying a bug. Sohom told DH that he was elated and was surprised as he did not expect the reward. “I was searching an open book library source and could identify a bug in one of the Google &rsquor;s (Google library) programmes and later reported about the bug at the beginning of June. Depending on the severity of the bug, the prize amount is decided,” he said.  He is a mentor at Wikimedia and is part of the Cryptonite student project team at MIT, which works on forensics, web exploitation, reverse engineering and cryptography. He had earlier taken part in the Google Summer Code programme, which focused on introducing student developers into open source software development. The Vulnerability Reward programme for Google-owned web properties aims at the safety of the users. Sohom, a second-year CSE department student, said, “Cybersecurity is my area of interest and I also like to contribute to the open book source area”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/manipal-student-detects-google-bug-wins-3133-as-prize-1008261.html
13-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Child rights panel warns schools against blocking online classes||The Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (KSCPCR) has warned the private school managements of serious action if they block students’ access to online classes. Following complaints from parents against the schools of blocking online classes for not paying the fees for the 2021-22 academic year, the KSCPCR conducted hearings on Monday and Tuesday. Officials from the Commission said that the school managements were warned of severe action if they continue to block the classes. During the hearing on Monday, the Commission had summoned 19 school managements against whom complaints were received. As many as 14 school managements attended the hearing on Tuesday. According to Commission officials, a majority of the schools are central board schools demanding that parents pay the full fees. During the hearing, the schools agreed to unblock the online classes for students who have not paid the fees. “Schools have been told that if they fail to stick to the commission’s order, then the commission will direct block education officers to initiate action against the schools and recommend for cancellation of no objection certificate for such schools,” an official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/child-rights-panel-warns-schools-against-blocking-online-classes-1008262.html
13-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||HC asks Karnataka’s reply on driving tests in RTOs||Bengaluru, dhns: The High Court on Tuesday directed the government to respond to a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) which contended that driving test is not being done as prescribed under Rule 15 of the Central Motor Vehicle Rules. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka observed that a ‘very serious issue’ has been raised by the petitioner (appearing party-in-person) Gowrishankar S, a resident of Bengaluru. The petitioner alleged that Rule 15 of the Central Motor Vehicle Rules is given a complete go-by while conducting driving test for grant of licence. He said the figures that he has obtained under the RTI showed that in some of the RTOs, 75 to 100 tests are conducted in a day. He claimed that considering the large number of tests being conducted by the RTOs, it is impossible to strictly follow Rule 15. The matter has been posted to August 12, for considering the statement of objections to be filed by thegovernment. The petitioner prayed for a direction to the government to diligently follow the Central Motor Vehicle Rules in terms of driving tests. The petition said the driving test (Rule 15) is an elaborate process and the RTOs are required to note comments for each test item.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hc-asks-karnataka-s-reply-on-driving-tests-in-rtos-1008264.html
13-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government now allows citizens to define their family||Citizens in Karnataka can soon define ‘family’ on their own terms without conforming to traditional, official meanings for the purpose of availing government services and benefits.  This is under the ambitious Kutumba (Family ID) project, a comprehensive database that the government wants to use for automatic disbursal of benefits to eligible citizens without them having to even apply.  The software for citizens to register their families is under development. “Any citizen would be able to register in Kutumba by providing information relating to his/her spouse and all unmarried children. However, at the discretion of the resident applying, the family may include other relatives also,” a government order said.  The order specifically states that “single members (widows/destitutes/unmarried orphans) without parents, unmarried brother or sister living with a married sibling as parents are deceased and unmarried siblings living together as parents are deceased” can also be registered as family. “Every government scheme comes with a definition of family. Some say there has to be a husband, wife and unmarried children. Some say husband, wife and minor children. Some say husband, wife and unmarried daughters. What if there are divorcees? So, we want residents themselves to define their family,” additional chief secretary (e-governance) Rajeev Chawla told DH. Data on the families that citizens create will then be shared with government departments to determine eligibility for services and benefits, Chawla said.  The Family ID project was first rolled out in August 2019 as a pilot project in Srirangapatna taluk in Mandya district. Following its success, the project was extended to the entire state in May 2020.  First, the ration card database was integrated with data available in other departments to provide government benefits to families in a suo motu manner. “Then, we found that more than a crore people were not a part of the ration card database. So, we decided that we want residents themselves to define their family,” Chawla explained.  “We have enough data already to give benefits to citizens on an entitlement basis, which means they needn’t apply. For example, Aadhaar is the financial address, so we don’t even need bank account details,” Chawla said. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, in his 2021-22 Budget, announced that the Family ID will be used to create an Integrated Social Protection System, consisting of a social registry and an entitlement management system.  Family ID has been created for some 5.5 crore residents already.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-now-allows-citizens-to-define-their-family-1008267.html
13-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CT Ravi bats for population control law||BJP national general secretary C T Ravi on Tuesday pushed for a population control law in Karnataka on the lines of the one proposed in Uttar Pradesh and Assam. Ravi said this a day after Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai gave hints that the state government had no such plans. "As natural resources are limited, it is essential to control the population," Ravi said. "Population of India has grown from 33 crore during independence to nearly 140 crore today, leading to increased expenditure on social welfare and stretching the natural resources available. Therefore, it is essential to have discussions on such population control legislation," he said. To a question on whether a law was required in states such as Karnataka where total fertility rates were on the wane, leading to eventual decline in population, Ravi said that any law introduced can be reconsidered later. "If the population decreases, the population control legislation can be withdrawn," he said. On Monday, Bommai said population control measure was a policy matter that needed discussion and deliberation. “Population control has been there for a long time. There’s also family planning, which is different from incentivising population control. It has to be deliberated. We will take a call,” Bommai said. Ravi refused to comment on continued disgruntlement among party leaders in the state despite warnings by the BJP central leadership. However, Ravi said that the party leadership was aware of all statements issued by legislators. "Action will be taken at the right time," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ct-ravi-bats-for-population-control-law-1008268.html
13-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Jal Jeevan: Karnataka pulled up for slow progress||Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekawat on Tuesday is learnt to have pulled up the state government for “under-performance” in the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM), which seeks to provide functional tap water connections to every rural household. According to sources, Shekhawat was unhappy with the pace at which Karnataka was implementing the project. Karnataka has 91.19 lakh rural households, of which the government has covered about 30 lakh households at present. While the JJM deadline is 2024, it has been advanced to 2023 in Karnataka’s case. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has already written to the Centre seeking time till 2024. Speaking to media persons after the meeting, Yediyurappa acknowledged the slow pace of works. “The state has been unable to meet the target set under the project for tap water connections to households in rural Karnataka. The government will make efforts to cover 25 lakh households with tap water connections at the earliest,” he said. Meanwhile, Shekawat asked Karnataka to ensure that the project was implemented in a time-bound manner. He advised the state to prioritise the aspirational districts (as identified by NITI Ayog) Yadgir and Raichur and provide tap water connections here at the earliest. According to an official release, the state government aims to provide 25.17 lakh connections in the current fiscal, followed by 27.15 lakh in 2022-23 and the remaining 10.72 lakh by December 2023.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/jal-jeevan-karnataka-pulled-up-for-slow-progress-1008275.html
13-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BSY inducts 206 scene of crime officers into police force||As many as 206 'scene of crime officers' (SCOs) were inducted into the Karnataka police force on Tuesday.  Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa officially handed over their appointment orders to DG&IGP Praveen Sood at the Vidhana Soudha. Hailing the work of the police force, Yediyurappa said, "We have been successful in bringing down the crime rate across the state. But now, we must focus on investigation which involves collection of all evidence scientifically, so that the culprits do not escape. Hence, these officers are being added to the force. They will help in strengthening the investigation in all types of crime activities. All the 206 officers have been trained at Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) and they will be deployed in all districts." Assuring that about 100 police stations across Karnataka will get own buildings in the next five years, the CM said, "Alongside these buildings, two regional centres of FSL lab will be set up in Hubballi and Ballari. We have allocated Rs 101 crore under Arogya Bhagya scheme for providing health facilities to the police personnel." The CM also handed over 50 mini buses to the City Armed Reserve (CAR), Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP) units. A total of 236 officials and personnel from the Fire and Emergency Services, Home Guards, Civil Defence were presented with the CM's gold medal for meritorious services at a special event at the Vidhana Soudha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bsy-inducts-206-scene-of-crime-officers-into-police-force-1008276.html
13-07-2021||West||Congress leaders raise the pitch to contest 2022 Mumbai civic polls solo||Congress leaders from Mumbai on Monday reiterated their demand to contest the Mumbai civic elections, due early next year, independently. The Congress is part of the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra along with the NCP. AICC general secretary in-charge of Maharashtra HK Patil on Monday held talks with former ministers, ex-chief ministers, and leaders who contested the 2019 Assembly polls on the Congress ticket to discuss the preparations for the elections to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) controlled by the Shiv Sena. A senior Congress leader said the party leaders who had contested the last Lok Sabha elections didn't turn up at the meeting. "Patil heard the views of leaders who said the Congress should contest alone as it is a local boy election and workers need to be accommodated. He urged all to work unitedly and ensure that the party wins maximum seats," the leader said. He said Patil held discussions with office-bearers on how to strengthen the Congress in the Konkan region, from Palghar to Sindhudurg, the home turf of BJP MP and Union minister Narayan Rane. Elections to ten municipal corporations including Mumbai, 27 Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samities in their areas are due early next year. In the 2017 BMC elections, the BJP had made giant strides by giving a tough fight to the Sena which scraped through to retain the civic body.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/congress-leaders-raise-the-pitch-to-contest-2022-mumbai-civic-polls-solo-1007985.html
13-07-2021||West||BMC claims 'Trump treatment' successful in over 200 coronavirus patients||The antibody cocktail – that became popular after it was administered to the then United States President Donald Trump – has given good results in Mumbai during a pilot test conducted as part of Covid-19 combat strategies.   The administration of an antibody cocktail helps Covid-19 patients recover faster and reduces the mortality rate. A mixture of the two drugs – Casirivimab and Indevimab, both manufactured by the pharma giant, Roche India – was administered to 212 patients above the age of 12 who were under treatment at the Seven Hills Hospital, which is run by the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). According to the BMC, after administering the combined drug, the number of patients in need of oxygen was only 0.5 per cent, while the mortality rate also reduced by 70 per cent. Patients were also able to recover in 5-6 days as compared to earlier 13-14 days of hospital treatment. “The results were encouraging,” said Dr Balkrishna Adsul, Dean, Seven Hills Hospital, Mumbai. The patients were selected carefully, with their weight above 40 kgs, with mild-to-medium symptoms of Covid-19, at least one co-morbidity condition and they were administered the antibody cocktail for an hour through saline. The antibody cocktail can be administered to patients having diabetes, high blood pressure, kidney problems, heart diseases, asthma and other acute respiratory diseases, sickle cell, cerebral palsy – depending on the medical assessment of individual patients. During the study, 212 patients were administered the antibody cocktail and the conclusions were arrived at after successful treatment of 199 patients. These 199 patients included 101 patients in the age group of 18 to 45 years, 45 patients in the age group of 45 to 59 years, and 53 patients in the age group of 60 years. Out of a total of 199, 74 were co-morbid patients. “Given the current situation, although patients were recovering faster, they were kept in the hospital for a longer period of time to study the dosage of the drugs, as well as to monitor their condition,” said Dr Adsul. Health experts said that the use of this cocktail has also reduced the use of Remdesivir and steroids for the treatment of Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bmc-claims-trump-treatment-successful-in-over-200-coronavirus-patients-1007987.html
13-07-2021||West||Under-construction shed collapses in Mumbai, 11 labourers injured||Eleven labourers were injured after a part of an under-construction shed collapsed at the INS Hamla, a naval base at Marve in Malad area of Mumbai, a civic official said on Tuesday. The incident took place around 5.15 pm on Monday at the main gate of the INS Hamla, where construction of the temporary shed was underway, he said. Eleven labourers were injured and rushed to a hospital of the naval base for treatment, the official said. "Ten of them have already been discharged from the hospital," he said. Besides, labourer Sanjay Rao, 37, has been shifted to the Trident Hospital here and his condition is now stable, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/under-construction-shed-collapses-in-mumbai-11-labourers-injured-1008055.html
13-07-2021||West||10 years since Mumbai triple blasts, trial yet to commence||Exactly 10 years have passed since the ghastly triple blasts in Mumbai, but the trial is yet to commence. On July 13, 2011 evening, three blasts occurred at the Opera House, at Zaveri Bazaar and at Dadar Kabutar Khana localities, leaving 27 dead and 127 injured. This was the first terror attack in Mumbai after the 26/11 Mumbai fidayeen strike. The investigations were carried out by the Anti-Terrorism Squad of Maharashtra, which has arrested around a dozen people in the case. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has helped the ATS in the investigations. The first device was planted on a motorcycle at Khau Galli in south Mumbai's Zaveri Bazaar, the bullion hub, which exploded at 6.54 pm. The second device, planted in a tiffin box outside Prasad Chambers and Panchratna Building, in the Opera House area on Charni Road, the hub of the diamond trade, exploded at 6.55 pm. The third device was placed on an electric pole at the Dr Antonio Da Silva High School BEST bus stand near KabutarKhana in the Dadar area and it exploded at 7.06 pm. Yasin Bhatkal, alias Mohammed Ahmed Siddibapa, one of the founders of Indian Mujahideen (IM), is one of the main accused in the case. “The charge sheet has been filed, the charges have been framed…the trial in the case is yet to commence,” confirmed Sharif Shaikh, the defence advocate for the five accused in the case. As the probe progressed, ATS officials raided a Byculla flat where the suspects had hidden and assembled the explosives. In fact, Yasin had played a very important role in procuring explosives and making Improvised Explosive Device (IED). Besides Bhatkal, the main accused are Naquee Ahmed, Nadeem Shaikh, Kanwar Pathrija, Haroon Naik, Mohammed Qafeel Ansari and Assadullah Akthar. Those wanted in the case are Riyaz Bhatkal, Waqas Ibrahim Saad, Dubai-based Muzaffar Kolah and Tehseen Akhtar Shaikh. The accused were booked under the Indian Penal Code, Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA), Explosives Act, Explosives Substances Act, Prevention of Damage to Public Properties Act and Unlawful Prevention of Activities Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/10-years-since-mumbai-triple-blasts-trial-yet-to-commence-1008129.html
13-07-2021||West||Hounded by calls of 'love jihad' online, Maharashtra interfaith wedding ceremony gets called off||Buckling under pressure from their Hindu community members, parents of a 28-year-old woman in Maharashtra's Nashik district have called off her marriage ceremony with a Muslim man, sources said. In a letter to the community body, the woman’s father, a jeweller, said they decided not to go ahead with the July 18 wedding ceremony due to the ‘present situation’, referring to the protests on social media after the wedding invitation card went viral. He said his daughter and the man had a registered marriage in May. “However, due to the present situation, I can’t say if they will stay together,” he said, adding his daughter is staying with her parents since the marriage registration. The woman was scheduled to tie the nuptial knot as per Hindu rituals. The online protesters had described the upcoming wedding ceremony as a case of ‘love jihad’. A member of the woman’s community said the man was her private tutor a few years ago and that was how they got to know each other. The registered marriage did not evoke any harsh reaction within the community but the family came under a lot of pressure after the invitation card of the wedding ceremony went viral on social media, a community member said. Social media posts and messages related to the marriage ceremony were widely circulated on WhatsApp groups and the woman’s family members also received telephonic threats, he said. The woman’s father, who is an office-bearer of the community body, consulted family members after the stiff opposition on social media and decided to call off the wedding ceremony, he said. “The woman’s father has informed us through a letter that he is calling off the marriage ceremony of his daughter due to certain circumstances,” said Sunil Mahalkar, president of Sant Narhari Maharaj Lad Suvarnakar Sanstha, Nashik. The decision to call off the wedding ceremony was also circulated on WhatsApp, with community members thanking various ‘suvarnakar’ (jewellers) community organisations and also the OBC Andolan Samiti, Vishwa Hindu Parishad, Bajrang Dal and Hindu Ekta Manch.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hounded-by-calls-of-love-jihad-online-maharashtra-interfaith-wedding-ceremony-gets-called-off-1008148.html
13-07-2021||West||Pankaja Munde stages show of strength, says she is avoiding dharma-yuddha||Sidelined within the BJP, high-profile politician and former minister Pankaja Munde on Tuesday staged a show of strength in Mumbai asserting that she was just avoiding a “dharma-yuddha” and scotched rumours of her leaving the saffron party. Pankaja (41) is the daughter of late Gopinath Munde and niece of late Pramod Mahajan. “I do not run after the chair…I will continue to work for people as my father and our leader Gopinath Munde told us…he guided us, he taught us not to run to become mantris and santris but work for people,” said Pankaja, a veteran politician from the Marathwada region of the state. Once a contender for the Chief Minister’s post, Pankaja lost the 2019 Vidhan Sabha to her estranged cousin Dhananjay Munde of NCP – the latter seen close to Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis. Pankaja, currently national secretary of the party, was expecting that her sister and Beed MP Dr Pritam Munde would be accommodated in the Cabinet reshuffle that BJP-led NDA government undertook last week. After this, several of her supporters in the Marathwada region sent in their resignations, which she rejected. “I do not believe in pressure politics,” she said. "My leaders are Narendra Modi, Amit Shah and JP Nadda," she said. "I will keep trying to avoid the 'dharma-yuddha' till the maximum extent possible....the day I feel 'Ram' is not here...I will rethink...," she said amid thunderous applause outside her Worli residence in Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pankaja-munde-stages-show-of-strength-says-she-is-avoiding-dharma-yuddha-1008159.html
13-07-2021||West||Nana Patole’s statement was misconstrued: H K Patil||Amid a silent confrontation between the three ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi allies, AICC’s Maharashtra in-charge H K Patil said that the statement of state Congress president Nana Patole has been misconstrued and taken out of context. "Nana Patole's statement was misconstrued and was taken out of context and that is what it was all a creation of news reports. As he has already clarified his statement…things have been closed now,” said Patil, a veteran Congressman from neighbouring Karnataka. Patil’s statement came in presence of Patole and senior leaders like public works minister Ashok Chavan and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat. Patil on Tuesday held back-to-back meetings with the Congress leadership in the state. The meetings come a day after the leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge held meetings in Mumbai – amid the growing demand of the state party leadership to go solo in future local bodies, Vidhan Sabha and Lok Sabha polls. Patil also felt that since Patole himself has clarified the issue around his statement, it was improper for the Shiv Sena and NCP to speak on it. "Rajdharma doesn't allow anything which creates inconvenience for the alliance partner," he said. Patil also said that the MVA was stable and would last its full term. Besides, he added that it is a settled matter between the three partners that the post of Speaker of Assembly would go to Congress. A couple of days ago, Patole had said that Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar was keeping a tab on his movements. “The system is not allowing me to live peacefully. My phone is being tapped. Wherever I go, whatever I speak, a report is sent to the chief minister, deputy chief minister and home minister. Some people seem to dislike that Congress was growing in strength. The Shiv Sena and NCP hold the posts of the chief minister, deputy chief minister, and home minister, we do not have such a department," he had said. Reacting to this, NCP chief spokesperson and Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik said, “The SID keeps details of movements of the chief minister, deputy chief minister, ministers, senior leaders, labour leaders and important persons for security. If anyone does not want security they can give in writing. He can get further clarification from the former chief ministers of his party – Ashok Chavan, Prithviraj Chavan and Sushilkumar Shinde.” Shiv Sena chief spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut said, “Even I have security and some details are needed (for making arrangements)…Patole is a senior leader and important leader.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nana-patole-s-statement-was-misconstrued-h-k-patil-1008168.html
13-07-2021||West||Devendra Fadnavis vs Pankaja Munde war comes out in open||The Devendra Fadnavis versus Pankaja Munde cold war came out in open on Tuesday with the former Maharashtra minister and Marathwada stalwart declaring that she was avoiding a “dharma-yuddha” – as the Pandavas did against Kauravas. “I may have lost (the 2019 Vidhan Sabha) elections…I am not finished yet,” she said addressing party workers in a show of strength outside her Worli home in Mumbai. Once a contender for the Chief Minister’s post, Pankaja, lost the 2019 Vidhan Sabha polls from the family seat of Parli against her estranged cousin Dhananjay Munde of NCP – who is seen close to Fadnavis, the then chief minister and now Leader of Opposition in Assembly. “I do not run after chair…I will continue to work for people as my father and our leader Gopinath Munde told us…he guided us, he taught us not to run to become mantris and santris but work for people,” said Pankaja, a veteran politician and OBC leader from the Marathwada region of the state. Pankaja, currently a national secretary of the party, was expecting that her sister and Beed MP Dr Pritam Munde would be accommodated in the Cabinet reshuffle that the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre undertook last week. The Mundes were bypassed and Rajya Sabha MP Bhagwat Karad was instead inducted in the central ministry to promote a new OBC leadership. After this, several of her supporters in the Marathwada region sent in their resignations, which she rejected. “I do not believe in pressure politics,” she said. "I will keep on trying to avoid the 'dharma-yuddha' till the maximum extent possible....the day I feel 'Ram' is not here...will think...," she said amid thunderous applause. During her address, she thanked leaders like state BJP president Chandrakant Patil, leader of opposition in Council Pravin Darekar and Ashish Shelar. Later, when reporters asked whether Fadnavis was her leader, she said: “I work at the national level…hence Narendra Modi, Amit Shah and JP Nadda are my leaders.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/devendra-fadnavis-vs-pankaja-munde-war-comes-out-in-open-1008231.html
13-07-2021||West||Gujarat will study other states' laws on population control before taking any decision: Nitin Patel||The Gujarat government will first study the new laws being introduced by several states on population control and based on state's requirement decision will be taken at an appropriate time, Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel said on Tuesday in Gandhinagar. He said that Gujarat already implemented measures of population control in the local body elections and if needed the government will think of bringing the new laws. Patel said this during a press conference held on occasion of the inauguration of Maharashtra Samaj Bhawan in Gandhinagar. Responding to a question on Uttar Pradesh (UP) government's bill on population control, Patel said that Gujarat introduced two children norm in local body polls a few years back. The UP government has proposed to prohibit those with more than two kids from contesting local body polls, government jobs, or availing government benefits.   "The state government has already barred people from contesting local body polls like municipal elections, taluka panchayat or gram panchayat if they have more than two children. This shows that state government implemented the idea of family planning or population control several years back. To implement it further in other insitutions, we will study the new laws that several states are implementing," Patel said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-will-study-other-states-laws-on-population-control-before-taking-any-decision-nitin-patel-1008297.html
