14-07-2021||First Edit||Kawad Yatra: No lessons learned||Two major religious events that are likely to be held in the country in the coming days have the potential to become Covid-19 super spreaders. One is the Kawad Yatra, which is an annual pilgrimage of Shiva devotees who collect water from the Ganga at Haridwar and take it back to their home states. It is set to start on July 25, and UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has given permission to hold the yatra, as most pilgrims will be from his state. The second event is the Char Dham Yatra in Uttarakhand. The High Court has stayed the yatra till July 28, but the state government has appealed in the Supreme Court against the order. The High Court had noted that the holding of major religious gatherings would be “inviting a calamity’’. It is unfortunate that governments have not learnt any lessons from the experience of the pandemic in the last year, especially the lessons of the second wave. Kawad Yatra may see over 30 million pilgrims visit Hardwar over a fortnight and may pose a greater hazard than the Kumbh Mela, which saw over seven million pilgrims congregate over a month. There are also reports of tourists flocking to the hill state after the relaxation in Covid restrictions. Yogi Adityanath has told state officials to ensure the success of the yatra and the safety of the pilgrims and to strictly enforce Covid protocols. But no administration will be able to enforce the norms when millions of people congregate. The experience of the Kumbh Mela should have guided the governments in deciding on the Kawad Yatra and the Char Dham Yatra. Several religious events have only been held symbolically, like the rath yatra at Puri, or have been cancelled altogether, like the Amarnath Yatra in Kashmir. The two state governments should have decided against them without a second thought. Late on Tuesday, Uttarakhand finally decided to cancel Kawad Yatra, but UP, which was especially hit hard by the second wave of the pandemic, continues to hold out. The forthcoming Assembly elections in the state might have goaded the government to take such a wrong decision. The World Health Organisation has said that the increase in India’s Covid cases during the second wave had much to do with religious and political gatherings. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has expressed concern over the lax attitude of the people and the governments in following or enforcing Covid protocols. It has said that the third wave of the pandemic is imminent and that “tourist bonanza and religious pilgrimages’’ should wait. Governments have the responsibility to avert and control the pandemic. They should not hasten and aggravate its impact.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/kawad-yatra-no-lessons-learned-1008403.html
14-07-2021||First Edit||CBSE’s advance planning is welcome||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has done well to prepare an assessment scheme for Classes 10 and 12 for the 2021-22 academic year. Since the plan is known at the beginning of the academic session, students, teachers and school authorities will be able to prepare for the challenges in the session. Parents, who are also stakeholders, will also know what to look forward to. It is difficult to predict how the session will turn out to be, but it is certain that there will be challenges. One major problem for everyone last year was that decisions were put off till the end. As assessment scheme for Class 12 was drawn up very late, and that too after the matter figured in the Supreme Court. Much of the difficulties and stress gone through by students and others could have been avoided if the decisions had been taken earlier. The scheme provides a road map for the coming year. It seems to take into consideration the large variations across the country, like the differences in the type of school, the facilities available and the backgrounds of students. The scheme includes a combination of internal assessments for Classes 9-10 and 11-12 and term examinations in November-December and in March-April 2022. The academic session will be divided into two terms, with approximately 50% syllabus in each term. The syllabus for the board examination will be rationalised and divided into two halves on the basis of recommendations made by subject experts. The board will conduct exams at the end of each term on the basis of the bifurcated syllabus. This is done to increase the possibility of conducting board examinations at the end of the academic session. An important plus point of the scheme is that it takes into consideration various situations and scenarios that may emerge in the coming months, like the possibility of holding board examinations. There is also the possibility of not holding one term examination or both. The scheme is designed to cater to these various situations. It also gives many details, like how internal assessments are to be held, and what schools should do. It is very important to take into consideration issues faced by schools in different states and locations because the impact of the pandemic will likely be different in different places. Another key consideration should be the difficulties faced by students from less privileged backgrounds. Governments and other authorities and social organisations will have to address those problems more seriously and earnestly than last year. Now that the CBSE has come up with a scheme, other boards should also announce their plans to guide their students through the coming year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/cbse-s-advance-planning-is-welcome-1008712.html
14-07-2021||In Perspective||What the roadmap for a unified transport authority in Bengaluru should look like||Bengaluru is poised to get a Unified Metropolitan Transport Authority (BUMTA) lawfully established. The Centre has shown its intent through the National Urban Transport Policy (NUTP), 2014, to assign the responsibility to the states to manage and provide urban transport services that envision the establishment of quality-focused multi-modal and integrated public transport systems. Based on the model UMTA Bill, 2016, developed by the Centre, the legislative framework incorporated as a Chapter in the KTC (P&D) Bill, 2021, which is being proposed, can be a roadmap to set up UMTA for Bengaluru. The BUMTA having Bengaluru Metropolitan Mobility Area (BMMA) within Greater Bengaluru Metropolitan Area (GBMA) as its jurisdiction will consist of a governing council chaired by chief minister and comprising chief secretary, ministers for urban development, home, transport, and MPs and MLAs within BMMA, the mayor and elected members of the GBMPC. A Special Purpose Vehicle in the form of a public company on the lines of City Industrial Development Corporation Limited of Maharashtra, to be called Bengaluru Metropolitan Mobility Corporation Limited (BMMCL), can be incorporated. The BMMCL shall be declared as a Special Planning and Development Authority that can exercise all the statutory and enforcement powers of BBMP vested under the proposed NBG Bill and BDA under the proposed KTC (P&D) Bill, and KIADB, by amending the Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Act, 1966. This will empower BMMCL to take up integrated land and transport development projects and transit‑oriented development for the creation of traffic and transportation infrastructure and delivery of services including funding. BMMCL will be mandated to regulate the issue of licences or permits for public transport vehicles, price fixation for public transport services and generating internal sources of revenue. The state can amend municipal and panchayat and GST laws to mobilise revenue streams to UTF. Levy of surcharge on the transfer of property, urban transport cess, a surcharge on advertisement tax, process fee at a higher rate for TDR in the influence zones of BMMA will be pooled to UTF. Surcharge on petrol and diesel tax levied and collected in the entire BMMA shall be credited to UTF. The Comprehensive Mobility Plan (CMP) prepared by BUMTA presents a strategy for short, medium and long-term investments to improve accessibility and mobility. The document justifies and supports transport investment proposals of the BUMTA to the state and Central governments and multilateral funding agencies. The CMP articulates the strategies and related action plan for the provision of safe, clean and efficient urban transport and the enhancement of mobility of people and goods in the BMMA, covering all elements of urban transport through an integrated planning process. The CMP will have a plan horizon of 10 years and it stipulates a “transport investment programme” consolidating multi-year programmes phasing into yearly implementation schedule for various transport agencies in the BMMA, seeking sanction of projects and budgetary support from BUMTA. The CMP shall be an integral component of a spatial development and infrastructure investment plan in the metropolitan development plan prepared by GBMPC. The TOD regulations are a tool for managing the transformation of the city from private vehicle-dependent to public transport-oriented development by promoting the usage of public transport by making it more accessible and encouraging green mobility. The TOD regulations map route plan, lane reservation, alteration of geometrics of road layout, footpath area, medians, junction improvement, identifying locations for construction of flyovers or grade separators or elevated corridors for seamless signal-free travel in BMMA. The TOD regulations specify criteria for amalgamation of plots which are entitled to relaxed building control regulations in the influence zones around the metro stations.  The relaxed building control norms facilitate the grant of TDR for accommodation reservation three-four times the floor area ratio by allowing construction up to the edge of the plot without setback restrictions. The BMMCL will be the regulatory and sanctioning authority for building control norm relaxation while sanctioning the development plan and building construction plan in the urban mobility area. The BUMTA as a statutory body to be established through a comprehensive legislative framework conforming to the guidelines of NUTP and customised for the state is the need of the hour. It will be empowered to route budgetary allocations of state and Central governments for the development of traffic and transportation infrastructure to land and transport agencies in urban mobility area. The BUMTA will be the czar of all mobility in order to realise the vision of the NUTP to recognise that people occupy centre-stage in all policies on mobility matters in a metropolitan city. All its plans would be for the common benefit and well-being of citizens through smart governance to make Bengaluru liveable and environmentally friendly. (Writers are directors, Centre for Urban Governance Studies & Policy Research, a Bengaluru-based think tank)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/what-the-roadmap-for-a-unified-transport-authority-in-bengaluru-should-look-like-1008407.html
14-07-2021||In Perspective||Karnataka must divest from state PSUs||The Report of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India on State Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs) presented to the legislature in February 2021 tells you that Karnataka has 114 PSUs. Of these, 13 PSUs have not been working for the last 16 years, six are statutory corporations like the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation. The other 95 PSUs together register a turnover of over Rs 70,000 crore, predictably incurring a net aggregate loss of over Rs 2,300 crore as per their latest finalised accounts. Undoubtedly, the precarious condition of Karnataka’s finances requires a critical analysis of all PSU investments that do not contribute to the economic growth of the state. The March 2021 budget for Karnataka, already impacted by Covid-19, showed a revenue deficit of over Rs 15,000 crore, while the fiscal deficit, having exceeded the prescribed limit, is about Rs 60,000 crore. Further, devolution receipts from the state’s share in central taxes have decreased by 11 per cent, the state’s own tax revenue is 15 per cent lower than the budget estimate and the total revenue receipts have decreased 1 per cent. In this tough situation, why drain precious resources into loss-making and sick PSUs? Instead, the state should take a leaf out of the Centre’s strategic disinvestment policy. The Centre is pretty clear that the government has no business to be in business as it is difficult to take bold commercial decisions necessary to run enterprises. All underutilised and unutilised assets should be monetised, not used for fiscally supporting sick PSUs, thereby burdening the economy. The Centre has said it is committed to privatising all PSUs barring a bare minimum in the strategic sectors of banking, insurance, steel, fertilizer, petroleum and defence equipment, where it would retain a limited presence, thereby easing the burden on the taxpayer. Now, what is true at the central level should be true at the state level. The state government’s Department of Public Enterprises (DPE) has to transform the  portfolio of state PSUs, their customers and suppliers to unlock growth, drive industrialisation, create jobs and develop skills. Adopting the Centre’s logic of classifying sectors deemed strategic, Karnataka’s strategic sector PSUs would probably be in the power sector, social sector and other companies known as statutory corporations. Karnataka’s power sector PSUs covering generation, transmission and distribution of electricity in the state, unfortunately, incur a net aggregate loss of over Rs 1,800 crore, although some of the PSUs in this sector are profitable. Nevertheless, their privatisation should be tied to the National Electricity Policy. Karnataka’s power sector privatisation can wait for the national power sector disinvestment targets to crystallise before the state takes its own plunge in this area. Ninety-seven non-power sector PSUs and statutory corporations are likely prospects for disinvestment. Since eventually the state government would be exiting all non-strategic sectors, there is no particular order in which PSU disinvestment needs to be planned.  Non-functional PSUs like Mysore Lamp Works Limited and profit-making PSUs like Karnataka Soaps and Detergents Limited are all drifting alike amidst severe private-sector competition, making them prime candidates for immediate privatisation. Disinvestment would unlock state PSUs’ value, make them independent of government contracts, force them to seek out new markets, stop local politicians from interfering, prevent needless discounts and rogue sales, rationalise staffing and manpower, making the new organisations robust and confident and capable of standing on their own feet. The stakeholders in the process of disinvestment of state PSUs are evidently the organisation’s employees. From the security of the public sector work environment, they would find themselves in a new atmosphere of increased competition, demand for higher productivity and accountability, and would be loathe to let go of their privileges. A trade-off between protecting employees and the degree of freedom the private sector strategic partner should have in running the company must be worked out in mutual interest. The state government should take particular care to ensure that the strategic disinvestment partner does not indulge in asset-stripping. All PSUs have valuable assets in the shape of land, buildings, plant and machinery, which a strategic partner may dispose of, make money, and quit, making the sick industry even sicker. Serious partners keen to run the company and help it grow should be chosen with great care. When the central government, too, has demonstrated a keenness to disinvest, instead of pouring money into and running businesses and needlessly spending on administrative and maintenance costs of sick non-working PSUs, given the state’s precarious finances, the state should realise that it makes good sense to privatise its PSUs, too. The earlier it gets its act together the better for Karnataka’s taxpayers. (The writer is former Executive Director and Member, Board of Directors, BEML)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/karnataka-must-divest-from-state-psus-1008702.html
14-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Rise in Covid-19: Surveillance strengthened at border areas||In view of rising Covid-19 cases and Delta variant being spotted in the neighbouring Kasargod district, DCP (Law and Order) Hariram Shankar said that surveillance will be further strengthened at the border areas. Home Minister during a video conference has directed to step up measures at the border. In Mangaluru City Police Commissionerate jurisdiction, along with check post at Talapady, check posts have been set up at Nethilapadavu, Narya Cross, Nandarapadpu, Mudungarkatte, Taudugoli in Konaje and Ullal police station jurisdiction. Under the guidance of the SI of each police station under these check posts, four to five police personnel will work in shifts with officials from the health department to carry out screening round the clock. Railway police also helped set up at railway stations in Mangaluru. Those who travel daily to Mangaluru from Kerala (students and others for jobs), should undergo RT-PCR test once in 14 days which will be considered as a pass.  Unnecessary movement at the border areas will be checked. The bus service to Kerala from DK has not commenced yet. Once it does, surveillance will continue. A negative RT-PCR certificate not older than 72 hours or a vaccination certificate are mandatory for arriving in Karnataka, he added. “We will ensure that there will be no inconveniences met to the parents accompanying students from bordering district for SSLC examination centres in Mangaluru. The exams will be held on July 19 and 23.  The parents accompanying their wards arriving from Kerala to Mangaluru during the SSLC examinations will not face any kind of inconvenience at the check posts.  For the next 15 days, we will strictly monitor people coming to Karnataka.”  Shankar said, who along with DCP Dinesh Kumar visited the check post at Talapady, to review the arrangement on Tuesday. In Dakshina Kannada police jurisdiction, 10 inter-state check posts have been set up to strengthen surveillance at the border. The check posts are situated at Saradka, Salethur, Kanyana in Vittal police station jurisdiction, Menala, Swarga, Sullia Padavu in Puttur Rural station limits and Muroor, Mandekolu, Baddadka and Kannadithodu in Sullia station limits, said DK SP Rishikesh Sonawane. He said that in case of necessity, Rapid Antigen Tests and swabs will be collected for RT-PCR tests at the border. The Covid-19 positivity rate in Kasargod district is 13.2 per cent, which has raised concern in Dakshina Kannada. Accordingly, a review meeting chaired by District -in-Charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary on Monday had resolved not to start bus services from DK to Kerala for a week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rise-in-covid-19-surveillance-strengthened-at-border-areas-1008360.html
14-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||MP Sumalatha visits KRS dam for inspection||MP A Sumalatha, who is on a two-day tour of Mandya district, arrived at the Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam, Srirangapatna, on Wednesday.  She is on an inspection of the ongoing repair works and replacement of sluice gates at the dam.  Her visit to the dam gains importance following her recent statements where she allegedly pointed out cracks on the dam due to rampant mining in the region.  As a precautionary measure, police security has been beefed up at the dam.  Except the MP and officials, no one else will be allowed at the dam during the inspection, said sources.  She will also hold a meeting with the officials of Cauvery Neeravari Nigam on the safety of the dam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mp-sumalatha-visits-krs-dam-for-inspection-1008465.html
14-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Langur ‘participates’ in man’s final rites in Karnataka||A video of Hanuman langur participating in a senior citizen’s final rites has gone viral in Kampli. According to family members, Vishwanath Raju (70), a farmer in Sannapur village in Kampli taluk passed away on June 30 due to age-related ailments. While the family members were mourning his death, a langur arrived at the home and lifted the cloth that covered the body of Vishwanath. The langur placed its head on the body for a few minutes and left the place on its own. What perplexed the relatives further was that on the ninth day of the final rituals of Vishwanath, the same langur came to the banks of the Tungabadra river near Kampli and sat on the lap of the priest till the completion of rituals. It left after receiving ‘offerings’ from the ritual performer, without harming any. Speaking to DH, Vishwanath's relative Venkateshraju said Vishwanath was just a small-time farmer and had no connection with monkeys or langurs. “We are astonished when the monkey participated in the final rituals of my relative,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/langur-participates-in-man-s-final-rites-in-karnataka-1008706.html
14-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Undertrial escapes from GIMS||A 22-year-old undertrial has escaped from the jail ward of Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) on Wednesday morning. The escaped undertrial has been identified as Siddappa Allur, a resident of Allur (B) village of Chittapur taluk. He was jailed two months ago in connection with the murder of his friend. Siddappa was shifted to GIMS from the Central jail four days ago due to abnormal behavior. However, he escaped through a window of the ward at around 4 am on Wednesday. A complaint has been registered at Brahmapur police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/undertrial-escapes-from-gims-1008734.html
14-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Next Karnataka CM would be from Ediga community, predicts seer||Arya Ediga Community Seer Pranavananda Swamy predicted that the next chief minister of Karnataka would become from the community. Speaking to media persons on Wednesday, he said the state has seven legislators from the community, but only Kota Srinivas Pujary has been made minister. "Our community has the ability to get deputy chief minister post. People of the community are denied social and political justice," he added. He warned that the community would teach a lesson to political parties in zilla and taluk panchayat polls if injustice meted out to the community is not addressed. He also predicted that a leader from Ediga community would be the next chief minister and said that he would take part in oath taking ceremony. He added that Hindutva is not the monopoly of BJP and RSS but a lifestyle. He also urged the government to establish Arya Ediga development corporation for the welfare of people of the community. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/next-karnataka-cm-would-be-from-ediga-community-predicts-seer-1008672.html
14-07-2021||Main Article||Stan Swamy: Shaky hands of the system need medicine||Stan Swamy could not sign Vakalatnama because of his shaky hands due to Parkinson’s disease. On October 9, 2020, the court was kind enough to accept his thumb impression. On November 6, he asked for his sipper and straw that had been taken away from him by the police. The court asked the police, who said they had not taken his sipper. The court let the police claim lie, and Swamy had to file a special plea for a sipper. Swamy filed the plea. The National Investigation Agency asked for 20 days’ time to file a counter. Meanwhile, the jail authorities refused to take scores of sippers sent by his friends and well-wishers and give one to him. The court gave NIA 20 days to reply to a request for a sipper. It did not ask why NIA needed 20 days for it, but adjourned the hearing for 20 days. After 20 days, NIA opposed giving Swamy his sipper. The court did not ask why, it reserved judgement. It was only after a big campaign and a national outcry that Swamy was finally given a sipper on November 29, 50 days after he was deprived of it during his arrest! All he wanted was to be able to drink water.        As per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, Swamy had a right to assistive products, accessibility devices, a barrier-free environment, and reasonable accommodation, in tune with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which India has ratified. He was denied a walker or wheelchair, though he had fallen multiple times while in prison. Ten opposition political parties wrote to the President, urging his intervention to fix responsibility for the death of Stan Swamy. They said in the letter that “He was denied treatment for his various ailments, including debilitating Parkinson’s. Only after a nationwide campaign was conducted that even a sipper to drink liquids was made available to him in jail.” A complaint was filed with the Maharashtra Human Rights Commission on May 16 that Swamy, lodged in Taloja Central Jail, Navi Mumbai, was being denied medical facility amidst the pandemic, had not been given vaccination yet, that there was no proper medical care in the jail hospital, and that a majority of jail staff had tested Covid-positive, especially most of the kitchen staff, and a number of under-trial prisoners had also contracted the corona virus but no RT-PCR tests were conducted there. On July 1, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) sought an action taken report within four weeks from the superintendent of prisons on the denial of medical facilities to Swamy. And a day before his death, the NHRC had asked Maharashtra's Chief Secretary to ensure that every possible medical treatment is provided to Swamy "so as to protect his basic human rights." Father Swamy died on July 5. While the State treated Father Swamy thus, he felt that “humanity was bubbling in Taloja prison” as his fellow prisoners helped him carry on. From prison, Swamy wrote to his friends on November 4: “I am in a cell approximately 13 feet x 8 feet, along with two more inmates. It has a small bathroom and a toilet with Indian commode. Fortunately, I am given a western commode chair…Varavara Rao, Vernon Gonsalves and Arun Ferreira are in another cell. During the day, when cells and barracks are opened, we meet with each other. From 5.30 pm to 06.00 am and 12 noon to 03.00 pm, I am locked up in my cell, with two inmates…Arun assists me to have my breakfast and lunch. Vernon helps me with bath. My two inmates help out during supper, in washing my clothes, and give massage to my knee joints. They are from very poor families…Please remember my inmates and my colleagues in your prayers. Despite all odds, humanity is bubbling in Taloja prison.” His co-accused in the Bhima-Koregaon/Elgar Parishad case, Telugu Poet Varavara Rao, (aged 80) got bail for six months in February, on grounds of advanced age, multiple ailments and risk of Covid-19. Swamy was 84 and had several disabilities and diseases but was not given bail. The UAPA is a draconian law that prohibits bail, but the Supreme Court added more power to it. The Delhi High Court had said that bail could be given if no prima facie case could be made out. In the Zahoor Ahmed Shah Watali case in 2018, it had held that trial courts must not act “merely as a post-office of the investigating agency” but should “scrutinise the material with extra care” in determining whether a prima facie case exists. The Supreme Court overruled it and said courts could neither give bail nor examine if there’s a prima facie case. Courts have to presume that allegations in the FIR are true. The system does not allow consideration of evidence at bail hearing stage; the court is mandated by law to presume that allegations in the FIR are correct, and the law imposes the burden of producing material to counter the FIR on the accused. And all this is called ‘due process.’ What is the medicine for the shaky hands of the system! (The writer is Dean & Professor, School of Law, Mahindra University, Hyderabad, and a former Central Information Commissioner)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/stan-swamy-shaky-hands-of-the-system-need-medicine-1008404.html
14-07-2021||Main Article||Frozen numbers, fluid faiths||The US-based Pew Research Centre’s recent report, titled Religion in India: Tolerance and Segregation, which is being touted as the most comprehensive and in-depth exploration to date on the attitudes of Indians to questions of religion and society in India, has expectedly generated a rich debate. A variety of inferences are being drawn, depending upon one’s location, political ideology and methodological sensibilities. My concerns and apprehensions are rather discursive, historically rooted, and informed by the overall South Asian experiences on religious diversity. The moment is reminiscent of the horrors of numbers that the entire colonial project of census unleashed on the people of the subcontinent, especially as related to their religious identities, in the second half of the 19th century. At the centre of the controversy then had been the set of questions offered to the respondents while being made to almost blind pick their religious identity out of a box containing numbered choices. A large number of faith groups and their experiences were simply and summarily pigeonholed into the boxes that were readymade for them, thereby virtually putting the entire history of those communities under erasure. Those questions, in terms of both formulations and articulations, were ill-conceived then; they remain shabbily conceptualised even now. They do not just end up consolidating boundaries, they belittle human experiences and histories by reducing them to lifeless numbers. The critical concern in casting various religious traditions in the subcontinent is the very constitutive logic of the group formation, which is cultural, local and bound by micro-histories of the region. The census, surveys and similar number-crunching exercises are grossly ill-equipped in dealing with these multi-layered spaces and suffer from “world-religions”-syndrome, an obsession towards macro-formations and monoliths, which is predatory, obnoxiously hierarchical and patronising. The two things that make any such exercise dealing in/with numbers most uncomfortable, and nervous, are: Fluidity and liminality. India’s, and indeed the subcontinent’s, religious landscape offers these two in abundance. Let me share a few anecdotes from my research in Punjab. A few years ago, I was in Banaras (Varanasi) to attend Guru Ravidas Jayanti, the birth anniversary of Guru Ravidas, the medieval Bhakti poet and Sant, who was born in Banaras. A group of the Sant’s followers, under the umbrella of a Dera in Jalandhar, Punjab, had been trying to develop his birthplace as a mega pilgrimage centre. The anniversary has, over the years, become a major pilgrimage event in the city’s calendar. However, despite its remarkable success so far, the movement could not create a homogenised, all-inclusive, pan-Indian sense of a Ravidassia community. The local Ravidassia groups from Uttar Pradesh, while taking pride in the way their Punjabi counterparts, largely NRIs, have metamorphosed this place, carry a religious sensibility that is quite in contrast to the former. After the day-long wandering and soaking in the festivity around the Janamasthan, while returning in the evening, I took a rickshaw to my guesthouse in BHU. Throughout the journey, the rickshaw-puller talked about his Ravidassia identity and how proud he felt after the temple was made. But just as we were about to reach the guesthouse, he yawned, probably out of exhaustion, with a loud intonation of “Jaane Baba Mahadev”, that is, “Only Lord Mahadev would know”, a routine cultural utterance in the city. This was, however, clearly not in line with the Dera’s effort towards autonomy and for the creation of a monolithic community of Ravidassias with a separate religious identity. Punjab’s dominant nirguni-nirakaar sacred canopy, for example, informs Ravidassia Dera’s worldview, which stands quite in contrast to the Banarasi Ravidassias’ largely saguni outlook and natural cultural propensity towards Hinduism. In a majorly Sikh village in Punjab, known for the ponds of the Pandavas from the Mahabharata period, people from all religions almost boastfully take pride in the village’s ancientness and its connection with the Hindu epic period. The same village has a co-religious shrine called Baba Nagarkheda, on whose annual day of commemoration, people of all faiths congregate and organise Langar, while the shop near the shrine sells calendars of Machhli bale Baba or Jhule Lal, Goga Pir baba, Baba Baalak Nath and Baba Farid. Religions of the subcontinent culturally overlap and are locally rooted within the broad and deep substratum of syncretism. Their emotional ties go deep in the shared ancient past and defy any time frame. The presence of Jhule Lal as Machhli bale baba, for example, predominantly part of a Sindhi pantheon, remains alive in this village due to Punjab’s Sindh connection in a not-so-distant past. In people’s memory, Jhule Lal and its legends survived the vagaries of time, distance and politics of the subcontinent. Those who are genuinely interested in understanding India’s religious landscape and people beyond their official tags should travel, wander, live with the people and their experiences. The way, for instance, Guru Nanak did in his famous Udassiyan or long travels across the length and breadth of the subcontinent with his Saagirds, Bhai Mardana and Bhai Bala. In the subcontinent, religions are cultural and emotional. And emotions cannot be frozen in numbers. The same village in Punjab with the ponds of the Pandavas has a temple called Baba Farid-Sheetala Mata Mandir, which is maintained and worshipped by the Valmikis, one of the Dalit castes, of the village. How does one make sense of it? To understand this terrain, one needs an empathetic reading of history and patient following of the genealogies of life experiences of communities. For that is where the divinity of the subcontinent is most likely to be found— at the cusp, in the liminal zones— beyond the facile certainty of mundane numbers and their boundedness. Pew Research’s findings are understandably strewn with contradictions and puzzled messages. It invests rather too much in amplified morphological differences among the religious groups via their ordinarily expressed respective in-group insecurities and inflated egos. Before the Pew researchers revealed to the world recently that the Ganga is considered holy and purifying by even people of other faiths, there lived, not so long ago, a famous Shehanai player in the city of Banaras by the name of Ustaad Bismillah Khan. Ustaad’s day, the old city residents would know, always began with a bath in the Ganga at Assi ghat, followed by prayer— without fail every day till he breathed his last. During one of his overseas visits, it is said, the Ustaad was offered by his wealthy hosts an invitation to settle there permanently. Ustaad paused, smiled and then said, to the utter bewilderment of his hosts: Can you bring my Mother Ganga here? Ustaad died in penury, but never left the city of Baba Vishwanath, another name for Mahadev (that he often invoked so lovingly in his everyday conversations) for greener pastures. Number-centric surveys are good for selling washing machines and mapping consumer behaviour, perhaps. Let legends, stories and travelogues map the religious landscape.  (The writer is a Chandigarh-based sociologist and commentator)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/frozen-numbers-fluid-faiths-1008701.html
14-07-2021||Mysuru||Synthetic drug cases a key challenge for Police: Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai||Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that rising synthetic drugs cases is a major challenge for the state police. While speaking to reporters in Mysuru on Wednesday, Bommai said, drug cases are rampant in the state, and a majority of the accused in the cases are foreigners. "Last year, the police arrested 15-20 foreigners in connection with synthetic drug dealing," he informed. Bommai also said that the crime rate in Mysuru is increasing after the easing of the Covid-19 lockdown. The cases of chain snatching were few in the city, but now chain snatchers are active in rural Mysuru, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/synthetic-drug-cases-a-key-challenge-for-police-home-minister-basavaraj-bommai-1008464.html
14-07-2021||National||Urdu one of the most beautiful languages spoken around the world: V-P Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesday described Urdu as one of the most beautiful languages spoken around the world and urged people to speak in their mother tongue. Addressing an event in Hyderabad after receiving the book 'Urdu Poets and Writers -- Gems of Deccan', Naidu referred to the richness of the Urdu language, saying, "Urdu is one of the most beautiful languages spoken around the world". He also received books on former prime minister P V Narasimha Rao, which were brought out by the Telangana government. Touching upon the importance of mother tongue, Naidu urged people to always speak in their native languages, an official statement said. He observed that Hyderabad in particular and Deccan as a whole have been ancient centres of Urdu. 'Gems of Deccan' is an anthology of prose and poetry that encapsulates the life and works of 51 outstanding poets and writers of the region. The book traces the rich literary and cultural traditions of Deccan, right from the time of Muhammad Quli Qutb Shah, the founder of Hyderabad, to the present times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/urdu-one-of-the-most-beautiful-languages-spoken-around-the-world-v-p-naidu-1008347.html
14-07-2021||National||IAF likely to operationalise second squadron of Rafale aircraft by July-end||The Indian Air Force (IAF) is likely to operationalise its second squadron of the Rafale combat aircraft by the end of July and it will be based in Hasimara air base in West Bengal, officials said on Tuesday. The first squadron of the Rafale jets is stationed at Ambala Air Force station in Haryana. The first batch of five Rafale jets arrived in India on July 29, 2020, nearly four years after India signed an inter-governmental agreement with France to procure 36 of the aircraft at a cost of around Rs 59,000 crore. Currently, the IAF has around 25 Rafale jets and the remaining ordered aircraft are expected to be delivered by 2022. The first squadron will look after Pakistan border on western frontier and the northern frontier. The second squadron will look after the eastern frontier of India, the officials mentioned. The formal induction ceremony of the Rafale fleet had taken place at Ambala on September 10 last year. Later on, other batches of the fighter jet also arrived in India.  The IAF officials said the second Rafale squadron would be operationalised at the next main operating base at Hasimara by July-end. A squadron comprises around 18 aircraft. The Rafale jets are India's first major acquisition of fighter planes in 23 years after the Sukhoi jets were imported from Russia. The Rafale jets are capable of carrying a range of potent weapons. European missile maker MBDA's Meteor beyond visual range air-to-air missile, Scalp cruise missile and MICA weapons system will be the mainstay of the weapons package of the Rafale jets. The IAF is also procuring a new generation medium-range modular air-to-ground weapon system Hammer to integrate with the Rafale jets. Hammer (Highly Agile Modular Munition Extended Range) is a precision-guided missile developed by French defence major Safran. The missile was originally designed and manufactured for the French Air Force and Navy. Meteor is the next generation of BVR air-to-air missile designed to revolutionise air-to-air combat. The weapon has been developed by MBDA to combat common threats facing the UK, Germany, Italy, France, Spain and Sweden.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iaf-likely-to-operationalise-second-squadron-of-rafale-aircraft-by-july-end-1008348.html
14-07-2021||National||DH Toon | High inflation keeps common man on the ropes||India’s retail inflation eased only marginally in June but stayed above the Reserve Bank of India’s upper tolerance band of 6 per cent for the second month in a row, making it difficult for the central bank to remain growth-focused to aid the Covid-stricken economy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-high-inflation-keeps-common-man-on-the-ropes-1008366.html
14-07-2021||National||Unable to send Covid vaccines as India needs time to review its legal provisions: US||The United States on Tuesday said that it is ready to ship its Covid-19 vaccines expeditiously when it has the green light from the Indian government which has told the Americans that it needs further time to review legal provisions related to accepting vaccine donations. "We are ready to ship those vaccines expeditiously when we have a green light from the Government of India,” State Department Spokesperson Ned Price told reporters at his daily news conference. The Biden Administration has announced to share 80 million doses from its domestic stockpile with countries around the world, including India. In recent week, the US vaccines have landed in countries across the world, including Pakistan, Nepal, Bhutan and Bangladesh. However, the vaccines to India could not be sent because the Indian government is yet to clear the necessary legal hurdles for such an emergency import. "Before we can ship those doses, however, each country must complete its own domestic set of operational, of regulatory, and legal processes that are specific to each country. Now, India has determined that it needs further time to review legal provisions related to accepting vaccine donations," Price said. "Once India works through its legal processes, our donations of vaccines to India will proceed expeditiously. We would need to refer you to the Government of India on the status of its discussions with COVAX, which, in this case, is helping to facilitate that delivery,” he said. "More broadly in the region, throughout South Asia, we're donating millions of vaccines to Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Nepal, the Maldives, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. Roughly 40 million doses have been delivered worldwide so far,” he added. Responding to another question, Price said that the Covid-19 cooperation between the two countries is built on decades of successful partnership in health and biomedical research. "We are partnering to strengthen the global response to Covid-19 on issues ranging from addressing infectious disease outbreaks to strengthening health systems to securing global supply chains,” he said. "We recently welcomed an initiative to collaborate through the International Center of Excellence in Research focused on infectious diseases, and in this case that includes Covid-19 and other emerging threats. We look forward to an overarching MOU, a memorandum of understanding, to enhance health cooperation beyond that,” he added. The two countries are further working on diagnostics, therapeutics, vaccines to combat the disease and to recognise the importance of manufacturing critical drugs during this time and to making them accessible globally. "We are able to do that because India's pharmaceutical sector is strong, it's well-established, it has played a central role in manufacturing vaccines for global use over some time. We are pleased that US pharmaceutical companies in turn are coordinating with their Indian counterparts since the beginning of the pandemic,” Price said. "As you know, beyond this partnership, in the context of the Quad leaders' summit, there was an agreement to work with India to boost manufacturing of Covid vaccines that would support a safe and effective and eventually universal distribution of vaccines around the world," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unable-to-send-covid-vaccines-as-india-needs-time-to-review-its-legal-provisions-us-1008372.html
14-07-2021||National||India reports 38,792 new Covid-19 cases, 624 deaths||India recorded 38,792 new coronavirus cases, taking the infection tally to 3,09,46,074, while the death toll reached 4,11,408 with 624 more fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Wednesday. The active cases have declined to 4,29,946 and comprise 1.39 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate stands at 97.28 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A decrease of 2,832 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 19,15,501 tests were conducted on Tuesday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 43,59,73,639, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.10 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for 23 consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate stands at 2.25 per cent, according to the Health Ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,01,04,720, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.33 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 38.76 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 624 new fatalities include 196 deaths from Maharashtra and 124 from Kerala. A total of 4,11,408 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,26,220 from Maharashtra, 35,944 from Karnataka, 33,502 from Tamil Nadu, 25,020 from Delhi, 22,704 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,944 from West Bengal and 16,199 from Punjab. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-38792-new-covid-19-cases-624-deaths-1008395.html
14-07-2021||National||BSF personnel open fire at flying object spotted near border in Jammu||Border Security Force (BSF) personnel opened fire at a flying object after they spotted it near the International Border (IB) in the Arnia sector of Jammu and Kashmir, a senior official said on Wednesday. On the intervening night of July 13 and 14, a blinking red light was observed by the troops in the Arnia sector at a height of 200 metres on its own side, the official said in a statement. "The troops fired from their position towards the red blinking light due to which it returned. The area is being searched. Nothing has been found so far,” he added. On July 2, a quadcopter from Pakistan tried to enter Indian territory along the international border from Arnia sector but retreated after it was fired at by the personnel of the BSF. In what was the first instance of Pakistan-based terrorists deploying drones to strike vital installations, two bombs were dropped at the IAF station in Jammu city in the early hours of June 27, causing minor injuries to two personnel. Authorities in various districts, mostly in border districts in Jammu and Kashmir, have banned the storage, sale or possession of drones and other unmanned aerial vehicles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bsf-personnel-open-fire-at-flying-object-spotted-near-border-in-jammu-1008402.html
14-07-2021||National||Where are the vaccines?: Rahul Gandhi slams centre||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday attacked the Centre over the alleged vaccine shortage in states, saying there are 'jumlas (rhetoric)' but no vaccines. He tagged a media report which claimed that Delhi along with many other states was facing a shortage of vaccines but the Centre had denied it. "Jumle hain, vaccine nahin (There is rhetoric, no vaccines)," Gandhi tweeted using the hashtag 'WhereAreVaccines'. Congress leader P Chidambaram on Tuesday had hit out at the government's Covid-19 inoculation programme, terming its promise of vaccinating all adults by December end as an "empty boast" and a "false promise". The Congress has been criticising the government over its vaccination programme alleging that it is slow. The Health Ministry on Tuesday had said more than 1.91 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states, union territories and private hospitals to be administered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/where-are-the-vaccines-rahul-gandhi-slams-centre-1008412.html
14-07-2021||National||AAP will provide free electricity in Goa if voted to power: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said each family in Goa will get up to 300 units electricity free per month if his Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is voted to power in the state Assembly elections. Elections to the 40-member Goa Legislative Assembly are scheduled for February next year. “Every family will get up to 300 units per month free electricity,” Kejriwal told reporters. “If people in Delhi can get free electricity, then why not free power for people in Goa,” he said. Despite Goa being a power-surplus state, there are frequent power cuts in the coastal state, he added.   Kejriwal slammed MLAs who left Congress and other parties to join the BJP after the last Assembly elections in Goa. Going by the numbers, those who should have been in opposition are now ruling the state and those who should have been in power are now in the opposition, he added. “These MLAs who switched sides claimed that they were joining the BJP to get people’s work done. Did they do people's work as they claimed? Now people are saying that they switched sides for lure of money. People feel betrayed,” he said. Thousands of Goans are claiming they will not vote for either BJP or Congress in the next elections, Kejriwal said. “Goa wants change. People want clean politics,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aap-will-provide-free-electricity-in-goa-if-voted-to-power-kejriwal-1008438.html
14-07-2021||National||Inferences drawn from comparison of HMIS, CRS data on Covid deaths fallacious: Govt||The Union Health Ministry on Wednesday dismissed as "conjectures" and "speculation" some media reports that claimed higher Covid-19 fatality figures based on data from the National Health Mission's Health Management Information System (HMIS). There have been some speculative media reports claiming higher fatality figures due to Covid-19 based on data from HMIS, the ministry said. "'The report compares data from the Civil Registration System (CRS) and HMIS to draw erroneous inferences. Such reports are conjectures and speculation without any substantial basis," the ministry said. Citing the death numbers reported in the HMIS, the ministry in a statement noted that the media report goes on to say that, “In the absence of other information, these deaths should all be considered as Covid-19 deaths”.  As per the media report itself "over 2,50,000 deaths were from causes not known," it said. Attributing any death to Covid-19 without any basis than based on empirical data is fallacious and such inferences are mere figments of imagination, the statement said.  The Centre, it noted, has been transparent in its approach to Covid data management and a robust system of recording all Covid-19 related deaths already exists.  All states and union territories have been entrusted with the responsibility to update the data in this particular system on a continuous basis.   In order to avoid inconsistency in number of deaths being reported, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has issued 'Guidance for appropriate recording of Covid-19 related deaths in India' for correct recording of all deaths as per ICD-10 codes recommended by the World Health Organisation (WHO) for mortality coding, the statement said.  States and UTs have been urged through various formal communications, multiple video conferences and through deployment of Central teams for correct recording of deaths in accordance with the prescribed guidelines. The ministry has also regularly emphasised a robust reporting mechanisms for monitoring district-wise cases and deaths on a daily basis.  There shall always be differences in mortality recorded during a profound and prolonged public health crisis such as Covid pandemic and well-conducted research studies on mortalities are usually done after the event when data on mortalities is available from reliable sources, the statement said. The methodologies for such studies are well established, the data sources are defined as also the valid assumptions for computing mortality, it stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/inferences-drawn-from-comparison-of-hmis-crs-data-on-covid-deaths-fallacious-govt-1008440.html
14-07-2021||National||Indian Army denies report of a fresh clash with PLA troops in Eastern Ladakh||Indian Army on Wednesday denied reports of any fresh clash with the Chinese People's Liberation Army, observing that Indian troops continued with their regular patrolling in eastern Ladakh without any confrontation with the PLA soldiers. “Ever since the disengagement agreement in February this year, there has been no attempt by either side to occupy the areas from where the disengagement had been undertaken. There have been no clashes in Galwan or any other area,” an Army official said in a statement, trashing a report that claimed occurrence of such clashes and renewed troop building by China. According to the report, the fresh confrontation happened at the Galwan river – close to the site of last year's clash near patrol point 14 – where the PLA troops set up a tent. The report also claimed increased Chinese troop presence in eastern Ladakh with the aim of occupying the positions they had vacated last year. Rebutting the report, the official said both sides continued with negotiations to resolve the balance issues and regular patrolling in respective areas continued. The situation on the ground continues to be as it was before. “PLA activities, including turnover of troops, continue to be monitored by the Indian Army,” he said. India and China have been locked in a military standoff at multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh since early May last year. The two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in February following a series of military and diplomatic talks. They are now in a dialogue to find out how the disengagement process would happen in the remaining friction points. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-army-denies-report-of-a-fresh-clash-with-pla-troops-in-eastern-ladakh-1008442.html
14-07-2021||National||SC to consider fresh plea against validity of sedition provision||The Supreme Court on Wednesday decided to examine a fresh plea by Mysuru-based Major General S G Vombatkere questioning the constitutional validity of Section 124A (sedition) of IPC with a maximum penalty of life imprisonment. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy asked petitioner's counsel P B Suresh to serve a copy of the petition to the Attorney General. The court agreed to consider the matter on Thursday, July 15. A separate bench had already issued notice on a similar plea. On July 12, the top court gave two more weeks to the Centre and the Attorney General to file a reply to the plea, questioning the validity of penal provision of sedition for infringing upon the citizens' right to free speech. This was a joint petition filed by journalists Kishorechandra Wangkhemcha and Kanhaiya Lal Shukla. The top court had in the Kedar Nath Singh case (1962) had clarified that only those acts, which involved incitement to violence or violence, constituted a seditious act under Section 124-A of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-consider-fresh-plea-against-validity-of-sedition-provision-1008457.html
14-07-2021||National||Hizbul chief’s sons received terror funds from abroad, NIA probe reveals||Two sons of Pakistan-based Hizbul Mujahideen chief Syed Salahuddin, who were recently terminated from the services by the Jammu and Kashmir government, were receiving funds from Saudi Arabia and UK for funding terror activities in the union territory, investigations have revealed. Shakeel Yousuf Shah, who was working as a lab assistant at tertiary-care SKIMS hospital in Srinagar and Shahid Yousuf Shah, extension agriculture officer in Sher-i-Kashmir University of Agriculture Sciences and Technology (SKUAST), both sons of Mohammad Yousuf Shah aka Salahuddin, were arrested in 2017 and 2020 respectively by National Investigation Agency (NIA) in terror funding cases. Sources said the NIA has tracked terror funding trails and found both of them involved in raising, receiving, collecting, and transferring funds through hawala transactions for terror activities of Hizbul Mujahideen. “They had met hawala operators in Saudi Arabia and London for funding terror activities in India over the years. They were in direct contact with Nazir Ahmed Qureshi, who originally hails from Baramulla district of north Kashmir but was running a hawala syndicate from Saudi Arabia and London to finance terror activities in India,” sources quoting NIA investigations, revealed. Salahuddin also heads the United Jihad Council, a conglomerate of 13 militant outfits, operating from Pakistan-Occupied-Kashmir (POK). He was named as a Specially Designated Global Terrorist by the US Department Of State and is on the most wanted terrorist list of the NIA. Official sources said that over the years “favourable regimes” in J&K buried all evidence on file and facts were suppressed to shield Salahuddin’s sons. “Shahid had also received funds from Aijaz Ahmad Bhat alias Aijaz Maqbool Bhat, a close aide of Salahuddin. Aijaz used various addresses from Saudi Arabia to transfer these funds to Shahid through Western Union Money Transfer,” they said and added the siblings were using multiple identities to receive funds from multiple addresses in Saudi Arabia. Investigations have revealed that Shakeel, a backdoor appointee, was found to have facilitated terror funding on at least six occasions while Shahid, again backdoor appointee in the Agriculture department, was found to have been involved in terror funding on nine occasions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hizbul-chief-s-sons-received-terror-funds-from-abroad-nia-probe-reveals-1008458.html
14-07-2021||National||Modi govt weakening country: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday accused the government of weakening the country and said India has never been so vulnerable. He cited a media report that claimed that the Chinese military has again crossed the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh at several places and that there has been at least one incident of clash between the two sides. However, the Indian Army said on Wednesday that there has been no attempt by the Indian or the Chinese side to occupy the areas in eastern Ladakh from where they disengaged in February and both sides are engaged in talks to resolve the remaining issues in the region. In a tweet, Gandhi said, "Government of India's (GOI's) use of foreign and defence policy as a domestic political tool has weakened our country". "India has never been this vulnerable," he claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-govt-weakening-country-rahul-gandhi-1008459.html
14-07-2021||National||Make officers personally responsible for violation of Covid-19 norms: Centre tells states||Alarmed at the blatant violation of Covid-19 protocols, the Home Ministry on Wednesday asked states and UTs to strictly enforce social distancing norms and make district officers personally responsible for implementing the same. In a missive to state governments and UT administrators, Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla cautioned against any laxity in implementation of Covid-19 norms, particularly at a time when test positivity rate was on the decline. “Instead, during periods of low positivity, efforts must be stepped up to prevent any probable future surge,” the Home Secretary said. “It is emphasised that the second wave of Covid is not yet over,” Bhalla said, adding that blatant violations of Covid norms have been observed in several parts of the country, especially in public transport and at hill stations. He asked state governments and UT administrators to issue strict directions to the district and all other local authorities concerned to regulate the crowded places and take necessary measures for management of Covid-19. “The officers concerned should be made personally responsible for any laxity in strict enforcement of Covid appropriate behaviour,” the Home Secretary said in the letter to the states and UTs. Any establishment, premises, markets and other such places where Covid-appropriate behaviour is not being maintained is liable for the re-imposition of restrictions and the defaulters may face action under the relevant laws, he said. Bhalla also said Covid testing needs to be continued with the same vigor as it was extremely essential for an early identification of cases and checking the virus spread. “There should be continuous focus on the five-fold strategy for effective management of Covid-19, that is, test-track-treat-vaccinate and adhere to Covid-appropriate behavior,” he said. Bhalla cautioned against the increase in ‘R’ factor, which is an indicator of the spread of coronavirus. “You may be aware that any increase in 'R' factor above 1.0 is an indicator of spread of Covid-19,” he said, adding that the increase in ‘R’ factor in some states was a matter of concern.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/make-officers-personally-responsible-for-violation-of-covid-19-norms-centre-tells-states-1008468.html
14-07-2021||National||Delhi HC directs CBSE to decide within eight weeks if it will refund exam fees for classes 10, 12||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday directed CBSE to decide within eight weeks if it would refund the examination fees taken for class 10 and class 12 board examinations as they have been cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Justice Prateek Jalan ordered CBSE to consider as representation a petition by Deepa Joseph, mother of a Class 10 student studying in a CBSE affiliated school here, who had paid Rs 2,100 as examination fee. CBSE's decision would be open to challenge if Joseph is not satisfied, the court clarified as it disposed of the petition. There has to be reasonableness on both sides, the judge added. Justice Jalan also recorded that the parties had no objection to him hearing the petition even though he would be beneficiary of the petition on account of his son being in Class 12. Advocate Robin Raju, for Joseph, contended that since the board examination have been cancelled, at least some part of the examination fees ought to be refunded to the students. Claiming that the expenditure incurred by CBSE to conduct board examination, as well as its role in the process, had been reduced, Raju said that “schools were uploading the marks”. The court, however, disagreed with Raju and remarked: “If CBSE is not doing anything, you take the marks-sheet from schools and go”. Advocate Rupesh Kumar submitted that CBSE was a self-financing body and its expenditure was principally funded by the examination fees collected from students appearing in class 10 and class 12 board examination. He added that there was no direct correlation between the physical conduct of board examinations and fees charges from students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-directs-cbse-to-decide-within-eight-weeks-if-it-will-refund-exam-fees-for-classes-10-12-1008477.html
14-07-2021||National||Covid-19: Court denies bail to murder case accused saying they are safe in jail than outside||Observing that the accused lodged in jails are in a "secure situation" compared to the daily working people in society who are exposed to the "outside social atmosphere", a court here had rejected the interim bail plea of Chintan Upadhaya, arrested in connection with the murder of his artist wife and her lawyer in 2015, and another accused who had sought the relief citing the Covid-19 pandemic. A detailed order of the court was made available on Tuesday. Chintan Upadhaya and Pradeep Rajbhar had sought temporary bail citing a surge in Covid-19 cases, coronavirus variants and the pandemic. Hema Upadhyay, a Mumbai-based artist, and her lawyer Haresh Bhambhani were killed on December 11, 2015, and their bodies disposed of in suburban Kandivali. Denying them relief, additional sessions judge D D Khoche said jail authorities are taking care of inmates "at their level best and therefore the pandemic could not effectively spread in the prison". "Rather, as compared with the daily-working people in the society who are usually exposed to the outside social atmosphere, applicants/accused can be observed as comparatively in a secure situation in the jail," the judge noted. He further observed that the second wave of the pandemic is now under control. "Though this court may understand the feelings of the accused, even pains that they are kept in jail under this fearful situation of Covid-19, in view of the proceeding of the trial and for want of the recommendation to release the accused in a murder case on interim bail. (But) the court cannot consider their situation, because it is the case beyond its limitation," the court added. The court on Tuesday directed the prosecution to produce witnesses to testify before the court from the next hearing which is scheduled on July 27. However, the trial couldn't progress due to the pandemic. Chintan Upadhyay was arrested on December 22, 2015, for the murders and is currently in judicial custody. The other arrested accused are Shiv Kumar Rajbhar, Pradip Kumar Rajbhar, Vijay Kumar Rajbhar and Azad Rajbhar. Another accused Vidhyadhar continues to be absconding.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-court-denies-bail-to-murder-case-accused-saying-they-are-safe-in-jail-than-outside-1008482.html
14-07-2021||National||SC strikes down tribunal reforms ordinance provisions fixing four-year term for members||The Supreme Court on Wednesday struck down the provisions in the Tribunal Reforms Ordinance 2021, which fixed four-year term for members of various tribunals. A three-judge bench of Justices L Nageswarao Rao, Hemant Gupta and Ravindra Bhat by a majority view of 2:1 passed the judgement on a petition filed by the Madras Bar Association. The plea challenged the validity of Sections 12 and 13 of the ordinance by which Sections 184 and 186(2) of the Finance Act, 2017 was amended. The court said the Ordinance’s provisions would not apply to appointments made before its notification. The Tribunals Reforms (Rationalisation and Conditions of Service) Ordinance, 2021, issued by the Ministry of Law and Justice, was notified on April 4.  The majority judgment by Justices Rao and Bhat held that the fixing of the term violated the express direction given in an earlier judgment that the tenure of tribunal members should be five years. Accordingly, the bench set aside those provisions. However, Justice Gupta delivered a dissenting judgment and dismissed the petition. Sections 184 and 186 of the Finance Act 2017 gave the Centre power to make rules in connection with the mode of appointment, terms of service, allowances of members etc, of various tribunals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-strikes-down-tribunal-reforms-ordinance-provisions-fixing-four-year-term-for-members-1008496.html
14-07-2021||National||Nandigram Assembly polls plea: Next hearing on August 12, Calcutta HC asks to preserve records||The Calcutta High Court on Wednesday admitted West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s petition challenging the election of BJP MLA and Leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari from Nandigram. The High Court directed that notice be served to Adhikari and other parties. Justice Shampa Sarkar said that the case will be heard on August 12. She said that as per a report submitted to her by the High Court administration the election petition was filed in accordance with the Representation of the People Act. Justice Sarkar directed the Election Commission to preserve all documents and reports related to the election in Nandigram. The case was assigned to the bench of Justice Sarkar after Justice Kaushik Chanda rescued himself from hearing it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nandigram-assembly-polls-plea-next-hearing-on-august-12-calcutta-hc-asks-to-preserve-records-1008497.html
14-07-2021||National||Operation Sankalp: Sixteen Indian-flagged vessels provided safe passage everyday||The Indian Navy's Operation Sankalp has provided safe passage to an average 16 Indian-flagged merchant vessels in the Gulf region everyday, an official statement said on Wednesday. Operation Sankalp was started in June 2019 after there were explosions on board two oil tanker ships in the Gulf of Oman amid increased tensions between Iran and the US. "Since then, an Indian Navy ship with an integral helicopter embarked has been continuously deployed in the north-west Arabian Sea (off R'as al Hadd), Gulf of Oman and Persian Gulf from June 2019, to show presence, instil confidence in Indian maritime community and provide assistance to Indian-flagged merchant vessels," the statement said. Twenty-three warships have been deployed till date for this operation and on an average 16 Indian-flagged merchant vessels are being provided safe passage each day in the Gulf region, the Indian Navy said.  "During this operation, Indian Navy Armed Security Teams (IN-AST) are being embarked onboard Indian-flagged merchant vessels transiting the area, based on their request," it noted. India is dependent for about 85 per cent of its demand for oil on imports. In 2019-2020, around 62 per cent of India's oil imports valued at approximately $66 billion came from the Gulf region, the Navy said. "For the same year, India's exports and imports from the region stood at around $51 billion and $108.2 billion, respectively. These constitute 8.1 per cent and 11.4 per cent of India's total exports and imports, respectively," it noted. Despite diversification of sources for import of oil, Gulf countries are likely to continue as major suppliers of oil for India, it said.  "Due to the prevailing security situation in Persian Gulf, it is required to provide security to Indian-flagged merchant vessels  transiting through the region by showing presence, escorting or providing close support to vessels as required," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/operation-sankalp-sixteen-indian-flagged-vessels-provided-safe-passage-everyday-1008499.html
14-07-2021||National||Hunger crisis forces even India's middle-class to line up for rations||By Archana Chaudhary Chanchal Devi’s three children haven’t tasted milk for almost a year. The staple was among items the 35-year-old and her husband could no longer afford after they both first lost work when India’s capital New Delhi went into lockdown in March last year. Their distress deepened after this April due to a surge in Covid-19 infections. They’re now borrowing money to buy food and must watch their school-aged kids eat less, often going to bed on empty stomachs. “I can’t sleep at nights,” said Chanchal from her home in Lal Gumbad Basti, a neighbourhood of migrant workers about 20 minutes away from the nation’s parliament. “I’m so tired of worrying about arranging the next meal.” Families like Chanchal’s — two wage earners with some savings, living in rented accommodation — are among legions of Indians who saw their economic toehold ripped away in lockdowns over the last 12 months. More than 15 million Indians lost their jobs in May alone at the height of a devastating wave that overwhelmed hospitals and crematoriums, according to the Centre for Monitoring the Indian Economy. “This desperation for food and the long lines for rations in families with two wage earners is unprecedented,” said Aditi Dwivedi, who works with migrant communities in the capital at Satark Nagrik Sangathan, a group that works on transparency and accountability in government that has advocated for more food aid for the needy. As India’s economy shrunk by 7.3% last year, the daily average wage for about 230 million Indians — enough to make the world’s fifth-largest nation — dropped below the 375-rupee ($5) threshold, according to a study by the Azim Premji University in Bangalore. “An alarming 90% of respondents” reported “that their households had suffered a reduction in food intake as a result of the lockdown,” the study said. The number of people living in households with daily incomes below the $5 level spiked from 298.6 million, at the start of the outbreak in March 2020 to 529 million at the end of October, the study said. “If last year was harrowing, it’s tough to get a true sense of the extent of the crisis this year,” said Amit Basole, director of the Centre for Sustainable Employment at Azim Premji University and co-author of the State of Working India report. “This year, people have depleted savings and are paying back debt. We don’t expect anyone to be back to Jan-Feb 2020 levels of income this calendar year.” In southeast Delhi, 45-year-old Naresh Kumar had to line up outside his local food distribution shop at 5 a.m. nearly every day in June to ensure he got there before supplies ran out. And at least he was eligible: more than 100 million people remain outside the government’s public distribution system because coverage is calculated on outdated census data, according to a study last year by economists Reetika Khera, Meghana Mungikar and Jean Dreze. “On days when they had food, rations got over before my turn arrived,” said Kumar, who is still struggling to find work after both he and his wife lost their jobs last year. “On other days, they said they had nothing to distribute.” The government is required by law to provide five kilograms (11 pounds) of rice, wheat and coarse grains at subsidised rates as low as one rupee per kilogram to India’s poorest each month. In June 2020, after millions of migrants walked back to their villages on foot from locked-down cities, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced an additional six kilos a month per person until November, at a cost of 1.5 trillion rupees ($20 billion). The program was restarted in April and has been extended to November 2021. For Modi, who has faced widespread criticism for his government’s pandemic response and slow vaccination rollout, delivering basic goods for the poor is crucial to his efforts to keep the Bharatiya Janata Party as the most dominant political force in India. “In this time of the pandemic, the government is standing by the poor as their partner for their every need,” Modi said in his address to the nation on June 7. The Prime Minister's office didn't respond to questions on his government's plans to relieve food distress. State governments have also struggled to deliver food to the poor. Responding to an order from the High Court to resume hunger relief measures amid Delhi’s lockdown in April, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced plans to provide free foodgrains for two months to 7.2 million ration card holders as well as financial aid of 5,000 rupees to 156,000 autorickshaw and taxi drivers. Abhinandita Mathur, a spokeswoman for the Delhi government, said on July 7 that food rations were being replenished after stocks ran out in June, leaving many families stranded. In Mumbai, Swaraj Shetty co-founded the Khaana Chahiye, or Want Food collective, last April to distribute meals and dry rations. What was expected to be a short-term effort by a group of citizens widened to respond to increasing distress calls for food through its “Report Hunger” initiative from beyond Mumbai and as far off as cities like Pune and Bangalore, she said. “Last year it was mostly migrant workers, but this year we’ve been seeing people from the middle-class line up for help,” Shetty said. India’s middle class, defined as those with incomes between $10 and $20 per day, shrunk by 32 million during the 2020 recession amid the pandemic, according to Pew Research Center. Sujata Sawant, 44, has also seen demand grow at a community kitchen she started in April. After initially feeding 300 people with the help of local women, her group now gives meals to more than 1,300 people every day. “We can’t cater to so many who need it,” she said. “The numbers are increasing daily. The costs are prohibitive.” Surging food prices have prompted economists to call for widening the distribution of cereals under India’s National Food Security Act. A stalled monsoon threatens to further stoke food inflation that was at 5% in May. Those higher expenses have been an increasing worry for 32-year-old widow Saliqa Begum. She left Delhi last year to escape hunger after losing her job as domestic helper, only to return several months later to find food for her three children. Like most urban poor, Saliqa has no land to cultivate in her village in the eastern state of Bihar. In Delhi, she has watched anxiously as prices of pulses, oil and spices continue to rise. “What more do we want from our government? They can at least ensure we have some food?” Saliqa said. “If there is a third wave of the virus now, how will we manage?” Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hunger-crisis-forces-even-indias-middle-class-to-line-up-for-rations-1008502.html
14-07-2021||National||Piyush Goyal appointed Leader of House in Rajya Sabha||Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal will be the new Leader of House in Rajya Sabha, succeeding Thaawarchand Gehlot who was appointed Karnataka Governor last week. Goyal was the Deputy Leader of House under Gehlot, who was the then Social Justice and Empowerment Minister before his appointment as Governor ahead of the Cabinet reshuffle. The 57-year-old leader, who is the son of late BJP veteran Ved Prakash Goyal, is currently the Minister of Commerce and Industry, Textiles and Consumer Affairs and Food and Public Distribution. He was divested of Railways portolio in the last week's reshuffle. A Chartered Accountant by profession, Goyal is becoming the Leader of House in Rajya Sabha though there were speculation about Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman getting the post owing to her seat in crucial Cabinet Committee on Security and others. Names of Dharmendra Pradhan and Bhupendra Yadav were also in speculation. However, sources said, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP leadership decided to elevate Goyal, who was appointed Deputy Leader of Rajya Sabha in June 2019 after former Finance Minister Arun Jaitley made way to Gehlot. Jaitley had stayed away from the Cabinet in the second term of Modi government owing to health reasons following which Gehlot was appointed Leader of House. Goyal, who also held the post of BJP National Treasurer, was elevated to Cabinet rank in September 2017. He was till then Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Power. Hugely trusted by Modi, he was also given the charge of the Ministry of Finance twice when Jaitley went abroad for treatment. He also headed the BJP's Information Communication Campaign Committee during 2014 Lok Sabha polls. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/piyush-goyal-appointed-leader-of-house-in-rajya-sabha-1008503.html
14-07-2021||National||Contribution of neuro NCDs to India's disease burden more than doubled from 1990-2009||The contribution of non-communicable and injury-related neurological disorders to the total disease burden more than doubled in India from 1990 to 2019, whereas that of communicable neurological disorders reduced by three quarters, according to the findings of the India State-Level Disease Burden Initiative. The first comprehensive estimates of disease burden due to neurological disorders and their trends in every state of India from 1990 was published on Wednesday in The Lancet Global Health by the India State-Level Disease Burden Initiative. According to the findings, the burden of non-communicable neurological disorders is increasing in India mainly due to the ageing of the population. While communicable diseases contributed to the majority of total neurological disorders burden in children younger than 5 years, non-communicable neurological disorders were the biggest contributor in all other age groups, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said in a release. Strokes, headache disorders and epilepsy are the leading contributors to neurological disorders burden in India, it said. In 2019, strokes caused 6,99,000 deaths, which was 7.4 per cent of the total deaths in the country. The burden of many neurological disorders varied considerably between the states, which has significant implications for the policies and programmes to reduce this burden, it stated. Among the known risk factors for neurological disorders burden, high blood pressure, air pollution, dietary risks, high fasting plasma glucose, and high body mass index are the leading contributors. The study was done by the India State-Level Disease Burden Initiative, a collaborative effort between the ICMR, Public Health Foundation of India, Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, and a number of other key stakeholders in India, including academic experts and institutions, government agencies and other organisations, under the aegis of the Ministry of Health. The state-specific findings described in this scientific paper highlight the extent of the effort needed in each state to reduce the burden of neurological disorders through state-specific health system responses aimed at increasing awareness, early identification, cost-effective treatment, and rehabilitation. The trends over about three decades reported in this research paper utilised all available data sources from India that enabled more robust estimates of neurological disorder burden across India than those available so far. Dr Vinod Paul, Member (Health) NITI Aayog said this scientific paper presents a comprehensive perspective of the burden of neurological disorders over the last 30 years and systematically highlights the variations between the states. Several government policies and initiatives are in place to address the burden of neurological disorders across India, however, more focused efforts are required for the planning of specific neurology services in each state, he said. "There is a need to address the shortage of trained neurology workforce and strengthen early detection and cost-effective management of neurological disorders in the country to deal with their growing burden," he said. Dr Balram Bhargava, secretary, Department of Health Research, Ministry of Health and Director General, ICMR said this research paper provides the first consolidated estimates on the burden of most neurological disorders for every state of India from 1990 to 2019. "Neurological disorders contribute 10 per cent of the total disease burden in India. There is a growing burden of non-communicable neurological disorders in the country, which is mainly attributable to ageing of the population," he said. Prof Gagandeep Singh of Dayanand Medical College and the first author of the paper said the analysis in this paper highlights the key issues related to trends of neurological disorders in the states of India. Epilepsy is a common neurological disorder in India. While the prevalence of epilepsy has increased over the past three decades, it is gratifying to note that India has made some gains in reducing premature deaths and morbidity of people with epilepsy over this period by reducing treatment gaps. There is, however, a need to scale up treatment coverage of epilepsy in governmental schemes such as the Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram and Ayushman Bharat, he said. Policies and practices focusing on safe births, preventing head injury and stroke would help in averting a substantial proportion of epilepsies, he added. Professor K Srinath Reddy, president of Public Health Foundation of India, said the rise of non-communicable disease (NCD) related risk factors as the leading contributor to neurological disorders and resultant disability in India is not a surprise. It reflects the demographic, socio-economic and nutrition transitions that have steered the shift in our epidemiological profile over the past 30 years. What is helpful is the recognition that much of this burden of disease and disability is related to modifiable risk factors which can be reduced at the population level and corrected at the individual level.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/contribution-of-neuro-ncds-to-indias-disease-burden-more-than-doubled-from-1990-2009-1008504.html
14-07-2021||National||Kerala man from coast with environment crisis headed for Olympics||Alex Antony from Thiruvananthapuram is one among the 26-member Indian contingent selected for the Tokyo Olympics 2021. He will represent India in the mixed 4x400m relay. Alex is first from his village Pulluvila to get into the sports field and succeed in it. Currently, he is in Patiala where he is attending the Olympics camp at the National Institute of Sports with other athletes. His native village Pulluvila is between Kovalam and Poovar in the Thiruvananthapuram district of Kerala which is seven kilometres away from the Vizhinjam Port. Alex’s success has brought the environmental crisis of his native village to the forefront. Due to climate change, the sands of Pulluvila’s beaches have been depleting for years. Sedimentation has affected the nature of the sea, impacting the traditional fishing practices of the village which earns its livelihood from fishing. “The consequence of accretion is that it creates waterlogged areas. Water pools are formed between sandbanks and land, preventing fishermen from parking their boats here. Living here is quite difficult as many times we have noticed seawater coming out the toilet bowls as the sanitation is all messed up,” Joseph Vijayan, an expert on coastal communities in Thiruvananthapuram told The Quint. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-man-from-coast-with-environment-crisis-headed-for-olympics-1008507.html
14-07-2021||National||Good news for central govt employees! Dearness Allowance hiked to 28%||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday decided to restore Dearness Allowance (DA) and Dearness Relief (DR) for central government employees and pensioners from July 1, 2021 while increasing the rate of allowance to 28 per cent. The increase in the DA and DR will impose an additional annual burden of Rs 34,401 crore on the exchequer, Minister of Information and Broadcasting Anurag Thakur told reporters after the cabinet meeting. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Union Government had frozen the three additional instalments of the DA and DR which were due from January 1, 2020, July 1, 2020, and January 1, 2021. The move, Thakur said, will benefit about 48.34 lakh central employees and 65.26 lakh pensioners. "The government has decided to increase DA to central government employees and DR to pensioners with effect from July 1, 2021, representing an increase of 11 per cent over the existing rate of 17 per cent of the basic pay/pension," said a release. "#Cabinet approves restoring of three instalments of Dearness Allowance and Dearness Relief with effect from 01.07.2021 representing an increase of 11% over the existing rate of 17% of the Basic Pay/Pension. No arrears for the period from 01.01.2020 till 30.06.2021 shall be paid," the official handle of PIB tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/good-news-for-central-govt-employees-dearness-allowance-hiked-to-28-1008509.html
14-07-2021||National||PM Modi reviews development projects with Maldives President||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Maldivian President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih on Wednesday reviewed the progress of India-supported development projects in the archipelagic nation and expressed satisfaction at the rapid pace of implementation despite the constraints of the Covid-19 pandemic. Modi spoke over the phone with Solih and assured him of India's commitment to supporting the Maldives in the fight against the pandemic. On his part, President Solih thanked Prime Minister Modi for India's cooperation and support in the fight against the Covid-19, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said in a statement. Both leaders reviewed the progress of the India-supported development projects in the Maldives and expressed satisfaction at the rapid pace of implementation despite the constraints of the pandemic, it said. Prime Minister Modi noted that Maldives is a central pillar in India's 'Neighbourhood First' policy and its maritime vision of Security and Growth for All in the Region (SAGAR), the statement said. "Spoke with President @ibusolih of Maldives. Assured him of India's commitment to support Maldives in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic," Modi tweeted. "We also reviewed progress of bilateral development projects.  Conveyed congratulations for the election of FM (Abdulla) Shahid as UNGA President," he said. The telephone conversation between the two leaders provided them with an opportunity to take stock of the overall state of bilateral relations and provide further momentum and guidance to the ongoing substantive cooperation between the two countries, the PMO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-reviews-development-projects-with-maldives-president-1008517.html
14-07-2021||National||Andhra Pradesh govt moves SC over water sharing row with Telangana||AP govt moves SC against denial of legitimate share of water by Telangana   The Andhra Pradesh government has approached the Supreme Court against the "unjust act of denial of legitimate share" of drinking and irrigation water to its people by Telangana and its officials. The state government filed a petition under Article 32 of Constitution "to protect the fundamental right of its people, including right to life of its citizens". The AP asked the top court to direct the Centre to take control of the common reservoirs of Srisailam, Nagarjunasagar and Pulichintala reservoir along with all their outlets and operate those as per the operating rules in vogue as per the binding award. And if necessary, with the help of police protection, operate both the common reservoirs of Srisailam, Nagarjunasagar and Pulichintala reservoir without causing prejudice to AP. It claimed that water meant for drinking, irrigation as a right of the people was being seriously impaired and infringed on account of unconstitutional, illegal and unjust acts on the part of the state of Telangana and its officials. The plea claimed Telangana was refusing to follow decisions taken in the apex council constituted under the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act, directions of Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) constituted under the 2014 Act, and directions of the Union government.  "More significantly, Telangana is clearly in violation of a binding Award, popularly known as “Bachwat Award” made on May 31, 1976, and expressed provisions of the 2014 Act, whereby Andhra Pradesh was bifurcated into Telangana and Andhra Pradesh," it claimed. "This has caused immense hardship for people of State of Andhra Pradesh as availability of water has been seriously prejudiced by depletion in Srisailam Dam project as well as other projects such as the Nagarjuna Sagar Project and the Pulichintala Project," the petition claimed.  It also pointed out the Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh has also written to the Prime Minister on July 1 and 7, 2021 and sought his urgent intervention in view of the serious threat to right to life of tens of millions of citizens of Andhra Pradesh. Additionally, the AP Chief Minister has also addressed letters to the Ministry of Jal Shakti on July 1 and 5, 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/andhra-pradesh-govt-moves-sc-over-water-sharing-row-with-telangana-1008518.html
14-07-2021||National||Useless statements being made to create panic, says Mansukh Mandaviya on vaccine shortage charge||Amid complaints by some states about shortage of Covid-19 vaccines, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Wednesday said "useless"' statements are being made only to create panic among the people, and asserted that states know very well when and in what quantity they will get the doses. The Centre has informed states about the allocation of doses in advance, he said. In a series of tweets, Mandaviya said the availability of vaccines can be better understood by an "actual analysis of the facts". "Regarding the availability of the vaccine, I have come to know from statements and letters of various state governments and leaders. This situation can be better understood by an actual analysis of the facts. Useless statements are being made only to create panic among the people," he said in a tweet in Hindi. वैक्सीन की उपलब्धता के संदर्भ में मुझे विभिन्न राज्य सरकारों और नेताओं के बयान एवं पत्रों से जानकारी मिली है। तथ्यों के वास्तविक विश्लेषण से इस स्थिति को बेहतर ढंग से समझा जा सकता है। निरर्थक बयान सिर्फ लोगों में घबराहट पैदा करने के लिए किए जा रहे हैं। (1/6) To enable vaccination through government and private hospitals, Mandaviya said, 11.46 crore vaccine doses were made available to the state governments and union territories in June and this availability has been increased to 13.50 crore in July. The Centre had informed the states on June 19 about how many doses of the vaccine would be made available to them in July, he said. On June 27 and July 13, the states were informed about the availability of vaccines every day for the first and second fortnight of July. "... So the states know very well when and in what quantity they will get the vaccine doses. The central government has done this so that the state governments can do the work of vaccination up to the district level by planning properly and people do not face any problem," he said, "If the Centre is already giving this information in advance on its behalf and yet we see mismanagement and long queues of vaccine takers, then it is very clear what the problem is and who is the reason for it," he said. Some states like Rajasthan, West Bengal and Maharashtra, which recorded the highest number of Covid-19 cases on Monday, have raised the need for more vaccine doses. Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope said the state needed a minimum of three crore vaccine doses per month to inoculate the entire eligible population against coronavirus at the earliest. Covid-19 inoculation sessions were not conducted in at least 25 of Rajasthan's 33 districts on Monday due to vaccine shortage, a state official said. A senior West Bengal health department official also said that the state government was finding it difficult to evenly distribute the doses among its 23 districts. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/useless-statements-being-made-to-create-panic-says-mansukh-mandaviya-on-vaccine-shortage-charge-1008522.html
14-07-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: Flouting of norms sets off alarm bells||Amid a positive picture of India witnessing a steady decline in daily new coronavirus cases, incidents of people flouting Covid-19 norms have set off alarm bells for the government. The Centre has expressed concern over increasing cases of Covid-19-inappropriate behaviour amid ease in curbs, forcing it to issue stern warning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-flouting-of-norms-sets-off-alarm-bells-1008530.html
14-07-2021||National||India has huge interest in Afghanistan: Russian diplomat||India has huge interest in Afghanistan and it is for New Delhi to decide its extent of involvement in the conflict-ridden country, a senior Russian diplomat said on Wednesday amidst growing security concerns over the Taliban fighters rapidly seizing control of a large number of areas, forcing many countries to scale down their presence there. Deputy Chief of the Russian mission Roman Babushkin, at a press conference, also said the Taliban is a "current reality" in Afghanistan and the formation of an inclusive government with representation from all ethnic groups could pave the way for peace and stability in the conflict-ridden country. Noting that both Russia and India are supportive of the dialogue process in Afghanistan, he said they are actively monitoring the evolving situation in that country. Afghanistan is going through a critical period and that there is no military solution to it, the diplomat said. "Taliban is a current reality in Afghanistan. It is a party in the intra-Afghan talks which we believe should be a solution for normalisation and establishment of an inclusive government that should be involving all major ethnic groups," he said replying to a volley of questions. India has huge interest in Afghanistan and it is for New Delhi to decide its extent of involvement in that country, he said. The Russian diplomat said India has been involved in active regional diplomacy on Afghanistan and described it as "very encouraging". India has been supporting a national peace and reconciliation process which is Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled. Afghanistan witnessed a series of terror attacks in the last few weeks as the US looked to complete the withdrawal of its forces from Afghanistan by August-end, ending a nearly two-decade of its military presence in the war-ravaged country. The Taliban fighters are rapidly seizing control of a large number of areas in Afghanistan, forcing many countries to scale down their presence there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-huge-interest-in-afghanistan-russian-diplomat-1008536.html
14-07-2021||National||Does India need population control? UP draft policy begs the question||Echoes for state-wide population policies are growing louder even as government estimates suggest that India’s total fertility rate (TFR) and annual population growth rate, are declining. Amid the push for measures for population control by some BJP-ruled states such as Uttar Pradesh and Assam, Opposition parties are labelling it a "divisive measure" against a certain national demographic. As this clamour for such a policy grows, the swiftness with which these state governments have tried to create draft measures begs the question: Should this be the focus amid a pandemic? And, more importantly, is there really a population explosion? Because the data seems to be telling a different story. Dippping TFR Currency only in BJP-ruled states? Ahead of the Monsoon Session of the Parliament, three BJP-ruled states -- Uttar Pradesh, Assam and Karnataka -- are mulling prospects of a two-child policy, which runs parallel to the National Population Policy. While most BJP leaders refrained from directly commenting on the alleged communal angle of the policy, Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said the proposal is partly to control the population growth of the northeastern state's Bengali-speaking Bangladeshi Muslims.  Samajwadi Party MP Shafiqur Rahman Barq slammed the BJP government over its draft population control bill (In UP) and asked where will India get manpower in case of a war if people are not allowed to procreate. Calling it BJP's "political agenda" ahead of the assembly polls, UP Congress spokesperson Ashok Singh in a Hindi tweet said, "The RSS and BJP leaders talk about increasing the population. Population control is a subject of the Centre. Yogi Adityanath (CM) is bringing the bill keeping in mind the UP Assembly elections." In June, Sambhal MLA Iqbal Mehmood had said that any law on population control would be a "conspiracy" against Muslims. 'Religion has little to do with fertility levels' Even though Yogi Adityanath and Himanta Biswa Sarma have not targeted Muslims directly in their draft policies or announcements, the message against Muslims is clear. On several occassions, BJP leaders have explicitly or implicitly implied that it was one particular community that is driving the population surge. "Religion has little to do with fertility levels," it said. After China's failed population policy, the emphasis is that India must take note of this. At present, eight states -- Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Odisha, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand -- have active two-child norm policies.  'Coercive population policy counterproductive' On paper, the draft population policy with its measures for safefuarding reproductive health, ending infant and maternal mortality and illnesses and focusing on nutritional status seem important initiatives. But the lack of supporting data and the timing make the intent of policy claims questionable. According to the draft, the UP government will also provide incentives to couples who have one child while denying government benefits to those having more than two children in its new population policy.  However, a study by a former senior IAS officer, Nirmala Buch, found that men divorced their wives to run for local body elections and families gave up children for adoption to avoid disqualification in states that had adopted a two-child policy. The states also saw a rise in sex-selective and unsafe abortions. Population policies, experts suggest, must focus on "securing the reproductive health of women and girls, ensuring access and availability of modern contraceptives" instead of solely focusing on numbers. Why introduce a policy now? The introduction of the bill ahead of the state Assembly polls early next year assumes significance as Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath is already facing the heat of 'mishandling' the second wave of the pandemic in India's most populous state, with opposition MLAs labelling the bill as a "conspiracy" against Muslims. Doubts have emerged over Uttar Pradesh's real Covid-19 situation, which experts believe is grossly underreported, especially after reports of corpses of suspected Covid patients were found in and near the Ganga. The question remains: Should the state be focusing on population control measures unsupported by data amid a pandemic that has killed at least 22,704 people (according to the official tally) in the state? (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/does-india-need-population-control-up-draft-policy-begs-the-question-1008155.html
14-07-2021||National||Centre asks states to facilitate private vaccination centres in getting Covid jabs; expresses worry on PCVs' 'slow pace'||The slow pace of procurement and administration of Covid-19 vaccine by private centres in some states is a cause of '"serious worry", the Centre said on Wednesday and advised states and UTs to review the status daily and ensure indents for doses are quickly placed with the vaccine manufacturers. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan chaired a high-level meeting with health secretaries and senior immunisation officials of 15 states and UTs on Wednesday during which the areas of concern were highlighted, including delay in ordering and lifting of doses and payment. The roles of the states and UTs for demand aggregation and roles of the vaccine manufacturers in quick dispatch were further outlined in the meeting. Bhushan said many private Covid vaccination centres (PCVCs) have not placed any indent for the earmarked quantum of Covid-19 vaccines. Many state governments need to facilitate vaccine procurement by the PCVCs, a health ministry statement said. "States were advised to review the status on a daily basis and ensure that indents for the earmarked quantum are quickly placed with the private vaccine manufacturers," it stated. In many cases while the indent for the Covid-19 vaccine has been placed with the state government, payment has not been made for the entire amount of indented vaccines, the statement said. " In some cases, no payment has been made for the entire indented quantity. State governments and the PCVCs were advised to ensure that the gap between the indented quantity and payment towards their procurement reduced to zero," it said. The states and UTs which participated in the meeting were Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha, Telangana, Arunachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Gujarat, West Bengal, Delhi, Punjab and Haryana through video conference. Nodal representatives from the two Covid vaccine manufacturers, Ms/ Bharat Biotech and M/s Serum Institute of India (SII), were also present. In light of the revised guidelines for universalisation of the countrywide Covid Vaccination Program and recent advisories, the progress of vaccine procurement and administration by PCVCs in these states and UT was reviewed. States were again informed of the usage of the Co-WIN platform as the backend management tool for the order placements, it said adding the states and UTs are required to aggregate this demand. During the meeting, Bhushan pointed out that in some states, the quantity of vaccines paid for has not been physically lifted by the states/PCVCs and asked them to quickly to do, the statement said. In some states, wherever vaccine doses have been lifted by PCVCs, the actual administration of Covid-19 vaccines is seen to be less than the vaccine quantity lifted. "States and PCVCs were advised to review this and ensure that the balance of unutilised vaccine doses are quickly administered," the statement said. On the slow pace of vaccination through the PCVCs, states were advised to review status and progress on vaccine procurement by PCVCs daily. "They were advised to ensure speedy and effective coordination between the PCVCs and the vaccine manufacturers to remove bottlenecks, if any. "It was pointed out that advance visibility of the Covid vaccines to the states by Union Health Ministry is in turn required to be communicated to the citizens by states," the statement stated. The Union Health Ministry has organised five regional workshops to orient nodal officers of the states and PCVCs for placing indent on Co-Win, payment for the quantum of doses, etc. States were advised to indicate if any further refresher training sessions are required. These shall be organised based on the requirement of the states, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-asks-states-to-facilitate-private-vaccination-centres-in-getting-covid-jabs-expresses-worry-on-pcvs-slow-pace-1008545.html
14-07-2021||National||Cabinet nod to continuation of National Ayush Mission as centrally-sponsored scheme||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved continuation of the National Ayush Mission as a Centrally Sponsored Scheme for another five years till 2026, Union minister Anurag Thakur said. The scheme would continue from April 1, 2021, to March 31, 2026 with a financial implication of Rs 4,607.30 crore to be spent during the period. Thakur told reporters that the scheme involves the expansion of the Ayush sector to promote the holistic health of Indians. He said under the scheme, old and traditional medicinal systems would be promoted and Ayush wellness centres, medical colleges, hospitals and dispensaries set up and upgraded. He said the Cabinet also approved change of nomenclature and mandate of North Eastern Institute of Folk Medicine (NEIFM) as North Eastern Institute of Ayurveda and Folk Medicine Research (NEIAFMR). Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-nod-to-continuation-of-national-ayush-mission-as-centrally-sponsored-scheme-1008557.html
14-07-2021||National||Power engineers, staff to boycott work on August 10 to oppose Electricity (Amendment) Bill||Protesting against the proposed Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2021, electricity engineers and employees will boycott work for a day on August 10, said All India Power Engineers Federation (AIPEF) on Wednesday. The Bill listed for Monsoon Session of Parliament should not be rushed through and instead should be referred to the standing committee on energy, the Federation said in a statement. The proposed Electricity Act 2003 allowed privatisation of power generation and now in the proposed Bill, privatisation of power distribution is being done which will drive state discoms to bankruptcy, AIPEF spokesperson V K Gupta said. The decision was taken in the virtual meeting of the National Coordination Committee of Electricity Employees and Engineers (NCCOEEE) on Tuesday. NCCOEEE core committee office bearers will meet Union Power Minister on July 27 to hand over a memorandum against the proposed Bill. Gupta alleged that before finalising the Bill, the government has not consulted major stake holders of the power sector including consumers and power sector employees and engineers. The move to abolish cross-subsidy in a time-bound manner and proposing a Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) to such consumers by state governments will take away the rights of access to electricity for farmers and poor domestic consumers, it stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/power-engineers-staff-to-boycott-work-on-august-10-to-oppose-electricity-amendment-bill-1008576.html
14-07-2021||National||Indian Army grants permanent commission to 147 more women officers||A total of 147 additional women short service commission (SSC) officers of the Indian Army have been granted permanent commission as per the revised parameters set by the Supreme Court in March this year, the Defence Ministry said on Wednesday. The Supreme Court on March 25 had said the Army's evaluation criteria for granting permanent commission (PC) to women SSC officers systematically discriminated against them. "The women officers were re-considered as per directions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court and fresh results have now been de-classified. Consequently, 147 more women officers are being granted PC, taking the total PC granted to 424 out of the 615 officers considered," the ministry said in a statement. The results of a few women officers have been withheld for administrative reasons and awaiting the outcome of the clarification petition filed by the central government in the Supreme Court, it added. The apex court, in a landmark ruling in February 2020, had directed the Centre to ensure that women SSC officers are given PC in the Army, including command postings. Therefore, the Army had constituted a special selection board in September 2020 to screen women officers. The results were declared in November 2020. The women officers who were not granted PC in November 2020 moved to the Supreme Court. The top court in March this year found that the "evaluation criteria set by the Army constituted systemic discrimination" against these women officers. The Supreme Court, in its March order, laid down revised parameters on the basis of which the women officers would be evaluated for the permanent commission in the Army. The Defence Ministry said on Wednesday that all women officers, who have been granted PC, would undergo special training courses and challenging military assignments to empower them for higher leadership roles in the Army. A batch of 33 women officers has already successfully completed the mid-level tactical orientation course from Army War College Mhow recently, it added. The ministry said all women SSC officers, who were considered by the Army's selection board and not granted PC, will still be eligible for pension subject to serving for a minimum of 20 years in service. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-army-grants-permanent-commission-to-147-more-women-officers-1008580.html
14-07-2021||National||Cabinet extends by 5 years centrally-sponsored scheme for developing infra for judiciary||Union Cabinet on Wednesday granted a five-year extension for a centrally sponsored scheme for developing infrastructure for the judiciary during which Rs 9,000 crore will be spent to build new court buildings and residential premises for judicial officers. The decision will help in the construction of 3,800 court halls and 4,000 residential units (both new and ongoing projects) for judicial officers of district and subordinate courts, 1,450 lawyer halls, 1,450 toilets complexes and 3,800 digital computer rooms, an official statement said. The Centrally Sponsored Scheme (CSS) for Development of Infrastructure Facilities for Judiciary has been in operation since 1993-94. In the extended term, the scheme would continue from April 1, 2021 to March 31, 2026 during which Rs 9,000 crore would be spent with the Central share of Rs 5,357 crore, including Rs 50 crore for the Gram Nyayalaya Scheme. Several courts are still functioning on rented premises with insufficient space and some in a dilapidated condition without basic amenities, the statement pointed out. The lack of residential accommodation to all the judicial officers also adversely affects their work and performance, it observed. However, funds will be released to states only after the notified Gram Nyayalayas are operationalised and Nyayadhikaris appointed and reported on the Gram Nyayalaya portal of Department of Justice. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-extends-by-5-years-centrally-sponsored-scheme-for-developing-infra-for-judiciary-1008597.html
14-07-2021||National||Messi, Ronaldo feature on 'Beedi' packet; viral photos leave netizens in splits||Argentine football star Lionel Messi, who had recently won Copa America title, has made another "achievement" as he featured, of course unknowingly, on an Indian 'beedi' packet. A picture of a local 'beedi' packet named 'Messi Beedi' that has the player's face in a formal attire has gone viral on social media, giving netizens a good laugh. Showing off their sarcasm, many people on Twitter have been sharing the picture calling it Messi's "first endorsement in India" and a "new achievement". Not just Messi, apparently the same manufacturer of the tobacco product has used another football star Cristiano Ronaldo's name and photo for another 'beedi' packet. This unusual marketing style by the 'beedi' manufacturing company has left netizens in splits. Check out some of the funniest tweets:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/messi-ronaldo-feature-on-beedi-packet-viral-photos-leave-netizens-in-splits-1008603.html
14-07-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Dearness Allowance for Central govt staff increased from 17% to 28%||In your evening news brief, Electoral compulsions may have been behind Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's decision to allow the annual 'Kawad Yatra' in the state; Dearness Allowance (DA) for Central government employees and pensioners has been increased from 17% to 28% and At SCO, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar says combating terrorism and extremism is the key purpose of the Organisation.  Electoral compulsions may have been behind Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's decision to allow the annual 'Kawad Yatra' in the state, where assembly polls are due to be held early next year, despite apprehensions of the third wave of Covid-19. Kawad Yatra is a pilgrimage where devotees carry earthen pitchers filled with waters from Ganga and offer the same at Lord Shiva temples. Meanwhile, the Supreme Court acted Suo Motu today on Uttar Pradesh's decision to allow the annual Kawad Yatra amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Union Minister Anurag Thakur said today, the Dearness Allowance (DA) for Central government employees and pensioners has been increased from 17 percent to 28 percent. This will be applicable from July 1, 2021. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said at a key meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation today, combating terrorism and extremism is the key purpose of the SCO and it must stop terror financing. In his address at the meeting in Dushanbe, the capital of Tajikistan, Jaishankar described the situation in Afghanistan as well as public health and economic recovery as pressing issues facing the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-dearness-allowance-for-central-govt-staff-increased-from-17-to-28-1008608.html
14-07-2021||National||Chanda Kochhar matter: SAT asks Sebi's Adjudicating Officer not to proceed till September 15||The Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) has restrained Sebi's Adjudicating Officer from proceeding till September 15 in a matter related to former ICICI Bank chief Chanda Kochhar. The matter pertains to a show-cause notice issued by the regulator to Kochhar on the basis of an analysis of a report by retired Justice B N Srikrishna. The Srikrishna committee, which was tasked to probe the allegations of quid-pro-quo transactions in ICICI Bank, submitted its report to the lender in January 2019.  The committee, in its report, observed that Kochhar violated bank policies and other rules and regulations. The board of the bank based on the report had decided to treat her resignation as 'Termination for Cause' under the bank's internal policies. Kochhar, who was Managing Director and CEO of ICICI Bank, had quit the bank in October 2018. In its order dated July 9, SAT has restrained" the Adjudicating Officer from proceeding in the matter till the next date of listing". The matter would be listed for admission and for final disposal on September 15, it added. It was alleged that Videocon promoter Venugopal Dhoot allegedly invested crores of rupees in Nupower Renewables Pvt Ltd, months after the Videocon group got Rs 3,250 crore as loan from ICICI Bank in 2012. Nupower was operated by Chanda Kochhar's husband Deepak Kochhar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chanda-kochhar-matter-sat-asks-sebis-adjudicating-officer-not-to-proceed-till-september-15-1008609.html
14-07-2021||National||‘Pilot’ Rudy surprises politician Maran inside aircraft||As former Union Minister Dayanidhi Maran took his seat in the front row on a Chennai-bound flight, the aircraft’s captain, wearing a mask, came calling on him. "So you are travelling in this flight as well!", the Captain of the Indigo flight asked Maran, the DMK MP from Chennai (Central). The parliamentarian was clueless as to why the Captain was engaging him until he realised it was none other than his colleague Rajiv Pratap Rudy.   Rudy, who is Lok Sabha MP from Saran Chapra in Bihar, has to fly a certain number of hours to retain his commercial flying license. The BJP leader flew the Delhi-Chennai flight on June 13 evening, and Maran took to social media to narrate the smooth transformation of Rudy from a “politician” to a pilot. Maran said he could not recognise Rudy who was wearing a face mask, though his voice sounded familiar. “He looked at me and his eyes gave away the smile behind the mask. So you don’t recognize me, he exclaimed. I realized then that it was none other than my colleague, senior member of parliament, and former Union Minister- my very good friend Rajiv Pratap Rudy,” Maran wrote on his verified Twitter page. A Flight to remember.July 13, 2021 I boarded the Indigo flight 6E864 from Delhi to Chennai after attending a meeting of the parliamentary Estimates Committee. I happened to sit in the first row, as the crew declared that the boarding had completed. A couple of hours ago before boarding the flight, Maran and Rudy had attended a meeting of the Estimates Committee of Parliament. “I couldn't believe my eyes, seeing his transformation from a politician to a pilot. I was pleasantly surprised and told Rudyji that I couldn’t believe that he was going to be the captain flying us from Delhi to Chennai. He laughed and said, yes, I noticed that you didn't recognize me, I fly frequently,” Maran said. The DMK leader also recalled his long association with Rudy, who served as a Minister of State (MoS) when his father Murasoli Maran was the Union Minister for Commerce. “A flight to remember indeed! How often does a sitting Member of Parliament captain a commercial flight? I'm sure I will be talking about this for a long time. Thank you Captain Rajiv Pratap Rudy, MP for flying us safely from Delhi to Chennai,” Maran further wrote. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pilot-rudy-surprises-politician-maran-inside-aircraft-1008612.html
14-07-2021||National||Apathy, fatalism or bravado? Decoding ‘no mask-no distancing’ public recklessness||Why are thousands crowding into markets, public places and holiday destinations seemingly without thought for the devastating second wave India is barely out of? If you have asked yourself that question, you are not alone. That is the question baffling experts too. It’s a combination of apathy and a certain fatalistic attitude, said senior epidemiologist Lalit Kant. Attempting to decode the ‘no mask-no social distancing’ recklessness underlining societal behaviour, psychiatrist Nimish Desai added that the public is unable to see the risks and correlate the restrictions on them. India, Desai said, has seen “heavy trends of social irresponsibility”. Concerns have mounted after images on social and other media of snaking queues of cars waiting to enter hill stations and of people so anxious to get their lives back on track that basic precautions have been given the go by as they throng vacation spots and leisure sites. “In all cultures what should have happened is what is called risk perception — how much does a society perceive the threat (to be) and how much does it modify its behaviour accordingly,” Desai, director of the Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences, told PTI. While the pandemic is primarily a health crisis, experts say the role of a society in controlling or fanning a contagion cannot be overlooked.  “The public in their conscious or unconscious minds could not see and correlate the restrictions on them…,” Desai said, referring to the peak of the first wave during the festive season last year. Around the Diwali-Durga Puja season, people seemed to be over-compensating for the time they spent confined in their homes, he said. This unlock doesn’t seem very different. The seeming return to normalcy as India’s Covid numbers dip is comforting. But the scenes of people not adhering to basic Covid protocols are also alarmingly familiar – that’s exactly what happened when the first wave was ebbing only to make way for a ferocious second one. “People’s compliance to guidance for adopting Covid appropriate behavour has influenced the course the pandemic would take  - slowing or accelerating it,” Kant, former head of the Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases Division at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), told PTI.  According to the senior epidemiologist, the non-adoption of Covid appropriate behaviour (CAB) is part of the reason for the second wave. Social distancing already seems a thing of the past, and double masks  are on their way out, as single ones resume their ‘chin position’. India’s Covid death toll crossed the four lakh mark earlier this month. Of this, nearly 60 per cent was during the second wave, the Union Health Ministry has said. Trying to understand why it is difficult for people to do the basic of wearing masks properly, maintaining hand hygiene or just keeping distance, Kant said a fatalistic attitude discourages them from considering “non-pharmaceutical interventions”. "To my mind it is general apathy. It is not that they are against it, they understand that it is important, but they just don’t care. “People have developed a fatalistic attitude where they believe that anything can happen. They think, 'there’s no medicine, no beds in the hospitals, what are we alive for?’ And when you get that kind of an attitude, you stop taking precautions,” he said.  Societies higher in openness and extraversion (an indicator of how much of an extrovert a person is) showed that people did not stay confined to their homes even after restrictions were announced on their movement, he said. “Studies have shown that  extraverts are especially prone to defying short term instructions or regulations exhibiting perhaps more counter-compliant behaviour.” The increasing number of Indians violating Covid norms seems to bear his assertion out. According to Delhi government data, for instance, over 87,000 people were fined in a matter of three weeks last month. "Sustained mass level behaviour change is difficult but also not impossible,” Desai explained. Often, governments and administrations attempting to modify  people’s behaviour at a mass level rely on Behaviour Change Communication (BCC). Effective BCC strategies comprise repetitive messages that are simple to understand and often illustrative, and the benefits of which  should be evident.  “In the last two decades, developed countries have somewhat understood that every individual’s health status depends on their lifestyle and behaviour. This itself was lacking in our society. Now the realisation in the world community is and should be that our collective health status depends on our collective behaviour,” Desai said. The public’s faith in the government is crucial for mass behavioural change, which according to veteran economist Arun Kumar, appears to be lacking among Indians. “If people had more faith in the government, then they would follow its instructions.  In India, unfortunately the faith in political parties is very low,” he said.  “Seeing that so many families had to take loans for medical expenses, people will hold on to their money. They will go out for essentials but they won't splurge. So the crowd that you see in the market is because people want to go out (not spend money),” Kumar told PTI. Disseminating unclear information about the severity of the infection and the rate of vaccination has added to the confusion. “If everybody says that we have conquered the disease, then people will question the need to worry about masks or social distancing’. The government lacks clarity,” the former economics professor at Jawaharlal Nehru University asserted. The government’s projection of India’s  vaccination numbers having overtaken the US last month created a “false sense” of reassurance, he said. Kant agreed. “If the government is able to do targeted messaging that will be of help. That’s what people have tried elsewhere and found that it could be of help,” Kant said. Concerned over the situation, the Union Home Ministry on Wednesday said blatant violations of Covid-19 norms have been observed in several parts of the country, including hill stations, and asked states and union territories to take action against officials responsible for enforcing SOPs. In a letter to all states and UTs, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla  emphasised that the second wave of Covid is not yet over and there is no room for complacency. The consequent increase in the 'R'-factor (reproduction number) in some states is a matter of concern, Bhalla said. The 'R'-factor indicates the speed at which the infection is spreading in the country. An 'R'-factor below 1 indicates that each infected individual is on average passing on the disease to less than one person. With 38,792 new coronavirus cases, India’s Covid tally is now 3,09,46,074 (3.09 crore/30.9 million), the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. Active cases have declined to 4,29,946 and the daily positivity rate recorded at 2.10 per cent -- less than three per cent for 23 consecutive days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/apathy-fatalism-or-bravado-decoding-no-mask-no-distancing-public-recklessness-1008616.html
14-07-2021||National||Cabinet rejig left to CM BSY's discretion: Karnataka BJP chief Nalin Kumar Kateel||Amid speculation about the possibility of a reshuffle of the state Cabinet, Karnataka BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel said on Wednesday it is left to the Chief Minister's discretion, and the party was focussed on the upcoming taluk and Zilla panchayat polls. "It is left to the discretion of the Chief Minister and the Chief Minister will take a call," Kateel said in response to a question on the possibility of Cabinet rejig on the lines of the Union Cabinet reshuffle recently. Speaking to reporters here, he said the party was focused on winning elections to the taluk and Zilla panchayat polls and legislative council from local authorities constituencies. "Effort is to gain power in almost all the panchayats, independently," he said in response to a question. Amid speculation about the possible Cabinet rejig, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa too had recently said no discussions have taken place on it. During BJP national general secretary in-charge of Karnataka Arun Singh's individual meeting with legislators last month, in the midst of rumblings within the party on the leadership change issue, several of them had reportedly discussed social justice and regional imbalance in the cabinet and thereby had tried to make out a case for a reshuffle. Yediyurappa had last expanded his cabinet in January with the induction of seven new ministers and had also effected a reshuffle of departments of some ministers. There are now 33 Ministers in the state cabinet, and one berth is vacant. The cabinet expansion in January had resulted in large-scale resentment in the party, with too many aspirants for ministerial posts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-rejig-left-to-cm-bsys-discretion-karnataka-bjp-chief-nalin-kumar-kateel-1008619.html
14-07-2021||National||Centre urges citizens to recommend names of distinguished persons for Padma awards||In a statement, the Union Home Ministry said online nominations or recommendations for the Padma awards -- Padma Vibhushan, Padma Bhushan and Padma Shri -- to be announced on the eve of Republic Day, 2022 are on. The last date for nominations for Padma Awards is September 15. The nominations or recommendations will be received only online on the Padma Awards portal https://padmaawards.gov.in The government is committed to transform Padma awards into 'People's Padma' and all citizens are therefore requested to make nominations or recommendations including self-nomination, the statement said. Concerted efforts may be made to identify talented persons whose excellence and achievements really deserve to be recognised from amongst women, weaker sections of the society, SCs and STs, 'divyang' persons and who are doing selfless service to the society, it said. The nominations or recommendations should contain all relevant details specified in the format available on the above mentioned Padma portal, including a citation in narrative form (maximum 800 words), clearly bringing out the distinguished and exceptional achievements or service of the person recommended in her or his respective field or discipline. All persons without distinction of race, occupation, position or sex are eligible for these awards but government servants including those working with PSUs, except doctors  are not eligible for Padma awards, the statement said. Instituted in 1954, these awards are announced on the eve of Republic Day every year. The Narendra Modi government has been honouring many "unsung heroes", who are contributing to the society in different ways, with Padma awards since 2014. Through the Padma awards, the government seeks to recognise 'work of distinction' and is given for distinguished and exceptional achievements or service in all fields or disciplines, such as, art, literature and education, sports, medicine, social work, science and engineering, public affairs, civil service, trade and industry etc. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-urges-citizens-to-recommend-names-of-distinguished-persons-for-padma-awards-1008621.html
14-07-2021||National||How far constitutional court can go when health emergencies occur? SC to examine||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said it will examine the limits of constitutional courts in dealing with matters that fall under the purview of the executive in connection with the Covid-19 management. A bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maheshwari said: "We may have 110 suggestions, but will it become an order? We have to remember; we are a constitutional court". The bench added, "How far can a constitutional court go when public health emergencies like Covid-19 occurs?"  The court posed these queries while disagreeing with the Allahabad High Court's May 17 directions to the Uttar Pradesh government for augmenting health infrastructure in Uttar Pradesh, including on procurement and manufacturing of vaccines. The bench said whether it would at all be needed for the high court to tread on this arena. The objective should be fairness to everybody so that sufferance is minimum, but courts have to respect the demarcation, the court said. The bench wondered, "How far was Ram Bharose comment justified?" The High Court, acting Suo Motu, had then observed the health system in the state was like 'Ram Bharose' (at the mercy of God). "It's not that you cannot give suggestions but how can you ask local companies to take vaccine formula and manufacture it? How can such directions be given," the bench asked, adding these questions are for the executive as, amid crisis, everybody has to proceed cautiously. Senior advocate Nidhesh Gupta, amicus curiae in the matter, said courts interfered in these matters when the executive failed in discharging its obligations. The court put the matter for consideration on August 12. On Wednesday, a separate bench took suo moto cognizance of the Uttar Pradesh government's decision to allow Kanwar Yatra amid the ongoing Covid pandemic. Earlier, another bench passed a slew of directions in connection with the Centre's vaccine policy as well as oxygen management by Centre and states, prompting the Union government to revise its policy. On May 21, the top court had stayed the directions issued by Allahabad High Court on May 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-far-constitutional-court-can-go-when-health-emergencies-occur-sc-to-examine-1008623.html
14-07-2021||National||Over 9,000 trafficked kids rescued by law enforcement agencies since beginning of Covid: KSCF||Over 9,000 trafficked children were rescued from trains, buses and factories by law enforcement agencies since the beginning of the Covid pandemic, the Kailash Satyarthi Foundation said as its founder Kailash Satyarthi appealed for urgent passage of the anti-trafficking bill in the Monsoon Session of Parliament. The Women and Child Development Ministry has invited suggestions from stakeholders on the draft 'Trafficking in Persons (Prevention, Care and Rehabilitation) Bill, 2021' which proposes severe punishment for aggravated forms of trafficking. Elaborating on the draft bill, the ministry said its objective is to prevent and counter trafficking of people, especially women and children, to provide care and protection to victims, rehabilitate them, while respecting their rights, and creating a supportive legal, economic and social environment for them and also to ensure prosecution of offenders, and for connected matters. In the light of an alarming rise in cases of trafficking and forced labour in the country due to further impoverishment of poor families, Satyarthi has appealed for urgent passage of the bill in the upcoming Monsoon Session without further delay. The passage of the bill through both Houses of Parliament will fulfill the demand of 12 lakh Indians who marched across 22 states and 12,000 km demanding a strong law against trafficking, said Satyarthi. "The current pandemic has led to an aggravation of vulnerabilities of the marginalised children in India. They are now much more prone to various kinds of exploitation, especially trafficking and child labour," The Kailash Satyarthi Foundation said in a statement. Bachpan Bachao Andolan, a sister organisation of the KSCF, has rescued more than 9,000 trafficked children from trains, buses and factories along with law enforcement agencies since the beginning of the pandemic from across the entire country. On the importance of the bill, Satyarthi said, "A strong anti-trafficking law is the moral and constitutional responsibility of our elected leaders, and a necessary step toward nation-building and economic progress. As long as children are bought and sold at lesser cost than cattle, no country can call itself civilised." "COVID-19 has caused a rise in trafficking, especially of women and children. We cannot take this lightly. A law for prevention, timely investigation, punishment for traffickers, and the protection and rehabilitation of survivors is a matter of urgency. I call on all parliamentarians to pass a strong and comprehensive anti-trafficking law in the upcoming session of Parliament. Our children, their freedom and dignity cannot wait," he said. Trafficking in Persons (Prevention, Care and Rehabilitation) Bill, 2021 covers aspects of trafficking by including various pertaining to trafficking, including aggravated forms of trafficking. It creates a dedicated institutional mechanism at district, state and national level to prevent and counter trafficking, and also for the protection and rehabilitation of victims of trafficking. The existing bill has expanded definition of trafficking and victim and covers new forms of aggravated trafficking for the purpose of forced or bonded labour, debt bondage, slavery, servitude, sexual exploitation, biomedical research or trials, carrying out unlawful activities in places such as placement agencies, massage parlours, spas, travel agencies, circus, etc. The bill also provides stringent punishment for offences of trafficking of women, or children, or transgenders under institutional care. The existing bill also ensures immediate monetary relief and compensation. Under the bill, the designated court is entrusted the duty to record the statement of the victim through video conferencing, especially in case of trans border and inter-state crimes where the victim has been repatriated to any other State or country and is unable to appear before the court for the reasons of safety or confidentiality.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-9000-trafficked-kids-rescued-by-law-enforcement-agencies-since-beginning-of-covid-kscf-1008630.html
14-07-2021||National||Centre directs states to not register cases under section 66A of IT Act||“The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has requested States and Union Territories (UTs) to direct all police stations under their jurisdiction not to register cases under the repealed Section 66A of the Information Technology Act, 2000,” an official statement said. The Supreme Court had struck down Section 66A of the IT Act on March 23, 2015, contending that it was “draconian and unconstitutional”. “The MHA has also requested that if any case has been booked in States and UTs under section 66A of the IT Act, 2000, such cases should be immediately withdrawn,” the statement said. The ministry also asked the States and UTs to sensitise law enforcement agencies for the compliance of the order issued by the Supreme Court on March 24, 2015. The apex Court order of 2015 made Section 66A of the Information Technology Act, 2000 null and void with effect from the date of the order, and hence no action could be taken under this section. The Centre had written to the states at least thrice in 2019 asking them not to register cases using the provision but to no avail. Even after the section was struck down by the apex court in 2015, 332 cases were filed the same year. In 2016, 216 cases were registered, 290 cases in 2017, 318 in 2018, 253 in 2019 and 34 until February 2020. The data has been collected for Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. Section 66A was passed by both houses of Parliament without any debate in December 2008. The section defined punishment for sending “offensive” messages through a computer or any other communication device like a mobile phone or a tablet. A conviction can fetch a maximum of three years in jail and a fine. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-directs-states-to-not-register-cases-under-section-66a-of-it-act-1008632.html
14-07-2021||National||Anil Deshmukh’s wife summoned by Enforcement Directorate||Former Maharashtra home minister and senior NCP leader Anil Deshmukh’s wife has been summoned by the Enforcement Directorate. Deshmukh (72) is close to NCP supremo Sharad Pawar and the party’s general secretary Praful Patel. Deshmukh’s wife Aarti Deshmukh had been asked to appear before ED’s Mumbai office on Thursday. “She has no connection with the case,” Deshmukh’s lawyer Kamlesh Gumre said. Deshmukh is facing probe vis-à-vis allegations made by former Mumbai Police chief and now commandant general of home guards Param Bir Singh that the then minister has fixed a collection target of Rs 100 crore for now dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Waze. Last month, the ED arrested Deshmukh’s personal secretary Sanjeev Palande and personal assistant Kundan Shinde. Earlier, Hrishikesh Deshmukh was also summoned in the case. The father-son duo has approached the Supreme Court for protection against what they describe as coercive action against them by the ED.  Deshmukh had to resign from the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government in the wake of the allegations.  Waze is the main accused in the case involving the planting of gelatin-sticks-laden Scorpio near the Mumbai residence of Reliance Industries Ltd chairman Mukesh Ambani and the murder of the SUV owner Mansukh Hiran of Thane.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anil-deshmukh-s-wife-summoned-by-enforcement-directorate-1008633.html
14-07-2021||National||Mansukh Mandaviya blames states for Covid-19 vaccine mismanagement; Health Ministry reviews vaccination at private centres||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Wednesday blamed the states for “mismanagement” in the Covid-19 inoculation drive and long queues at the vaccination centres, without explaining why the states are not being given more doses despite repeated requests. Since the states had been informed thrice on the amount of doses they would receive in July, they should have planned the vaccination drive better, he argued. There is, however, no official word on the slump in vaccination being seen in the states. Mandaviya said states were making “useless” statements to create panic on vaccine non-availability and denied reports of any such shortage. The minister, however, didn't share any data to back up such a claim that goes contrary to the ground situation prevailing in several states. Since last week Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Delhi and West Bengal had to shut many of their vaccination centres for the need of supply. In Haryana, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Gujarat and Chhattisgarh, there is a decline in average daily vaccinations since the high of the June 21-26 week. On Tuesday, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin sought one crore additional doses from Prime Minister Narendra Modi arguing that the quantity the southern state had received was inadequate. Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope said the state needed a minimum of three crore vaccine doses per month to inoculate the entire eligible population at the earliest. The Covid-19 jab sessions were not conducted in at least 25 of Rajasthan's 33 districts on Monday due to vaccine shortage. Rajasthan Health Secretary Siddharth Maharaj said the state had only 10,000 doses on Monday because of which sessions could not be conducted in 25 districts of the state. On Monday night Rajasthan received eight lakh doses that were administered in the next two days. Mahajan said Rajasthan demanded 1.5 crore vaccine doses for July, but the central government allocated only 65 lakh doses. In his response, Mandaviya said 11.46 crore vaccine doses were available to the states and union territories in June 2021. This availability has been increased to 13.5 crore doses in the month of July. This includes 12 crore doses from the government and 1.5 crore doses for the private hospitals. But private hospitals facing charges of poor performance on Covid-19 vaccination front, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan reviewed the slow pace of procurement and administration of vaccines by private hospitals, which according to the Centre, was a cause of serious worry. The four key concerns are (1) private hospitals not placing the indent for their earmarked stock (2) not paying for the stock (3) not lifting the stock after the payment and (4) administering far less than their stock. On each of these points, the states have been asked to sort out the bottlenecks in consultation with the private hospitals. “The states need to facilitate the vaccine procurement by the private vaccination centres. The states should review the status on a daily basis,” Bhushan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mansukh-mandaviya-blames-states-for-covid-19-vaccine-mismanagement-health-ministry-reviews-vaccination-at-private-centres-1008637.html
14-07-2021||National||SC declares provisions of Tribunal Reforms Ordinance on tenures as void||The Supreme Court on Wednesday declared provisions in the Tribunals Reforms Ordinance 2021, that fixed minimum age of 50 years, and four-year tenure of chairmen and members of various tribunals, as unconstitutional. The court held that the provisions were "contrary to the principles of separation of powers, independence of judiciary, rule of law and the Constitution". Three separate judgements were delivered by a bench of Justices L Nageswarao Rao, Hemant Gupta and Ravindra Bhat on a plea by Madras Bar Association. The plea, among others, challenged the Sections 12 and 13 of the ordinance by which Sections 184 and 186(2) of the Finance Act, 2017 was amended. The top court said the ordinance’s provisions will not apply to appointments made prior to its notification. The Tribunals Reforms (Rationalisation and Conditions of Service) Ordinance, 2021, issued by the Ministry of Law and Justice, was notified on April 4. The majority judgment by Justices Rao and Bhat held that this term violated the express direction given in an earlier judgment that the term of tribunal members should be five years. Accordingly, the bench set aside those provisions. However, Justice Gupta delivered a dissenting judgment and dismissed the petition. Justice Bhat stressed that it is necessary that the Union government expedited the process of appointments to tribunals, towards ensuring swifter, and efficacious justice delivery. "Existence of large number of vacancies of Members and Chairpersons and the inordinate delay caused in filling them up has resulted in the emasculation of the tribunals. The main reason for tribunalisation, which is to provide speedy justice, is not achieved as tribunals are wilting under the unbearable weight of the exploding docket," Justice Rao wrote. Sections 184 and 186 of the Finance Act 2017 gave the Centre power to make ruled in connection with the mode of appointment, terms of service, allowances of members etc of various tribunals. In his judgement, Justice Rao wrote this court had already declared that the Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and the members of the tribunals shall hold office for a term of five years and shall be eligible for reappointment. "The insertion of Section 184(11) prescribing a term of four years for the chairpersons and members of tribunals by giving retrospective effect to the provision from 26.05.2017 is clearly an attempt to override the declaration of law by this Court under Article 141 (in earlier judgement)," he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-declares-provisions-of-tribunal-reforms-ordinance-on-tenures-as-void-1008647.html
14-07-2021||National||LAC stand-off: Jaishankar, Wang agree all remaining face-off points to be discussed during next commander-level meeting||When Indian and Chinese military commanders will meet for the next round of talks, they should discuss mutual disengagement of troops from all the remaining face-off points along the Line of Actual Control, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his counterpart in the communist country, Wang Yi, agreed on Wednesday. The Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has been refusing to include disengagement of troops along the LAC on Depsang Plains in eastern Ladakh in the agenda for discussion during the next round of talks between its senior commander and his counterpart in the Indian Army. Jaishankar, however, insisted during a meeting with Wang in Dushanbe that the discussion between the military commanders should cover all the remaining face-off points, including Gogra, Hot Springs and Depsang Plains. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) issued a press release in New Delhi after the meeting, stating that the two sides agreed that the military commanders should discuss all the remaining issues during the next meeting and “seek a mutually acceptable solution”. “There was also an understanding that both sides will continue to ensure stability on the ground and neither side will take any unilateral action that could increase tension.” Jaishankar and Wang held talks on the sideline of a meeting of the Foreign Ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) in the capital of Tajikistan. The statement issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government after the meeting however had no reference to the agreement to cover all the remaining face-off points along the LAC in the next round of talks between the military commanders. It quoted Wang reiterating to Jaishankar that China was not responsible for the escalation of tension along its LAC with India. He stressed on China and India gradually shifting from emergency response to normalized management of the boundary in order to ensure that incidents in border areas do not unnecessarily disturb bilateral relations. New Delhi conveyed to Beijing its disappointment over the lack of progress in talks between the two sides to pull out front-line troops from the remaining face-off points along the LAC after the disengagement on the northern and southern banks of the Pangong Tso lake five months ago. Jaishankar and Wang on Wednesday agreed that the meeting between the senior commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA should be convened at the earliest. The diplomats of India and China had agreed during a video conference on June 25 that the military commanders would hold the next – the 12th since the beginning of the stand-off along the LAC in April-May 2020 – round of talks soon. Though almost three weeks passed since the video conference, the Indian Army and the PLA could not yet schedule the meeting. The External Affairs Minister emphasised during his meeting with the Chinese Foreign Minister the need to follow through on the agreement reached during the last meeting between them in Moscow on September 10 last year and complete the process of disengagement of troops, resolving the “remaining issues along the LAC in eastern Ladakh at the earliest”. It was expected that after successful disengagement of troops on both banks of Pangong Tso earlier this year, China would work with India to end the stand-off in other face-off points, Jaishankar told Wang, adding that the “situation in remaining areas”, however, had remained unresolved. He also noted that both India and China had agreed that a prolongation of the existing situation was not in the interest of either side and was visibly impacting the relationship in a negative manner. He emphasized that maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the border areas had been the foundation for the development of ties between the two neighbouring nations since 1988. China’s attempts to change the status quo last year disregarding its commitments under the 1993 and 1996 agreements with India had inevitably affected ties. He emphasized that it was in mutual interest that the two sides should now work towards early resolution of the remaining issues along the LAC, while fully abiding by bilateral agreements and protocols. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lac-stand-off-jaishankar-wang-agree-all-remaining-face-off-points-to-be-discussed-during-next-commander-level-meeting-1008650.html
14-07-2021||National||Women Olympic participants to get Rs 10 lakh each from Gujarat govt||Six women athletes from Gujarat, who are part of the Indian contingents for the upcoming Tokyo Olympics and also the Paralympic Games, will get a financial assistance of Rs 10 lakh each from the state government, it was announced on Wednesday. Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani took the decision to give Rs 10 lakh each to these six sportswomen to boost their morale and motivate them ahead of the twin events, said a government release. The quadrennial international multi-sport event will be held in Tokyo from July 23 to August 8, while the Paralympic Games have been organised in the Japanese capital from August 24 to September 5. This is for the first time in 60 years that players from Gujarat have qualified for the Olympics, said the release. The female athletes selected from Gujarat to represent India at the Tokyo Olympics are: Maana Patel (swimming), Ankita Raina (tennis) and Elavenil Valarivan (shooting). Three other women players who have qualified for the Paralympics are Parul Parmar (badminton), Bhavina Patel and Sonal Patel (table tennis), it said. Rupani congratulated the players for their selection and wished them luck. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/women-olympic-participants-to-get-rs-10-lakh-each-from-gujarat-govt-1008652.html
14-07-2021||National||Pakistan NSA says India should 'reverse' its actions in Kashmir to start dialogue||Pakistan's National Security Adviser Moeed Yusuf said on Wednesday that it was India’s responsibility to start the dialogue with Islamabad by "reversing" its actions in Jammu and Kashmir. India abrogated the special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 on August 5, 2019 and bifurcated it into two Union territories. According to an official statement, Yusuf briefed the Senate Committee on Defence & National Security on Pakistan’s role in the changing regional scenario, Pakistan-American relations, Pakistan-India relations and the impact of the evolving situation in Afghanistan following the American military's exit. "The onus was on India to start the dialogue process after reversing the wrongs" in Kashmir, Yusuf said, referring to the August 5, 2019 decision. India has maintained that the issue related to Article 370 of the Indian Constitution was entirely an internal matter of the country. India has made it clear to Pakistan that it desires normal neighbourly relations with Islamabad in an environment free of terror, hostility and violence. Pakistan had downgraded ties with India and suspended trade after the Indian government revoked the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. Talking about ties with the US, Yusuf said a broad-based roadmap is being developed for Pak-American relations which includes cooperation in commerce and trade, investment including vaccine manufacturing, climate change and military-to-military relations as well as promoting regional economic connectivity. Regarding Afghanistan, he said Pakistan’s perspective is very clear in promoting an inclusive political settlement with a view to ensure that Afghan territory is not used against Pakistan and Pakistan to ensure his commitment that its territory will not be used against any country. "The international community is also being informed about Pakistan’s concerns about the potential fallout of the Afghan crisis particularly in the new influx of refugees,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-nsa-says-india-should-reverse-its-actions-in-kashmir-to-start-dialogue-1008655.html
14-07-2021||National||Over 39 crore Covid vaccine doses administered in India so far: Health Ministry||The total number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India so far has surpassed 39 crore, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. According to a provisional report at 7pm, more than 32.10 lakh vaccine doses were administered on Wednesday. The ministry said 13,82,467 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years were given the first dose and 1,57,660 the second dose on Wednesday. Cumulatively, 11,78,70,724 people in the age group 18-44 years have received the first dose and 41,92,141 their second dose since the start of phase three of the vaccination drive. Eight states -- Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra -- have administered more than 50 lakh first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in the age group of 18-44 years, the ministry said. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 10 lakh beneficiaries of the age group 18-44 years for the first dose of Covid vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-39-crore-covid-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-so-far-health-ministry-1008660.html
14-07-2021||National||Cabinet approves term extension of commission to examine OBC sub-categorisation||Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the extension of term of the Commission to examine the issue of sub-categorization within Other Backward Classes in the Central List by six months. This is the 11th extension of the Commission. The term of the Commission was to end on July 31 and has now been extended to January 31 next year. The proposed extension of tenure and addition in its terms of reference shall enable the “Commission” to submit a comprehensive report on the issue of sub-categorization of OBCs, after consultation with various stake holders, an official statement said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-approves-term-extension-of-commission-to-examine-obc-sub-categorisation-1008662.html
14-07-2021||National||'India Out' campaign gains momentum in Maldives, PM Modi speaks with Solih over phone||With the “India Out” campaign once again gaining momentum in the Maldives, Prime Minister Narendra Modi called up the island nation’s President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih on Wednesday. The Prime Minister conveyed to the President of Maldives that the Indian Ocean archipelago was “a central pillar in India’s ‘Neighbourhood First’ policy and its maritime vision of Security and Growth for All in the Region (SAGAR)”. Maldives is one of the South Asian nations where China is trying to elbow out India and expand its footprints. New Delhi suspects China and its “iron brother” Pakistan are using radical elements and the opposition parties in the Maldives to run the “India Out” campaign. The phone call between Modi and Solih took place just days after the marine commandos of India and Maldives had the fourth edition of ‘Ekatah’ – a joint drill on special operations and combat diving. Modi and Solih on Wednesday reviewed the progress of the development projects being funded by India in the Maldives. They expressed satisfaction at the rapid pace of implementation of the projects despite the constraints caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, according to a press release the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) issued in New Delhi. The High Commission of India in Malé on July 1 last wrote to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Government of Maldives, conveying concerns over the “India Out” campaign launched by a section of social media users of the island nation. India cited the 1961 Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations and requested the Maldivian Government to ensure enhanced protection for its High Commission as well as its officials posted in the capital of the island nation. New Delhi nudged the Solih Government to act against people posting comments on social media, attacking the dignity of the High Commissioner of India and its diplomats and other officials in Malé. The “India Out” campaign was launched in the Indian Ocean nation last year by the Progressive Congress – a coalition of the opposition parties led by the Progressive Party of Maldives (PPP) – to protest against the “India First” policy pursued by the ruling Maldivian Democratic Party (MDP). The erstwhile PPM regime led by Abdulla Yameen had put Maldives into a debt trap by awarding the state-owned companies of China contracts to build several infrastructure projects – mostly on unsustainable loan terms and ignoring the security interests of India. Though Beijing’s influence over Abdullah Yameen regime had resulted in strains in New Delhi’s relations with Malé, it saw a reset after Solih and former Maldivian President Mohamed Nasheed led the MDP to victory in the November 2018 elections. The “India Out” campaign gained momentum in Maldives after New Delhi on February 21 last signed an agreement with the Solih Government to “develop, support and maintain” a harbour at Uthuru Thila Falhu naval base in the island nation. Though the new harbour is being built officially for the use of Maldives National Defence Force Coast Guard, it is likely to turn into a strategic asset for India and give it an edge over China, which has been trying to spread its tentacles in the Indian Ocean region. The “India Out” campaign also criticized the Solih Government’s decision to keep the two Dhruv Advanced Light Helicopters New Delhi gifted to Malé in 2010 and 2015, although the erstwhile PPM regime was keen to return both the choppers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-out-campaign-gains-momentum-in-maldives-pm-modi-speaks-with-solih-over-phone-1008664.html
14-07-2021||National||Academic session for freshers in engineering, technical colleges to begin October 25||The academic session in engineering and technical institutions for freshers will begin from October 25 while those for existing students will start from October 1, according to the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE). The calendar has been revised by the technical education regulator after the postponement and ultimately cancellation of board exams in view of the pandemic. According to the revised calendar, the colleges will have to complete the first round of counselling and allotment of seats by September 30 while the second round has to be concluded by October 10. The council has said the process of the grant of approval for the technical institutions, standalone PGDM and PGCM colleges, would be completed by July 15. Commencement of classes for existing and new students in standalone PGDM and PGCM institutions will be done by August 2. For standalone institutions providing post-graduate diploma in management (PGDM) or certificate courses in management, the last date for admissions will be August 11. Earlier, the deadline was July 10. For open and distance learning courses or those taught online, admissions will close on September 10 for the first session and February 1, 2022, for the second session, as per the AICTE's revised schedule.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/academic-session-for-freshers-in-engineering-technical-colleges-to-begin-october-25-1008666.html
14-07-2021||National||Deadline for submission of bids for office buildings under Central Vista project extended to July 30||The CPWD has once again extended the last date for submission of bids to July 30 for three new office buildings under the Common Central Secretariat being built as part of the government's ambitious Central Vista redevelopment project. Earlier, the deadline for submission and opening of bids was pushed from June 16 to June 23 and then to July 14.  Citing administrative reasons, the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) said the last date for submission and opening of bids has been extended to July 30. In April, the CPWD had invited bids for the three new office buildings under the Common Central Secretariat along Rajpath to be built at a cost of Rs 3,269 crore and an amount of Rs 139 crore was set aside for maintenance for a five-year period. These new buildings will come up on the plot where the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts is currently located. The redevelopment project of the Central Vista -- the power corridor of the country -- envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a Common Central Secretariat, a revamp of the three-km-long Rajpath from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate and new residences for the prime minister and the vice president.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deadline-for-submission-of-bids-for-office-buildings-under-central-vista-project-extended-to-july-30-1008675.html
14-07-2021||National||PM hails Cabinet decisions on shipping, animal husbandry, AYUSH||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Wednesday hailed the Cabinet decision to revise and realign schemes of the Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying, saying the move sets the tone for the sector's transformation and benefit lakhs of people associated with it. The prime minister's remarks came after the Centre decided to revise the schemes and implement them as part of the special livestock sector package over the next five years starting this fiscal in a bid to leverage an investment of Rs 54,618 crore. The decision was taken in the meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by Prime Minister Modi. "The sectors of dairy and animal husbandry are very close to my heart. Today's Cabinet decision sets the tone for the sector's transformation. Lakhs of people associated with this sector will gain," Modi tweeted. The package envisages the central government's support amounting to Rs 9,800 crore over the duration of five years for leveraging a total investment of Rs 54,618 crore, according to an official statement. Modi also lauded the Cabinet decision approving a scheme to provide Rs 1,624 crore over five years as subsidy to Indian shipping companies in global tenders floated by ministries and CPSEs for import of government cargo. "Today's Cabinet decision will serve as an advantage for Indian shipping companies and strengthen the resolve to build an 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat'," Modi tweeted. On the Cabinet approving the continuation of the National Ayush Mission as a Centrally Sponsored Scheme for another five years till 2026, the prime minister said the mission will keep popularising traditional forms of medicine and highlighting their benefits in a scientific manner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-hails-cabinet-decisions-on-shipping-animal-husbandry-ayush-1008686.html
14-07-2021||National||Deepika Padukone launches initiative to provide mental health support to frontline workers||Bollywood star Deepika Padukone on Wednesday announced a new initiative with the aim to provide assistance to frontline workers in overcoming mental health issues amid the coronavirus pandemic. The actor, who battled and overcame clinical depression many years ago, said that through the initiative -- Frontline Assist -- the sale proceeds from the ‘Deepika Padukone Closet’ will go to NGO Sangath’s dedicated Covid-19 well-being centre. "Frontline workers have been the backbone of our country as we weather this pandemic. "Having had a lived experience with mental illness, I understand the importance of emotional wellbeing, and as a mental health foundation, we are grateful to be able to contribute to the mental health of our country's frontline workers with 'Frontline Assist’," Padukone wrote in a post on Instagram. The Deepika Padukone Closet, which the actor launched in 2019, allows fans to shop from her hand-picked pieces through her official website. "We are proud to direct proceeds from The Deepika Padukone Closet towards mental health support of our country’s real heroes through our partnership with Sangath," the 35-year-old actor said. Padukone's LiveLoveLaugh (LLL) foundation will support Sangath’s Covid-19 well-being centre with sale proceeds from the current and future edits of The Deepika Padukone Closet to drive Sangath’s staff training efforts.   The sale proceeds from the The Deepika Padukone Closet will support free tele counselling for the frontline workers, facilitate weekly online sessions and access to mental health self care resources. On the work front, Padukone will be seen with Hrithik Roshan in "Fighter"; Shah Rukh Khan’s next film, reportedly titled "Pathan"; Shakun Batra-directed drama; and the remake of Hollywood film "Intern".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deepika-padukone-launches-initiative-to-provide-mental-health-support-to-frontline-workers-1008691.html
14-07-2021||National||1 lakh villages get tap water connections under Jal Jeevan Mission: Centre||The Union Ministry of Jal Shakti on Wednesday claimed that one lakh villages and over 50,000 gram panchayats have tap water connections under the centrally sponsored Jal Jeevan Mission. The Jal Jeevan Mission provided 4.49 crore tap water connections during 23 months and also made 50,000 gram panchayats 'Har Ghar Jal' by providing tap water supply to every household in these panchayats, the ministry said. The flagship programme of the NDA Government, JJM was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 15, 2019. The scheme aimed at providing tap water connections to all rural households. The Centre has allocated a whopping Rs 50,000 crore for this mega scheme. At the launch of this ambitious programme, out of 18.94 crore rural households in the country, only 3.23 crore (17 per cent) had tap water connections. "At present, 71 districts, 824 blocks, 50,309 gram panchayats and 1,00,275 villages have achieved the target of 'Har Ghar Jal'," the ministry added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1-lakh-villages-get-tap-water-connections-under-jal-jeevan-mission-centre-1008718.html
14-07-2021||National||Centre merges livestock schemes, hopes to raise Rs 54,681 crore||The Centre on Wednesday said it would spend Rs 9,800 crore on various livestock development schemes that will be merged into three broad categories to better leverage investments in the sector. I&B Minister Anurag Thakur said the central government will spend Rs 9,800 crore over a five-year period to leverage investments to the tune of Rs 54,618 crore to further boost livestock sector. This will include share of investments by state governments, state cooperatives, financial institutions, external funding agencies and other stakeholders. The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA), at a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, decided to realign a slew of livestock schemes into three broad categories – indigenous cattle and dairy development, livestock health and infrastructure development. Through the fresh initiative, the government hoped to make animal husbandry more remunerative to 10 crore farmers engaged in the sector. Thakur said under the livestock development programmes, the Centre also plans to launch ambulances to ferry ailing animals to veterinary clinics. An official statement said all schemes of the Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying will be merged into three broad categories as development programmes. The first will include the Rashtriya Gokul Mission, the National Programme for Dairy Development, the National Livestock Mission, and the Livestock Census and Integrated Sample Survey. The second development programe merges the Livestock Health and Disease Control scheme and the National Animal Disease Control Programme. The third will merge the Animal Husbandry Infrastructure Development Fund and the Dairy Infrastructure Development Fund, and also incorporate support to dairy cooperatives and Farmer Producer Organisations engaged in dairy activities. “NPDD will focus on milk procurement, processing, marketing and check quality of milk and its products. The scheme targets installation of about 8,900 bulk milk coolers and likely to cover about 26,700 villages benefitting more than 8 lakh milk producers,” Parshottam Rupala, Union Minister for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-merges-livestock-schemes-hopes-to-raise-rs-54681-crore-1008731.html
14-07-2021||National||PM to inaugurate several rail projects in Gujarat on Friday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate several key railway projects in Gujarat via video-conferencing on Friday and also throw open an Aquatics and Robotics Gallery and a Nature Park in the Gujarat Science City to the public. The Prime Minister's Office (PMO) on Wednesday said the railway projects include the newly-redeveloped Gandhinagar Capital railway station, the gauge converted-cum-electrified Mahesana-Varetha line and the newly-electrified Surendranagar-Pipavav section. Modi will also flag off two new trains, the Gandhinagar Capital-Varanasi Superfast Express and an MEMU service train between Gandhinagar Capital and Varetha. The PMO said the Gandhinagar Capital railway station has been upgraded at a cost of Rs 71 crore and provided with world class amenities, at par with modern airports. Care has been taken to make it a "divyang" (differently-abled) friendly station by providing it with a special ticket booking counter, ramps, lifts and a dedicated parking space. The complete building is designed and provided with green building rating features. The state-of-the-art external facade will have daily theme-based lighting with 32 themes and the station will also house a five-star hotel, the PMO said. The Mahesana-Varetha gauge conversion of 55 km has been completed at a cost of Rs 293 crore, along with the electrification work at a cost of Rs 74 crore, it added. The state-of-the-art public Aquatics Gallery consists of tanks dedicated to aquatic species from different regions of the world, along with a main tank with sharks from across the world. There is also a 28-metre walkway tunnel, providing a unique experience. The Robotics Gallery is an interactive gallery showcasing the frontiers of robotic technologies, which would provide a platform for the visitors to explore the ever-advancing field of robotics, the PMO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-to-inaugurate-several-rail-projects-in-gujarat-on-friday-1008735.html
14-07-2021||National||PNB moves court seeking restoration of assets of Nirav Modi's firms confiscated by ED||The Punjab National Bank (PNB) on Wednesday moved multiple applications before a special PMLA court, seeking restoration of the assets of two firms owned by fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi, who is accused of duping the bank. The bank submitted the applications before special judge V C Barde under the relevant provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The Enforcement Directorate (ED) had earlier confiscated assets worth over Rs 329.66 crore of Nirav Modi under the fugitive economic offenders law. The confisticated property includes assets of Firestar Diamond International Private Limited and Firestar International Limited, firms owned by Modi. Nirav Modi and his uncle Mehul Choksi, both prime accused in the case, along with others are being probed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on money laundering charges for allegedly perpetrating an over $2 billion (more than Rs 13,000 crore) bank fraud in connivance with bank officials and by issuance of fraudulent Letters of Undertaking (LoUs) at the Brady House PNB branch in Mumbai. The court has asked the ED to file its reply on July 28. Nirav Modi (49) was declared a fugitive economic offender by the PMLA court in December 2019. Following that, the court had authorised the ED to confiscate the assets under the provisions of the Act. He is currently lodged in a UK jail after being arrested in London in March, 2019 and is currently fighting extradition to India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pnb-moves-court-seeking-restoration-of-assets-of-nirav-modis-firms-confiscated-by-ed-1008744.html
14-07-2021||National||PM Modi asks ministers to come prepared for Monsoon Session||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Wednesday asked the Union Council of Ministers to come prepared for the upcoming Monsoon Session of parliament, sources said. Chairing a meeting of the revamped Union Council of Ministers here, he also asked them to do their homework and put forward the government's views effectively during the session, the sources added. A presentation on parliamentary procedures and rules was made during the meeting with the prime minister asking the ministers to go through all procedures. The session commences on July 19 and would conclude on August 13. The government has listed 17 new bills for introduction in this session. Six other bills are pending at various stages in the two Houses and before parliamentary panels. During parliament sessions, besides answering questions, ministers of state at time also pilot bills in the absence of Cabinet ministers. This was the second meeting of the Union Council of Ministers after the recent rejig of the Cabinet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-asks-ministers-to-come-prepared-for-monsoon-session-1008761.html
14-07-2021||National Politics||Speaker calls for all-party meeting on July 18 ahead of Monsoon Session||The government has convened an all-party meeting on Sunday ahead of the Monsoon session of Parliament, sources said. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi has invited leaders of political parties for the meet in which Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to be present, they said. Such meets are convened to ensure smooth functioning of the House during the session. The Monsoon session begins on July 19 and would conclude on August 13.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/speaker-calls-for-all-party-meeting-on-july-18-ahead-of-monsoon-session-1008426.html
14-07-2021||National Politics||Feel encouraged that even opposition leaders are praising AAP: Kejriwal on Sidhu||Aam Aadmi Party national convener Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said he felt "encouraged" as even opposition leaders are talking about his party, a day after Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu tweeted that the AAP has always recognised his vision and work for Punjab. “Navjot Singh Sidhu? He is in Punjab. I am happy that AAP is doing such a good job that even opposition leaders are praising us. So, one feels encouraged about it,” the Delhi Chief Minister told reporters when asked about Sidhu's tweets. Kejriwal is on a two-day visit to Goa. "Our opposition AAP has always recognised my vision & work for Punjab. Be it Before 2017- Beadbi, Drugs, Farmers Issues, Corruption & Power Crisis faced by People of Punjab raised by me or today as I present "Punjab Model" It is clear they know - who is really fighting for Punjab," Sidhu said in a series of tweets. Sidhu's tweets came amid attempts by the Congress high command to resolve infighting in the party's Punjab unit and speculation that he may be appointed as the state unit president.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/feel-encouraged-that-even-opposition-leaders-are-praising-aap-kejriwal-on-sidhu-1008432.html
14-07-2021||National Politics||Why is Mamata Banerjee pushing for a Legislative Council in Bengal?||The West Bengal Assembly on July 6 passed a resolution supporting an ad hoc committee report that favoured the creation of a legislative council. While Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had talked about the creation of a legislative council or Vidhan Parishad and had promised the same in the TMC poll manifesto, the resolution was strongly opposed by the BJP. The BJP legislature party argued that the purpose of the resolution was to pursue "backdoor politics" to help party leaders get elected as lawmakers despite having lost the Assembly polls. However, the Chief Minister argues that it would help offer roles to important party leaders who have been left out of the assembly. What is a Vidhan Parishad? India, being a bicameral legislature (with two chambers), allows states to have two Houses -- a Legislative Assembly (Vidhan Sabha) and a Legislative Council (Vidhan Parishad). However, the legislative council can only be formed or abolished through a special resolution, mentioned under Article 169 of the constitution. At present, six states -- Maharashtra, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Bihar -- have a Legislative Council. What will the Vidhan Parishad achieve in Bengal? As chief minister Mamata Banerjee is not an elected member of the Legislative Assembly -- a prerequisite for holding the top position in a state -- political analysts argue that having an upper house will not only help the state government avoid a "constitutional crisis", but also allow members indirectly elected to the Vidhan Parishad serve in the Cabinet. Banerjee has time until November 5 to become a legislator. If the EC does not conduct bypolls, which were delayed due to the pandemic, in the next four months, she will have to resign. What's next? Now, the resolution would need a nod from the Governor, and after that, a bill has to be passed in the parliament. Following which it has to be sent for President's assent so that a Legislative Council can be created. The TMC government had earlier tabled the proposal in the state Assembly for setting up Vidhan Parishad after coming to power in 2011. The proposal was accepted, and a committee was also set up in this regard. The committee had given its report, and it was decided that a resolution would be taken for the creation of the legislative council. But, due to unknown reasons, the resolution was never taken up. West Bengal Legislative Council was set up in 1952 and abolished in 1969 during the time of the United Front government. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/why-is-mamata-banerjee-pushing-for-a-legislative-council-in-bengal-1008467.html
14-07-2021||National Politics||Forming consensus on face to take on BJP in 2024 polls a big task: Sanjay Raut||Amid speculation over the likely formation of a third front, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Wednesday said bringing all the opposition parties together and forming a consensus on a face to take on the BJP in the 2024 general elections is a huge task given that every regional party considers itself a king and tries to "dictate terms". When asked if that probable face would be Sharad Pawar, Raut said the NCP chief is a senior national leader but at the same time, some people are thinking about West Bengal chief minister and TMC president Mamata Banerjee. “It is a huge task to bring all the Opposition parties together and form a consensus on a face to take on the BJP in the 2024 general elections. Every opposition party equates itself with a king and tries to dictate terms," he told a regional news channel in Delhi. "We need a face to counter the Union government like Jayprakash Narayan against then PM Indira Gandhi in post-emergency polls, V P Singh against Rajiv Gandhi. Later, (then prime minister) Manmohan Singh and (Congress president) Sonia Gandhi duo were challenged by Narendra Modi in the 2014 general elections,” Raut said. When asked who could emerge as a probable face to take on the BJP, Raut said, “Sharad Pawar has been a national leader for a long time. Some people think of Mamata Bannerjee after her spectacular performance in recent West Bengal polls. In such scenario, if (poll strategist) Prashant Kishor can do some magic, I will be happy”. Kishor had separately met Banerjee and Pawar in the recent past. Kishor called on Congress leader Rahul Gandhi at the latter's residence in Delhi on Tuesday. Raut said he shared good relations with Kishor and his meeting with Congress leadership is entirely his own business. Reacting to Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole's comments on expanding the party's base in the state, Raut said, “There is nothing to talk about it anymore. Every party leader speaks about his party's expansion in party-level gatherings and rallies. The actual decision-makers are Sonia Gandhi, Sharad Pawar and (Shiv Sena president and Maharashtra CM) Uddhav Thackeray”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/forming-consensus-on-face-to-take-on-bjp-in-2024-polls-a-big-task-sanjay-raut-1008556.html
14-07-2021||National Politics||Nandigram polls case: Suvendu Adhikari moves SC to transfer Mamata's plea outside West Bengal||BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari on Wednesday approached the Supreme Court seeking the transfer of a petition filed by West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee against his election from the Nandigram constituency outside the state.  Adhikari, a former close aide of the chief minister, who joined the BJP in 2020, is currently the Leader of Opposition in the state Assembly. He had defeated Banerjee in a closely contested election by a margin of 1,956 votes. Banerjee had moved an election petition in the High Court challenging Adhikar’s election victory.  It is learnt that Adhikari sought transfer of the petition filed by Banerjee, which is pending in the Calcutta High Court, outside the state.  Justice Shampa Sarkar is currently hearing the election petition of the chief minister. The High Court has issued notice to Adhikari in the matter and asked him to preserve the documents connected with the election during the pendency of the petition.   Earlier on July 7, Justice Kausik Chanda of the High Court had recused himself from hearing Banerjee's petition against Adhikari’s election win from Nandigram. Taking exception to the manner in which his recusal was sought, Justice Chanda had imposed a cost of Rs 5 lakh on Banerjee.  Seeking Justice Chanda’s recusal, it was claimed that he was an active member of the BJP till his appointment as the Additional Solicitor General of India in 2015. Apprehensions of bias were cited in the adjudication of the election petition. Justice Chanda had said he was never a convenor of the BJP Legal Cell but appeared in many cases representing the party before the Calcutta High Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nandigram-polls-case-suvendu-adhikari-moves-sc-to-transfer-mamatas-plea-outside-west-bengal-1008605.html
14-07-2021||National Politics||Sharad Pawar rules out contesting 2022 Presidential elections or becoming PM face in 2024 Lok Sabha polls||NCP President Sharad Pawar on Wednesday ruled out contesting 2022 Presidential elections or assuming a leadership role in 2024 Lok Sabha polls – speculation that triggered after poll strategist Prashant Kishor met the Gandhis and Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut projecting him as a binding factor for opposition unity. “It is absolutely false that I will be a candidate for the Presidential election (in 2022). I know what will be the result, given the party that has more than 300 MPs. I will not be a candidate for the Presidential election,” Pawar was quoted saying by a TV media. "Nothing has been decided so far, be it the 2024 general elections or state elections. The election is far away, and the political situation keeps changing. I am not going to assume any leadership in the 2024  (Lok Sabha) elections,” he said. “Prashant Kishor met me twice, but we only talked about a company of his. No discussion was held regarding the leadership for the 2024 elections or the Presidential election. Prashant Kishor told me that he has left the field of formulating poll strategies,” he said. The 80-year-old, who has been in electoral politics for over half a century, has been Maharashtra Chief Minister four times, a union minister handling portfolios of Defence and Agriculture for three times and an ex-Leader of Opposition in Lok Sabha. Kishor had met Pawar twice in the recent past in his Mumbai and New Delhi home. The speculation gathered steam after Kishor met Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra – a development that is being seen as important to build up Opposition unity and counter the BJP. NCP chief spokesperson Nawab Malik too refuted the suggestions. “No discussion has been done within the party till now regarding the Presidential poll. If someone's circulating this news, then I'd like to clarify that it's not true,” said Malik, a close aide of Pawar, who is the Minority Affairs Minister in Maharashtra. In a related development, Raut had told a channel: “It is a huge task to bring all the Opposition parties together and form a consensus on a face to take on the BJP in the 2024 general elections. Every opposition party equates itself with a king and tries to dictate terms…Sharad Pawar has been a national leader for a long time. Some people think of Mamata Bannerjee after her spectacular performance in recent West Bengal polls. In such a scenario, if Prashant Kishor can do some magic, I will be happy.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sharad-pawar-rules-out-contesting-2022-presidential-elections-or-becoming-pm-face-in-2024-lok-sabha-polls-1008673.html
14-07-2021||National Politics||Congress ropes in Mallikarjun Kharge to unite Opposition against BJP in Parliament||A meeting of Congress Parliamentary Strategy Group, chaired by Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, on Wednesday decided to entrust Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha and senior party leader Mallikarjun Kharge the task to talk to Opposition leaders for floor coordination in both the Houses even as the party has indicated that there will be no change in the post of Leader of Congress in the Lok Sabha for now. Scotching speculation of replacing Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury with someone else as the Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha, party sources said he will very much remain in the post at least till the Monsoon Session. The meeting, attended by Rahul Gandhi, Kharge and others, decided to work out a common strategy with floor leaders of other Opposition parties to highlight the "inept handling of vaccination drive" by the government and its  "ill-preparedness for third wave" during the session beginning July 19. Besides the issue of over-all Covid-19 "mismanagement", fuel price, price rise, border issue with China and Rafale will be the other issues on which Congress will target the government. Meanwhile, ratcheting up his attack, Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday hit out at the government with a tweet "Jumle hain, vaccine nahin (There is rhetoric, no vaccines)", using the hashtag 'WhereAreVaccines', which was also used by many other Congress leaders. Going by the Congress' plans to highlight the issue of vaccine shortage in various states, party leader Jairam Ramesh flagged the issue and asked the Modi government to double the vaccine procurement and "allocate to states fairly and transparently". Subtly reaching out to non-NDA parties like BJD, YSRC and TRS, which had frequently bailed out the government in Parliament on a number of occasions, Ramesh said, vaccine shortages are now hampering drives even in states - Odisha, Andhra and Telangana - friendly to Modi government, in addition to states governed by the Opposition. On the other side, Kharge alleged that the pace of vaccination has declined to nearly 60 percent of what was seen in the week after June 21.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-ropes-in-mallikarjun-kharge-to-unite-opposition-against-bjp-in-parliament-1008674.html
14-07-2021||National Politics||Prashant Kishor's meeting with Gandhis has the full backing of satraps||Prashant Kishor's meeting with Gandhis on Tuesday has the full backing of regional satraps of Congress like Siddaramaiah, Captain Amarinder Singh, Ashok Gehlot and Bhupesh Baghel, Kamal Nath and Bhupinder Singh Hooda, who want him to play a key role in the Congress tone up exercise at a time party's prospects appear to be in the doldrums. Nath will be meeting Congress President Sonia Gandhi in a day or two to see how the ideas discussed by Kishor with Gandhis could be further elaborated upon. There is a strong buzz that Kishor, who has political ambitions and worked out electoral strategies for many Chief Ministers from Congress and other Opposition parties, could be in for a major role within the Congress or something related to working out coordination between Congress and other Opposition parties. "We are exploring options. We are exploring different possibilities," was the guarded response of a senior party functionary when asked about these possibilities. A source in the party claimed Rahul Gandhi agreed to meet him after it was broached to him by senior party functionaries. Kishor has good relation with Priyanka Gandhi and he was also in touch with Sonia Gandhi on few occasions since May 2 when the West Bengal poll results came out, giving a resounding victory to Mamta Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress. In his first meeting with Rahul Gandhi after a gap of five years on Wednesday, a wide range of issues were discussed with a substantial chunk of it on toning up the Congress, which Kishor considers critical to any successful Opposition alliance against Narendra Modi-led BJP. "If somebody has some ideas. Rahul Gandhi is always open to it. Many such people meet him," was the refrain of a young leader in the party. There are different views in the party over the induction of Kishor in Congress. While one section firmly backs his coming in, another section of young leaders, who claim to be close to Rahul Gandhi is not quite enthused by the idea. All three Gandhis-- Sonia Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, will, however, be taking any decision with a complete consensus among them, the leader said. Kishor, who had strategised for the party in Punjab and UP in 2017, had never kept secret his views about the problems in the oldest party of the country, where decision making is sluggish, many complain. Last month, Kishor had thrice met NCP chief Sharad Pawar, who is believed to be in a position to gather disparate Opposition voices together for the 2024 Lok Sabha polls in which no single party in Opposition can challenge the BJP. There is also a thinking that before Lok Sabha polls, 2022 Presidential polls could be a testing ground when Opposition can give a common candidate and explore whether some non-NDA parties friendly to the government can also be brought in the larger Opposition canvass. "There is no denying the fact that Prashant Kishor is trying to bring all Opposition parties together," said NCP leader Majeed Memon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/prashant-kishors-meeting-with-gandhis-has-the-full-backing-of-satraps-1008684.html
14-07-2021||National Politics||Samyukta Kisan Morcha suspends Haryana farmer leader Chaduni for a week over remarks on Punjab polls||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Wednesday suspended Haryana BKU leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni for seven days for suggesting that Punjab farmer outfits involved in the stir against the Centre's three farm laws should contest the state assembly polls next year.          The SKM, which is an umbrella body of various farmer unions protesting the Centre's farm laws, also said that it will go ahead with its planned protests in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, where assembly elections are due to be held in 2022.          Addressing a press conference near the Singhu border protest site, senior SKM leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said Chaduni is making statements regarding "Mission Punjab" despite being told not to do so on several occasions.          “At present, we are fighting (against the Centre's farm laws). We are not doing any politics,” said Rajewal.          “For this, today we decided to suspend him for seven days. He will not be able to issue any statement or share stage. These restrictions have been imposed on him,” said Rajewal, who is also the president of the BKU (Rajewal). Chaduni, however, stuck to his statement and said that suspending him for mooting an idea was wrong. At the same time, the farmer leader said he will abide by the SKM's decision and continue to play a key role in the ongoing stir against farm laws.          Replying to queries, Rajewal said Chaduni had been telling farmer unions leaders in Punjab to take the political route.          “We had been telling him that we have no such programme. Later, the Punjab leaders complained about his statements and on Tuesday a meeting was held. Today, the general house (of the Morcha) suspended him for seven days,” he said. A week ago, Chaduni had said that the outfits from Punjab involved in agitation against the new agriculture laws should contest the Punjab Assembly elections as it will "present a model on how the system can be changed".           After Chaduni had suggested the "Mission Punjab" idea on the lines of " Mission UP" planned by the SKM, several BJP leaders from Haryana and Punjab had targeted those leading the farmers' stir, saying that it was now clear that the agitating unions were driven by political motives.           The SKM has planned a ''mahapanchayat'' in September and other activities in Uttar Pradesh.        Reacting to his suspension, Chaduni said, “I had mooted an idea-- Mission Punjab... No one can stop one from expressing a thought or mooting an idea. One can differ with that. But suspending anyone on this ground is wrong." “Still, the decision they have taken, I have no problem with it. But my stand is still the same that we should run Mission Punjab," Chaduni, who had last week led a big group of farmers from Gurdaspur in Punjab to Singhu border protest site, said. "In Punjab, the protesters (those against farm laws), honest people, labourers, farmers and small shopkeepers should form their own government and defeat traditional parties.        “And by doing so present it as a model before the country. Today, we don't need to change the rule from one party to another, but we have to change the system. And the system can be changed with power,” he said in a video message while reacting to his suspension.       Chaduni also said that he will continue to play a key role in the ongoing farmers' agitation.       He said that the government should not think that there is any kind of division among the farmer unions and asserted that the stir was going strong. Meanwhile, announcing their strategy over the next few months, Rajewal said their next move would be “Mission UP and Uttarakhand”. "Our next target is to strengthen our agitation in Uttarakhand and UP. From August 1-25, we will be holding meetings across districts. On September 5, there will be a ‘mahapanchayat’ in Muzaffarnagar," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/samyukta-kisan-morcha-suspends-haryana-farmer-leader-chaduni-for-a-week-over-remarks-on-punjab-polls-1008696.html
14-07-2021||North and Central||3 LeT militants killed in encounter with security forces in Pulwama||A top commander of Lashker-e-Toiba (LeT) from Pakistan was killed along with two local ultras in an overnight gunfight with security forces in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Wednesday. The gun battle had erupted on Tuesday night after security forces cordoned Pulwama town following a tip off about the presence of militants there, a police official said. The search operation turned into an encounter after the militants opened fire on the security forces, who retaliated. Kashmir police chief Vijay Kumar said Aijaz alias Abu Huraira, a Pakistani national and two local militants were killed in the gunfight adding “incriminating material” including arms and ammunition has been recovered from their possession. The identity of the two local slain militants was not immediately known. The IGP congratulated the police and security forces for killing the three militants. Reports said following the encounter, restrictions were imposed in Pulwama town while internet services were also snapped in the district as a precautionary measure. There has been a spurt in gun battles between militants and security forces in Kashmir this month after witnessing decline in May and June apparently due to Covid-19 lockdown. While only 16 ultras were killed in May and June, in the first 14-days of this month 18 ultras, mostly from the LeT, have been gunned down by security forces. Incidentally, all the seven encounters were reported in south Kashmir districts of Kulgam (3), Pulwama (3) and Anantnag (1). However, no gun fight was reported in Shopian district of south Kashmir in July. Over 200 militants were killed in Kashmir in 2020 while the number of 157 in 2019. In 2018, the number of militants killed stood at 257– which was the highest in a decade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-let-militants-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces-in-pulwama-1008371.html
14-07-2021||North and Central||Centre intends to bring 17 new Bills during Parliament Monsoon Session||The Narendra Modi government will line up at least 17 new Bills, including one on anti-trafficking as well as the contentious Electricity Amendment Bill and Essential Service Defence Service Bill, for passage during the Monsoon Session of Parliament starting next Monday. Among the new Bills are three that are aimed at replacing ordinances issued after the culmination of Budget Session earlier this year. Altogether, sources said, the government intends to bring altogether around 30 Bills that include the pending ones like the DNA Technology (Use and Application) Regulation Bill, discussed during the 19 day-session between July 19 and August 13. The Centre has already submitted a tentative list of 23 Bills to the Lok Sabha Secretariat it intends to bring during this session. One of the new Bills is the contentious Essential Defence Service Bill to replace an ordinance that bans strikes in defence production units, which has earned the wrath of workers' unions in ordnance factories. The Electricity (Amendment) Bill, which has attracted the ire of protesting farmers and trade unions, aimed at de-licencing of distribution business, is also on the priority list, which had so far not been successful in getting it introduced in Parliament despite listing it earlier. Another is the Insolvency and Bankruptcy (Amendment) Bill, also to replace an ordinance to provide a speedier, cost-effective, semi-formal and less disruptive framework for insolvency resolution of corporate debtors in distress in micro, small and medium enterprises. Along with this, the government will also try to push The Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (Amendment) Bill, which has attracted the ire of Opposition parties, including the Left parties. The Modi government had announced in its 2019 and 2020 Budgets that it will amend the law to separate NPS Trust from PFRDA and ensure universal pension coverage as well as strengthen PFRDA. Another Bill that may run into trouble is the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (Amendment) Bill that aims to enable access by depositors to their savings through deposit insurance in a time-bound manner in case there is suspension of banking business of the insured bank. Also among the new bills is one to establish a central university in Ladakh. Once the Cabinet clears the new Bill, the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting will introduce the Bill. The government will also try to pass Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill and Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens (Amendment) Bill during the session. Bills likely to be brought before Parliament during Monsoon Session - Tribunal Reforms (Rationalisation and Conditions of Service) Bill- DNA Technology (Use and Application) Regulation Bill, 2019- Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2020- Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill, 2020- Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens (Amendment) Bill, 2019- National Institutes of Food Technology, Entrepreneurship and Management Bill, 2021- Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Bill, 2021- Essential Defence Service Bill, 2021- Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Bill, 2021- Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Amendment Bill, 2021- Chartered Accountants and Works Accountants and the Company Secretaries (Amendment) Bill, 2021- Limited Liability Partnership (Amendment) Bill, 2021- Cantonment Bill, 2021- Indian Antarctica Bill, 2021- Central Universities (Amendment) Bill, 2021- Indian Institute of Forest Management Bill, 2021- Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (Amendment) Bill, 2021- Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (Amendment) Bill, 2021- Indian Marine Fisheries Bill, 2021- Petroleum and Minerals Pipelines (Amendment) Bill, 2021- Inland Vessels Bill, 2021- Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2021- Trafficking of Persons (Prevention, Protection and Rehabilitation) Bill, 2021- Dam Safety Bill, 2019- Registration of Marriage of Non-Resident Indian Bill, 2019            - Surrogacy (Regulation) Bill, 2019||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-intends-to-bring-17-new-bills-during-parliament-monsoon-session-1008376.html
14-07-2021||North and Central||J&K security forces destroy IED planted by militants||A major tragedy was averted as security forces detected and destroyed an improvised explosive device (IED) planted by militants under a chinar tree in Kulgam district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said on Wednesday. "An IED was spotted under a chinar tree on the outskirts of village Damjen in Qazigund area," a police spokesman said. He said the area was immediately cordoned off by police, Army and CRPF personnel and a bomb disposal squad was called to the spot. "The IED was neutralised and destroyed in-situ," he said, adding a case has been registered in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-security-forces-destroy-ied-planted-by-militants-1008378.html
14-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi records 76 new Covid-19 cases, 2 deaths||Delhi recorded 76 coronavirus cases and two fatalities while the positivity rate stood at 0.11 per cent on Tuesday, according to a health bulletin. Eighty-four more patients have recovered from the disease in the last one day, it said. The Delhi government did not release the health bulletin on Tuesday. On Monday, the city had recorded 45 Covid-19 cases, the lowest single-day rise in over a year, and three deaths while the positivity rate stood at 0.08 per cent. According to covid19India.org, a crowd-sourced initiative that collects data on Covid-19 and vaccination in India, Delhi had recorded 17 cases on April 15 last year. The city has registered 14,35,204 coronavirus cases since the pandemic started last year. As many as 14,09,501 lakh patients have recovered so far. The death toll stands at 25,020, the bulletin stated. On Sunday, Delhi had recorded 53 cases with a positivity rate of 0.07 per cent and three deaths. On Saturday, the city had logged 76 cases with a positivity rate of 0.19 per cent and one death. The national capital had recorded 81 Covid-19 cases with a positivity rate of 0.11 per cent and three deaths on Friday. A total of 214 people are under home isolation in Delhi, while the number of containment zones stands at 524. The are 683 active cases in the national capital. A total of 67,764 tests, including 41934 RTPCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests, were conducted on Monday, while the rest were rapid antigen tests, the bulletin added. Out of 13,815 beds, only 386 are occupied. A total of 89,44,049 beneficiaries were vaccinated on Monday and of them, 20,95,400 were fully vaccinated. Delhi faced a brutal second wave of the pandemic that claimed a large number of lives daily. The rapid rise in the number of cases led to a shortage of medical oxygen at various city hospitals. On April 20, the city had reported a record 28,395 cases. On April 22, the case positivity rate was 36.2 per cent, the highest so far. At 448, the highest number of deaths was reported on May 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-76-new-covid-19-cases-2-deaths-1008398.html
14-07-2021||North and Central||'A little disturbed' over Kawad Yatra reports, SC seeks response from UP, Uttarakhand & Centre||The Supreme Court on Wednesday acted Suo Motu on Uttar Pradesh's decision to allow the annual Kawad Yatra amid the Covid-19 pandemic, saying it was "a little disturbed" with the news reports. A bench of Justices R F Nariman and B R Gavai issued notice to the Centre, Uttarakhand, and UP governments, seeking their response. The court put the matter for further consideration on Friday. Citing a newspaper report, the bench said, "The citizens of India are completely perplexed. They don't know what is going on. All this is going on amid the PM, when asked about a third wave of Covid striking the nation, saying we cannot compromise even one bit."   The news report mentioned Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami's statement expressing possible fear of the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. "In view of the pandemic and with a new variant detected in the state, we do not want Haridwar to be thecenter of the pandemic…People’s lives are our priority. We can’t play with that…….we won’t take any chances,” Dhami was quoted as saying as the state called off Yatra. The PM, for his part, was on Tuesday addressing Chief Ministers of North Eastern states. "Given the disparate political voices, all speaking at the same time, it is important that the relevant Secretary, Union of India, respond to the news report," the bench said. The court noted since this Yatra is to take off from July 25, 2021, it is necessary to fix a short timeperiod for this case. The court asked Secretary, Union of India; Principal Secretary to the State of Uttarakhand; and Principal Secretary to the State of Uttar Pradesh to file their affidavits by Friday morning. The Kawad Yatra is set to be held from July 25 to August 6. The Uttarakhand government has already called it off.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/a-little-disturbed-over-kawad-yatra-reports-sc-seeks-response-from-up-uttarakhand-centre-1008425.html
14-07-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh to reopen Classes for 11th and 12th grades with 50% students||Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday announced phased opening of high schools for Classes 11 & 12 from July 26 onwards as the Covid-19 pandemic continued its declining trend in the state. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced that there would be 50% occupancy in classes with students attending high schools in two batches on alternate days. “Initially, schools will run for four days a week and gradually hold classes on six days a week,” the chief minister said, adding that depending on the response of students and the people on ensuring Covid-appropriate behaviour, classes 9 & 10 too would be started. “If all goes well (considering the projected third wave of the pandemic) till August 15, then we will gradually resume other classes in schools,” Chouhan said. He said colleges will also reopen with a 50% capacity in a phased manner. “If people continue to adhere to the Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, the government will start the process of reopening classes 9 and 10, then classes 6 to 8, and finally primary classes,” he said. Chouhan said the state government has been preparing the strategy about reopening the schools while closely monitoring the coronavirus pandemic. He said the Covid-19 situation in Madhya Pradesh was under control and the state government is preparing to brace for a possible third wave. Chouhan said the number of Covid-19 cases has come down to around 20 per day and active cases in the state settled at around 250. “Students are getting frustrated due to the closure of educational institutions and they now need to attend physical classes rather than virtual ones. School operators are also facing problems. Considering this situation, the decision to start the process to reopen schools has been taken,” he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-to-reopen-classes-for-11th-and-12th-grades-with-50-students-1008434.html
14-07-2021||North and Central||Was told that DDA razed church, AAP has no control over it: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday assured justice in a matter related to the demolition of a church in Chattarpur area of Delhi saying the action was taken by the Delhi Development Authority which comes under the Central government. The south Delhi district administration on July 12 razed a church built upon "encroached" land during a demolition drive in Chattarpur. However, the church members termed the action "illegal", claiming that a notice was not served to vacate the premises. "I was initially told that the demolition was carried out by the Delhi Development Authority. The DDA comes under the Central government. The Delhi government has no control over it,” Kejriwal told reporters here during his visit. "The DDA perhaps approached the high court, which gave the order and the DDA took the action,” he said responding to a query on the issue. The AAP national convener also said that the local MLA of his party is with the church and providing all the help. "If there was a stay order by the High Court, the demolition of the portion would not have happened. I don't know the legal part of the matter. When I arrived here yesterday, I was told that such action had been taken,” he said. Kejriwal said he will go back to Delhi and study the matter. “I can only assure you that the justice will be done and whatever is right will be upheld,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/was-told-that-dda-razed-church-aap-has-no-control-over-it-arvind-kejriwal-1008447.html
14-07-2021||North and Central||Eight dead in rain-related incidents in Himachal Pradesh||Six bodies were recovered in Boh valley following a landslide triggered by heavy rains which altogether claimed eight lives in Kangra district, police said on Wednesday. According to the police, a Punjabi singer died after he fell into a nullah. Manmeet Singh, a resident of Amritsar, had gone to Kareri lake with his friends. His body was recovered from Salli by a police team on Tuesday night. Kangra Deputy Commissioner Nipun Jindal Jindal said six people have died and four others are reported missing after a landslide hit Boh valley on Monday. "One team is working in Boh valley, where so far six dead bodies have been recovered and four persons are still missing there. The DSP and SDM concerned are there at the spot," he said. One death was reported on Monday, four bodies were recovered on Tuesday night and another body was recovered on Wednesday morning, Jindal said. The deputy commissioner said a search team is working to trace a 55-year-old person who was swept away in flash floods on Monday morning in Sameerpur, while the third search operation is underway in Laam Dal Lake, where around five people are reported missing. The police said an 11-year-old girl died after she slipped into a drain. During his visit to Boh valley on Tuesday, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had said that the state government would provide new houses to those whose houses were destroyed in flash floods or landslides. He said eight houses were completely destroyed in the flash floods and the landslide.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/eight-dead-in-rain-related-incidents-in-himachal-pradesh-1008483.html
14-07-2021||North and Central||Our home not your dustbin: Ladakh BJP leader slams tourists||With coronavirus cases on the decline before a possible third wave, tourism seems to have kick started again as Indians flock to take vacations, mostly to hill stations for respite from the scorching summer. Even as top experts and the Prime Minister expressed concern at the crowds, the Ladakh BJP chief reminded tourists that these destinations they visit are not garbage bins but people's homes. Sharing images of parts of Ladakh littered with rubbish and plastic bottles, Ladakh BJP state President Jamyang Tsering Namgyal said that tourists were welcome to make the most of their stay but should not 'spread garbage here and there'. "This is our home, not your dust-bin," he wrote. लद्दाख आने वाले पर्यटकों का स्वागत। आप सभी से मेरा अनुरोध है, अपने समय का पूरा आनंद लें लेकिन कृपया यहां-वहां कचरा न फैलाएं। यह हमारा घर है आपका कूड़ेदान नहीं। He urged tourists to respect the 'rich culture, beautiful nature and bright future' of the place. Ladakh is often the top choice for tourists for its serene natural beauty and mountaneous terrain for treks.  The Union Territory has so far had 20,204 Covid-19 cases, as on July 13, and 206 coronavirus-related deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/our-home-not-your-dustbin-ladakh-bjp-leader-slams-tourists-1008487.html
14-07-2021||North and Central||Fact-check: Did police keep Pragya Thakur in jail without filing a chargesheet?||On July 5, activist and Jesuit priest Stan Swamy, arrested under the draconian UAPA, died awaiting the beginning of his trial. Swamy, 84, was arrested on charges of connection to the banned outfit Communist Party of India (Maoist) and instigating violence in Bhima Koregaon in 2018. His death attracted mounting flak for the Modi government and the Indian judiciary. Swamy, who suffered from Parkinson’s disease, was denied bail multiple times during the seven months he spent in jail. The international community, including the UN, condemned his death. However, a section of right-wing advocates in India has claimed that the outrage has been selective. Columnist Abhijit Iyer Mitra claimed in a tweet that MP Pragya Thakur and Lieutenant Colonel Prasad Shrikant Purohit, currently out on bail on terror charges, were kept in jail without chargesheets filed.  Several people have similarly claimed that they were in police custody “for years” without any chargesheet.  This narrative has been circulating for quite some time. Alt News could trace it back to at least 2012. In recent years, the claim reappears upon outrage against the detention of those critical of the Modi government. BJP supporter Shefali Vaidya had claimed last year that Thakur was in jail for eight years without any chargesheet filed. OpIndia columnist Abhishek Banerjee wrote that she spent 10 years in jail without a chargesheet. Fact-check On September 29, 2008, a bomb blast in Maharashtra’s Malegaon killed six and left 100 others injured. The state’s Anti Terrorism Squad (ATS) arrested Pragya Thakur in October 2008 as one of the primary accused. Thakur claimed that the ATS kept her in illegal detention from October 10, 2008 to October 22, 2008. She filed a default bail application with the Bombay High Court which was rejected on March 12, 2010. Thakur had argued that she should be granted bail on the ground of violation of the mandate of Article 22(1) and 22(2) of the Constitution of India and also on the ground of non-filing of chargesheet within 90 days as contemplated by Section 167(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). Supreme Court advocate Vivek Sharma had explained default bail in a blog on The Times of India, “Bail must be only on consideration of merits, except default bail which is under Section 167(2) of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 wherein trial judges grant bail upon failure to file chargesheet by the police within the statutorily stipulated time period after taking an accused in custody.” Sub-section (a)(i) of Section 167(2) of the CrPC provides that 90 days would be the maximum permissible custody where the investigation relates to “an offence punishable with death, imprisonment for life or imprisonment for a term of not less than ten years”. Subsection (a)(ii) of Section 167(2) of the Code provides that the maximum period of custody would be sixty days for any other offences not being punishable with death, imprisonment for life or imprisonment for a term of not less than ten years. According to Thakur, she was arrested on October 10, 2008, and the chargesheet was filed on January 20, 2009, after the expiry of the 90-day period. On September 23, 2011, Thakur filed a plea with the Supreme Court against the Bombay High Court order rejecting her default bail application. However, the top court also dismissed her plea and observed, “The plea that Article 22(2) of the Constitution was violated is based on the averment by the appellant that she was arrested on October 10, 2008. Factually this plea has not been found to be correct. The appellant was in fact arrested only on October 23, 2008.” The chargesheet filed by the ATS on January 20, 2009 also reflects her date of arrested as October 23, 2008.  The SC held the High Court’s judgement that she was not detained or taken into custody on October 10, 2008 “but was only questioned and was thereafter allowed to go. It was also noticed that she had stayed in different lodges and was in hospitals and was free to move around and contact everybody. According to the High Court, the appellant was in touch with her disciple and was using her mobile phone which was not disputed.” According to the Supreme Court’s judgement, the ATS filed the first chargesheet on the 89th day from the date of her arrest. The ATS filed a supplementary chargesheet on April 21, 2011 before the special Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) court in Mumbai, where Thakur was named among 14 accused. According to the chargesheets, an ATS team led by Hemant Kare traced the motorcycle that set off the explosives to Thakur. The case was taken over by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on April 13, 2011. On March 13, 2016, the NIA filed a supplementary chargesheet that dropped all charges under MCOCA against all accused. Furthermore, Pragya Thakur was named among the persons against whom prosecution was “not maintainable”. “The central issue is whether the chargesheet had been filed and the trial commenced, or whether the undertrial accused was rotting in jail without the trial commenced. The ATS had already filed a chargesheet against Pragya Thakur and the trial had begun. Later the case was handed over to the NIA, which departed from the case of the ATS and filed a supplementary chargesheet exonerating Pragya Thakur. The supplementary chargesheet was filed to undermine the case of the ATS. However, Pragya Thakur was not languishing in jail without trial, as in the Bhima Koregaon case, where three years have passed and the trial had not yet started,” said lawyer and women’s rights activist Vrinda Grover to Alt News. On October 15, 2016, the Bombay High Court questioned Thakur’s imprisonment after NIA had dropped the charges. She was granted bail on April 25, 2017, under medical grounds. On December 27, 2017, the NIA special court made observations on the chargesheet and held that there was enough evidence to book Thakur. The court rejected her plea for discharge from the Malegaon blast case and held that the accused will face trial now under Sections 16 and 18 of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (conspiring for and committing/organising a terror act) and under the Indian Penal Code for criminal conspiracy, murder, attempt to murder and causing hurt besides charges under the Explosive Substances Act and Arms Act. However, the MCOCA charges remained dropped as proposed by the NIA. The NIA filed a fresh chargesheet on November 2, 2018, after the special court’s order. Thakur and six others were charged under various sections of the UAPA, IPC and ESA. Pragya Thakur has, therefore, been chargesheeted multiple times in the Malegaon blast case. The claim that she was incarcerated for 8-10 years without any chargesheet filed is false. Alt News reached out to Abhijit Iyer Mitra for comment on his tweet that promoted the false claim. Mitra refused to speak to us. It may be reiterated the Supreme Court held in 2011 that she wasn’t illegally imprisoned by Maharashtra ATS as the (first) chargesheet was filed within 90 days of her arrest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fact-check-did-police-keep-pragya-thakur-in-jail-without-filing-a-chargesheet-1008516.html
14-07-2021||North and Central||Electoral compulsions behind Yogi Adityanath's decision to allow Kawad Yatra in UP||Electoral compulsions may have been behind Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's decision to allow the annual 'Kawad Yatra' (devotees carrying earthen pitchers filled with waters from Ganga and offering the same at Lord Shiva temples) in the state, where assembly polls are due to be held early next year, despite concerns from several quarters in view of the apprehensions of the third wave of Covid 19. It was Adityanath, who after assuming the charge of the state in 2017, directed the district administrations to extend all facilities to the orange-clad 'kawadias', who throng the roads in millions carrying pitchers and shouting 'Bum Bhole' (hailing Lord Shiva), during the auspicious Hindu month of 'Shravana'. On Adityanath's instructions, top officials in several districts in the western region had also started showering flower petals on the marching 'kawadias' from choppers. The saffron-clad chief minister had also allowed the use of 'DJ' by the 'kawadias', a practice banned by the previous Samajwadi Party (SP) regime headed by Akhilesh Yadav as it often resulted in communal clashes, especially when the 'kawadias' passed through Muslim localities or mosques during the 'namaz' (prayers). ''Akhilesh ne DJ par ban lagaya tha. Isiiye Bhole ne usse 17 mein harwaya tha'' (Akhilesh had banned the DJ and so Lord Shiva ensured his defeat in 2017 assembly polls), the 'kawadias' would shout while they marched. According to an estimate, over three crore 'kawadias' had flocked the temple town of Haridwar to fill their pitchers with Ganga waters in 2019.  It would be the last 'Kawad yatra' before the next year's assembly polls. Interestingly, no 'Kawad Yatra' had taken place in view of Covid 19 restrictions in 2020 and there was no hue and cry. ''The BJP government cannot afford to be seen to be against the Kawad Yatra,'' said a UP BJP office-bearer here. The Supreme Court has issued a notice to the UP government for allowing the 'Kawad Yatra'. The Uttarakhand government has however banned the yatra following fears of the spread of Covid 19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/electoral-compulsions-behind-yogi-adityanaths-decision-to-allow-kawad-yatra-in-up-1008524.html
14-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi riots case: Court calls police probe 'callous and farcical', imposes Rs 25,000 fine||A court here has slapped a fine of Rs 25,000 on the Delhi police and called its investigation into a Delhi riots case “callous and farcical”.  Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav directed that the amount of fine to be recovered from the station house officer (SHO) of Bhajanpura police station and his supervising officers, saying tthey miserably failed in their statutory duties. The police had challenged a magisterial court order that had directed it to register an FIR on the complaint of one Mohammad Nasir, who lost his left eye after suffering a gunshot injury during the riots. Investigators, however, maintained that there was no need to register a separate FIR as it had already registered one earlier and there was no evidence against the persons who allegedly shot him as they were not present in Delhi at the time of the incident. The judge pulled up the police for lack of efficacy and fairness in the investigation and said that it “has been done in a most casual, callous, and farcical manner.” “A copy of this order be sent to the Delhi Police Commissioner for bringing to his notice the level of investigation and supervision in the matter and to take appropriate remedial action under intimation to this Court,” he urther added in an order dated July 13. The judge said that Mohammad Nasir is free to exhaust his remedies available to him in accordance with the law to get a separate FIR registered in respect of his complaint.  According to advocate Mehmood Pracha, representing the accused, one Naresh Tyagi had allegedly opened fire upon Nasir, as a result of which he suffered a gunshot injury in the left eye.   Despite the request, no FIR was registered by the police, following which they moved the court seeking its registration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-case-court-calls-police-probe-callous-and-farcical-imposes-rs-25000-fine-1008525.html
14-07-2021||North and Central||Former UP CM Kalyan Singh's health condition improving consistently: Hospital||The health condition of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, who is admitted to the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences here, is "improving consistently", the hospital said in a statement Wednesday. The 89-year-old Singh, who has also served as a governor of Rajasthan, was admitted to the hospital's Intensive Care Unit (ICU) on July 4 due to an infection and reduced consciousness level. "The condition of Kalyan Singh is much better. His health is improving consistently." the statement said. It said Singh's all vital parameters are under control and he is communicative. "The senior faculty of CCM, Cardiology, Neurology, Endocrinology and Nephrology are keeping a close watch on vital parameters. Director Prof RK Dhiman is supervising his treatment on a daily basis," the statement added. Earlier, Singh was undergoing treatment at the Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-up-cm-kalyan-singhs-health-condition-improving-consistently-hospital-1008540.html
14-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi has gained control over second wave of Covid-19: Satyendar Jain||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said the national capital has gained control over the second wave of the coronavirus and stressed that the government is ramping up its infrastructure to fight the pandemic. Delhi faced a brutal second wave of the pandemic that claimed a large number of lives daily. The rapid rise in the number of cases led to a shortage of medical oxygen at various city hospitals. On April 20, the city had reported a record 28,395 cases. On April 22, the case positivity rate was 36.2 per cent, the highest so far. At 448, the highest number of deaths was reported on May 3. The cases started declining around mid-May and now the positivity rate is below one per cent. In its latest health bulletin issued on Wednesday, the government said Delhi recorded 77 fresh Covid-19 cases at a positivity rate of 0.10 per cent, and one more fatality linked to the disease. Sharing a video of two minutes and five seconds about the initiatives of the government, Jain credited "active decision making" of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal for Delhi gaining control over the cases. "Delhi has gained control over the 2nd wave of Covid-19. This has been possible due to timely action & active decision making by Hon'ble CM @ArvindKejriwal Ji. Delhi Government is actively strengthening its infrastructure in the fight against Corona. #DelhiFightsCorona," the Health minister said in a tweet. The video highlighted various initiatives of the government such as setting up of oxygen plants in hospitals, ICU beds in record time, deployment of ministers on coronavirus duty, integrated command and control room for Covid management which was readied in 10 days. It also underscored the government's vaccination programme under which schools have been converted into vaccination centres, drive-through vaccination and the 'Jahan Vote Wahan Vaccination' initiatives under which one can get inoculated at the nearest polling booth where they cast their vote.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-has-gained-control-over-second-wave-of-covid-19-satyendar-jain-1008541.html
14-07-2021||North and Central||Amarinder Singh, Sukhbir Badal hit out at each other on Twitter||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh attacked the Shiromani Akali Dal over the issue of farm laws by posting a video of its leaders praising the bills, prompting SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal to take him on his pre-poll promise of farm debt waiver. Singh posted on Twitter a video of Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Badal, former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal and former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal lauding the farm ordinances which were later enacted into laws, apparently seeking to embarrass them amid the ongoing farmers' agitation against the Centre's agri laws. In the old video, Sukhbir Badal was seen saying that the Farmers' Produce, Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) ordinance would facilitate crop sale, and it did not aim to stop the purchase of crop at the minimum support price. In the video, Parkash Singh Badal and Harsimrat Kaur Badal were seen asking farmers not to be misled by the propaganda launched by other parties, including the Congress, against these ordinances. "Lest you forget @officeofssbadal, @ HarsimratBadal," Singh said in a tweet. Snapping back at Singh, Sukhbir Badal uploaded a video released before the 2017 assembly polls in which he was seen promising farmers that the Punjab government would repay their debts taken from banks, 'arthiyas' and cooperative banks. "Lest you forget @capt_amarinder," Sukhbir Badal said in a tweet. The Akali Dal has been accusing the Congress-led government of not waiving farm loans completely. The Shiromani Akali Dal last September quit the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) over the farm bills after it strongly opposed the matter in the Lok Sabha, claiming that these legislations would "destroy" the agriculture sector in Punjab. Harsimrat Kaur Badal had also resigned from the Union Cabinet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amarinder-singh-sukhbir-badal-hit-out-at-each-other-on-twitter-1008547.html
14-07-2021||North and Central||Police complaint filed against Kareena Kapoor Khan over book title||A Christian group has taken objection to the title of a book written by actress Kareena Kapoor Khan and filed a police complaint in Beed city of Maharashtra against her and two others on Wednesday, accusing them of hurting religious sentiments of the community, an official said. Alpha Omega Christian Mahasangh president Ashish Shinde submitted the complaint at the Shivaji Nagar Police Station in Beed over the book, which has a second author. In the complaint, Shinde has referred to the title of the book, "Pregnancy Bible", authored by Kareena Kapoor and Aditi Shah Bhimjani, and publised by Juggernaut Books. The holy word 'Bible' has been used in the book's title and this has hurt religious sentiments of Christians, he has said. Shinde has sought registration of a case under IPC section 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage reli­gious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or reli­gious beliefs) against the actress and the two others. A police official confirmed receiving the complaint, but said no FIR has been filed. Shivaji Nagar Police Station in-charge Inspector Sainath Thombre told PTI, "We have received the complaint but no case can be registered here as the incident has not happened here (in Beed). I have advised him to file a complaint in Mumbai." Kareena launched her book on July 9. Calling it her third child, the 40-year-old actress, who gave birth to her second child, a boy, in February this year, shared a series of posts to promote the book on social media. According to the actress, the book is a personal account of what she experienced physically and emotionally through both her pregnancies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-complaint-filed-against-kareena-kapoor-khan-over-book-title-1008571.html
14-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi records 77 new Covid cases, 1 death; positivity rate at 0.10%||Delhi recorded 77 fresh Covid-19 cases and one death while the positivity rate stood at 0.10 per cent, according to a health bulletin on Wednesday. Seventy-one patients recovered in the last 24 hours, it said. According to the bulletin, 215 people are in home isolation, a minor increase from the previous day's figure of 214, while the number of containment zones has declined to 472 from 524, a day ago. There are 688 active cases in the city, up from the previous day's figure of 683. A total of 76,095 tests, including 54,159 RTPCR/ CBNAAT/TrueNat, were conducted in the last 24 hours, while the rest were rapid antigen tests, the bulletin added. Out of the 13,715 beds, only 389 are occupied.  Delhi had recorded 76 coronavirus cases and two fatalities while the positivity rate stood at 0.11 per cent on July 12, according to a health bulletin issued earlier in the day. The Delhi government did not release the health bulletin on Tuesday.  On July 11, the city had recorded 45 Covid-19 cases, the lowest single-day rise in over a year, and three deaths while the positivity rate stood at 0.08 per cent. According to Covid19India.org, a crowd-sourced initiative that collects data on Covid-19 and vaccination in India, Delhi had recorded 17 cases on April 15 last year. The city has registered 14,35,281 Covid-19 cases since the pandemic started last year. A total of 14,09,572 patients have recovered so far. The death toll stands at 25,021, the bulletin stated. The case fatality rate stands at 1.74 per cent. On July 10, Delhi had recorded 53 cases with a positivity rate of 0.07 per cent and three deaths. On July 9, the city had logged 76 cases and one death, while the positivity rate stood at 0.19 per cent. The national capital had recorded 81 Covid-19 cases with a positivity rate of 0.11 per cent and three deaths on July 8.  A total of 1,29,054 beneficiaries were vaccinated in the last 24 hours, including 36,507 who were given the second dose, thereby making them fully vaccinated. A total of 90,73,103 beneficiaries have been vaccinated till now and of them, 21,31,907 have been fully vaccinated. Delhi faced a brutal second wave of the pandemic that claimed a large number of lives daily. The rapid rise in the number of cases led to a shortage of medical oxygen at various city hospitals. On April 20, the city had reported a record 28,395 cases. On April 22, the case positivity rate was 36.2 per cent, the highest so far. At 448, the highest number of deaths was reported on May 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-77-new-covid-cases-1-death-positivity-rate-at-010-1008582.html
14-07-2021||North and Central||Punjab govt announces loan waiver of Rs 590 cr for landless farmers, labourers||The Punjab government on Wednesday announced waiver of Rs 590 crore worth of loans under the farm debt waiver scheme for labourers and the landless farming community. The cheques would be issued at a state-level function on August 20, said an official spokesperson after a meeting held on Tuesday. The Punjab government will pay off loans to the tune of Rs 520 crore of 2,85,325 members of the Primary Agricultural Cooperative Societies (PACS), thus ensuring a relief of Rs 20,000 per member, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said. This decision will pave the way for fulfillment of the key promise of the Congress-led regime. He directed the finance and cooperation departments to kick off the process for effective implementation of the decision on the ground. The Congress-led government had formulated a Debt Relief Scheme for Farm Labourers and Landless Farming Members of PACS-2019, which would cover only consumption loans to the members of the Primary Agricultural Cooperative Societies advanced by district central cooperative banks in the state of Punjab through Primary Agricultural Cooperative Societies. The CM's announcements follow the waiver of the loans of farmers under the Chief Minister's flagship 'Debt Waiver Scheme.' So far, loans worth Rs 4,624 crore have been waived of as many as 5.64 lakh farmers under the scheme, which was announced as part of the 2017 poll promises by the Punjab Congress. In addition, loans of the scheduled caste and backward classes categories have been written off up to the amount of Rs 50,000 each, including waiver up to Rs 58.39 crore of 6,405 beneficiaries by the SC Corporation and Rs 20.71 crore of 1,225 beneficiaries by the BC Corporation. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-govt-announces-loan-waiver-of-rs-590-cr-for-landless-farmers-labourers-1008587.html
14-07-2021||North and Central||3 more terrorists of Al-Qaeda outfit arrested: UP Police||The Uttar Pradesh Police on Wednesday arrested three more alleged terrorists of the Al-Qaeda-linked Ansar Ghazwatul Hind, a senior official said. Those arrested have been identified as Shakeel, a resident of Lucknow’s Wazirganj; Mohammad Mustqueem of Muzaffarnagar and Mohammad Moid of New Haiderganj, Campwell Road, Lucknow. “On their tip-offs, some persons were called for interrogation by the ATS. The three were arrested after they accepted their involvement with the earlier two arrested," Additional Director General (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar said. The three will be produced in a court for further action, he said. They were planning to "unleash terror activities before August 15 (Independence Day) in different cities of the state, including Lucknow, Kumar had said earlier. "They were planning explosions at important places, memorials and crowded places, and also to use human bombs. For this, they were collecting weapons and explosives," Kumar had said. He said members of the module are not only from Lucknow but also from Kanpur in the state. The official had said that an improvised explosive device (IED) was found at Ahmed's house along with explosives and a pistol. Explosives were also seized from Musheeruddin's residence. He said the module for the Indian subcontinent was announced by the Al-Qaeda on September 3, 2014. Maulana Asim Umar, who headed the Al-Qaeda in the subcontinent, was killed on September 23, 2019 in an US-Afghan operation, Kumar had said. Umar Halmandi had started the work of recruiting men for the Al-Qaeda in India and radicalise them, he said. For this, he had identified some aggressive persons in Lucknow, appointed them and built the Al-Qaeda module, he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-more-terrorists-of-al-qaeda-outfit-arrested-up-police-1008617.html
14-07-2021||North and Central||Case details not shared, Mehbooba Mufti's mother skips appearance before ED: Sources||Gulshan Nazir, mother of PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, did not appear before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday as the investigating agency has not responded to a letter written by the widow of former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mufti Mohammad Sayeed, seeking details of the case in which she was to be questioned, sources close to the Mufti family said. "She (Gulshan Nazir) did not appear before the ED as the agency has not responded to a letter seeking details of the case in which she was to be questioned," the sources said. They said the mother of the PDP chief has only been told that her appearance before the ED is required in a case lodged under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). "Details like the case FIR or the specific allegations of transactions that she needs to answer have not been communicated so far," the sources added. "On the day PDP chose not to meet Delimitation Commission, ED sent a summon to my mother to appear in person for unknown charges. In its attempts to intimidate political opponents, GOI doesn't even spare senior citizens. Agencies like NIA & ED are now its tools to settle scores," Mehbooba had tweeted soon after her mother got the ED notice. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/case-details-not-shared-mehbooba-muftis-mother-skips-appearance-before-ed-sources-1008638.html
14-07-2021||North and Central||Three injured in bomb attack in UP's Pratapgarh||Three people were seriously injured on Wednesday when a country-made bomb was hurled at them over an old quarrel in this district of Uttar Pradesh, police said. Additional Superintendent of Police (East) Surendra Dwivedi said Mustaquim (45), Shayad (27) and Zeeshan (18) were injured by bomb shrapnel and have been hospitalised. The attack took place in Babhanmai village, police said. He added that no complaint has been lodged so far in this connection. A case will be registered once a complaint is filed, the police official said. Police are probing the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-injured-in-bomb-attack-in-ups-pratapgarh-1008648.html
14-07-2021||North and Central||Our vision is to build quality infrastructure in Varanasi for coming generations: PM Modi||Ahead of his visit to Varanasi, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday shared details of many projects he will inaugurate there and asserted that his government's vision is to build quality infrastructure in the holy city for the coming generations. During the visit to his parliamentary constituency, Modi will inaugurate a wide range of development works worth over Rs 1,500 crore. He said these projects will further boost "ease of living" for the people of Kashi, the ancient name of Varanasi, and Poorvanchal. In the past few years, the Centre and the UP Government have done extensive work in the health sector, he said, noting that as a part of these efforts, a 100-bed MCH wing in BHU hospital will be inaugurated. The project will make quality healthcare easily accessible to the people of Kashi and surrounding areas, he tweeted. "Our vision for Kashi is to build quality infrastructure for the coming generations. In that spirit, will be laying the foundation stone for CIPET, rural projects under Jal Jeevan Mission and mango as well as vegetable integrated pack house in Karkhiyaon," he said. He added, "I am delighted to be inaugurating a convention centre Rudraksh in Varanasi. Constructed with Japanese assistance, this state-of-the-art centre will make Varanasi an attractive destination for conferences thus drawing more tourists and businesspersons to the city." Key projects that would be inaugurated in Varanasi include multi-level parking at Godaulia, Ro-Ro vessels for tourism development and a three-lane flyover bridge on the Varanasi-Ghazipur highway, the prime minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/our-vision-is-to-build-quality-infrastructure-in-varanasi-for-coming-generations-pm-modi-1008665.html
14-07-2021||North and Central||MP govt authorises home secretary to issue notices to social media companies against unlawful content||The Madhya Pradesh government on Wednesday authorised its home secretary to issue notices to social media companies, if they are found carrying unlawful content, like promotion of terror activities and child pornography, an official said. Through a notice, the official will ask a social media company to immediately remove the unlawful content from its portal, he said. “The state's home secretary has been authorised to issue a notice under the IT Act against online transmission of unlawful posts on social media platforms like Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and others for their immediate removal,” additional chief secretary (ACS) home, Dr Rajesh Rajora, said. This authority was given by the home department in consultation with the law and science and technology departments of the state, he said. On receiving information about unlawful posts on social media platforms, the home secretary will issue notices in designated formats to the concerned companies for the immediate removal of such content, the official said. Objectionable content relates to child pornography, promotion of terror activities, selling illegal arms, inciting violence, crime related to untouchability, cyber crimes, encouragement to suicide, spreading rumours, wrong depiction of India's map, child marriage, financial crimes, cruelty against animals, misleading information about medicines and selling of crackers online, among others, are the areas in which the home secretary is authorized to issue notices to the social media platforms, he said. The opposition Congress, however, slammed the Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led BJP government in the state over the order, terming it as “Tughlaqi” (unreasonable). Madhya Pradesh Congress media coordinator Narendra Saluja said, “As the state government is unable to bear the criticism against it on the social media, it has issued a Tughlaqi order, and it will decide whether whatever one has posted on social media is right or wrong.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-govt-authorises-home-secretary-to-issue-notices-to-social-media-companies-against-unlawful-content-1008692.html
14-07-2021||North and Central||See if dispute can be settled, Delhi HC tells Sushant Rajput's father, filmmakers||The Delhi High Court Wednesday suggested that Sushant Singh Rajput's father and the makers of a film purportedly based on the late Bollywood actor's life make an attempt at finding a solution to their dispute. "Talk to each other and see if it can be worked out," said Justice Talwant Singh while hearing Krishna Kishore Singh's appeal against the single-judge order refusing to stay the release of the film 'Nyay: The Justice'. "Independent of the proceedings, we will try to resolve," said senior advocate Jayant Mehta, representing Kishore Singh. Senior advocate Chander Lall, appearing on behalf of the film director, also agreed to the suggestion and said that there was “no intention to take advantage”. Justice Rajiv Shakdher, who was heading the two-judge bench, remarked however that the case did not seem like “one of those cases where settlement is possible”. The court issued notice and granted a week to the filmmakers to respond to Kishore Singh's application seeking a stay on further circulation or publication of the movie. The court noted that the application contained certain documents which were not before the single-judge and thus suggested that an application for the said relief be filed before the single judge itself. Lall highlighted that in the judgement under challenge, the single-judge has already given liberty to Kishore Singh to come back to it after the release of the film in case of any fresh grievances. Mehta, however, stated that he would want to take his chance before the division bench and that the documents only reinforced the stand already taken by his client in the plea before the single judge. He argued that the single judge had erroneously ruled that celebrity rights ceased to exist after death and that the movie was merely inspired from the life of Rajput. Mehta emphasised that there were media interviews given by the actors associated with the film that it was based on the late actor's life and having a disclaimer at the start of the film was not sufficient. Inspired is a convenient stand. It is not correct, Mehta said as he contended that even the victims have a right to fair trial. Mehta urged the court to pass a direction to restrain any further multiplication of film between Wednesday and the next date of hearing. Lall said that he would not give any assurance in this regard as his client had a judgement in his favour and the film had already been released. The court declined to pass any order at this stage. Last week as well, the court had refused to pass any such direction to restrain further circulation, observing that the film had already been released on a website. In the application, Singh said that the release of the film on website called lapalap original was “nothing but a sham” as it was “incomplete, completely smudged, blur and hazy throughout”. Since the movie is incomplete, it has not been released, the application said. Last month, a vacation bench of the high court had issued notice in the appeal. The single judge had earlier said it found merit in the submissions of producers and directors that if information of events which have occurred is already in the public domain, one cannot plead any violation of right to privacy on a movie inspired from such events. Some of the upcoming or proposed movie projects based on his son''s life are -- ''Nyay: The Justice'', ''Suicide or Murder: A star was lost'', ''Shashank'' and an unnamed crowd-funded film. The court had directed the filmmakers to render complete accounts of the revenue earned from the films, if any case of damages is made out in future and listed the suit for completion of pleading before the joint registrar. The suit claimed that in case a "movie, web-series, book or any other content of similar nature is allowed to be published or broadcasted, it would affect the right of the victim and deceased for a free and fair trial as it may cause prejudice to them". The matter would be heard next on July 26.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/see-if-dispute-can-be-settled-delhi-hc-tells-sushant-rajputs-father-filmmakers-1008694.html
14-07-2021||Oasis||Lessons from the life of Fr Stan Swamy||We are all mortals and have to leave this world someday. Yet, there are a few among us who die like all mortals, but never fade away from our hearts and minds. They transcend time and space and live forever for a life well-lived. One such person who has now become immortal in our memory through his exceptional life is Fr. Stan Swamy.  Many are the valuable lessons that Fr. Swamy has left for us after his death on July 5, 2021. He has revealed to us that there is greatness in feeling with the downtrodden and in reaching out to them as he did for the Adivasis, for whose rights he fought with the Gandhian principle of nonviolence. There is greatness in choosing to be virtuous, as he did in his quest for justice. There is greatness in living modestly with minimal possessions, as he did in his ashram. There is greatness in serving others, as he did as a Jesuit Priest and an activist. There is greatness in working for the joy of work and not for its rewards, as he did labouring in his vocation. There is greatness in living fully, wholly, joyfully and with a humble attitude to serve, as he did all his life.  Fr. Swamy’s death was as touching as was his life of 84 years. In his death, he has proved that life begins only when one is ready to die and that life gets its meaning through what one considers is worthy to die for. He was not afraid of death, as long as he was working for a fair society and for the common good of humanity. Eventually, when he passed away, his death was not marked by retaliation, but by a gracious acceptance of the environment around him. Fr. Swamy has shown us how to be a reformist without seeking fame, how to be loyal without lying, how to love humanity without any conditions and how to be resilient without bitterness. In short, he has shown us how to be great simply by being gracious and good-natured to the very end. Indeed Fr. Swamy will be ever alive for the finest lessons that have unfolded from his simple life.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/lessons-from-the-life-of-fr-stan-swamy-1008705.html
14-07-2021||Opinion||Dear South Block, please send food aid to Madagascar and Mozambique||The Southwest Indian Ocean region comprises Madagascar, Mozambique, Comoros, Mauritius, Seychelles and French-controlled island territories, such as Réunion. It is in the news for the food crisis that has gripped Madagascar and Mozambique. Mozambique is located on the mainland African continent. The rest, including Madagascar, are islands. Known as 'Vanilla Islands' as they export vanilla, these islands are popular tourist destinations. The Mozambique channel links these islands with the African continent and is a crucial maritime choke point. The Southwest Indian Ocean lies at the crossroads of India, Africa and the Middle East. Therefore, any country with a foothold in this part of the world is likely to obtain leverage to shape the strategic trajectory of the Western Indian Ocean.  Food crises Mozambique and Madagascar are geopolitically important countries with significant resource potential. Both currently face an acute shortage of food. Unfortunately, the international community is not giving the crisis of hunger adequate attention. Mozambique faces a food crisis due to the insurgency, whereas Madagascar is in trouble because of a climate change-triggered drought. Nearly two million people find themselves in a desperate situation. Mozambique has faced an Islamist insurgency in its northern region of Cabo Delgado since 2017. The Mozambican military forces have not been able to stop the insurgents from taking over the vital town of Palma and the area around it. Thousands of people have fled from the region, putting pressure on the neighbouring areas where these refugees survive in difficult living conditions. The World Food Program (WFP) has provided help to these people, yet the magnitude of the crisis is such that even the WFP is struggling to deliver sufficient assistance. It has warned that it might have to suspend relief operations unless the international community raises $121 million. If relief work were to stop, close to 700,000 people will face a food shortage.  In Madagascar, a severe drought has engulfed the country's southern parts, and as many as 1.14 million people are staring at food insecurity. It is one of the worst droughts that the large island state has witnessed in the last four decades. According to the United Nations, 14,000 people currently live "in catastrophic conditions." Thousands have left their homes in search of food, and the rest are barely surviving. A UN official has said people "have been living on raw red cactus fruits, wild leaves and locusts for months now."  The southern region of Madagascar lacks good roads and other connectivity infrastructure, which has made reaching the remotest communities a challenge. A WFP estimate suggests that $78.6 million are needed to provide life-saving food for the next lean season. It means that the WFP needs about $ 200 million to continue its relief operations in these two countries. Else, close to two million people will be left to fend for themselves in challenging conditions. India's role India, which has positioned itself as the preferred security partner for the Indian Ocean states, could play a role here. The Indian Navy delivered food assistance to the Horn of Africa in October-November 2020. Besides, India consistently sent aid to Madagascar in the last three years when Cyclone Idai, Cyclone Ava and a plague outbreak ravaged the island nation. Southern Madagascar faced a severe drought as well. India's assistance helped mitigate the effects of these crises. In the latest instance, India can deliver large-scale food assistance to Madagascar. India's domestic food production has scaled new heights every year and has a food surplus. In 2019-20, India produced 297.5 million tonnes (MT) of food. It is projected to increase to 303.34 MT in 2020-21. Reserve Bank of India Governor Shaktikanta Das said last year: "India has now reached a stage in which surplus management has become a major challenge... shifting the terms of trade in favour of agriculture is the key to sustaining this dynamic change and generating positive supply responses in agriculture."  India could perhaps deploy its domestic food surplus for advancing its foreign policy objectives in the Western Indian Ocean region, where countries routinely face either man-made or nature-induced food crises. The Indian Navy, a regular in projecting India's growing capabilities in the region, could deliver food assistance.  It would help India's cause to underscore its role as a 'net security provider' in the region when China is expanding its influence there through infrastructure investments, economic and political engagements. India's timely food assistance would help these two countries and thousands of people in need and project its growing influence in the region. In the process, offsetting China's influence would serve India's interests.   (Sankalp Gurjar is a Research Fellow with the Indian Council of World Affairs, New Delhi. Views are personal.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/dear-south-block-please-send-food-aid-to-madagascar-and-mozambique-1008441.html
14-07-2021||Panorama||Afghanistan is all but back in Taliban’s hands... and in Pakistan’s||Qala-i-Naw. Arghandab. Urozgan. Sar-i-Pul. Kunduz. Takhar. Maidan-e-Wardak…District after district across Afghanistan are falling like nine pins to the advancing forces of the Taliban, who now control an arc of territory along the western border all the way to the northern borders with China along the strategic Wakhan corridor in Badakshan, to Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan, where they command no local support as they do in the south from their fellow Pashtuns.   In a see-saw battle that has seen the Taliban steadily claim control of over 85% of the country, villages are being retaken by the Afghan National Defence and Security Forces (ANDSF), only to be lost again to lightning strikes by the Taliban militia days later, setting off a panicked exodus to the cities, and mass surrenders of soldiery. Set against the exit at dawn by US forces from its operational headquarters at Bagram Air Base on the Fourth of July— well before the September deadline first set by US President Joe Biden to end the ‘forever war’ — it only reinforces the Ashraf Ghani government’s charge that the hurried exit was part of a deal between the Taliban and the US special envoy to Afghanistan from the Donald Trump era, Zalmay Khalilzad, that would hand Afghanistan over to the Taliban on a platter. While Biden’s focus remains placating his domestic audience, exiting Afghanistan after 20 years without a credible peace process in place comes at a high price. It opens geopolitical fault lines that will have repercussions across the region as the US’ rush to exit fails to factor the inherent danger to the region of the Taliban’s use of Chechen, Uighur and Uzbek militants as part of their frontline forces, reinforcing fears in Russia, China, Iran as much as in India of this Pakistan proxy regressing to its 90s avatar as the home of terror. Insiders who track the Taliban’s new war machine have marked the well-orchestrated advance of the militia as coming in three waves. First comes Pakistan’s well-trained army, which flattens the ANDSF-held battlements in the district headquarters, followed by the irregular army of Chechens and other Central Asian Islamic militia, who have longstanding ties with the Taliban and are in the forefront of the current offensive. These irregulars lay siege to the area, disrupting supply lines, starving the ANDSF and the Afghan National Army of food until they surrender. The Chechens supervise the collection of all arms and ammunition, and high-tech equipment, including US-made tanks and missiles. The third wave, as the Pakistanis and the Islamic militants vanish, is led by the Taliban, who walk in and take control. The Ashraf Ghani government, vilified for stealing the elections and robbing the country blind, and now left without US security cover, had only one bargaining chip— the 5,000-odd Taliban prisoners languishing in their jails. It lost that, too, when it was forced into releasing the prisoners by Khalilzad, who used the ruse to gain the trust of the Taliban, hoping to tie them down into the much talked up intra-Afghan deal— a deal that the ‘Ghani boys’ had hoped would give them a continuing stake and share in the power matrix. Fact is, while Biden’s team continues to perpetuate the myth that the Taliban are open to a negotiated peace settlement, the opposite is true. The Taliban do not want an interim government, let alone an Iran-style governing council to oversee the so-called “transition.” Given the blistering pace at which the Taliban changed the power equation in their favour on the ground, taking control of some 250 of the 400 districts, highways, toll booths and key access points across the country in less than eight weeks, it was more than obvious since the flawed February 2020 Taliban-US Doha peace agreement that their strategy would remain ‘making war while talking peace.’ Delhi’s misreading In retrospect, Khalilzad’s repeated admonishments to Delhi to reach out to the Taliban should have been seen as an early warning from a ‘friendly’, a pointer of things to come. The US envoy may have been mistakenly banking on the assumption that the Taliban brought out of jails in Pakistan and Guantanamo Bay and ensconced in plush Doha, would play the US game, remain immune to Pakistan’s blandishments. But Pakistan’s Army and its powerful counter-intelligence force, the Inter-Services Intelligence, which pulls the strings of the Quetta Shura, based in the Balochistan capital where Taliban families and wounded are sheltered, was not going to pass up the opportunity to resurrect their policy of strategic depth by retaking Afghanistan when the US forces exited. Foreign minister S Jaishankar may have similarly misread the Doha Shura. He made multiple overtures to the Taliban, first in the Qatari capital last year, when he sent an emissary. The Talibs were quick to deflect, saying they preferred to deal with a more senior interlocutor. He attempted to reach out in Tehran last week, and again in Moscow. But coming late into the game, Jaishankar’s Tehran foray came just as the Taliban’s deputy chief negotiator Sher Mohammed Abbas Stanikzai fetched up in the Iranian capital on Wednesday to meet with former vice president Yunous Qanooni of the Northern Alliance, a known friend of India, co-opted by Islamabad. Jaishankar, sources say, asked Tehran to plead India’s cause. He did the same in Moscow, where a team of Talibs led by Sheikh Salahuddin Delawar began talks with Russian special envoy Zamir Kabulov, just as he arrived in the Russian capital. Delhi has been repeatedly rebuffed. Taliban spokesman Zabiullah Mujahid said as much on Baaghi TV, while other top-level Taliban sources acknowledged that India had indeed reached out, seeking assurances its “investments” would be secure but that, contrary to reports in the Indian media, there had been no face-to-face meeting so far. That probably explains why India has brought its Indo-Tibetan Border Police that it deploys to build roads, dams and other infra projects, to the safety of Kabul after the Indian-built Selma Dam was taken by the Taliban. India’s consulate in Mazar-i-Sharif, once attacked by the Talibs, continues to function, as does its mission in Herat, under the protection of strongmen Ata Mohammed Noor and Ismail Khan. But Kandahar is under threat, and India on Saturday pulled back some 50 diplomatic staff and security personnel from there, shutting down the consulate at least temporarily. Why India did not factor in the fallout when Khalilzad first began putting his plan for a US evacuation in motion more than three years ago, remains a mystery. Khalilzad, who traded on his shared Pashtun ancestry with the Taliban to build trust, focused only on bringing the last of the 3,500 remaining US troops home, without ensuring that the Taliban had cut ties with Al-Qaeda. And in prioritising the safe exit of US troops without factoring in Afghanistan’s now all too certain descent into a bloody civil war and in giving international legitimacy to a group known for its brutal record in governance, Khalilzad resuscitated US ties with Cold War ally Pakistan, while leaving Russia, China, Iran and India out in the cold. The US’ new policeman is not just Pakistan, but Turkey’s Recep Erdogan, whom Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan has steadily wooed at the expense of Saudi Arabia and the UAE, the Taliban’s early mentors. Russia, which fears the rise of Islamic militancy in its Central Asian backyard, just as much as China, and now Iran, which has much to lose playing host as it does to thousands of Afghan refugees, are scrambling to forge a joint strategy. Khalilzad, who repeatedly urged Delhi to reach out to the Taliban, may have been sending a message to the major players in the region that his preferred faction of the Taliban, the Doha-based Shura, would be the ones calling the shots in Kabul in the coming months. Except, the Doha Shura’s ties with Quetta and Rawalpindi remain robust. They knew full well that once the Afghan National Army and the ANDSF lost their eyes and ears — the technology, arms and air support that the US provided — Afghanistan would be theirs for the taking. Worse still, it has given a green light to Pakistan, which has waited in the wings for 20 years to retake Afghanistan, which it has long seen as its strategic backyard, as it steps up plans to prey on India in Jammu and Kashmir while going through the charade of back-channel talks in the UAE, of which a fresh round took place only days ago. Curiously, Pakistan’s civilian leadership, at odds with the military, has repeatedly warned that an Afghanistan run by the Taliban will have a destabilising effect within its own border states of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan.  Forgotten playbook As the Taliban militia took control of all the border crossing points and secured the north and the west to prevent a repeat of the reverses it suffered in these areas in the 90s, when they first rode in from Pakistan’s seminaries, it was clear they were working to a military playbook drawn up at Pakistan Army GHQ by the CIA’s preferred interlocutor, the Pakistan Army chief Gen. Qamar Javed Bajwa. And its primary aim was to choke supply lines from neighbouring Iran and the Central Asian states, the so-called ‘Stans’, to the militia raised by former Northern Alliance commanders in what is being called the ‘Second Resistance.’ India should have dusted off its own 1990s Afghan playbook. That, of course, would not be to America’s liking. Biden, at his recent meeting in the White House, billed as a farewell visit, warned President Ghani and his rival Abdullah Abdullah against arming their militia. But the first US rap on the knuckles came even earlier, when former US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, on a visit to Delhi along with Secretary of Defence Mark Esper in October 2020 for the ‘2+2 dialogue’, unequivocally warned India against propping up Ahmad Massood, the son of the famed Northern Alliance commander Ahmad Shah Massood, groomed to step into his father’s rather large shoes and lead the ‘Second Resistance.’ Pompeo’s alarm stemmed from the show of force by militias owing allegiance to Uzbek warlord Abdul Rashid Dostum, whose son Yar Mohammed now leads the feared Jumbish-e-Milli (while Dostum recuperates in Turkey after medical treatment), which was mirrored across the country in a string of provincial capitals. Herat strongman Ismail Khan, Hazara leader Mohammed Mohaqiq and Ata Mohammed Noor, the Tajik who heads the Jamiat-e-Islami of Massood in Mazar-i-Sharif, are flexing their muscles, stepping into the vacuum left by the retreating US and Afghan armies. Unlike the time they fought the Taliban under the command of Ahmed Shah Massood and were funded and armed by the CIA, Iran and India, today they are all fighting separate battles, with no unified strategy to counter the Taliban. The US’ talk of setting up an ‘over the horizon’ defence capability and reinforcing Kabul’s defence by occupying the heights surrounding the capital, notwithstanding, Kabul is a city under siege. The German embassy famously shipped home some 22,600 litres of alcohol, including 60,000 cans of beer, dubbed the ‘beer withdrawal.’ India plans to fly out all but essential staff, the scars of the 2008 Kabul embassy bombing and the shock of finding the home of its ambassador turned into a Taliban armoury, never far away. The reinforced concrete barricades that ring the homes of diplomats and aid workers, and the presidential palace Arg, where President Ashraf Ghani and his arch-rival Abdullah Abdullah are ensconced but with plans to flee, will stand for nothing if the Taliban militia, which already has a chokehold on Kabul and controls all entry and exit points, moves in as expected. As one Kabul resident told me, “A skeleton force of police can be seen in the day, but at night, the Taliban take over.” The last time the Taliban rolled into Kabul in 1996, they took it without a fight. This time may be no different. (Neena Gopal, former Foreign Affairs Editor of Gulf News, had bunkered down at Bagram airbase in Kabul in late 2001, one of the first Indian journalists to cover the US ‘War on Terror’ and the Taliban’s exit then as they melted away into the countryside without a fight)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/afghanistan-is-all-but-back-in-taliban-s-hands-and-in-pakistan-s-1008405.html
14-07-2021||Panorama||Simplify your thinking||Once, a group of top aeronautical engineers were assigned to design and develop a new aircraft. Within a period of few months, they were successful in creating a marvellous piece of the giant flying bird. All officials from the top were extremely happy with the achievement and congratulated the engineers. On the day of the aircraft's maiden test flight, there was a small problem. While trying to bring the aircraft out, they realised that the aircraft fuselage was few inches higher than the entrance of the hangar. The team came to a conclusion that if pulled out, the plane may incur a few dents on top along with the scraping off of the paint. A meeting was then called to find a solution and after a lot of mulling, it was decided that few panels where it was hitting would be removed and fitted back later. It was a major task and a few men were at once put on the job. As the staff arrived on-site to work, a watchman observing all this suggested that instead of breaking the top panels, why not try and deflate the tyres as it would bring the height automatically down. Amazingly, this simple solution coming from a layman surprised everyone. As all had their eyes on top, this was something which the experts too did not think of. In the end, the aircraft finally rolled out smoothly without any damage to any part. Sometimes the best solutions come from the corners where we least expect them.  We often complicate a simple problem so much that its solution seems very complicated. Our mind is often cluttered with too many thoughts which reduces clarity. In the words of Steve Jobs: "Simple can be harder than complex: You have to work hard to get your thinking clean to make it simple." By letting go of unwanted thoughts and focusing on what’s relevant, life can become a little less complicated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/simplify-your-thinking-1008417.html
14-07-2021||Panorama||India should rethink global partnerships||The Covid-19 pandemic has devastated India in ways that no other disease has since Independence. The devastation wrought by the second wave this year has been especially acute and has brought about significant public health, political, economic, and diplomatic challenges for India. A lot was expected from India’s global strategic partnership with the US, however, it can be said that India got the short shift from its partner. To make matters more complicated, India had to tackle its own policy conundrum surrounding disaster aid.  India usually stresses self-reliance and its own emerging-power image to decline aid to tackle challenges posed by disasters. However, the most significant development since the advent of the second wave has been India's overturning of its disaster aid policy, 16 years after it was first conceived by the then prime minister Manmohan Singh government, in order to receive emergency material support for both the country's vaccination drive as well as for meeting the urgent medical requirements of the suffering millions in India. The change in policy has translated into emergency disaster aid being eventually received from the US, China, the EU and a host of other countries. But there was a clear divide in the sense of urgency shown by countries such as the US— seen as close partners in India— and the others. This clear divide is at once baffling and mind-numbing given the scale of the public health emergency. The US has been accused of dragging its feet, especially for its ban on the export of chemical raw materials used in the production of vaccines to India hampering the vaccination process. India's policy reversal did not mean that disaster aid to India would be without the usual geopolitics.  US aid to India Gayle E Smith, the US State Department Coordinator for Global Covid Response and Health Security, highlighted that India is a “major priority” for the US, and that is the reason why it received Covid-19 emergency aid to the tune of $100 million. This decision came after an excruciating delay in releasing the necessary raw materials for vaccine manufacturing in India. After intense criticism of the Biden administration’s ‘America First’ strategy, both domestically and internationally, the Biden administration reversed its decision. However, there is a lack of clarity on how many vaccines India will receive from the US. The Biden administration has not made any commitments on the export of any of the vaccine types produced in the country and there has been no announcement on the provision of surplus vaccines either.  The foreign policy establishments of India and the US have been vocal about their global strategic partnership in the past year. It has been a disillusionment for India with the harsh reality of the much-hyped partnership coming to the fore. The US has failed to live up to the expectation of millions of Indians who were counting on the close partnership, especially for vaccine research and production. On the contrary, India, in the months prior to the onset of the second wave, was generously donating nearly half of its domestic vaccine production to nearly 90 countries. But it had to face shortage after the second wave of infections with no substantial support from its strategic partner, the US. The US dragged its feet and fell back on the platitude of ‘America First’ until the situation in India got out of control. This episode highlights the hollowness of India’s much flaunted “global strategic partnership” as also the hollowness of cooperation under the banner of the ‘Quad’ (India, US, Australia, and Japan). India must retain the reversal of its disaster aid policy to be prudent about need-based disaster aid instead of looking at it from the lens of geopolitics. Aid from foreign governments and intergovernmental organisations must be welcomed in the interest of the disaster-affected as well as in the interest of robust multilateralism. The Indian establishment must seriously introspect about the level of dependence on the so-called global strategic partnerships. If such partnerships cannot be counted on during severe disasters such as pandemics, then it raises critical questions about the kind of partners India needs to look for.  (The writers are foreign policy researchers)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/india-should-rethink-global-partnerships-1008700.html
14-07-2021||Panorama||Patnaik posters, Modi pics: As local body polls near, BJP, BJD fight over credit||The ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) in Odisha and the state unit of the BJP recently had a massive showdown over the Covid-19 vaccination programme. The supporters and activists of the BJP, the principal Opposition, stormed into several vaccination centres in different district headquarters and other urban pockets tearing and destroying posters, banners and leaflets carrying photos and Covid-related messages of Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik. Charging the ruling regional outfit with trying to make political capital out of the Covid vaccination drive, the enraged BJP workers and leaders demanded that the posters and hoardings of Prime Minister Narendra Modi should also be on display in vaccination centres as the Covid vaccines were being supplied by the central government and that too free of cost. The BJD retaliated with some hard-hitting statements issued by the party spokespersons. “When the entire country is reeling under the dangerous second wave of the current pandemic and worried common citizens are making long queues to get themselves vaccinated as quickly as possible, the BJP sent its ‘goondas’ and ‘goondies’ to the vaccination centres to create disturbances and panic. The people of the state will never forgive the saffron party for its Taliban-like behaviour,” quipped BJD spokesperson Sulata Deo. The BJP workers and activists who went on the rampage in vaccination centres included many women members of the party. Senior BJD spokesperson Lenin Mohanty complained about the lack of quid pro quo from the BJP over credit-sharing. “Certificates issued by the central government to the citizens who got themselves vaccinated carry the photo of PM Modi. A number of non-BJP parties in other states had raised their objections to this. But BJD did not utter a single word on the issue. By sending its rank and file to destroy the posters and banners carrying the chief minister’s photographs and messages, the BJP demonstrated its mean and unfair attitude,” Mohanty said, adding that during a pandemic, a chief minister has every right to communicate with his people about the gravity of the situation through posters and banners. The exercise, he said, was only aimed at alerting people and making them understand the importance of Covid-appropriate behaviour and vaccination. Observers, nevertheless, believe that the confrontation between the two former allies over credit-sharing for Covid vaccination would not have taken place but for the forthcoming panchayat and municipal elections in the state. The two important polls are expected to be held as soon as the pandemic situation subsides. The actions of both the parties – the BJD’s decision to put up posters and banners carrying Patnaik’s photos and messages in vaccination centres and the BJP’s violent opposition to the move, besides its demand for installation of posters carrying PM Modi’s photos – clearly demonstrate that the former friends are keen to make the Covid vaccination programme an important issue during the campaign for the local body elections. Both the elections, which will be first major pan-Odisha political event after the 2019 Lok Sabha and Assembly polls, are going to be crucial for BJD and the BJP. For the 24-year-old ruling regional outfit, which holds the record of not having lost a single major poll since its birth in 1997, the rural and urban local body elections will be an acid test, because they will confirm if party president and Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik’s personal popularity remains intact or not. The 75-year-old five-time chief minister’s personal image and popularity has played a key role in the BJD’s success in all the previous electoral battles in the state, be it elections to the Lok Sabha, Assembly or to rural and urban local bodies. The success in the two polls will also help BJD to prepare for the 2024 Lok Sabha and Assembly elections, when it will be pitched against the BJP and the Congress, the third major political force in the state. As for the BJP, though it was defeated by the BJD, the party had managed to improve its position during the 2019 Lok Sabha and Assembly elections. It had won eight of the 21 Lok Sabha seats in the state, compared to only one in 2014. Similarly, in the Assembly polls, though the party managed to win only 23 seats, compared to the BJD’s 112, it managed to edge Congress out to the third position in the House for the first time and wrest the chair of the leader of the opposition from Congress, which won only nine seats. The panchayat and municipal elections will be a test for the BJP as they will show if the strength and popularity of the party has gone up or down since 2019. The party’s performance will be keenly watched particularly in western Odisha as it had managed to secure a clean sweep in the region in 2019 so far as Lok Sabha seats go. All the five parliamentary constituencies – Kalahandi, Bolangir, Sambalpur, Bargarh and Sundergarh had gone in favour of BJP nominees. Moreover, during the last panchayat elections, the party had displayed a better performance in western Odisha compared to other regions of the state. Hence it will be a prestige issue for the BJP to perform well in western Odisha, which was once known as a saffron citadel. The party’s preparations for the 2024 Lok Sabha and Assembly polls will certainly be impacted if it performs poorly in the local body elections, particularly in the western districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/patnaik-posters-modi-pics-as-local-body-polls-near-bjp-bjd-fight-over-credit-1008714.html
14-07-2021||Right in the Middle||Mahadevappa lost and found in Amsterdam||Mahadevappa was missing. Not in Mysuru or Mumbai but in distant Amsterdam. He was part of a package tour party which included yours truly. We, 36 in all, were all with our spouses who kept a check on our escapades but Mahadevappa was alone. As he himself confessed he had intentionally left his wife behind and was enjoying the European tour. At Amsterdam, a major event was the cruise which started at 6 pm but before that, we had two hours of free time to discover the city on our own; we were to assemble at Gate 11 to board the ferry. “Be on time, the ferry won’t wait for the late comers,” Pravin, our guide, warned us.  The group spilt into 3s and 4s and started exploring the totally unfamiliar city. Nobody took note of Mahadevappa. We did some window shopping, ate ice cream and enjoyed a ride on the roller coaster. At 5:30 pm, we started to walk towards Gate 11 where Pravin was waiting for us. We all trooped into the ferry and Pravin was the last to enter the luxurious power boat. Everything appeared to be fine. The two-hour drive on the water was exhilarating and enchanting. The food was delicious. As we all started disembarking Pravin was taking count. One, three, five, nineteen, thirty-two... thirty-five. It stopped there. Where is the 36th man? It was Mahadevappa. But no one had noticed him missing when we embarked. Pravin had missed the count. A crisis was on hand. His smile vanished.  How to locate Mahadevappa? No one had a clue. He couldn’t be contacted because he didn't carry a mobile. A few adventurous men in the group started to scout for him. Minutes passed and we were all huddled on the roadside not knowing what to do. Can the 35 go back to the hotel? But that was unfair because we simply couldn’t abandon Mahadevappa there. If only Mahadevappa had come with his wife he wouldn’t have been lost, murmured someone with his wife by the side. A million questions must have haunted Pravin as he stood there terribly worried. Then suddenly his mobile crackled. He spoke and his face was lit up. He was smiling. We knew Mahadevappa had been found. But how?  Mahadevappa had lost his way as he started exploring the city and by the time he reached Gate 11 it was past 6 pm and the ferry had departed. Pravin had not taken the count. Mahadevappa was single and so no one noticed his absence. What did he do? Luckily for him he had taken the business card of the hotel. When he knew that he was lost he used common sense, hired a cab, showed the driver the hotel card and reached there. When he explained his predicament, the hotel staff contacted Pravin to announce the safe arrival of the missing tourist. But Mahadevappa was poorer by 100 Euros.  And during the next 15 days when we moved around Europe everyone, Pravin included, was keeping track of Mahadevappa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/mahadevappa-lost-and-found-in-amsterdam-1008416.html
14-07-2021||Right in the Middle||Learning to play the mridangam||Tiff between siblings is not uncommon. But the outcome sometimes can be painful for the winner— as was in my case, with a lesson to boot. My sister, who was learning Carnatic vocal music, had a Shruthi box to provide a drone during practice. I often fought for possession of what looked like a small transistor with knobs to fiddle with. I started pestering my parents for one. That set the ball rolling. I was tactfully exposed to a wide array of percussion instruments that were not only bigger in size but also costlier than the Shruthi box. Given my tender age, frame of mind, unbridled energy level and total lack of discipline, the Tambura was considered too heavy to hold and the Morsing too fragile to handle. Of course, the violin too fell out of favour as its strings not being made of iron or steel would not last long in my hands. Needless to say, the ghatam— the clay pot— was never in the reckoning. All this left them with only one choice. One instrument I could go ‘bang, bang’ with. I walked into their trap to have a go at the mridangam. My first lessons were under the tutelage of a mridangam maestro. As the instrument was a little heavy and bulky, considering my age, it was placed on a small rug before me, while I sat cross-legged on the floor beside it. It was all fun to tap the two sides of the instrument with my fingers and palm to produce different notes. At the end of the hour-long class each day, the Vidwan’s wife would offer me a generous helping of hot sweet pongal and crisp medhu vadas as prasad. But all the fun and excitement ended there. Back home, I was ‘rewarded’ with an indigenous cost-effective mridangam— on the advice of my teacher— an empty ‘Dalda dabba’— the short cylindrical vanaspathi tin— for me to practice on and that too in the wee hours each day. To add to my misery, tongue twisters had to be pronounced in increasing rapidity to sync with the sounds emanating from my fingers hitting the hides on both sides of the mridangam. At the end of the day, I had learnt my lesson the hard way.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/learning-to-play-the-mridangam-1008707.html
14-07-2021||Second Edit||A season of the inspiring and the ugly||The month-long football festival spread across two continents and pitting most of the best players in the world against each other ended with defeats for the host nations in Copa America, the symbol of supremacy in South America, and Euro 2020, postponed by a year due to the coronavirus pandemic. Argentina and Italy were popular winners as they felled Brazil and England, respectively, in gripping title clashes that provided a fitting end to high-octane action full of spectacular goals, incredible misses and a near-tragedy that inspired Denmark to mount a stirring challenge that took them to the Euro semis. On the second night of Euro 2020, Christian Eriksen collapsed on the field just before half-time in Copenhagen against Finland. Fellow players, thousands at the Parken Stadium and millions watching television feared the worst until, heroically, Denmark’s players formed a wall around him and allowed the medical staff to work unseen. Eriksen’s recovery not merely united a nation but installed Denmark as everyone’s second favourites, and they rallied from a loss to the Finns to storm into the last four, where they were halted by England. Several fancied teams fell by the wayside, leaving England and Italy as the last ones standing, at London’s Wembley Stadium for Sunday night’s denouement. There was optimism in England that their first entry into the final of a major tournament since the World Cup triumph at the same venue in 1966 would end their long drought, but an inspired Italy had other ideas. Bouncing back from conceding a second-minute goal, the Italians finished regulation and extra-time stronger, and held their nerve in a tense penalty shootout to lift the Euro title for the first time in 53 years. It ought to have been a night of celebration, even in defeat, for the hosts, but hooliganism and racism reared their ugly heads. English ‘fans’ went on a rampage while the three black players who failed to convert their spot-kicks – Marcus Rashford, Jadon Sancho and Bukayo Saka – were at the receiving end of vile abuses which have since been widely condemned. Brazil’s supporters reacted with greater maturity after Lionel Messi’s extended wait for a first major win in Argentine colours came to an end on the tenth go. The celebrated Barcelona giant was the inspiration behind a sparkling campaign, translating club form to the wider stage and scoring and setting up goals like only he can. The stigma of never having won anything significant with his country must have troubled the genius. That has now emphatically been put to rest. The ‘Player of the Tournament’ award and the ‘Golden Boot’ for the most goals must surely only be the icing on the cake.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/a-season-of-the-inspiring-and-the-ugly-1008409.html
14-07-2021||Second Edit||Discrimination in ex gratia untenable||The Karnataka High Court has rightly expressed disapproval of attempts by the state government to fix different amounts of compensation to be given to the kin of 24 patients who died at a Chamarajanagar hospital due to lack of oxygen in May. Setting humanitarian considerations aside, the government has indulged in hair-splitting in fixing the quantum of ex gratia based on the patient’s time of death. The government has taken a stand that as there was an outage of oxygen between 10.30 pm and 2.30 am on the intervening night of May 2 and 3, the families of three patients who died within this time window would be eligible for Rs 5 lakh. A compensation of Rs 4 lakh has been fixed for 10 patients who died between 2.31 am and 9.30 am, while the compensation amount for the remaining 11, who breathed their last before 10.30 pm, will be decided based on the report of the judicial commission which is probing the incident. The government has already paid an interim relief of Rs 2 lakh to each family, after a nudge from the court. A High Court-appointed fact-finding committee headed by Justice A N Venugopal Gowda, which had said in its report that all 24 deaths were attributable to the lack of oxygen, had called for a detailed probe to unearth the acts of omission and commission of district officers so that responsibility could be fixed. Hence, the government claim that there was no shortage of oxygen before 10.30 pm needs to be viewed with scepticism. While the truth will be out once the judicial commission submits its report, there is no justification to make a distinction between those who died before and after 2.30 am, as in the words of the court, it amounts to arbitrariness. The Allahabad High Court had recently observed that the death of patients due to lack of oxygen is a criminal act, no less than genocide by those entrusted with the task of ensuring continuous supply. The Mumbai High Court had held that such deaths amounted to a violation of the fundamental right to life. Surprisingly, though over two months have lapsed since the horrific incident in Chamarajanagar, the government is yet to initiate action against those responsible. While initiating criminal action against the accused officers, the government should ensure that all the 24 families are given the same compensation. Given how callous and unsympathetic the government is, the High Court would do well to continuously monitor the case so that the families get justice while the guilty do not go unpunished.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/discrimination-in-ex-gratia-untenable-1008713.html
14-07-2021||South||Kerala govt 'failed' to bring down Covid-19 cases despite restrictions: Congress||Blaming the Kerala government for its 'failure' to bring down Covid-19 cases despite the restrictions, the Congress on Wednesday said a third wave of the virus is expected and the administration should take steps to reduce the infections before that happens. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) President K Sudhakaran pointed out that Delhi and Tamil Nadu, where cases were very high, have managed to bring down the infection numbers without as many restrictions as there were in Kerala. He said a third wave of Covid-19 is expected and the government should take steps to reduce the cases. The KPCC chief alleged that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and obtained permission for various projects, but he did not discuss the issue of augmenting supply of vaccines to Kerala. He claimed that projects were not only important for development, but were also a source of revenue and hence, the CM was interested in discussing them. However, he (CM) was not interested in getting more vaccines for the people here, the Lok Sabha MP alleged. On the issue of Kitex pulling its investment from the state, he said it was 'unfortunate' and 'embarrassing' for Kerala that this was happening and the state government should try to prevent it. Sudhakaran also claimed that the alleged failure of the state government to ensure safety and security of people was one of the reasons why Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan was sitting on a fast to create social awareness against the practice of dowry and end atrocities against women. Similarly, the state government has 'failed' to come to the aid of the merchants in the state, he added. The KPCC president further said if the state government cannot help the merchants, it should not threaten them or humiliate them and rather it should have a considerate and soft approach towards them. According to Sudhakaran, merchants were being "pushed towards" suicide by these restrictions. Not just the merchants, even other private businesses -- like private bus services -- were facing the same problem due to the restrictions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-failed-to-bring-down-covid-19-cases-despite-restrictions-congress-1008452.html
14-07-2021||South||Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan begins day-long fast against dowry||Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan on Wednesday began a day-long fast at Raj Bhavan, his official residence here, to create social awareness against the practice of dowry and end atrocities against women. It may be for the first time in the history of the southern state that any Governor was fasting for such a social cause. He is observing the fast in response to a call by various Gandhian organisations to create awareness against the practice of giving and taking dowry as part of marriages. Khan began the fast by 8 am and would continue till 6 pm, Raj Bhavan sources here said. The Governor would also take part in a prayer meeting to be organised at the Gandhi Bhavan here later in the evening before ending the fast, they added. A dawn-to-dusk fast was progressing at Gandhi Bhavan also where several Gandhians were taking part in the drive under the aegis of the Gandhi Smaraka Nidhi and other such outfits. In a video message issued last evening, Khan said dowry is a "grave injustice and ignominy to the dignity of women" whose contributions to Kerala's growth are widely acknowledged. The Gandhian organisations said the programme aims at ending atrocities against women and to address the need to make Kerala a safer place for them. Last month, Khan had made an emotional appeal to women to say no to dowry when it was demanded during the time of marriages and expressed willingness to be part of any "organised" voluntary movement to create awareness against the menace.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-governor-arif-mohammed-khan-begins-day-long-fast-against-dowry-1008485.html
14-07-2021||South||Kerala Minister P Rajeev dismisses KITEX's allegations, says state stands for 'responsible investment'||Dismissing as baseless KITEX group chairman Sabu Jacob's allegation that the atmosphere in Kerala is not industry-friendly, state Industries Minister P Rajeev on Wednesday said his government stands for "responsible investment" and the southern state would be made a destination of such investments in few years. In an exclusive interview to PTI, Rajeev said the focus of the government is to attract green industries and IT-based industries in Kerala as land scarcity and environmental issues associated with it have been a problem in the state. "We are always taking a stand in favour of investment, in favour of industries. But our need is that-- investment should be responsible. We stand for responsible investment," said Rajeev, who represents Kalamassery--an industrial hub in Kerala--in the state Assembly. Elaborating on responsible investment, the minister said it is a strategy and practice to incorporate environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors in investment decisions. "If you are looking at the world, the new motto is a responsible investment. The world is changing towards responsible investment," Rajeev said, hitting back at Jacob, who had alleged that the state industries department was like "a frog in the well"-- unaware of the investor-friendly atmosphere in other states. "His (Jacob's) activities are totally against this concept (of responsible investment)", the minister alleged. His statement comes days after Jacob announced withdrawal from a Rs 3,500 crore investment project in Kerala, alleging harassment by state government officials and in turn promised to invest Rs 1,000 crore in a textile park in Telangana. Last week, Jacob held a meeting with Telangana Industries Minister K T R Rama Rao for investments in that state. Rajeev said "apparel industries are facing serious problems all over the world" due to environmental issues and moving from one state to another state is the existing phenomenon in that industry. Textile dyeing is one of the most polluting aspects of the apparel industry, the minister said and opined that garment industries are being set up in places where the investors get low cost employment, environmental issues are very less and pollution is not a concern for the people. "We are focussing on the new generation industries and IT-based industries and green industries. Now Kerala is becoming the largest hub of startups," the minister said, citing the growth of startups in a hub set up by the state government at Kalamassery in Kochi. Rajeev said the Pinarayi Vijayan-led government, which has been in power in the state since 2016, has taken a lot of steps for ease of doing business in the state. "In the first Cabinet itself, we have decided to bring in a law for setting up a grievance redressal mechanism. The bill is almost ready and would be passed in the Assembly session commencing next week," he said. As per the bill, there will be a mechanism consisting of representatives of most of the departments in the government with an authority to take a decision for any issues on starting or running of an industry in the state. "That mechanism has authority to take a decision for any issues regarding the industries and it is final and binding for all departments," the minister said. Asked whether the decision of Jacob to back out from the Rs 3,500 crore investment has dented the image of the state as an investment-friendly destination, Rajeev said "it was an isolated issue and a purposeful attempt to tarnish the image of Kerala." "Kerala is a valuable brand all over the world. No need for any propaganda to raise the value of this brand," the minister claimed. He said the government had not taken any initiative to carry out inspections at the Kitex units. The inspections were carried out following the directives of the National Human Rights Commission, Kerala High Court and other departments based on complaints from people including people's representatives like MPs and MLAs, Rajeev said. Rajeev also said as the Minister for Industries, he had tried to address the issues whenever Jacob had gone publicly against the government. Asked if he suspected that any force is behind Jacob, who has also formed a political party called Twenty20 and fielded candidates in the Assembly election held in April this year, to target the government, Rajeev said, "I am not sure regarding that. He has his own industrial and political interests. He has the right to go anywhere but he should not try to tarnish the image of our own state." Responding to Jacob's allegation that the single window system in Kerala is an outdated system, the minister said this propaganda is far from the reality. "If anybody wants to blame his own state or motherland for getting more and more incentives from some other place, I think it is not fair," Rajeev said. He also claimed that Kerala has never witnessed a trade union agitation reaching a level of burning down factories. "There are no labour disputes in Kerala.... Some states...these types of persons are propagating as examples of being investment-friendly..where companies were burnt down by workers..in some other states, multinational automobile companies were attacked by workers and local people." "I am not blaming the workers or local people. The governments of such states have failed to resolve the issues. These types of incidents have not happened in Kerala," he said. Asked if there is still room for a patch-up with Kitex group, Rajeev reiterated that the government was open for discussions. "We have certain reservations only to their approach-- bringing this issue publicly against the interest of the state. That is the only discontent," the minister said. "We are ready to discuss again if they are ready to continue their letter of intent for investment of Rs 3,500 crore in Kerala," he said. He said Jacob's allegations that he was "hounded and kicked out from the state" were totally baseless. "I don't know why they have commented like that. Some agenda must be there," he said. Rajeev claimed most of the industries in the state are supporting the initiatives taken by the government for attracting more investments in the state. "We are trying to make Kerala a destination of responsible investment in the country. Within a few years, Kerala would be the destination for responsible investment," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-minister-p-rajeev-dismisses-kitexs-allegations-says-state-stands-for-responsible-investment-1008527.html
14-07-2021||South||I see myself as servant, says soon-to-be TN BJP president||BJP has been giving posts and responsibilities to youth and experienced workers unlike some other parties wherein such positions go to the family members of the top leaders, said former IPS officer K Annamalai, who is taking charge as the president of Tamil Nadu BJP unit on July 16. Without naming any party, Annamalai told reporters after performing pooja at a temple here on Wednesday that workers of some parties from the State have been given national-level posts but the BJP is a combination of youth and experience. Stating that he was seeing the post of president as a responsibility, he said age was not important but joint effort to take the party forward was. BJP is not a party led by any one individual, he said adding: "I see myself not as a president, but a servant."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/i-see-myself-as-servant-says-soon-to-be-tn-bjp-president-1008542.html
14-07-2021||South||Kerala nun defends her case herself against expulsion from convent||A Kerala nun, expelled from the Franciscan Clarist Congregation under the Roman Catholic Church subsequent to her participation in stir against rape accused Jalandhar bishop Franco Mulakkal, has pleaded before the Kerala High Court to allow her to remain in the convent and fight her case. With her lawyer backtracking from the case, the nun, Lucy Kalappura, argued her case herself during the hearing on Wednesday. While the court maintained that she should move out of the convent and she would be provided police protection, Kalappura maintained that she has been a nun over the last 39 years and she has no other place to go. She became emotional during the argument. A single bench of justice Raja Vijayaraghavan maintained that since Kalappura herself raised complaints against other residents in the convent, it would be better that she moved out of the convent so that her protection could be ensured. The court posted the case for final orders. The FCC authorities had directed her to vacate the convent after Apostolic Signatura, the supreme authority of the Catholic church at Vatican, recently rejected her appeal against dismissal from the Congregation. She had also moved a civil suit against this. The actions against the nun came after she joined the stir seeking action against Mulakkal. The charges against her included causing insult to the church by making false accusation against the church leadership in television discussions, taking part in the stir against Franco without the church’s permission, purchasing a car and publishing books without the permission of the church. An autobiography published by the nun, who is working as a teacher in a school under the church, also alleged of sexual harassement of nuns by priests in the church.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-nun-defends-her-case-herself-against-expulsion-from-convent-1008548.html
14-07-2021||South||Kerala Governor's fast against dowry triggers a political row||The unprecedented move of Kerala Governor joining a fast against dowry has triggered a political row with the opposition parties holding the Left-front government in the state responsible for such a move on the part of the Governor. However, Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, who joined the day-long fasting by various Gandhian organisations in Thiruvananthapuram on Wednesday, said that he joined the stir to create awareness about a social evil and he had even discussed it with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. This is an issue above politics, he said during his concluding remarks. The Governor also mooted a provision for cancelling educational certificates of those implicated in dowry-related cases as well as to insist on a bond from students while awarding the certificates that they would neither give nor take dowry.  He also urged public representatives to keep off from marriages in which dowry was involved. A series of recent dowry deaths in the state had prompted the Gandhian outfits to stage the fasting at the Gandhi Bhavan. The Governor joined the fasting from Raj Bhavan and attend a prayer meeting at Gandhi Bhavan by evening. Congress president in Kerala K Sudhakaran said that Kerala was witnessing an unprecedented scenario with the Governor, who is the head of the government, himself joining a stir. The government was responsible for forcing the Governor to take such unprecedented steps, he said. BJP state president K Surendran said that the increasing crime against women in the state had forced the Governor to stage the stir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-governors-fast-against-dowry-triggers-a-political-row-1008559.html
14-07-2021||South||Record pass percentage in Kerala SSLC examination||A record pass percentage of 99.47 was recorded in the Kerala SSLC examinations of March 2021. Of the 4,21,887 students who appeared for the examination, 4,19,651 were declared eligible for higher studies. State Education Minister V Sivankutty announced the results on Wednesday. The examinations were held amidst severe criticism against the government for conducting the examinations amidst the pandemic. The entire academic year was also held online. Hence the valuation was learned to be quite generous this time. However, no grace marks were given as extracurricular activities could not be carried out owing to the pandemic. While 1.21 lakh students secured A+ for all subjects this time, last year it was 41,906 only. Of the 3046 schools, 2214 schools secured 100 per cent pass. Students from nine schools in Gulf countries also appeared for the exams and the pass percentage was 97.03. While Kannur district topped the tally of districts with highest pass percentage with 99.85, Malappuram district got the credit of having the highest number of students who secured A+ in all subjects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/record-pass-percentage-in-kerala-sslc-examination-1008589.html
14-07-2021||South||Justice Rajan committee submits NEET report to Stalin||The Justice (retired) A K Rajan committee constituted by the Tamil Nadu government to study the impact of NEET on students from economically weaker sections of the society submitted its report to Chief Minister M K Stalin on Wednesday.  Justice Rajan, the chairman of the committee, said a majority of the 87,000 representations received by the panel demanded that NEET be dispensed with and admissions to medical colleges in Tamil Nadu should be on the basis of marks scored by students in their plus-two or Class 12 examination. The report, which runs into 165 pages, will help the government formulate its strategy vis-à-vis NEET, sources said. The DMK government, which has promised to do away with the exam, is expected to bring a resolution in the Assembly during the ensuing Budget session against NEET by quoting from the Justice Rajan committee report extensively.  The committee, for the past month, received representations from students, parents, academicians, doctors, and others on the impact of NEET among students from rural areas and those belonging to financially weaker sections of the society.  After submitting the report, Justice Rajan said a majority of the representations received have spoken against NEET, while some voiced their support for the exams. “I can only say this much now,” he told reporters.  In his report, Justice Rajan is understood to have recommended the continuation of the 7.5 per  cent horizontal reservation for government school students in medical admissions irrespective of NEET. The committee is believed to have noted that the reservation has ensured that a particular number of students from government schools will get into medical colleges.   The government is expected to use the data collected by the Justice Rajan committee to drive home its point that NEET is discriminatory against students from rural areas who are forced to compete with those from urban areas who have better access to education infrastructure.  NEET is an emotive issue in Tamil Nadu with 13 students ending their lives by suicide due to fear of facing the exam or having failed the test.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/justice-rajan-committee-submits-neet-report-to-stalin-1008613.html
14-07-2021||South||Bank security guard opens fire on employee, injures him||A bank security guard allegedly opened fire on an employee and injured him at Abids here on Wednesday after the latter repeatedly teased him over a period of time, police said. He fired three rounds from his licensed weapon on the Class IV employee of the state-run bank, of which one round hit him and two, the wall, a senior police official said. The injured man, an outsourced employee, was rushed to a nearby hospital by some of the bank staff members, police said. The incident occurred on the premises of the bank near the security guard's room. The senior police official, quoting doctors at the hospital, said the employee was out of danger. The security guard has been taken into custody, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bank-security-guard-opens-fire-on-employee-injures-him-1008627.html
14-07-2021||South||Aim is to bring BJP to power in 2026 Tamil Nadu Assembly polls: Annamalai||Former Karnataka-cadre IPS officer K Annamalai on Wednesday set out on a three-day-long road journey from Coimbatore to Chennai to take charge as President of Tamil Nadu BJP on Friday. Annamalai will cover over half a dozen districts before reaching Chennai – he will also address cadres at several places – as the BJP turns its focus on Tamil Nadu.  The party has high hopes on Annamalai and that is the reason it decided to convert the new President’s journey from Coimbatore to Chennai into an event. After reaching Tambaram, a suburb of Chennai, on Thursday night, Annamalai will take charge as President of the state BJP unit on Friday afternoon. Speaking to reporters in Coimbatore and Tiruppur, Annamalai said the BJP’s goal was to come to power in Tamil Nadu in 2026. “150 MLAs will enter the Assembly in 2026. The dream of our Prime Minister Narendra Modi Ji is that BJP should rule Tamil Nadu,” he said. The new BJP chief also said he would articulate the party’s stand on the recent demand for bifurcation of Tamil Nadu by a few on social media after taking charge on Friday. BJP is betting big on Annamalai as the party makes a concerted effort to make inroads into Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aim-is-to-bring-bjp-to-power-in-2026-tamil-nadu-assembly-polls-annamalai-1008644.html
14-07-2021||South||Kerala reports 15,637 fresh Covid-19 cases, 128 deaths||Kerala on Wednesday reported a total of 15,637 fresh Covid-19, which was the highest of recent times. The state saw 128 deaths, which took the toll to 14,938. The Covid-19 positivity rate in the state rose to 10.03. Officials stated that the jump in cases was due to the record number of samples (1,55,882) being tested during the last 24 hours. At present, there are over 1.17 active Covid-19 cases in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-reports-15637-fresh-covid-19-cases-128-deaths-1008661.html
14-07-2021||South||BJP Kerala president quizzed in hawala money robbery case||BJP Kerala state president K Surendran was quizzed by the Kerala police in connection with a hawala fund robbery case on Wednesday. According to sources, Surendran was quizzed at Thrissur after those associated with the hawala money case were found to be in touch with a mobile phone connection in the name of Surendran's son. His close aides and some BJP local leaders were earlier quizzed in this connection. Surendran told reporters after the quizzing that a politically motivated attempt to implicate BJP with the case was happening and the party would deal with it politically. A large section of BJP workers gathered near the Thrissur police club and shouted slogans supporting him.  The case pertained to a highway at Kodakara on the suburbs of Thrissur district on April 3, just ahead of the April 6 state assembly polls. A Kozhikode native had complained to the police that Rs. 25 lakh was robbed from his car by a gang. Later it was found that Rs. 3.5 crore was stolen from the car and there were allegations that it was hawala money meant for illegal electioneering.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-kerala-president-quizzed-in-hawala-money-robbery-case-1008676.html
14-07-2021||South||Puducherry hikes prices of liquor by 20%||Puducherry has hiked prices of all kinds of liquor in the Union Territory by 20 per cent. The new charges will come into effect from tomorrow (July 15), according to the Excise Department.  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-hikes-prices-of-liquor-by-20-1008682.html
14-07-2021||South||Is Kerala heading towards a flashpoint over prolonging lockdown restrictions?||Kerala seems to be heading towards a flashpoint with a section of traders making a call to defy the prolonging lockdown restrictions and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan issuing a warning that those defying the restrictions would be 'dealt with'. While a section of traders announced that from Thursday restrictions like alternate working day system for non-essential services and shops would be defied, it was postponed by evening as the Chief Minister reportedly invited the representatives of traders for talks. The resentment over the prolonging restrictions, that was in place from first week of May, was also felt in the Malayalam film industry as makers of at least five films, which are under various stages of production, decided to shift locations to other states. Various segments of industries, ranging from beauticians to catering service providers, have been staging demonstrations against the prolonging restrictions. Vijayan's stubborn reaction to a call by the traders to defy the restrictions had further aggravated the protest. He told reporters that the restrictions could not be eased further at this point of time as Covid test positivity rate (TPR) of the state was still high. He further added that if norms were flouted, it would be "dealt with" and traders should "beware of it before making such game plans." These remarks of Vijayan invited severe criticisms from Congress and BJP state leaders who accused Vijayan of not trying to understand the hardships of the thousands of traders owing to loss of business. They also flayed that Vijayan was speaking like a party leader and not an a chief minister. Both Congress and BJP also offered support to traders who called for defying the restrictions. Though the government initiated talks with traders on Wednesday to pursue them not to defy the restrictions, the Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samthi leaders and even some prominent pro-left traders and a former left front MLA V K C Mammed Koya had taken a stand against the prolonging restrictions. This had put the government in a tight spot. By evening Samathi state president T Nseeruddin said that the traders were postponing their plans to defy the restrictions from Thursday as the Chief Minister invited them for talks on Friday. A section of traders even expressed concerns that the prolonging restrictions on retail traders were only helping e-commerce giants as their businesses were remaining unaffected. Meanwhile, the lockdown restrictions like limited working hours for shops selling essential commodities, alternate days working system for shops selling non-essential commodities as well as services and the weekend total lockdown has been inviting widespread criticism as it was allegedly causing unnecessary rush at shops. The lack of stringent enforcement of social distancing norms at shops was also being talked about. Even as the state government was justifying that they were going by recommendations of experts, it was learnt that even some members of the government's expert committee on Covid were not favouring the prolonging restrictions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/is-kerala-heading-towards-a-flashpoint-over-prolonging-lockdown-restrictions-1008685.html
14-07-2021||South||Zika virus cluster identified in Kerala capital: Health minister George||A Zika virus infection cluster was identified in Kerala capital Thiruvananthapuram, where already 23 persons were found infected. Health Minister Veena George said that the cluster was found in three kilometre radius at Anayara in Thiruvananthapuram. Steps like mosquito eradication would be initiated, she said after a review meeting with members of a central team. Majority of the Zika cases in the city were reported on health workers attached to a private hospital near Anayara. The minister, in a release, also said that a control room has been set up at the district medical office in the wake of the Zika outbreak in the capital city, where all 23 cases of the virus were reported from. The decisions to set up the control room and carry out mosquito extermination activities, like fogging in the affected area, were taken at a special review meeting convened on Wednesday by the minister in the wake of the outbreak, the release said. The minister said counselling was also being carried out to create awareness among the people with regard to exercising caution against the Zika virus and not to panic. George said thestate should be vigilant against the Zika virus and preventive operations have been intensified in other parts of Thiruvananthapuram. Besides fogging, emphasis will be placed on the destruction of the source of mosquitoes, she said and added that breeding of mosquitoes should not be allowed in the vicinity of houses and institutions. "Do not let even a drop of water stagnate. Special care should be taken to prevent mosquitoes from breeding inside the house," the minister said and added that besides Zika, steps should be taken to prevent spread of dengue, another vector-borne disease. (With inputs from PTI) Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/zika-virus-cluster-identified-in-kerala-capital-health-minister-george-1008687.html
14-07-2021||State||Congress leader turned away from vaccine centre due to shortage||Veteran Congress leader and former minister Kagodu Thimmappa, who arrived at Devaraj Urs convention hall in the town to get the second dose of vaccine against Covid-19 returned home on Tuesday, without getting it due to shortage. The Congress leader received a message on his cell phone that he is scheduled to take the second dose of the vaccine at the designated centre. He went to the centre in time only to see an 'out-of-stock' board there.  Speaking on the occasion, he said, both the Centre and the state governments gave wide publicity about the free vaccine but it is unfortunate that adequate vaccine doses have not been supplied to the centres.  He said there is a shortage of vaccines in urban and rural areas. People are thronging the centres to get the vaccine but they are forced to return without getting it. The government must take the issue seriously.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/congress-leader-turned-away-from-vaccine-centre-due-to-shortage-1008361.html
14-07-2021||State||Man celebrates his bull's birthday, offer cake to villagers||Generally, people celebrate their birthdays by cutting cakes and offering it to their friends, and dear ones. A youth from Belagutti village in the taluk, however, celebrated his bull's birthday named 'Theerthagiri Don'. He brought cake from a shop and celebrated the occasion in a grand manner in the presence of Honnali MLA M P Renukacharya on Monday. He also offered cake to the villagers.   Manjunath claimed that his bull had taken part in many bull-taming contests in various parts of the state for the past 14 years. Nobody succeeded in taming the bull so far. It has won many prizes in the competitions and has brought laurels to the village. "I offer milk, eggs and other nutritious food items to the bull every day." The MLA cut the cake and wished the bull on its birthday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/man-celebrates-his-bulls-birthday-offer-cake-to-villagers-1008362.html
14-07-2021||State||Heavy rains inundate River Kumaradhara bathing ghat||Following bountiful rain in the catchment area of River Kumaradhara, the inflow of water to the river has increased and the bathing ghat (snanaghatta) at Kukke Subrahmanya Temple was inundated on Wednesday. The intermittent rainfall in Dakshina Kannada and in the catchment area of the river had increased the water level. The river is in spate. With the increase in water level and submerging of the bathing ghat, the devotees visiting Kukke Subrahmanya Temple were allowed to carry out ‘theerthasnana’ on the bank of the river itself. A vented dam near the bathing ghat in Subrahmanya too has been inundated. Home Guards and police personnel have been stationed at the bathing ghat to ensure no untoward incident takes place. In the meantime, intermittent rain continued to lash the district. Since April 1, 3,694 electricity poles and 194 transformers have been damaged in the district. About 50.45-km road and five culverts too have been damaged following rain since April in the district. A total of 62 houses were fully damaged and 332 houses have been partially damaged in the district since April.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/heavy-rains-inundate-river-kumaradhara-bathing-ghat-1008431.html
14-07-2021||State||Decision on writing off loans of farmers died due to Covid soon: S T Somashekar||Minister for Cooperation S T Somashekar said that a decision on waiving loans taken in District Credit Cooperative Banks by the farmers who succumbed to Covid-19 will be taken shortly. As many as  10,140 farmers who lost their lives in Covid-19 had availed loans. About Rs 81 crore would be required to waive off the loan borrowed. “We have informed the Chief Minister that the profit earned by the Apex Bank, DCC bank and Primary Agricultural Credit Cooperative Societies could be utilised for waiving off the loan amount. A meeting of Apex Bank Chairman, 21 DCC Bank Presidents and MD along with President of PACS will be convened shortly to decide on the same,” he said after laying the foundation for fruit and vegetable market at APMC yard in Baikampady on Wednesday. He said the Chief Minister wanted crop loans to the tune of Rs 20,810 crore given to farmers this year. All the 21 DCC banks have been asked to disburse loans and ensure that no farmer is denied loan facility. Rs 1860 cr loan will be given at zero per cent interest in the state through DCC banks. The guidelines of denying zero per cent interest for those who are availing pension of above Rs 25,000 and filing income tax returns will be sorted out. The issue will be brought to the notice of the Finance department, he promised. The minister lauded the union government for carving a separate Cooperation ministry and said that the union government has MLA Bharath Shetty has been urging for the development of the 81- acre land belonging to APMC in Baikampady. With the reduction in cess collected by the APMC, the income of the APMC has declined. “No grant was given to the APMCs last year owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. I have already spoken to Chief Minister on earmarking funds for the APMCs. Fund will be allotted to APMCs once the government releases it,” he said. District -in-Charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary said that the APMC in Baikampady needs to be developed as a model in the state. Amendment to APMC act allowed the farmers to sell their produce wherever they wish to sell. Mangalore North MLA Dr Bharath Shetty wholesellers were shifted to APMC in Baikampady during the Covid-19 pandemic. Fruit and vegetable vendors did not have proper facilities in the yard. The market is being developed at a cost of Rs 12 crore.  The APMC land at Nellikai Road needs to be developed. A commercial complex can be constructed on the said land. A cold storage facility along with a waste disposal unit needs to be set up at APMC in Baikampady. APMC in Baikampady needs Rs 70 crore for its overall development.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/decision-on-writing-off-loans-of-farmers-died-due-to-covid-soon-s-t-somashekar-1008469.html
14-07-2021||State||Preparations for SSLC exam complete: S Suresh Kumar||Preparations for the Secondary School Leaving Certificate or 10th standard exam, which is scheduled for July 19 and 22, has been completed in all districts of the state, with district officials and chief executive officers of gram panchayats already reviewing the steps, Karnataka Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said on Wednesday. The minister held a review meeting with the director of primary and secondary education and instructed officials to ensure that no child appearing for the exam faces any problem. Later, Kumar said in a statement that deputy commissioners of districts had convened a meeting with officials of local bodies, CEO of gram panchayats, superintendents of police, district health and education officers, where they were instructed to strictly adhere to the Covid-19 standard operating procedure. The minister said steps have been taken to instill confidence among children and they have been repeatedly told about the Optical Mark Recognition (OMR) sheet. "Room supervisors are instructed to guide the students on filling the OMR sheets and follow the SOP to avoid any confusion." Two days before the test, the officers, health staff, and scouts-guides volunteers who will be assigned to the test process will conduct a mock examination at the test centre. "The tests this time will be held in a more secure environment than last time. Teachers got in touch with parents and students and explained to them the steps taken by the government to conduct the exam," the minister said in the statement. He claimed parents are eager to send their children for the examination. Kumar said he has discussed with officials through video conference and gave them last minute instructions. The government has also arranged transportation for children to reach the exam centres. "The Managing Director of the Transport Corporation has issued a circular allowing children to travel in buses by displaying their admission cards.Instructions have been given to ensure that no child should miss the examination for want of a vehicle," Kumar said. He added that many organisations, legislators and public representatives have even arranged snacks, breakfast and water bottle besides biscuits for the children in their area. Stating that the exam centres will be like secured places for children, the minister said the exam will be like a festival for children and appealed to them to treat the exam centres as a playground. In response to certain complaints that some schools have denied hall tickets to the students for not paying their fees, the minister said the block education officers will take appropriate action to ensure that children do not face any hardship and the Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board would issue a circular that no child will be denied examination due to fees related issues. While some states decided to give general promotion to the 10th standard students due to Covid-19, Karnataka decided to hold the exam saying that it is crucial for students to select their stream. The exam will be held on the OMR sheets, where simple and direct questions will be asked, the minister had said earlier. The exam will be held on two days -- July 19 and 22. On July 19, the core subject exam such as science, maths and social science will be held while on July 22, exam for languages will take place. The duration of the exam will be three hours. The government decided to conduct the exam, setting aside the fear among a section of people that they would be risking the lives of children amid the Covid-19 pandemic. A petitioner had even approached the Karnataka High Court against the examination but it dismissed the petition after it was satisfied by the measures taken by the government to conduct the exam in a safe environment. Karnataka had successfully conducted the 10th and 12th exam last year as well under the shadow of Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/preparations-for-sslc-exam-complete-s-suresh-kumar-1008588.html
14-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||After TN, Puducherry to oppose Karnataka's Mekedatu project||After Tamil Nadu, the AINRC-led NDA government in Puducherry has decided to oppose Karnataka's proposed dam on river Cauvery at Mekedatu, with Chief Minister N Rangasamy set to take up the issue with the Centre, official sources said on Wednesday. Rangasamy would write shortly to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat seeking their intervention in the matter, requesting them not to permit Karnataka to construct the estimated Rs 9,000 crore balancing reservoir. The issue has become a dispute between Karnataka and neighbouring Tamil Nadu, a lower riparian state, with the latter insisting its interests would be affected if the project takes shape. Karnataka has said the project will not affect its neighbour, with the ruling BJP insisting it will go ahead with the initiative, which, once completed, could ensure drinking water to Bengaluru and neighboring areas (4.75 TMC) and also generate 400 MW power. On Wednesday, a meeting was held at the chamber of the chief minister here to discuss the matter and it was decided that a detailed letter be written to Modi and Shekhawat, seeking their intervention to ensure the project was not taken up by Karnataka, the sources said. The sources said the meeting felt that the flow of Cauvery water to Tamil Nadu and consequently to Karaikal, an enclave of this union territory dependent on Cauvery water for agricultural operations, would be hit if the dam was constructed. "Karaikal is lying at the tail end of the Cauvery basin and depends on the river for farm operations and hence if the dam comes up as planned by Karnataka, farm operations would be hit," sources said quoting the discussions held today. PWD Minister K Lakshminararayan, Transport Minister Chandra Priyanga, AINRC legislator P N R Tirumurugan and Independent member P R Siva (the last three are elected from Karaikal region to the Assembly) and PWD officials also participated in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/after-tn-puducherry-to-oppose-karnatakas-mekedatu-project-1008643.html
14-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 1,990 new Covid-19 cases, 45 deaths||Karnataka on Wednesday reported 1,990 new cases of Covid-19 and 45 deaths, taking the caseload to 28,76,587 and death toll to 35,989, the health department said. The day also saw 2,537 discharges, pushing the total number of recoveries to 28,06,933. Bengaluru Urban recorded 400 new cases, as the city saw 490 discharges and 8 deaths. Active cases stood at 33,642. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 1.59 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 2.26 per cent. Dakshina Kannada and Mysuru reported six deaths each, Belagavi (4), Bengaluru Rural and Chikkaballapura three each, followed by others. After Bengaluru urban, Dakshina Kannada recorded the highest number of new cases at 219 followed by Mysuru 211 and Hassan 175. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,20,498. Mysuru has 1,70,362 and Tumakuru 1,16,594 cases. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 11,92,163, followed by Mysuru 1,65,479 and Tumakuru 1,14,109. Cumulatively a total of 3,62,93,105 samples have been tested in the state, of which 1,24,494 were tested on Wednesday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-1990-new-covid-19-cases-45-deaths-1008645.html
14-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||10,000 farmers died due to Covid-19: Karnataka govt||As many as 10,187 farmers have died due to Covid-19 and they have left behind outstanding loans of Rs 79.47 crore in cooperative banks, the government said Wednesday.  Cooperation Minister ST Somashekhar said the chief minister will take a call on waiving these loans in 3-4 days. “In a couple of days, the Apex Bank board of governors will meet and take a decision on the loan waiver. Our CM and government are committed to help farmers during the Covid-19 distress. We will also ensure that farmers get credit,” Somashekhar said.  If the loan waiver comes through, the highest number of beneficiaries will be in Belagavi where 3,334 farmers who succumbed to Covid-19 had Rs 23.84 crore outstanding loans, followed by Bidar (824 farmers) and Vijayapura (754 farmers).  These are loans borrowed from the Karnataka State Cooperative Apex Bank, the District Cooperative Central banks and the Primary Agricultural Credit Societies.  In the previous 2020-21 fiscal, the government’s credit target was for 24.50 lakh farmers to get short-term and medium-term crop loans worth Rs 15,300 crore. “Exceeding this garget, we covered 25.67 lakh farmers with Rs 17,108 crore of loan. Of them, 10,187 farmers died due to Covid-19 and the CM is considering writing off their loans worth Rs 79.47 crore,” Somashekhar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/10000-farmers-died-due-to-covid-19-karnataka-govt-1008649.html
14-07-2021||West||Waive off RT-PCR negative report norm for incoming pax: BMC to Maharashtra govt||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation on Tuesday requested the Maharashtra government to exempt the RT-PCR negative test report stipulation for passengers arriving in the metropolis from within the country if they are fully vaccinated, an official said. He said BMC chief Iqbal Singh Chahal had written a letter detailing this request to the state government, which is expected to take a call on it soon. The civic body had made a RT-PCR negative report of a test carried out within 48 hours of commencing the journey towards the metropolis mandatory in May this year, he said. While it was at first applicable to those coming in from Gujarat, Goa, Delhi, Rajasthan and Kerala, all of which had high infection counts at the time, the rule gradually was extended to cover all passengers irrespective of the origin state, the official added. Chahal, in his letter, said several people were traveling for business purposes to Delhi and other areas and returning on the same day, and in such cases getting a RT-PCR test report in a short span of time was becoming impossible. The letter said the Covid-19 vaccination drive was underway across the country and many citizens, who are fully vaccinated, have been requesting that the RT-PCR negative test report norm be waived off.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/waive-off-rt-pcr-negative-report-norm-for-incoming-pax-bmc-to-maharashtra-govt-1008352.html
14-07-2021||West||Maharashtra unveils new EV policy, sets 10% share in total registrations by 2025||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday announced its new electric vehicle (EV) policy with an aim of making such vehicles achieve 10 per cent share of total registrations by 2025. The new policy, which has updated the one announced in 2018, was released by Additional Chief Secretary (Transport) Ashish Singh and state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray and others. "The policy has some ambitious targets. Electric vehicles must comprise at least 10 per cent of total vehicles registered by 2025. We also want to achieve 25 per cent EV share in public transport in Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Aurangabad and Nashik. It includes converting 15 per cent of the MSRTC fleet into EVs by 2025. We also intend to make Maharashtra the top producer of battery driven EVs in India in terms of annual production capability," Singh said. He said another target laid down in the new policy was to establish one gigawatt of battery manufacturing capability in the state. Speaking on the occasion, minister Thackeray said the conventional fuel-based passenger vehicle market may be hesitant as engines are getting upgraded in Euro-IV and V models but a major change can be brought about in the public transport sector by tapping MSRTC and civic-run undertakings for the EV initiative. "The Union government's FAME-II policy and Maharashtra's new EV policy can be combined for greater effectiveness. We are trying to set up EV charging stations in these five major cities though several incentives, with residential and office areas being on the priority list to set up EV charging stations," Thackeray said. He brushed aside a query on whether EV manufacturer Tesla was being contacted by the state government to be part of this sector by claiming that "a state cannot endorse a single car making company". "We are in talks with all EV makers. Some 73-74 per cent ancillary makers of such vehicles are in Maharashtra. If any company conducts a study, they will naturally find Maharashtra a preferred destination in terms of ancillary suppliers as well as purchasers of such vehicles," the minister said. The EV policy has proposed that procurement of all new vehicles from April next year would be electric ones, while last mile delivery vehicles in cities such as Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Aurangabad, Nashik and Amravati will be EVs by 2025, Singh said. "There are plans to set up 2,500 charging stations in Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Aurangabad, Nashik, Amravati and Solapur, as well as along four major highways, namely Mumbai-Pune, Mumbai-Nashik, Mumbai-Nagpur and Pune-Nashik," he added. The official said, under the policy, which will be in force till 2025, electric two-wheelers will get incentives of up to Rs 44,000 while it could be as high as 1.75 lakh for four wheelers. Residential societies and home owners could get property tax rebates if they set up EV charging stations, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-unveils-new-ev-policy-sets-10-share-in-total-registrations-by-2025-1008353.html
14-07-2021||West||Now, Maharashtra announces its own masterchef competition||With an aim to showcase the rich food heritage and explore the land of Maharashtra through its regional cuisine, the Directorate of Tourism has organised a video recipe contest- ‘MaharashtraChe Masterchef’ The contest commenced on 11 July and will remain open till 11 August. The contest is open to all in India and abroad, and there is no entry fee to participate. In order to participate, the participant must upload a video showcasing the recipe of the cuisine. The duration of the video must be between 30 seconds and 15 minutes. Valsa Nair Singh, Principal Secretary, Department of Tourism, Maharashtra Tourism, said: “We have been taking steps to promote Maharashtrian culture and heritage. But this time our focus is on Maharashtrian cuisine, as it is equally rich. The taste of Maharashtra deserves to reach different parts of the world.” During the contest, the creative minds will be able to use their cinematic skills, food innovation etc. to showcase their talent. Dr Dhananjay Sawalkar, Director, Directorate of Tourism said: “The contest has been organised to showcase the use of traditional ingredients, cooking methods, health benefits and treasure trove of delicious, authentic Maharashtrian cuisine, to the world. This is a wonderful opportunity for all the foodies, food vloggers and others to participate and earn the gratification. I appeal to them to participate and reap benefits.” The participants will be judged by a panel of food experts and winners will be selected on the basis of innovative video shooting style, presentation of food, regional Maharashtrian recipes, use of Maharashtrian ingredients and health benefits of the recipes prepared. From all the entries for the contest, the 15 best will be given Rs 10,000, while 40 winners will get Rs 5,000 each. Besides, 100 entries will get prize money of Rs 2000. Also, the department will issue a guaranteed certificate of participation to the contestants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/now-maharashtra-announces-its-own-masterchef-competition-1008406.html
14-07-2021||West||40% hotels closed down in Maharashtra due to Covid-19 pandemic: Hotel association||Over 40 per cent of hotels in Maharashtra have permanently closed in the last 15 months because of the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, according to the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI), the apex body of the hotel industry. “Over the last 15 odd months, various factors have resulted in massive financial losses due to the lockdown. Over 40 per cent of restaurants and hotels in the state have permanently closed. There is sheer unpredictability on when to open when to close, what days to open, how much staff is required and what kind of inventory to maintain,” said Sherry Bhatia, President, HRAWI. According to him, the lockdown measures have put tremendous pressure on the business and do more harm than good. “Under such uncertain circumstances, mobilising operations of a hotel or restaurant property as well as recalling of employees and restarting of operations become an arduous task. It is extremely necessary for a business to get a sense of stability by allowing graded re-opening of this sector. We assure the Government that restaurants, as have always, will operate as per permissible guidelines, keeping in mind all the applicable SOPs for a safe and hygienic environment for its guests as well as its staff,” said Bhatia. The HWARI has also made a formal representation to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Home Minister Dilip Walse-Patil, Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray, Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte and Principal Secretary Valsa Nair-Singh. "We request the Government to allow the restaurants to stay open from 7 am to 12.30 am or as per the time mentioned in their licenses, including weekends. These operation timings are likely to benefit a large number of players in this sector. It will also promote staggered venturing out of the public. We urge the Government of Maharashtra to take the repercussions of such decisions into consideration and relax the lockdown restrictions in Mumbai in the wake of a dip in the positivity rate,” added Bhatia. “With no specific relief or stimulus from the State Government, the industry continues to suffer. One of the biggest myths is the assumption that hotels and restaurants are super spreader places. This is simply not true; there is no fact in it. Operating in a controlled environment with all the SOPs makes hotels and restaurants a COVID19 safe environment,” added Pradeep Shetty, Senior Vice President, HRAWI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/40-hotels-closed-down-in-maharashtra-due-to-covid-19-pandemic-hotel-association-1008445.html
14-07-2021||West||Nana Patole fires veiled barb at NCP, says Congress was cheated in 2014||The war of words within the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi dispensation seems to be compounding with Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole firing yet another salvo making allies – Shiv Sena and NCP -- uncomfortable. However, the alliance partners maintained that the MVA was safe and would complete its full five-year term. On Wednesday, Patole, a four-term MLA and a former Lok Sabha MP, this time, directly hit out at the NCP but it also made the Shiv Sena -- that is heading the MVA government -- uneasy. Patole, who has given a call to go solo in future local bodies, Vidhan Sabha and Lok Sabha polls, maintained that the Congress is working to expand its base so that it does not get "cheated" like in 2014. “We (Congress) were cheated in 2014 (polls). We are now preparing for the next Lok Sabha elections keeping that in mind," he said. Patole’s statement came just a day after AICC’s Maharashtra in-charge HK Patil, Public Works Minister Ashok Chavan and Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat called on NCP supremo Sharad Pawar in the wake of the recent statements of the Congress head in the state. While referring to  2014, Patole reminded NCP of the happenings between the Lok Sabha and Vidhan Sabha polls – when the Democratic Front alliance – that ran the state from 1999-2014 broke off. It needs to be mentioned that Ashok Chavan had to resign in the wake of the Adarsh scam after which Prithviraj Chavan took over the reins of the state. Prithviraj Chavan had a tumultuous relationship with the NCP. He had called for a white paper on the irrigation scam and appointed an administrator in the Maharashtra State Cooperative Bank scam. This did not go well within the NCP and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar. Besides, the then chief minister also ordered a probe into the Maharashtra Sadan scam – which directly went against then Public Works Minister Chhagan Bhujbal. In the run-up to the 2014 Assembly polls, the seat-sharing talks broke off and the government fell with the state seeing a brief President’s Rule. After the polls, the NCP offered unconditional support to BJP to form the government. However, later, Shiv Sena moved to the treasury benches.Patole said, “A Congress-led government will come to power under the leadership of Rahul Gandhi in 2024. The BJP has put the whole nation on sale. People are suffering from the pandemic. Their situation is worsening with rising inflation.” Meanwhile, Shiv Sena chief spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member took a swipe at Patole. “He took up the responsibility of giving a boost to the Maharashtra Congress and ensuring that Congress comes to power on its own. That's why I must commend his courage. Nana Patole is going to revitalise the Congress..."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nana-patole-fires-veiled-barb-at-ncp-says-congress-was-cheated-in-2014-1008494.html
14-07-2021||West||Fact-check: Morphed billboard shows AAP promoting namaz, discouraging Hindu prayers in Gujarat||Three people have been featured on the original billboard. Their names are mentioned under their photos (left to right) – Isudan Gadhvi, Gopal Italia, and Arvind Kejriwal. The comparison below highlights the parts of the original billboard that have been morphed.     In conclusion, several social media users including a journalist shared an edited image of the Aam Aadmi Party’s political billboard to falsely claim that AAP is promoting namaz and discouraging Hindu prayers in Gujarat ahead of assembly elections in the state next year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fact-check-morphed-billboard-shows-aap-promoting-namaz-discouraging-hindu-prayers-in-gujarat-1008508.html
14-07-2021||West||Gujarat govt suspends Covid-19 vaccination for Mamata Diwas||This is the second week in a row that the inoculation drive against coronavirus has been suspended on a Wednesday due to Mamata Diwas. During Mamata Diwas, healthcare workers across the state check on pregnant women, provide them guidance and give them iron and vitamin tablets. Health workers also administer vaccines, such as BCG, polio and rubella, to women, children and infants. "Vaccination drive against coronavirus will remain suspended today in view of the tasks health workers need to carry out on Mamata Diwas under the universal immunisation programme," state immunisation officer Dr Nayan Jani said. The state government, however, has not made it clear if the drive will be halted on all Wednesdays. Last week, apart from Wednesday, the state government had halted the Covid-19 inoculation drive on Thursday and Friday as well without giving specific reason. The state government recently made it clear that there is no shortage of vaccine doses. In the initial phase, the vaccination drive against Covid-19 had remained suspended in the state on Wednesdays to accommodate other immunisation programmes. However, as the drive gained momentum, it was running on all days without any break. Gujarat has so far administered a total of 2.83 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses, of which 2.53 lakh were given on Tuesday. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-govt-suspends-covid-19-vaccination-for-mamata-diwas-1008510.html
14-07-2021||West||Maharashtra government 'negates' decision to set up 3 bird sanctuaries near Mumbai, RTI response shows||In a rude shock to environmentalists, the Maharashtra government has sought to negate its own decision on setting up three bird sanctuaries at Mahul-Sewri, TS Chanakya-NRI wetlands off Palm Beach Road in Navi Mumbai and Panje-Funde near Uran as a wildlife mitigation measure for the Mumbai Trans Harbour Link (MTHL), a response to a query under RTI showed. The state government had announced on December 4, 2015 that the State Wildlife Board approved the three bird sanctuaries which would help in the conservation of flamingos. Environmentalists campaigning to save the wetlands as bird sanctuaries, were in for a rude shock when the Revenue and Forest Depart informed NGO NatConnect Foundation that “no such decision seems to have been taken.” “The RTI response also amounts to violation of the precondition of the environment clearance, apart from breaking its own promise,” said NatConnect Foundation Director B N Kumar, who filed the RTI application seeking information on the status of the five-and-a-half-year-old decision.  Bombay Natural History Society’s (BNHS) report presented at the meeting pointed out that the 22-km MTHL project “received the required environmental clearances from the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change (MoEFCC) to begin work, albeit with the caveat that the authorities give due thought to the conservation initiatives required to mitigate the possible adverse impacts of the bridge on flamingos, other birds and fauna, and for the habitat as a whole.” “Our fear now is that the Panje and NRI-TS Chanakya wetlands will be gobbled up for concrete jungles,” said Nandakumar Pawar, head, Shri Ekvira Aai Prarishtan. He pointed out that CIDCO planned a golf course on NRI-TS Chanakya wetlands, while making Panje-Funde wetland a part of the Dronagiri Development Plan, marking the area as Sectors 16-28. Paradoxically, CIDCO also earmarked Panje-Funde wetland as Holding Pond-1 as a flood mitigation measure. The Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) has declared at Bombay High Court that Holding Pond-1 (along with the other Pond near Karanja Jetty) fall under CRZ-1. These real estate projects, if materialised, will spell a major ecological disaster, warned Kumar. The formation of the sanctuary will help in the overall conservation of the seascape hosting large congregations of flamingos and waders, and its declaration will also support the efforts of the Maharashtra Government to get Sewri Creek declared as a Ramsar Site (status of a wetland of international importance). NatConnect, therefore, appealed to the government not to go back on its own decision and ensure Mumbai Biodiversity is protected. As per the BNHS, the proposed sanctuary will consist of three parts, of which the core area (1601 ha) consists of mudflat while the buffer areas (904 ha) will primarily be mangroves.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-government-negates-decision-to-set-up-3-bird-sanctuaries-near-mumbai-rti-response-shows-1008526.html
14-07-2021||West||Pankaja Munde would not rebel: Maharashtra BJP president Chandrakant Patil||A day after BJP leader Pankaja Munde staged a show of strength and spoke out for being sidelined; Maharashtra BJP president Chandrakant Patil said that she would not rebel against the party. Pankaja, a BJP national secretary and former Maharashtra minister and her sister Dr Pritam Munde, who is the Beed MP, were not considered during the recent Cabinet reshuffle undertaken by the BJP-led Central government. “Pankaja Munde is the daughter of late Gopinath Munde. It was Munde Ji who took the party from the office to the streets in Maharashtra. She comes from such a family, she would not rebel,” Patil said on Wednesday. Earlier, Pankaja, who was the rural development minister in former Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis' government, said that she was avoiding a ‘dharma-yuddha’ but the moment she feels that “Ram is not here” she would decide her future course of action. During her outburst, she did not take the name of Fadnavis but declared that Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP president JP Nadda are her leaders. Asked whether she considers Fadnavis as her leader or not, she said: “I am the national secretary and work at the national level. Hence, my leaders are Narendra Modi, Amit Shah and JP Nadda.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pankaja-munde-would-not-rebel-maharashtra-bjp-president-chandrakant-patil-1008549.html
14-07-2021||West||Gandhinagar Capital: India's 1st upgraded rail station set to open, will offer 'airport experience'||The Gandhinagar Capital railway station, the country's first redeveloped station set to be inaugurated this week, will provide an airport-like experience to passengers with facilities such as a luxury hotel, theme-based lighting, an interfaith prayer hall and a separate baby feeding room, officials said Wednesday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the station on July 16. Its redevelopment was conceptualised in 2016 as part of the railways' ambitious project to transform stations into world-class 24x7 transport and business hubs. These hubs are to be called "Railopolis" and aim offer great business opportunities and attract huge investments. The officials said Wednesday the upgraded station has an interfaith prayer hall -- a first for the country's vast railway network -- a column-free, sleek and economical space frame spanning 105-meter over the platform with all-weather aluminium sheeting for the comfort of passengers. The roof is in the shape of an arch. The structure is designed and provided with green building rating features and has already obtained sustainability standards green certification from the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (ASSOCHAM). "The station has been developed at par with airports for enhanced public satisfaction. We have tried to incorporate all the best facilities that our passengers require for a pleasant experience at a railway station," Railway Board Chairman Suneet Sharma said. "In the project to redevelop stations, we are striving towards creating new sources of revenue for the railways as well new experiences for our passengers. It is truly a ‘Naye Bharat ka naya station (new station of New India)'," he said. The redevelopment work on the Gandhinagar Capital station started in 2017 with a joint venture named Gandhinagar Railway and Urban Development (GARUD) being formed. The Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) has 74:26 equity contribution from the Government of Gujarat (GoG) and the Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation (IRSDC), the nodal agency and the main project development agency (PDA) for such stations. The project was envisioned with the Gujarat International Finance Tech (GIFT) city in focus which could emerge as a key international finance centre on the lines of other world famous cities. Among others facilities, the station has segregated entry and exit through landscaped area, Divyang-friendly special ticket booking counters, ramps, lifts, dedicated parking space, and a dedicated art gallery with live LED wall display lounge, the railways said. The station also has a state-of-the-art external façade with daily theme-based lighting, vertical green wall, a separate baby feeding room and a centralised AC waiting lounge, it said. In order to segregate the passengers, a concourse is planned for departing passengers, and two subways for arriving ones. The station is future-ready, and the concourse will be used for departing passengers when their numbers increase at the station, the railways said. Without the concourse, the redeveloped station has been designed to handle 1,500 passengers in peak hours and with the concourse, the capacity will go up to 2,200, it said. In the near future, it is planned to open retail, food and entertainment outlets in the area for passengers as well as the local population, it said. Market players such as Big Bazaar and Shopper’s Stop have shown interest in opening their mini outlets at the station, the railways said, adding the redeveloped station will function like a "city centre rail mall" where travel will be one of the several functions. The platforms are well connected through two subways with adequate seating capacity and two each of escalators and elevators, it said. The station also has a luxury hotel on top of it. Spread across 7,400 square meters and built at a cost of Rs 790 crore, it has 318 rooms and is operated by a private entity, the railways said. It is expected that national and international guests who would come to attend seminars and conferences at Mahatma Mandir, a convention centre situated just opposite the property, would stay at the hotel, it said. While PM Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah would attend the inauguration virtually, Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw, Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani and other dignitaries are expected to attend the function in Gandhinagar, officials said. As part of the larger redevelopment project, work on 125 stations is in progress. Out of these, the IRSDC is working on 63, and the RLDA (Rail Land Development Authority) on 60 with two other stations being taken up by railway zones, the national transporter said. The total investment for the redevelopment of 123 stations along with real estate development is more than Rs 50,000 crore. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gandhinagar-capital-indias-1st-upgraded-rail-station-set-to-open-will-offer-airport-experience-1008572.html
14-07-2021||West||Anil Deshmukh feels ED's investigation against him unjustified, hence not joining probe: Lawyer||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh feels that the Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) investigation against him in an alleged money laundering case is not justified, and hence he is not joining the probe, his lawyer said on Wednesday. Addressing a press conference here, Deshmukh’s lawyer Kamlesh Ghumre also alleged that the ED investigation looks more like “harassment” than a genuine probe. The ED had earlier issued multiple summonses to Deshmukh, asking him to record his statement. However, the NCP leader (72), had skipped the summonses citing his "vulnerability" to Covid-19 as the reason for non-compliance. He has instead offered the central agency to record his statement through video conferencing. Deshmukh has also moved the Supreme Court seeking protection from any coercive action in the case. The ED case against Deshmukh and others was made out after the CBI booked him in a corruption case related to allegations of at least Rs 100 crore bribery made by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh earlier this year. "Deshmukh feels this investigation is not justified, hence he is not joining the investigation...Whatever documents the probe agency wants, it should at least tell us,” advocate Ghumre said. Although there are digital platforms and other ways, Deshmukh is being asked to directly join questioning, he said. “ED's probe is looking like more of harassment and not a genuine investigation,” he alleged. The lawyer said summonses were issued by the ED. “But we have approached the Supreme Court for relief,” the lawyer said. In his letter to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray after he was removed from the police commissioner's post, Param Bir Singh had alleged that Deshmukh had asked (now dismissed) police officer Sachin Waze to extort over Rs 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. "Param Bir Singh’s allegations are not true. In fact, the high court has questioned Singh why he was silent for months," the lawyer said. The Bombay High court has reserved the order on the plea seeking quashing of the FIR filed by the CBI. “We can expect the orders anytime,” he added. Ghumre also alleged that the ED was selectively leaking information to the media. He further said that Sachin Waze has not mentioned anywhere in the affidavit (filed before an inquiry commission) that he has given money to Deshmukh. Waze, in his affidavit, has never said that he met Anil Deshmukh in February. The affidavit mentioned that he had just met Deshmukh just once, Ghumre stated. The ED has arrested Deshmukh's personal secretary Sanjeev Palande and personal assistant Kundan Shinde in connection with the case. They are currently in judicial custody. Deshmukh had resigned as a minister in April after the Bombay High Court directed the CBI to conduct a preliminary inquiry into allegations of corruption. Check DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/anil-deshmukh-feels-eds-investigation-against-him-unjustified-hence-not-joining-probe-lawyer-1008574.html
14-07-2021||West||Tribal woman in Gujarat stripped, paraded over extra-marital affair||At least 19 persons were arrested in Gujarat's Dahod district on Wednesday after a young tribal woman was stripped and paraded by her husband and others for allegedly running away with another man, police said. The State Women's Commission also took notice of the shocking incident which came to light when a video made by the accused went viral, and sought a report from the district police. A First Information Report (FIR) was lodged on Tuesday and the woman's husband and 18 others -- most of them his relatives -- were arrested on Wednesday, sub-inspector B M Patel of Dhanpur police station said. The incident took place at Khajuri village in the tribal-dominated Dhanpur tehsil on July 6, he said. The video showed the 23-year-old victim's husband and some other men dragging, hitting and stripping her in public in the presence of women and children, the police officer said. They also forced her to carry her husband on her shoulders and walk. The video also showed some women trying to cover the victim with clothes but the accused snatching the clothes away, the officer said. "The victim had allegedly eloped with another man. Her husband and some other villagers traced the duo and brought them back. On July 6, she was humiliated in full public view as punishment. We have arrested all the accused seen in the video," inspector Patel said. They were booked for rioting, assault, criminal intimidation and insulting the modesty of a woman under the IPC and also under the Information Technology Act for making and circulating the video, the official said. The state women's commission, meanwhile, directed the Dahod superintendent of police to conduct a through probe and submit a report. "I have asked the SP to arrest all the accused and ensure justice for the woman. Our team will visit the district and meet the woman who is now safe under police protection," said chairperson of the commission Leelaben Ankoliya. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tribal-woman-in-gujarat-stripped-paraded-over-extra-marital-affair-1008591.html
14-07-2021||West||Gujarat HC to live stream proceeding of all 'willing benches' from July 17||In a significant development, the Gujarat High Court on Wednesday announced that it is launching live streaming of court proceedings of all "willing benches" of the court from July 17, making it the first high court in the country to allow public viewing of the proceedings virtually. Earlier, in October 2020, the high court had started live streaming of proceedings of the first court, headed by the chief justice, on YouTube channel for public viewing. "Thanks to the success of this live streaming experiment, to take forward the implementation of this initiative for the rest of the willing Benches of the High Court, live streaming rules were framed and approved by the Full Court of the High Court on 20th June, 2021. With implementation of these rules, the live streaming of Court Proceedings of the High Court is going to be formally launched in an online inaugural function on 17th July, 2021...", a press statement released by the high court administration stated. On the launch, Chief Justice of India N V Ramana will be present as the chief guest who will inaugurate the live streaming of court proceedings of the high court. The chief justice will also release “The High Court of Gujarat (Live Streaming of Court Proceedings) Rules, 2021”. On the occasion, Justice D Y Chandrachud and Justice M R Shah, judges at Supreme Court, will be the guest of honour and special guest respectively.   The first court, headed by Chief Justice Vikram Nath, of the Gujarat High Court , started the live telecast of all hearings on experimental basis from 26th October, 2020 on Youtube through the official channel of the High Court. The press note states that "This pilot exercise has successfully continued for more than eight months so far with more than 65,000 subscribers and 41 lakh views received by the official YouTube channel of the high court."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-hc-to-live-stream-proceeding-of-all-willing-benches-from-july-17-1008670.html
14-07-2021||West||Maharashtra govt clears adventure tourism policy||In a bid to boost tourism, the Maharashtra government on Wednesday approved a new adventure tourism policy aimed at the safety of tourists and establishing a regulatory framework. Maharashtra is blessed with unique geography, landscape, nature and weather – making it one of the ideal destinations for adventure tourism. The policy was cleared at the weekly Cabinet meeting presided over by Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Registration has been made mandatory for adventure tourism projects, according to the policy paper.  The policy envisages providing special assistance to different organisations, associations and individuals engaged in or organizing adventures sports and related activities, registration, regulation, strict monitoring, training, providing necessary infrastructure and promotions. The policy encourages adventure activities like hiking, trekking, cycling and others with emphasis on safety and security, and hence unscrupulous operators would not be permitted. The state has a handful of groups and organisations offering limited seasonal activities like hiking, trekking, mountaineering, forest-camps, jungle safaris, rock-climbing, river-rafting, paragliding, para-sailing, bungee-jumping, hot air balloon rides, sailing. State’s tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray had been rooting for an adventure tourism policy. Given the safety needs for such tourist activities, fly-by-night tourist operators would not be encouraged. "A single window clearance system would be set up,' he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-clears-adventure-tourism-policy-1008683.html
14-07-2021||West||Covid-19 vaccination made compulsory for schools teachers in Goa: CM||"Our expert committee has suggested that all teachers will have to be vaccinated. The exception is for those who have medical problems. They can produce (medical) certificates and can avail of relaxation. Otherwise, there will be compulsory vaccination," the Chief Minister said. Only those teachers, who have a pre-existing medical condition will be exempted from vaccination he also said, adding that they would have to regularly produce medical certificates to that end. While school classes are being conducted in an online mode currently, the decreasing trend of Covid cases may lead to students returning to schools in the near future. According to the Education Department officials, vaccination of teachers would help contain the impact of the pandemic, once schools resume regular operations. Earlier this week, the state Education Department had issued a circular urging all teaching and non-teaching staff to get themselves vaccinated without delay. “In the interest of the health of the students all the teaching and non-teaching staff of the schools should get vaccinated urgently without any further delay. The staff who do not get vaccinated for any reason, must submit (an) RT-PCR report possibly weekly to attend their duties in the school,” state Education Director D.R. Bhagat had said in an official circular. “The teaching and non-teaching staff members must also ensure that their family members are also vaccinated without any further delay as a precaution to prevent any transmission through them,” the circular also said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-vaccination-made-compulsory-for-schools-teachers-in-goa-cm-1008689.html
