15-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada DC issues guidelines to take precaution against Zika virus||Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V has issued guidelines on the precautionary measures to be taken in the backdrop of Zika virus being detected in Kerala. "A large number of people from Kerala visit Dakshina Kannada for education and health purposes. There is a need to take precautionary measures in the district. People should be asked to contact the nearest government hospitals if they have any symptoms of fever. Cleanliness should be maintained in public places, places of worship, tourist spots and all the mosquito breeding areas should be destroyed and measures should be initiated to check the stagnation of water in the surrounding areas of the houses and in public places," he said. If a pregnant women is suffering from Microcephaly, measures should be taken to test their blood and the same should be informed by the scanning centres and hospitals to the health department, the DC said and added that ward committees should ensure that water do not remain stagnant. Guppy fish should be released to open wells and lakes. Water stored in drums should be cleaned once in a week and awareness should be created on the same among people, so that mosquitoes do not breed in them, the DC said. The DC also said that shopkeepers should ensure that water do not remain stagnant in juice bottles kept outside the shop. In required, fogging can be carried out to check mosquito menace. The larvae survey to destroy breeding sites should be conducted in ports, fish markets, central market and Bunder area, added the DC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-dc-issues-guidelines-to-take-precaution-against-zika-virus-1008888.html
15-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||12,500 cusecs released from Kabini dam as inflow on rise||With heavy rains in the catchment areas, the inflow into the Kabini dam at Beechanahalli village in H D Kote taluk has increased and the authorities released 12,500 cusec from the dam on Thursday. The water level of the dam was 2,280 ft on Thursday as against the maximum level of 2,284 ft only four feet less to reach the brim. The inflow to the dam was 18,000 cusec and the dam is expected to fill by Friday morning. The Indian Meteorological Department has forecast heavy rains in Kerala for the next five days. As a result, the water level is expected to rise rapidly and the outflow into the river will also be increased. "Those living in the villages downstream the dam have been advised to move to safer places," said Tahsildar S N Naragund. The revenue officials, village accountants, executive officers of H D Kote and Saragur taluk panchayats and police department have been alerted to take all precautionary measures. Kabini dam's Assistant Executive Engineer Janardhan said, "Water is being let into the river from four crest gates. The people living in low-lying areas should move to safer places".||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/12500-cusecs-released-from-kabini-dam-as-inflow-on-rise-1009050.html
15-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Heavy rains lash Hassan district||Heavy rains pounded Hassan district on Wednesday night and on Thursday. The arecanut and coffee plantations were inundated. The houses and anganwadi building are on the verge of collapse at Adanagudde in Anemahal gram panchayat limits in Sakleshpur taluk. There are 15 families living here. Landslides were reported here during the monsoon last year and the residents relocated to safer places. Yagachi dam is filled and water is being let into the river. One house has collapsed in Mallapura and Arehalla Koppal villages. Mysuru city and district experienced intermittent rain on Thursday also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/heavy-rains-lash-hassan-district-1009052.html
15-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Relentless showers pour misery on coastal districts, Kodagu||Heavy downpour, coupled with gusty winds, has wreaked havoc on three coastal districts and Malnad. The torrential rain has damaged scores of houses, power lines and road infrastructure in the regions. Netravathi and Kumaradhara rivers - lifelines of Dakshina Kannada - have swelled following the unrelenting showers in their catchments. As much as 74,701 cusec of water was discharged through six crestgates of AMR reservoir and as much quantum of water was released downstream from Kindi Anekat (dam). Five houses were completely damaged in Mulki and Bantwal taluks while more than a dozen houses have suffered partial damages. Heavy rain in the last few days has inflicted massive damage to power lines and roads/bridges in Udupi district. Several houses have suffered damages in tree fall incidents in Kundapur, Baindoor and Brahmavar taluks. Two persons have sustained injuries after a massive tree fell on their house at Basrooru village. Many parts of Uttara Kannada have been receiving heavy rain for the last three to four days. Incessant showers flooded the famed Mahabaleshwara Temple in Gokarna, affecting the day’s rituals. Karwar, Honnavar and Bhatkal also witnessed heavy showers on Thursday. A family at Hadinabaal Kaavoor in Honnavar taluk had a narrow escape after a huge boulder that rolled down the hill following a mudslide, almost crashed into their house. The India Meteorological Department has forecast heavy showers for the next few days, starting Friday. The IMD has issued a red alert warning for all the three coastal districts. Meanwhile, relentless rain has raised the flood threat in Kodagu. Cauvery, Lakshmanathirtha rivers and dozens of streams and rivulets are in spate. If rain doesn’t recede in a day or two, the hilly district will go under flood waters. Residents of villages under Nelliahudikeri Gram Panchayat and Karadigodi and Guhya villages under Siddapur have been told to move to safer places. Shivamogga district continued to experience copious rain on Thursday. Tunga, Bhadra and Sharavathy rivers are in full flow. On Thursday, 41,700 cusec of water was released downstream from Tunga reservoir. A century-old tree fell on the road near Chandragutti in Shivamogga, bringing traffic to a standstill on Hanagere road. Mani in the district recorded the highest rainfall of 19.4 cm (in the last 24 hours) while Yadur and Hulikal received 16.6 and 13.2 cm of rain. Water bodies and falls have come alive in Chikkamagaluru district following the incessant rain. Traffic on Hebbale bridge near Kalasa was closed following the flooding. Rivers in Krishna basin including Krishna and Malaprabha, have been clocking good inflows for the past one week, courtesy good rainfall in their catchments in Karnataka and Maharashtra. Many parts of north and south Karnataka districts recorded intermittent rain on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/relentless-showers-pour-misery-on-coastal-districts-kodagu-1009081.html
15-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Malgudi Museum runs into controversy over payment row||The Arasalu railway station-turned Malgudi Museum near Ripponpet in Hosanagar taluk of Shivamogga district, has run into controversy, as John Devaraj, the art director of the teleserial, ‘Malgudi Days’, has alleged that the Railway department was yet to pay the dues of Rs 10 lakh to him.  He stated that there was an agreement of Rs 38 lakh between him and the Railways for the renovation of the British-era railway station into Malgudi museum. He had completed it at a cost of Rs 32 lakh. The Railways had paid Rs 22 lakh and Rs 10 lakh was pending.   Rahul Agarwal, Divisional Railway Manager of Mysore Division, told DH that the payment was made to him as per the agreement. But he was not satisfied with it. The officials concerned will resolve the issue. There was a consultation meeting held in May this year.  It may be mentioned that the late Kannada actor-director Shankar Nag had shot the scenes of ‘Malgudi Days’ at the British era Arasalu railway station situated in the thick forests in 1980s. ‘Malgudi Days’, a teleserial based on the collection of short stories by legendary writer R K Narayan, who created the enchanting fictional town of Malgudi, was aired on Doordarshan. The Railways had converted the old station into a museum. A new railway station for Arasalu was constructed a few metres away from the museum. As much as Rs 25 lakh was spent on developing the old Arasalu railway station into the Malgudi Museum, without changing the original architecture. It is said that John Devaraj had missed etching the sculptors of three main characters of the ‘Malgudi Days’ - Swami, Mani and Rajam. Artist Arun Yogiraj from Mysore had completed them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/malgudi-museum-runs-into-controversy-over-payment-row-1009086.html
15-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Candies found dumped on roadside in Uttara Kannada's Sirsi village||More than two quintals of expired chocolate candies of different flavours were dumped roadside near Hoodlamane Cross under the jurisdiction of Itaguli Gram Panchayat in the taluk. However, the villagers dug a trench and buried the candies the next day. Candies with expired dates were thrown on the roadside on Tuesday, near Hoodlamane Cross, which is at a distance of six km from Sirsi. Photographs of those candies were shared on social media also. Based on a complaint by the villagers, the officials of the Gram Panchayat and the City Municipal Council also visited the spot. It is suspected that a dealer dumped the candies as they could not be sold due to Covid-induced lockdown and their expiry dates were also over. A few children reportedly took the candies and some cattle also ate them. As per the instruction from Gram Panchayat president Ramesh Naik, the Panchayat staff and villagers dug a trench and buried the candies on Wednesday evening. CMC environment engineer Narayan Nayak said that there is an allegation that the candies belonged to a dealer in Sirsi. “Verification is on, and action would be taken if we get adequate evidence,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/candies-found-dumped-on-roadside-in-uttara-kannadas-sirsi-village-1009091.html
15-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||D K Shivakumar hails Siddaramaiah's administration as the chief minister||Defending former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah's administration, KPCC President D K Shivakumar stated that the Congress leader had implemented 95% of the promises made in the party's manifesto during the assembly polls and thus remained true to words. "Let state BJP President come for a debate on this," he dared.  He was reacting to state BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel's allegations on Siddaramaiah's administration on Thursday. He said that Siddaramaiah, who took charge as chief minister on Basava Jayanti, had fulfilled most promises made during the polls and he had given good administration. "But musical chair contest is going on for the chief mister post within BJP," he taunted.  Referring to the fuel price hike, he said the party staged the first phase of protest against it recently. "Common people would suffer further if the price is not reduced.  The discussions on the next level of agitation are going on at the national level," he said. He added that he would hold a meeting with state leaders soon, and also made it clear that the party would intensify its agitation.   He said that many communities are in deep trouble due to the pandemic and lockdown. "People of many communities including Banjara are in deep trouble. But the government is not bothered about them," he said. He is visiting tandas to know their woes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/d-k-shivakumar-hails-siddaramaiahs-administration-as-the-chief-minister-1008930.html
15-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||What is wrong with MLAs visiting Delhi? asks Karnataka BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel||Karnataka BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel on Thursday asked what is the wrong with the MLAs visiting New Delhi. Speaking to media persons, he said, "They will visit the national capital for their personal work and will return. There is no confusion in the BJP right now. There is no need to attach much importance to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa visiting Delhi. The CM will pay a customary visit ahead of the Monsoon Session. Cabinet expansion/reshuffle is the prerogative of the chief minister." "Still two years are left for the state Assembly polls, but musical chair game has begun in the Congress for the chief minister's post. Siddaramaiah has cheated the people of the state. He became the chief minister in the name of AHINDA but forgot it after he became CM," Kateel alleged. "India has administered the highest number of Covid-19 vaccines in the globe. The vaccine is available everywhere and five companies are contributing vaccines now. All attempts are being made to incolculate everyone by December," he stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/what-is-wrong-with-mlas-visiting-delhi-asks-karnataka-bjp-president-nalin-kumar-kateel-1008999.html
15-07-2021||Mysuru||Wild elephant dies of eletrocution in Gundlupet||A wild jumbo died of electrocution at Alathuru village, in Gundlupet taluk, Chamarajanagar district, on Thursday. Farmer Jagannath had sown groundnuts and had illegally supplied power to the fence to prevent the wild boars from straying into the field and destroying the plants. A 40-year-old female elephant that came in contact with the live wire and died of electrocution. The village comes under Omkar forest range, within Bandipur Tiger Reserve limits. The Forest department officers have visited the spot and booked a case against the landowner. An elephant was electrocuted in the same region last year. Bandipur Tiger Project Director S R Natesh, held a meeting with the Cesc officials and urged them to take legal action against those violating the norms by illegal supply of power to fences. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/wild-elephant-dies-of-eletrocution-in-gundlupet-1009107.html
15-07-2021||National||Stroke killed 7 lakh Indians in 2019: Study||Nearly 70 per cent of deaths from neurological disorders in India are caused by stroke, whose prevalence rose sharply in the last three decades, says India's first comprehensive assessment of such disorders. In 2019, brain stroke caused an estimated 6,99,000 deaths — 7.4 per cent of the total deaths — besides nearly 13 lakh cases. It is the third leading cause of death in India. While most of the burden caused by stroke was reported from eastern states like West Bengal, Tripura, Chhattisgarh Assam and Odisha, the numbers were quite high for other states too, barring Mizoram and Delhi. People in the age group of 65-69 suffer the maximum followed by the 60-64 and 70-74 group. But there are many cases even in those aged between 35 and 45 years, who are economically productive. The prevalence rises gradually in the subsequent age groups. “High blood pressure, air pollution, dietary risks, diabetes and obesity are the major risk factors that are on the rise,” Jeyaraj D Pandian, professor at the Christian Medical College, Ludhiana, and one of the members of the study team, told DH. Other risk factors include smoking and kidney dysfunction. The first-ever nationwide neurological disease burden analysis demonstrated that non-communicable disorders now account for more than 80 per cent of neurological problems replacing communicable ones like encephalitis, meningitis or tetanus. Headache disorder (migraine and tension-type headache) and epilepsy are the two other most common non-communicable neurological disorders. The disease burden caused by such neurological disorders doubled from 4 per cent in 1990 to 8.2 per cent in 2019. On the other hand, the prevalence of communicable neurological disorders dropped to 1.1 per cent in 2019 from 4.1 per cent three decades ago. “Neurological disorders contribute 10 per cent of the total disease burden in India. There is a growing burden of non-communicable neurological disorders in the country, which is attributable to ageing of the population,” said Balram Bhargava, director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research. As much as 83 per cent of neurological disorders are non-communicable while 11 per cent are communicable and 6 per cent are brain and spinal cord injuries. Among the non-communicable disorders, stroke comprises close to 38 per cent of the ailments, followed by headache (17.5 per cent), epilepsy (11.3 per cent), cerebral palsy (5.7 per cent), Alzheimer's disease and other types of dementia (4.6 per cent), brain and CNS cancer (2.2 per cent) and Parkinson's disease (1.8 per cent). “Headache is the commonest neurological disorder affecting one in three Indians, and is often neglected in terms of public health priority. It is the second leading contributor to the disease burden from neurological disorders in India. Migraine affects females more than males, greatly affecting adults in the working age population,” said N Girish Rao, professor at National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences, Bengaluru, and a coauthor of the paper that appeared in the Lancet. The prevalence of epilepsy increased in the past three decades and dementia is among the fastest growing neurological disorders. "Such findings have important implications for planning to reduce the growing burden of neurological disorders in India," said Lalit Dandona, distinguished professor at the Public Health Foundation of India and a senior author of the study.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stroke-killed-7-lakh-indians-in-2019-study-1008778.html
15-07-2021||National||No. of Covid containment zones in Delhi down to below 500 from over 58,000 in two months||With the second wave of Covid-19 subsiding, the number of containment zones in Delhi has gone down from over 58,000 to less than 500 in the last two months, according to official data. Containment zones are residential areas with three or more active Covid-19 cases, entailing complete restrictions on entry and exit from such places and special measures such as mass testing, tracing and tracking. According to latest figures of the revenue department, the total number of containment zones across the 11 districts of Delhi is 472. The districts with lower numbers of such zones are South East Delhi (zero), East Delhi (six), Central Delhi (eight) and North East Delhi (10). New Delhi district has the highest number of 176 containment zones. Other districts with higher number of such areas are North Delhi (86), South Delhi (64), West Delhi (35), Shahdara (34), North West (30) and South West (23). With the number of Covid cases rising exponentially during the second wave of the pandemic in the third week of March, the number of containment zones in the city went up rapidly with over 1,500 added every day by the second half of April, the figures show. By mid-May, the number of containment zones in the national capital was over 58,000. With the number of fresh Covid cases running into thousands in April and May, many districts resorted to containment of individual buildings, where even one person was found positive for the infection, under a micro-containment strategy, officials said. The process for opening the containment zones starts 14 days after the recovery of the last known positive case there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-of-covid-containment-zones-in-delhi-down-to-below-500-from-over-58000-in-two-months-1008783.html
15-07-2021||National||HC to hear Chhota Rajan's appeals against conviction in three cases||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday admitted for hearing appeals filed by gangster Chhota Rajan challenging convictions in three cases. In two of these cases Rajan, whose real name is Rajendra Nikalje, was convicted for attempt to murder. Justice Anuja Prabhudesai admitted the pleas filed by his lawyer Tushar Khandare and posted them for hearing after two weeks. Rajan was sentenced to eight years' imprisonment in an attempt to murder case in August 2019. He has also challenged a special CBI court's order sentencing him to two years' jail term in January 2021 for extortion in a 2015 case. He has also appealed against conviction and sentence of 10 years, pronounced by a court in March this year, for attempting to murder builder Ajay Gosaliya. Rajan was extradited from Indonesia in 2015 and is lodged at Tihar Prison in Delhi since then.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-to-hear-chhota-rajans-appeals-against-conviction-in-three-cases-1008794.html
15-07-2021||National||Petrol reaches Rs 101.5 per litre in Delhi: Check rates in your city||Petrol price on Thursday was hiked by 35 paise per litre and diesel by 15 paise, pushing rates to a new high across the country. Petrol in Delhi now costs Rs 101.54 a litre and diesel Rs 89.87 per litre, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. The increase comes after rates stayed mute for three days. Petrol price was last hiked on July 12, on a day when diesel rates had seen its first reduction in almost three months. The increase on Thursday neutralised the 16 paise price cut in diesel on July 12. Prior to that, petrol and diesel prices were last cut on April 15. Thereafter, rate revision took an 18-day pause, coinciding with the peak of electioneering to elect a new government in states like West Bengal. The revision cycle started soon after results for the state elections were declared. Since May 4, petrol price has been hiked on 40 occasions while diesel rates have gone up 37 times and have been reduced on one occasion. Domestic fuel rates are benchmarked to international oil prices as India is 85 per cent dependent on imports to meet its oil needs. International rates have surged since last month on a rebound in consumption. The relentless price increase has pushed petrol rates above the Rs 100-a-litre mark in most places in 15 states including Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Bihar and Punjab and at a couple of districts in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. Rates are also above the sensitive Rs 100 per litre level in four Union Territories including Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. Diesel, the most used fuel in the country, is above that level in some places in Rajasthan, Odisha and Madhya Pradesh. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as value-added tax (VAT) and freight charges. Since taking over as the new oil minister last week, Hardeep Singh Puri has been courting oil-producing nations to convey India's concern over high prices. He spoke to his counterpart in Qatar on July 10, and on Wednesday dialled the UAE Energy Minister. "Conveyed my desire to work closely with UAE and other friendly countries to bring a sense of calm, predictability and realism among other suppliers in the energy market to make it more affordable for consumers," Puri tweeted after speaking to the UAE Minister Sultan Ahmed Al Jaber. We agreed to take the bilateral energy engagement to greater heights and also to diversify into new areas in the context of fast evolving global energy transition. In 40 hikes since May 4, the price of petrol has risen by Rs 11.14 per litre. During this period, diesel rates have soared by Rs 9.14 a litre in 37 instances of price rise. Since May last year, petrol price has jumped by Rs 31.95 a litre and diesel by Rs 27.58. The government last year raised excise duty on the two fuels to recoup gains arising from a slump in international oil prices. As much as 55 per cent of the retail selling price of petrol in Delhi is made up of taxes (Rs 32.90 a litre excise duty collected by the central government and Rs 22.80 VAT levied by the state government). Half of the diesel price is made up of taxes (Rs 31.80 central excise and Rs 13.04 state VAT).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-reaches-rs-1015-per-litre-in-delhi-check-rates-in-your-city-1008813.html
15-07-2021||National||DH Toon | Being Leader of Opposition in a 'full time job'||The Congress Parliamentary Strategy Group, chaired by Sonia Gandhi, on Wednesday decided to rope in senior leader and Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, the task and senior party leader Mallikarjun Kharge the task of coordinating Opposition in both the Houses. Scotching speculation of replacing Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury with someone else as the Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha, party sources said he will very much remain in the post at least till the Monsoon Session.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-being-leader-of-opposition-in-a-full-time-job-1008814.html
15-07-2021||National||India reports 41,806 new Covid-19 cases, 581 deaths||India recorded 41,806 new coronavirus cases, taking the infection tally to 3,09,87,880, while the active cases increased to 4,32,041, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. An increase of 2,095 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours.   The active cases comprise 1.39 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate stands at 97.28 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. Also, 19,43,488 tests were conducted on Wednesday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 43,80,11,958, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.15 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for 24 consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate stands at 2.21 per cent, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,01,43,850, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.39 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far have reached 39.13 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-41806-new-covid-19-cases-581-deaths-1008827.html
15-07-2021||National||'Pfizer, J&J yet to apply for vaccine licence in India'||Pfizer, Johnson and Johnson are yet to apply for licence of Covid-19 vaccines in India, news agency ANI reported quoting sources. Meanwhile, the United States on Tuesday said that it is ready to ship its Covid-19 vaccines expeditiously when it has the green light from the Indian government which has told the Americans that it needs further time to review legal provisions related to accepting vaccine donations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pfizer-jj-yet-to-apply-for-vaccine-licence-in-india-1008839.html
15-07-2021||National||Huge demand for skilling, re-skilling, up-skilling due to fast-changing technology: PM Modi||Emphasising the importance of skill development, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said skilling, re-skilling and up-skilling of people need to be expedited as there is going to be a huge demand for this due to fast-changing technology. He said that the skill development of the new generation is a national need and is the foundation of Aatmnirbhar Bharat. Speaking on the occasion of the World Youth Skill Day, he also called for giving momentum to the Skill India Mission by capitalising on the gains of the last six years. "Learning should not stop with earning. Only a skilled person will grow in today's world. This is applicable to both people and countries," Modi said while exhorting the stakeholders to continuously skill, re-skill and up-skill. "This needs to be expedited as there is going to be a huge demand for re-skilling due to fast-changing technology," he said. He added that India providing smart and skilled manpower solutions to the world should be at the core of our strategy of skilling youth. The Prime Minister said that more than 1.25 crore young persons have been trained under Pradhanmantri Kaushal Vikas Yojna. He said that the skilled workforce has helped India in fighting an effective battle against the Covid-19 pandemic. Further, talking about 'Going Online As Leaders' (GOAL), he said it is helping the tribal population with areas like art and culture. “In the coming days, we need to make such campaigns more widespread and make ourselves and the country Aatmanirbhar through skilling," he added.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/huge-demand-for-skilling-re-skilling-up-skilling-due-to-fast-changing-technology-pm-modi-1008849.html
15-07-2021||National||PM Modi inaugurates projects worth over Rs 1,500 crore in Varanasi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday inaugurated and laid foundation stones of multiple development projects in Varanasi worth more than Rs 1,500 crore at the IIT-BHU ground. After reaching Varanasi, Modi inaugurated various public projects and works, including a 100-bed MCH wing in BHU, multi-level parking at Godauliya, Ro-Ro vessels for tourism development on river Ganga and a three-lane flyover bridge on the Varanasi-Ghazipur highway. The prime minister inaugurated projects worth around Rs 744 crore and laid foundation stones for several projects and public works worth about Rs 839 crore. These include the Centre for Skill and Technical Support of Central Institute of Petrochemical Engineering and Technology (CIPET), 143 rural projects under the Jal Jeevan Mission and mango and vegetable integrated pack house in Karkhiyanv. Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and state ministers were also present on the occasion. Modi will also inaugurate the International Cooperation and Convention Centre, Rudrakash which has been constructed with Japanese assistance. Thereafter, he will inspect the Maternal and Child Health Wing, BHU. He will also meet officials and medical professionals to review Covid preparedness.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-inaugurates-projects-worth-over-rs-1500-crore-in-varanasi-1008853.html
15-07-2021||National||Sedition law 'colonial', used by Britishers to suppress freedom: Supreme Court asks Centre if we still need it||The Supreme Court on Thursday expressed serious concern over the misuse of sedition provision, wondering if there was a need for a "colonial" law after 75 years of independence. "The penal law was used by the British against Mahatma Gandhi and Bal Gangadhar Tilak to suppress freedom movement and it still being abused is a serious threat to individuals and institutions," a three-judge bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana said. "Is the sedition law of colonial times which was used to suppress freedom movement still needed 75 years after independence?" the bench asked Attorney General K K Venugopal. The court was hearing a fresh PIL by Mysuru-based Major General (retired) S G Vombatkere questioning the constitutional validity of Section 124 A (sedition) of IPC, which carried a maximum penalty of life imprisonment. Venugopal, for his part, submitted that the court may not require to strike down the provision completely but certainly can lay down parameters to check its abuse. He said a separate bench led by Justice U U Lalit had already issued notice on a similar petition and posted the case for further hearing on July 27.  The court, for its part, preferred to make observations against misuse of the provision. "If you see history of charging this Section, conviction rate is very low. Alarming numbers of misuse can be compared to a carpenter using a saw to cut not only a tree but the entire forest," the CJI said. Giving an example of Section 66A of the IT Act, the court said thousands of case were still registered even after the provision was struck down in 2015.  "If any police want to fix somebody, they can invoke Section 124A also. It has been used against villagers for stealing hens. Everybody is a little scared when this Section is invoked. These are all issues that need to be looked into. Our concern is misuse of the law and no accountability of the executive. I will look into other cases referred to," the CJI said. The bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy, wondered when the current government has removed so many stale laws, why it failed to act against Section 124A of the IPC. Senior advocate Shyam Divan said a similar plea has been filed by the Editors Guild of India which can also be taken along with the pending matters. The court issued notice on Vombatkere's petition and decided to examine the matter. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta submitted once the Centre filed its reply in the matter, the work of the top court would be reduced. The top court in the Kedar Nath Singh case (1962) had clarified that only those acts, which involved incitement to violence or violence, constituted a seditious act under Section 124 A of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sedition-law-colonial-used-by-britishers-to-suppress-freedom-supreme-court-asks-centre-if-we-still-need-it-1008856.html
15-07-2021||National||PM Modi lands in Varanasi, received by UP CM Adityanath||Prime Minister Narendra Modi landed at Varanasi, his parliamentary constituency, on Thursday. At the airport, he was received by Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, BJP national vice-president and party's UP in-charge Radha Mohan Singh, and other dignitaries as well as officials. In a tweet on Thursday, the PMO said, "The prime minister landed in Varanasi a short while ago. He was received at the airport by UP Governor Smt. @anandibenpatel, CM Shri @myogiadityanath and other dignitaries as well as officials." During the visit, he will inaugurate and lay the foundation stones of multiple development projects worth over Rs 1,500 crore. The prime minister will inaugurate public projects and works, including a 100-bed MCH wing in BHU, multi-level parking at Godauliya, Ro-Ro Vessels for tourism development on River Ganga and three-lane flyover bridge on the Varanasi-Ghazipur Highway. Projects worth around Rs 744 crore will be inaugurated. He will also lay the foundation stones of several projects and public works worth around Rs 839 crore. These include the Centre for Skill and Technical Support of Central Institute of Petrochemical Engineering and Technology (CIPET), 143 rural projects under the Jal Jeevan Mission and mango and vegetable integrated pack house in Karkhiyanv. He will inaugurate the International Cooperation and Convention Centre, Rudrakash, which has been constructed with Japanese assistance. Thereafter, he will inspect the Maternal and Child Health Wing, BHU. He will also meet with officials and medical professionals to review Covid preparedness.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-lands-in-varanasi-received-by-up-cm-adityanath-1008859.html
15-07-2021||National||PM Modi pays homage to Kamaraj||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday paid homage to Congress stalwart K Kamaraj on his birth anniversary, saying he dedicated his life to national development and social empowerment.  A former chief minister of erstwhile Madras State, now Tamil Nadu, Kamaraj was a key organisational leader of the Congress and played a crucial role in the elevation of first Lal Bahadur Shastri and then Indira Gandhi as prime minister. Differences between the old guards led by him and Gandhi later led to a split in the party.  Born in 1903, Kamaraj died in 1975. In his tributes, Modi said, "Paying homage to the great Shri K. Kamaraj on his birth anniversary. He dedicated his life to national development and social empowerment. His emphasis on education, healthcare and women empowerment continue to inspire the people of India."  Paying homage to the great Shri K. Kamaraj on his birth anniversary. He dedicated his life to national development and social empowerment. His emphasis on education, healthcare and women empowerment continue to inspire the people of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-pays-homage-to-kamaraj-1008860.html
15-07-2021||National||Draft drone rules: Here are the key changes proposed||The Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) on Thursday released the updated Drone Rules, 2021, for public consultation. The Drone Rules, 2021, will replace the UAS Rules 2021, which was released on March 12, 2021. Key takeaways from the Draft Drone Rules, 2021: > Safety features like ‘No permission – no take-off’, real-time tracking beacon, geo-fencing etc. will be notified in future. A six-month lead time will be provided for compliance.  > Digital sky platform shall be developed as a business-friendly single-window online system.    > There will be minimal human interface on the digital sky platform and most permissions will be self-generated.    > An interactive airspace map with green, yellow, and red zones will be displayed on the digital sky platform.   > Yellow zone reduced from 45 km to 12 km from the airport perimeter.  > Drone promotion council to be set up to facilitate a business-friendly regulatory regime. > All drone training and testing to be carried out by an authorised drone school. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) shall prescribe training requirements, oversee drone schools and provide pilot licences online.   > No flight permission will be required for up to 400 feet in green zones and up to 200 feet in the area between 8 and 12 km from the airport perimeter.  > No pilot licence will be required for micro drones (for non-commercial use), nano drone and for R&D organisations.  > There will be no restriction on drone operations by foreign-owned companies registered in India. > Import of drones and drone components to be regulated by Directorate General of Foreign Trade.    > No security clearance will be required before any registration or licence issuance.   > There will be no requirement of a certificate of airworthiness, unique identification number, prior permission and remote pilot licence for R&D entities.    > The Coverage of drones under Drone Rules, 2021, will be increased from 300 kg to 500 kg.  This will cover drone taxis also.  > All drone training and testing will be carried out by an authorised drone school. The DGCA shall prescribe training requirements, oversee drone schools and provide pilot licences online.  > The issuance of Certificate of Airworthiness will be delegated to the Quality Council of India and certification entities authorised by it.    > Manufacturers may generate their drone’s unique identification number on the digital sky platform through the self-certification route.  > An easier process has been prescribed for the transfer and deregistration of drones.  > Standard operating procedures and training procedure manuals will be prescribed by DGCA on the digital sky platform for self-monitoring by users. No approvals will be required unless there is a significant departure from the prescribed procedures. > Maximum penalty under Drone Rules, 2021, will be reduced to Rs 1 lakh.  This shall, however, not apply to penalties in respect of violation of other laws.  > Drone corridors will be developed for cargo deliveries.   > Drone promotion council will be set up to facilitate a business-friendly regulatory regime.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/draft-drone-rules-here-are-the-key-changes-proposed-1008862.html
15-07-2021||National||India to make best of 2-year term in UNSC to establish right to be a permanent member: Harsh Vardhan||India will make the best of its two-year term in the UN Security Council and underscore that it establishes the right to be a permanent member of the 15-nation body, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla has said, as the country prepares to assume Presidency of the Council with focus on maritime security, counter-terrorism and peacekeeping. “Next month, we have one of the most landmark events in our engagement in the UN. We will be president of the UN Security Council in the month of August,” Shringla said. “We will make the best of our two-year term in the Security Council. We will leave our mark in the Council and our point is to say that India really, by its contribution, establishes the right to be a permanent member of UN Security Council,” he said. Shringla arrived in New York on Wednesday and will participate in two high-level events in the Security Council to be held under the current French Presidency. He will also meet UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres Thursday and address the Council briefing on Libya. India is Chair of the Libyan Sanctions Committee. Shringla’s visit comes as India prepares to assume the Presidency of the powerful 15-nation UN body next month. Speaking at a welcome event organised for him in the city by Jaipur Foot USA and Gracious Givers Foundation USA, Shringla said India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti has arranged new and very significant initiatives in the areas of maritime security, counter-terrorism and UN peacekeeping during India’s upcoming presidency. “These are all subjects that are important to us and very unique initiatives are being organised,” during India’s presidency of the Council, he said, adding that the presidency will have "very high-level participation" from the country. “We are there to forge consensus, understanding. We are the bridge between countries in maintaining international peace and security. That is no small achievement if you consider the fact that we are not permanent members” of the Council, he said. Speaking about the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country, Shringla said “we have come through a very difficult period in the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.” “The second wave, with the Delta variant, has been devastating,” he said. Shringla noted that up till the second wave, India had been helping countries and distributed over 66 million doses of vaccines to nations all over the world and provided hydroxychloroquine and essential pharmaceutical products to deal with Covid-19 to over 150 countries. As India battled a devastating second wave of Covid-19, many countries felt it was time to assist India in return, he said and referred to President Joe Biden’s remark that India was there for the US and “we will be there for them.” He also thanked the Indian-American community and diaspora for their efforts and help to India in combatting the pandemic. Shringla noted that Jaipur Foot USA Chairman Prem Bhandari sent innumerable consignments of concentrators and cylinders to different parts of the country, which he said made a visible impact. While covid cases are declining in the country, Shringla said “it does not mean that we cannot have a third wave.” “…This is something that can affect countries anywhere in the world, and countries, however, resourced and well-equipped to deal with such crisis, have found that they've been wanting given the sheer scale of numbers and the magnitude and severity of the pandemic.” Referring to India-US relations, Shringla said there is a new administration in the US but the continuity has been “smooth and seamless. “One of the very important reasons is again the success of the Indian-American community that has contributed to a better understanding between our two great democracies and great nations that I would say have in many senses, the values and principles to lead the world in every aspect of it.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-make-best-of-2-year-term-in-unsc-to-establish-right-to-be-a-permanent-member-harsh-vardhan-1008864.html
15-07-2021||National||How brands are riding high on Zomato IPO||Food delivery platform Zomato's Rs 9,375-crore initial public offering (IPO) was oversubscribed on its opening day on Wednesday creating a buzz on social media. The IPO, the second-biggest since SBI Cards and Payment Services' Rs 10,341 crore issue in March 2020, aims to give Zomato a valuation of Rs 64,365 crore.  On Day 1, the food delivery platform's IPO was oversubscribed with retail investors bidding for 2.7 times the number of shares reserved for them. But, Zomato’s IPO hasn’t just been a topic of discussion among the investors. On social media, various companies have taken the opportunity to laud their fellow competitor’s initiative. Let's take a look at how other brands are riding high on Zomato IPO: Zomato, who is known for its quirky social media posts, tweeted, "mereko to aisa dhak dhak horela hai,"  as soon as it announced its IPO. mereko to aisa dhak dhak horela hai Soon after, many companies and startups such as Dunzo, Groww, Paytm hitched a ride on the Zomato IPO wave to market their own brands. The IPO offer, which is open till July 16, on its opening day it received bids for 75.60 crore equity shares against an IPO size of 71.92 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-brands-are-riding-high-on-zomato-ipo-1008868.html
15-07-2021||National||20 children in Puducherry hospitalised after testing Covid positive||Twenty children hailing from Puducherry were hospitalised on Thursday after testing positive for Covid-19, Director of Health and Family Welfare services S Mohan Kumar said. They were admitted to the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College Hospital at Kadirkamam. Kumar told PTI that details of their age were being collected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/20-children-in-puducherry-hospitalised-after-testing-covid-positive-1008873.html
15-07-2021||National||India's power consumption returns to pre-Covid level in first fortnight of July||India's power consumption grew nearly 17 per cent in the first fortnight of July to 59.36 billion units (BU) and returned to pre-pandemic level mainly due to easing of lockdown curbs and delayed monsoon, according to power ministry data. Power consumption during July 1-14 last year was 50.79 BU. Power consumption was recorded at 52.89 BU in the first fortnight of July in 2019. Thus, consumption of power has not only grown year-on-year but also returned to pre-pandemic level. In July 2020, power consumption recovered to 112.14 BU, but remained lower than 116.48 BU in the same month of 2019 (pre-pandemic level). Experts say recovery in power demand and consumption in the first fortnight of July is mainly due to delayed monsoon and surge in economic activities amid easing of lockdown restrictions by states. They said power demand, as well as consumption, returned to pre-Covid levels in the first fortnight of July and recovery would be robust in coming days. The commercial and industrial power demand and consumption got affected April onwards this year due to lockdown restrictions imposed by states. Experts said that amid decline in the number of daily Covid-19 positive cases across the country and easing of lockdown restriction by the states, the commercial and industrial demand of power would definitely rise from July onwards. Peak power demand met or the highest supply in a day touched an all-time high of 200.57 GW in the first fortnight of July (recorded on July 7, 2021). Daily power consumption also touched an all-time high of 4,508 million units on July 7, 2021. In the first fortnight of July, peak power demand met recorded growth of nearly 18 per cent compared to 170.40 GW (recorded on July 2). Peak power demand met for the entire month of July 2020 was also 170.40 GW. The peak power demand met was recorded at 175.12 GW in July 2019. Last year, the government had imposed a lockdown on March 25, to contain the spread of coronavirus. The lockdown was eased in a phased manner, but had hit the economic and commercial activities and resulted in lower commercial and industrial demand for electricity in the country. Power consumption in April 2021, saw year-on-year growth of nearly 38.5 per cent. The second wave of Covid-19 started in the middle of April this year and affected the recovery in commercial and industrial power demand as states started imposing restrictions in the latter part of the month. Power consumption in the country witnessed 6.6 per cent year-on-year growth in May at 108.80 BU despite a low base of 102.08 BU in the same month of 2020. As per the latest data, power consumption in June grew nearly 9 per cent to 114.35 BU, compared to 105.08 BU in the same month last year. Power consumption in February this year was recorded at 103.25 BU, compared to 103.81 BU a year ago. In March this year, power consumption grew nearly 22 per cent to 120.63 BU, compared to 98.95 BU in the same month of 2020. After a gap of six months, power consumption had recorded 4.6 per cent year-on-year growth in September 2020, and 11.6 per cent in October 2020. In November, power consumption growth slowed to 3.12 per cent, mainly due to early onset of winters. In December, it grew 4.5 per cent, while this was 4.4 per cent higher in January 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-power-consumption-returns-to-pre-covid-level-in-first-fortnight-of-july-1008883.html
15-07-2021||National||Drone corridor, promotion council part of Aviation Ministry's draft rules for ease of using drones||'Drone corridors' for goods delivery and a council to promote development of technology and business are on the anvil with the government on Thursday publicising new draft rules to replace the one put in place just four months ago. The proposed rules also have eased the formalities in use of drones for research and development by abolishing certain approvals required for research and educational institutions, start-ups recognised by Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) and drone manufacturers. The maximum penalty under the draft Drone Rules is reduced to Rs one lakh but will not apply to penalties in respect of violation of other laws while there will be no need for security clearance before registration or licence issual. The Ministry of Civil Aviation has put the draft Drone Rules, 2021 "built on the premise of trust, self-certification, and non-intrusive monitoring" in public domain for consultation till August 5 and once finalised will replace the existing Unmanned Aircraft System Rules, 2021. Emphasising that the proposed rules "mark a stark shift" from the existing rules, he said, "drones are bringing the next big tech revolution around the globe with reduced costs, resources and time taken for operations. It is upon us to ride on the new wave and facilitate its uptake, especially among our startups." In a major fillip to the drone industry, I am happy to present the Draft Drone Rules 2021 that mark a stark shift from the earlier UAS Rules. 10 key takeaways:✅ Several approvals abolished & processes made easier✅ No. of forms reduced from 25 to 51/4 All activities related to the management of drones will be through the 'Digital Sky Platform' developed and hosted by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) as a business-friendly single-window online system. There will be minimum human interface on the platform and most permissions will be self-generated. The draft rules have abolished the requirement of several approvals like the need for unique authorisation number, certificate of maintenance, import clearance, operator permit, student remote pilot licence and drone port authorisation.  [15:55, 7/15/2021] +91 98182 66199: Bringing more ease in authorisation of use of drones, the number of forms to be filled has been reduced from 25 to six while fee has been reduced to nominal levels and there is no linkage with the size of drone. While there will be no restriction on drone operations by foreign-owned companies registered in India, the draft rules also said a framework for developing drone corridors for safe transfer of goods by drones will be outlined in a policy framework in respect of Unmanned Aircraft System Traffic Management System. It also envisages a Drone Promotion Council for promoting the adoption and use of drones, development of a business-friendly regulatory regime, including automated permissions and setting up incubators and other facilities for the development of drone technologies. The Council will also be tasked with involving industry experts and academic institutions in policy advice and organising competitive events involving drones and counter-drone technologies. No pilot licence will be required for micro drones (for non-commercial use), nano drones and for research and development organisations. Key Takeaways from the Draft Drone Rules, 2021 * Approvals abolished: unique authorisation number, unique prototype identification number, certificate of conformance, certificate of maintenance, import clearance, acceptance of existing drones, operator permit, authorisation of R&D organisation, student remote pilot licence, remote pilot instructor authorisation, drone port authorisation etc. * Number of forms reduced from 25 to 6. * Fee reduced to nominal levels. No linkage with the size of the drone. * Safety features like ‘No permission – no take-off’ (NPNT), real-time tracking beacon, geo-fencing etc. to be notified in future. A six-month lead time will be provided for compliance. * Digital sky platform shall be developed as a business-friendly single-window online system. * There will be minimal human interface on the digital sky platform and most permissions will be self-generated. * Interactive airspace map with green, yellow, and red zones will be displayed on the digital sky platform. * Yellow zone reduced from 45 km to 12 km from the airport perimeter. * No flight permission required upto 400 feet in green zones and upto 200 feet in the area between 8 and 12 km from the airport perimeter. * No pilot licence required for micro drones (for non-commercial use), nano drones and for R&D organisations. * No restriction on drone operations by foreign-owned companies registered in India. * Import of drones and drone components to be regulated by DGFT. * No security clearance required before any registration or licence issuance. * No requirement of certificate of airworthiness, unique identification number, prior permission and remote pilot licence for R&D entities. * Coverage of drones under Drone Rules, 2021 increased from 300 kg to 500 kg. This will cover drone taxis also. * All drone training and testing to be carried out by an authorised drone school. DGCA shall prescribe training requirements, oversee drone schools and provide pilot licences online. * Issuance of Certificate of Airworthiness delegated to Quality Council of India and certification entities authorised by it. * Manufacturers may generate their drone’s unique identification number on the digital sky platform through the self-certification route. * Easier process prescribed for transfer and deregistration of drones. * Standard operating procedures (SOP) and training procedure manuals (TPM) will be prescribed by DGCA on the digital sky platform for self-monitoring by users. No approvals required unless there is a significant departure from the prescribed procedures. * Maximum penalty under Drone Rules, 2021 reduced to Rs 1 lakh. This shall, however, not apply to penalties in respect of violation of other laws. * Drone corridors will be developed for cargo deliveries. * Drone promotion council to be set up to facilitate a business-friendly regulatory regime.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drone-corridor-promotion-council-part-of-aviation-ministrys-draft-rules-for-ease-of-using-drones-1008889.html
15-07-2021||National||Arvind Kejriwal pitches for Bharat Ratna for Sunderlal Bahuguna||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday sought that the country's highest civilian award, Bharat Ratna, be given to noted environmentalist Sunderlal Bahuguna posthumously. The environmentalist, known for his pioneering role in the chipko movement in Uttarkhand, died on May 21. Kejriwal said he will write a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in this regard. He made the remarks at an event at the Delhi Legislative Assembly to pay condolence to Bahuguna. Saplings were planted and a portrait of Bahuguna was unveiled at the event. The chief minister noted that Bahuguna was known all over the world and every moment of his life inspires people. Started by Bahuguna at the foothills of the Himalayas in 1973 in Uttarakhand, then a part of Uttar Pradesh, the Chipko movement was a forest conservation movement in India. It later became a rallying point for many environmental movements all over the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arvind-kejriwal-pitches-for-bharat-ratna-for-sunderlal-bahuguna-1008891.html
15-07-2021||National||Markets shut, roads blocked, trains disrupted in Left's Odisha bandh over fuel price hike||The six-hour Odisha bandh by the Left parties on Thursday against the hike in fuel prices evoked a mixed response. Activists of CPI, CPI(M), CPI(M-L) and Forward Bloc blocked roads and railway tracks in different parts of the state. The protest disrupted train services at the Bhubaneswar railway station as the bandh supporters demonstrated on the tracks. All major markets and malls remained shut due to the bandh, which began at 6 am and continued till 12 pm. However, roadside shops were seen open in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack. Many petrol pumps, banks, central and state government offices remained closed. However, the state secretariat operated with thin attendance, officials said. The state government made elaborate security arrangements across the state in view of the bandh. However, there was no report of any untoward incident, a senior police officer said. Commuters faced inconvenience due to the blockade of major roads. Hundreds of vehicles, including trucks, remained stranded on the national highway in Bhubaneswar as members of the Left parties blocked roads at Acharya Vihar. CPI(M) leader Suresh Panigrahi said the people of Odisha supported the bandh spontaneously. "The BJP-led government at the Centre and Odisha's BJD government should get a clear message that the common man has totally rejected their fuel price hike," he said. State Congress president Niranjan Patnaik said his party supported the bandh as a mark of protest against the fuel price hike. BJP state general secretary P Harichandan said that the hike in fuel price is mostly due to a rise in the price of crude oil in the international market. "This apart, the Left and Congress leaders know that the Centre has been providing free Covid vaccines. Therefore, the price hike was required," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/markets-shut-roads-blocked-trains-disrupted-in-lefts-odisha-bandh-over-fuel-price-hike-1008892.html
15-07-2021||National||IMA seeks removal of one-week posting provision for medical interns in Ayush medicine||The Indian Medical Association has sought removal of the provision of one-week elective posting of medical interns in AYUSH medicine from the draft regulation for Compulsory Rotating Internship, calling it "superfluous" and an attempt to initiate "mixopathy". The National Medical Commission (NMC) came out with a draft regulation on internship that stated that a week's training must be part of the rotational schedule in any of the Indian systems of medicine or AYUSH as an elective. In a letter to the NMC, the IMA warned that the one-week period exposure especially in another system of medicine will only pave the way for a "half-baked mixopath, which is disastrous for the country". Holding that the IMA strives for "purity" of profession, the medical body sought removal of the provision and said it can be replaced by one or two-week posting in Family Medicine along with Bioethics. The IMA said it is not prudent for an intern trained in modern medicine to partake and practice a system of medicine which he or she has not learned at the under graduation level. "IMA fully opposes the inclusion of one-week exclusive elective posting which is contrary to the established norm, superfluous and an attempt to initiate mixopathy. IMA strives for purity of profession," the medical body said. "AYUSH and its components are vast subjects, working there for a week the intern will not learn any new skill, and there is no clarity who shall be their mentor, and will they be assessed by NMC faculty norms or not. What is the objective, roll or competency will be learned which will augment his competencies... Are we adding engineering and agricultural science too for a week as it will make him a perfect human being?" it asked. The IMA underlined the importance of inclusion of Family Medicine along with Bioethics. "Family Medicine is a specialty which is the need of the hour for catering to the common people with multi-faceted, continuous, comprehensive, cost-effective, community-oriented concept and values of family care," it added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ima-seeks-removal-of-one-week-posting-provision-for-medical-interns-in-ayush-medicine-1008893.html
15-07-2021||National||Over 40.31 crore Covid vaccines provided to states, UTs so far: Centre||Over 40.31 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have so far been provided to states/UTs in the country and more than 1.92 crore balance and unutilised jabs are still available with them and private hospitals, the health ministry said on Thursday. In a statement, the ministry said 83,85,790 more doses are in the pipeline. “More than 40.31 crore (40,31,74,380) vaccine doses have been provided to states/Union Territories (UTs) so far through all sources, and a further 83,85,790 doses are in the pipeline. Of this, the total consumption, including wastages, is 38,39,02,614 doses (according to data available at 8 am Thursday),” the ministry said. More than 1.92 crore (1,92,71,766) balance and unutilised Covid vaccine doses are still available with the states/UTs and private hospitals to be administered, it said. The new phase of universalisation of Covid-19 vaccination programme commenced from June 21. Under the nationwide vaccination drive, the Government of India has been supporting the states/UTs by providing them the vaccines. In the new phase of the universalisation of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, the Union government will procure and supply (free of cost) 75 per cent of the vaccines being produced by vaccine manufacturers in the country, to the states/UTs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-4031-crore-covid-vaccines-provided-to-states-uts-so-far-centre-1008897.html
15-07-2021||National||Sikh man alleges Muslim wife, in-laws forcing him to convert, moves court||A Chandigarh-based Sikh man has filed a civil suit in a local court here, seeking directions for restraining his wife and his in-laws from allegedly forcing him and his minor son to convert to Islam. The court of Civil Judge (Junior Division) Rasveen Kaur on Wednesday issued notices to defendants on a complaint filed by the 36-year-old man and fixed July 20 as the next date of hearing. In a civil suit filed through counsel Dixit Arora, the man said that he was Sikh by religion while his wife and his in-laws were Muslim. The plaintiff through his counsel submitted that he met his would-be wife in 2008 in Chandigarh. He was working as a store in-charge of a jewellery store while the woman was working as a sales girl at the same store. After they became friends, the woman proposed marriage. He initially refused the proposal as he belonged to a different religion while she was a Muslim. But after she assured him that she would never create any hurdle in his religious feelings and values, they solemnised the marriage according to Sikh rituals in 2008 at Amritsar. The plaintiff alleged that from the day one of their marriage, his wife and his in-laws started forcing him to profess Islam. When his in-laws continued to force him to profess Islam, he decided to stay away from them and shifted to Delhi where he stayed for four years from 2008 till 2011.He later shifted to Amritsar where he stayed for four years. In 2012, his wife gave birth to a boy. His in-laws started trying their best to convert their child to Islam, he alleged. On the persistent request of his wife, he shifted to Chandigarh in 2016. Since then, there had been active interference of his in-laws in his matrimonial life, he alleged. He further alleged that his in-laws used to instigate his wife to enter into heated arguments with him as he was not ready to convert to Islam. He further accused his in-laws of insulting him numerous times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sikh-man-alleges-muslim-wife-in-laws-forcing-him-to-convert-moves-court-1008906.html
15-07-2021||National||PM Modi inaugurates International Cooperation and Convention Centre - Rudrakash||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday inaugurated the International Cooperation and Convention Centre - Rudrakash . The centre was constructed with Japanese assistance. The prime minister is on a one-day visit to his parliamentary constituency and he inaugurated and laid the foundation stones of multiple development projects worth more than Rs 1,500 crore at the IIT-BHU ground.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-inaugurates-international-cooperation-and-convention-centre-rudrakash-1008918.html
15-07-2021||National||Alcohol drinking linked to over 62,000 new cancer cases in India last year: Lancet study||Alcohol consumption was associated with 62,100 or five per cent of newly diagnosed cancer cases last year in India, according to a study published in The Lancet Oncology journal which shows alcohol use is on the rise in the country. Globally, the researchers found that more than 740,000 or four per cent of new cancer cases in 2020 may be attributed to alcohol drinking. The study estimates that men accounted for 77 per cent (568,700 cases) of alcohol-associated cancer cases, compared with women, who accounted for 23 per cent of cases (172,600). Cancers of the oesophagus, liver, and breast accounted for the largest number of cases. Based on data from previous years, it shows that in 2020, there were more than 6.3 million cases of mouth, pharynx, voice box (larynx), oesophageal, colon, rectum, liver, and breast cancer. These cancers have well-established causal links to alcohol consumption, and the estimates of the direct associations with alcohol in the new study are the first of their kind for 2020. "Trends suggest that although there is a decrease in alcohol consumption per person in many European countries, alcohol use is on the rise in Asian countries such as China and India, and in sub-Saharan Africa," said Harriet Rumgay of the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC), France. "In addition, there is evidence that the Covid-19 pandemic has increased rates of drinking in some countries," Rumgay said. The researchers call for greater public awareness of the link between alcohol and cancers and increased government interventions to reduce its consumption in worst-affected regions. The study highlights the contribution of even relatively low levels of drinking to rates of cancer, which is concerning, but also suggests that small changes to public drinking behaviour could positively impact future cancer rates. Alcohol consumption has been shown to cause DNA damage through increased production of harmful chemicals in the body, and affect hormone production, which can contribute to cancer development, according to the researchers. Alcohol can also worsen the cancer-causing effects of other substances, such as tobacco, they said. In the new study, researchers established levels of alcohol intake per person per country for 2010, to allow for the time it takes for alcohol intake to affect possible cancer development. They then combined them with new cancer cases in 2020 to estimate the number of alcohol-associated cancers in each country. Moderate drinking was classed as intake of up to two alcoholic drinks, risky drinking as between two and six alcoholic drinks per day, and heavy drinking as more than six alcoholic drinks per day. Globally, an estimated 4 per cent (741,300) of all new cases of cancer in 2020 were associated with alcohol consumption, the researchers said. The study found that risky drinking and heavy drinking led to the largest proportion of cancer cases at 39 per cent (291,800 cases) and 47 per cent (346,400 cases) respectively. However, moderate drinking was also found to be problematic, with estimates that this level of drinking accounted for 14 per cent (103,100 cases) of the total of alcohol-caused cases. Eastern Asia and Central and Eastern Europe regions had the highest proportions of cancer cases that could be associated with alcohol at 6 per cent, with the lowest proportions found in Northern Africa and Western Asia, both below 1 per cent. At a country level, the proportions of cancer cases associated with alcohol were estimated to be highest in Mongolia (10 per cent) and lowest in Kuwait (estimated at 0 per cent). India had an estimated 5 per cent (62,100) of cancer cases linked to alcohol, while China 6 per cent (282,300), Germany 4 per cent (21,500 cases) and France had 5 per cent (20,000 cases). The UK had an estimated 4 per cent of cancer cases linked to alcohol (16,800), with the US at 3 per cent (52,700), and Brazil at 4 per cent (20,500 cases). "We urgently need to raise awareness about the link between alcohol consumption and cancer risk among policy makers and the general public," said Rumgay. The researchers noted that public health strategies, such as reduced alcohol availability, labelling alcohol products with a health warning, and marketing bans could reduce rates of alcohol-driven cancer. Tax and pricing policies that have led to decreased alcohol intake in Europe, including increased excise taxes and minimum unit pricing, could also be implemented in other world regions, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/alcohol-drinking-linked-to-over-62000-new-cancer-cases-in-india-last-year-lancet-study-1008921.html
15-07-2021||National||Army man arrested for providing classified documents to Pakistan’s ISI||Two persons, including an Army man, have been arrested under the Official Secrets Act for allegedly providing classified documents to the Inter-Services Intelligence of Pakistan, the Delhi Police said on Thursday. The Army headquarters have confirmed that the documents in question were classified in nature, they said. The development comes after a 34-year-old vegetable supplier at the Pokhran Army base camp was held for allegedly getting sensitive documents from an Army man for money and providing them to the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI). The vegetable supplier, Habeeb Khan, was picked up on Tuesday by the Delhi Police from Pokhran in Rajasthan, officials had said on Wednesday. The Delhi Police's Crime Branch received information that some sensitive documents related to defence establishment were being sent to the neighbouring country through spy network. "We got input about the involvement of one Habibur Rehman. Our team then conducted a raid and arrested him from Pokhran after due verification. Some secret documents were recovered from his possession and a case was registered against him under the Official Secrets Act," Special Commissioner of Police (Crime) Praveer Ranjan said at a press conference. During the course of investigation, it was found that Army man Paramjit was the link man in the crime. He was earlier posted at Pokhran where he came in contact with Rehman who asked him to share the secret documents, the officer said. Paramjit is currently posted as a clerk at Agra Cantt, police said. According to police, Rehman's relatives are based in Pakistan's Sindh and he had been to that country and met some people there involved in the spy racket. Rehman was asked to share the documents with them and the money for doing the job was sent through hawala network, police said, adding that further investigation is underway in the matter. “Both Rehman and Paramjit have been found involved in the illegal act. The Army headquarters have also confirmed that the documents shared by the duo were classified in nature,” a police officer said. Multiple bank accounts used in the crime have been found, he said, adding the matter is being thoroughly investigated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-man-arrested-for-providing-classified-documents-to-pakistan-s-isi-1008927.html
15-07-2021||National||HC refuses plea seeking action against holding property through power of attorney||The Delhi High Court Thursday refused to entertain a petition seeking a direction to Delhi Police to not accept power of attorney as title deed of properties. "You want that door-to-door survey should be conducted by Delhi Police?" a bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh questioned lawyer and petitioner. Advocate Manohar Lal Sharma, who filed the petition submitted that Delhi Police should take action whenever it receives a complaint that a person is in possession of a property on the basis of a power of attorney. He argued that power of attorney was an illegal document and not a title deed, and anyone relying on it to possess any property should be liable for action under the Indian Penal Code and Black Money Act. The court asked Sharma to withdraw the petition, else it would impose costs on him. “We are not inclined to issue notice. We don't want to impose costs on a lawyer”, the court said. The petition was then withdrawn by the lawyer. The petition contended that sale transactions via power of attorney are for concealing black money and tax evasion, which is a serious offence. The petitioner claimed that upon enquiry, he found that there were several benami properties that were purchased by the brokers through power of attorney and the same were being used for tenancy business.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-refuses-plea-seeking-action-against-holding-property-through-power-of-attorney-1008931.html
15-07-2021||National||India will reduce more than targeted 33% carbon emission by 2030: Power Minister||Union Power Minister R K Singh on Thursday said India would exceed its target of reducing carbon emission set for 2030 under the Paris agreement. As per commitment made in Paris, India has to reduce its carbon intensity to 33 per cent by 2030, Singh said at the inaugural session of Aatmanirbhar Bharat - Self-Reliance for Renewable Energy Manufacturing conference, organised by CII. He said as per the agreement, India has to produce 40 per cent electricity of its total capacity from non-fossil sources by 2030. "We are already at 39 per cent, and if you add the capacities under installation it's already 48 per cent. We are way beyond our NDC (nationally determined contributions) pledges," the minister said. Singh also expressed dissatisfaction over the approach of some nations towards pledges made under the agreement. Without naming any country, he said there are countries whose per capita emissions are up to 9 times more than the global average, while India's per capita carbon emission is just about one-third of the global average. Countries must tell what they will do in the next five years and how they will reduce their per capita emission, the minister said, adding it is something "which nobody is telling". In India, Singh said, energy transition is taking place rapidly and will continue to happen in future as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-reduce-more-than-targeted-33-carbon-emission-by-2030-power-minister-1008934.html
15-07-2021||National||Is it in public interest to seek withdrawal of cases against vandalism by MLAs, SC asks Kerala govt||The Supreme Court on Thursday sought to know if it would be in public interest or in service of the public justice to seek withdrawal of prosecution against the MLAs, who have damaged the sanctum sanctorum of democracy. "Suppose an MLA whips out a revolver in the Assembly and also empties his revolver. Can you say House is supreme on this?," a bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud asked the Kerala government. The bench, however, was quick to clarify it was not possible to carry a weapon inside the Assembly, but it cited this example to carefully examine the issue before the court. The top court reserved its order on Kerala government's plea seeking court’s nod to withdraw cases against CPI(M) leaders, including education minister V Sivankutty, for vandalism in the state Assembly in 2015, when the current ruling party was in the Opposition. The Kerala government, for its part, submitted before the bench also comprising Justice M R Shah that the House has the prerogative to take action against MLAs for creating a ruckus in the Assembly in 2015.  The bench, however, referred to heated arguments between lawyers, often witnessed in the Supreme Court. "Look at the courts. Tempers are lost, lawyers opposing each other in court. Would that justify, if court property is damaged," the court asked senior advocate Ranjit Kumar, appearing for the Kerala government. The bench also asked why the government was keen in pursuing the withdrawal application and sought to know if it is really in public interest. Kumar maintained that it was a ruckus between the political parties and members of the ruling party were equally at fault. Senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani, representing an intervenor, submitted that the protection of legislative privileges cannot be claimed for vandalism committed within the House. On July 5, the top court had said the unruly behaviour of law makers in Parliament and Assembly cannot be condoned and they should face trial for destroying public property inside the House. The Kerala government has cited privileges and immunity to MLAs and urged the top court to drop cases against the Left leaders. The Kerala High Court, in an order passed on March 12, had refused to give its nod saying that the elected representatives are expected to uphold prestige of the House or face consequences.  The MLAs had vandalised Speaker's dais, uprooted his chair, pulled out mic, computer etc. The state government referred to certain privileges and immunities conferred to the members of the Parliament and State Legislature under the Constitution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/is-it-in-public-interest-to-seek-withdrawal-of-cases-against-vandalism-by-mlas-sc-asks-kerala-govt-1008960.html
15-07-2021||National||Pensioners may now get pension slip from banks through WhatsApp also||The Centre has told banks they can use social media apps such as WhatsApp alongside SMS and email to send pension slips to pensioners after their account is credited, according to an official order. It said the decision was taken in order to ensure ease of living of the pensioners. “Banks may also use social media apps WhatsApp etc in addition to sms and email,” said the order issued by the Department of Pension and Pensioners’ Welfare. A meeting was held with the Central Pension Processing Centres (CPPCs) of pension-disbursing banks last month wherein the issue of providing the breakup of the monthly pension to the pensioners was discussed, it said. The banks were impressed upon to undertake this welfare measure as this information is required by pensioners in connection with Income Tax, Dearness Relief payments and DR arrears among others, the order said. The banks welcomed the idea and expressed their willingness to provide the information, it said. “Accordingly, all pension disbursing banks should issue pension slip to pensioners after credit of pension on their registered mobile numbers through sms and email (wherever available) also,” said the recent order. The pension slip should provide the complete detail of the monthly pension paid along with break-up of the amount credited and tax deductions etc. if any, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pensioners-may-now-get-pension-slip-from-banks-through-whatsapp-also-1008964.html
15-07-2021||National||India's Covid-19 infection rate edges up, with second-wave yet to abate||A rise in India's Covid-19 infection rate is worrying authorities who are concerned that pilgrimages and tourism could prove to be "superspreader" events in the battle to douse a devastating second wave of infections that has killed thousands. In a pilgrimage this month, thousands of Hindus are set to walk hundreds of miles across northern cities, carrying pitchers of water from the Ganges, a river they consider sacred. The Supreme Court this week questioned federal and state authorities in the most populous state of Uttar Pradesh why mass religious gathering should be allowed. The home ministry flagged the increase in the infective rate as a cause for concern in some states, urging officials nationwide to enforce social distancing and clamp down on overcrowding at tourist sites. "We must guard ourselves against complacency and laxity, which creep in as positivity declines," Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla told them in a letter on Wednesday, at a time when most cities have lifted strict lockdowns. Infectivity jumps The effective reproduction rate of the disease, which health experts call the "R" factor, now stands at 0.86 in the world's second-most populous nation, online publication Our World in Data shows, a jump of more than 25% in a month. Bhalla warned of the risk of a faster spread of infection when the rate exceeds 1. "You may be aware that any increase in 'R' factor above 1.0 is an indicator of spread of Covid-19," he added. Still, the website showed the 0.86 figure is off an April 9 peak of 1.47. By May, that had propelled India's daily cases to a staggering 400,000, leaving thousands in cities, including the capital New Delhi, scrambling for oxygen, hospital beds, ambulances and ultimately, morgues. Bodies washed up on the banks of the Ganges. India's tally of 30.99 million infections is second only to the United States, with 411,989 deaths. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has warned against overcrowding and called for vigilance against new variants, saying vaccination efforts needed to be sped up. India is trying to inoculate all 950 million adults by year-end, but vaccine shortages and logistics hurdles have meant just 8% have received both doses. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-infection-rate-edges-up-with-second-wave-yet-to-abate-1008967.html
15-07-2021||National||India has highest number of unvaccinated, under-vaccinated children at 3.5 million: UNICEF||More than three million Indian children didn't get their basic vaccines in the first year of Covid-19, the WHO and UNICEF said on Thursday, observing that the pandemic led to major reductions in childhood vaccinations in South Asia where millions of kids missed out on their routine immunisation in 2020. India was hit particularly hard as it had the highest number of such unprotected children at nearly 3.5 million, an increase of 1.4 million from 2019. In a grim reminder of how decades of gains in public health were lost just in one year, the World Health Organisation in a statement says India tops the list of countries with the greatest increase in babies not receiving the diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis combined vaccine. Between 2019 and 2020, South Asia experienced a sharp decline in kids receiving three doses of the diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis (DTP3) vaccine, falling from 90% to 84%. The fall happened after four decades of improvement in routine immunisation during which the percentage of children covered by three doses of the DTP vaccine had increased steadily from 6% in 1980 to a record high of 90% in 2019 in South Asia. India, where every year more than 26 million babies are born, experienced a particularly large drop, with the DTP3 coverage falling from 91% to 85% Globally 23 million children missed out on basic vaccines through routine immunization services in 2020. “This evidence should be a clear warning – the Covid-19 pandemic and related disruptions cost us valuable ground we cannot afford to lose – and the consequences will be paid in the lives and wellbeing of the most vulnerable,” said Henrietta Fore, UNICEF Executive Director. “Even before the pandemic, there were worrying signs that we were beginning to lose ground in the fight to immunize children against preventable child illness, including with the widespread measles outbreaks two years ago. The pandemic has made a bad situation worse." Measles too remains a concern, as well as outbreaks of diseases like diphtheria which can spread quickly where people are unvaccinated. In South Asia, coverage for the first dose of the measles vaccine fell from 92% in 2019 to 88% in 2020. This is well below the 95% recommended by WHO to protect against measles. “It is heartbreaking to see this reversal in child vaccinations due to Covid-19. Nearly 4.4 million children are not even receiving a single dose of a vaccine that can protect them from deadly diseases, which is almost twice as many as the previous year. This is a huge setback for children in South Asia, as it puts their lives at risk, and leads to unspeakable suffering," said George Laryea-Adjei, UNICEF Regional Director for South Asia. The Union Health Ministry had organised two rounds of a special drive in February and March this year to improve the routine immunisation level, but the gap persists because of the difficulties that people felt last year to access the healthcare services across the country. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-highest-number-of-unvaccinated-under-vaccinated-children-at-35-million-unicef-1008971.html
15-07-2021||National||Centre launches Covid-19 vaccination campaign for tribals||Seeking to dispel myths, misconceptions and fears about Covid-19 vaccines among tribals, the Centre on Thursday launched a campaign involving traditional leaders and local influencers that will cover over 50,000 villages in 309 districts. The Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development Federation (TRIFED) under the Ministry of Tribal Affairs will anchor the campaign that started from Bastar in Chhattisgarh and Mandla in Madhya Pradesh. TRIFED has partnered with the United Nations Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF) and World Health Organization (WHO) for the campaign. Officials said the campaign is likely to reach out to around 50 lakh tribals and forest dwellers in around 50,000 villages in 309 districts. Tribal Affairs Minister Arjun Munda said, "there are a lot of myths and misconceptions regarding Covid-19 vaccination. This campaign focuses on removing these hindrances. This is the time we increase awareness about vaccination in view of a possible third wave." Authorities have witnessed vaccine hesitancy among a section of people, including tribals, due to misconceptions. The campaign aims to send a message to people that vaccination protects from severe diseases and death. Also some of the tribals, officials said, deny the existence of Covid-19 and think it is just a normal fever. TRIFED is involving local faith leaders and community elders to bust these myths. Awareness programmes will be held at fertilisers outlet centres, haats and bazaars, milk collection points and Van Dhan Vikas Kendras. Pre-recorded messages in local dialects and languages as well as tribal folk songs will be used, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-launches-covid-19-vaccination-campaign-for-tribals-1008983.html
15-07-2021||National||JEE-Main 4th edition postponed, now exams to be held from Aug 26 to Sept 2||The fourth edition of engineering entrance exam JEE-Main has been postponed to August 26-September 2 to give aspirants a four-week gap between two sessions of the crucial exam, Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said on Thursday. The fourth edition of JEE (Main) was earlier scheduled to be held from July 27 to August 2. "In view of the persistent demand from the student community and to enable the candidates to maximise their performance, the National Testing Agency has been advised to provide a gap of four weeks between session three and four of the JEE(Main) 2021 exam. "Accordingly, the JEE (Main), 2021, session four will now be held on August 26, 27 and 31, and on September 1 and 2. A total of 7.32 lakh candidates have already registered for JEE (Main), 2021, session four," Pradhan tweeted. The minister said that registration for the JEE-Main session four is still in progress and dates for registration will be extended up to July 20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jee-main-4th-edition-postponed-now-exams-to-be-held-from-aug-26-to-sept-2-1009009.html
15-07-2021||National||Japan trustworthy friend, says PM Modi||Addressing a gathering after inaugurating the International Cooperation and Convention Centre–Rudraksh, Modi said during the Covid-19 crisis when the world came to a standstill, Kashi remained disciplined, and the stream of development and creativity ('srijan') continued to flow uninterrupted. “The Rudraksh is a result of this creativity ('rachnaatmaktaa') and agility ('gatisheeltaa')," he said. Modi also praised his Japanese counterpart Yoshihide Suga, saying Kashi got the “gift” due to his efforts. "I want to congratulate everyone, the people of Kashi for this achievement, especially India's 'param mitra' (close friend) Japan, the people of Japan, Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga and Japanese ambassador to India Suzuki Satoshi,” he said. Modi also recalled former Japanese PM Shinzo Abe for his contribution to the project. "Today, in this programme, I cannot forget to take the name of one person…my friend from Japan Shinzo Abe. I remember that when Shinzo Abe came to Kashi as prime minister, there was a long discussion on the idea of Rudraksh.” “He immediately asked his officials to work on this idea. After this, the work started with perfection and planning--the speciality of Japan. And today, this magnificent building is enhancing the beauty of Kashi," the PM said. He said the building has the “shine of modernity and aura of culture”. “It has the connect of India and Japan and there is a scope of immense possibilities in future. During my visit to Japan, we had spoken about the 'apnapan' (affinity) in people-to-people relations. We have made a framework for such cultural ties with Japan," Modi said. Elaborating more on the India-Japan relationship, the prime minister said, "Be it the strategic or economic area, Japan today is one of the most trustworthy friends of India. Our friendship is considered as one of the most natural partnerships of this region.” He further said, “Japan is our partner in some of the important and biggest projects related to modern infrastructure and development. Be it the Mumbai-Ahmedabad high speed rail, Delhi-Mumbai industrial corridor or the dedicated freight corridor, the projects being built with the help of Japan will become the strength of new India." He added that India and Japan believe that development should be linked to happiness. “This development should be 'sarvomukhi' (all directional). It should be for everyone and should connect all,” he said. Modi said like the Kashi convention centre, some weeks ago, a Zen Garden and Kaizen Academy in Gujarat was inaugurated. “If the Rudraksh is a garland of love given to India by Japan, then Zen Garden is spreading the fragrance of love between the two countries," he added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/japan-trustworthy-friend-says-pm-modi-1009022.html
15-07-2021||National||Maharashtra govt orders ACB probe against Param Bir Singh||Troubles mounted for controversial IPS officer Param Bir Singh on Thursday with the Maharashtra government ordering a probe by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) into the allegations of corruption levelled against him by a junior officer. Singh, who had served as Police Commissioner in Mumbai and Thane, is currently the Commandant General of Home Guards. The ACB has sought permission from the Maharashtra government for an open inquiry into the allegations levelled by Police Inspector Anup Dange, who had alleged that he was approached by a person claiming to be a relative of Singh and demanded a bribe of Rs 2 crore for his reinstatement. Dange was earlier attached to the Gamdevi police station and later at the Mumbai Police South Region control room. Dange, who had sent in a detailed complaint to the Maharashtra government, stated that he had taken action against a bar owner in 2019, however, he was suspended by Singh, then heading the Mumbai Police. Dange had also alleged that Singh had tried to shield some people with underworld links when he was the Director General of ACB. With the government clearing a probe, the ACB will now summon him and record his statement - and submit a report on the open inquiry to the government. Singh had put the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government to a major embarrassment after he alleged that the then Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had fixed a collection target of Rs 100 crore per month for Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze. In the wake of the allegations, Deshmukh, a senior NCP leader, had to resign. Vaze was later arrested by the National Investigation Agency in connection with the planting of gelatin sticks-laden Scorpio near the Mumbai home of Reliance Industries Ltd Chairman Mukesh Ambani and the murder of the SUV owner Mansukh Hiren. Deshmukh is facing a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation and Enforcement Directorate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-govt-orders-acb-probe-against-param-bir-singh-1009027.html
15-07-2021||National||Centre releases Rs 75,000 crore to states as GST compensation||The government on Thursday said it has released Rs 75,000 crore to the states and Union Territories to compensate them for the shortfall in GST revenue. The GST Council in its meeting on May 28 had decided that the central government would borrow Rs 1.59 lakh crore and release it to the states and UTs with the legislature on a back-to-back basis to meet the resource gap due to the short release of compensation on account of inadequate amount in the compensation fund. "Ministry of Finance has released today Rs 75,000 crore to the States and UTs with Legislature under the back-to-back loan facility in lieu of GST Compensation. This release is in addition to normal GST compensation being released every 2 months out of actual cess collection," the ministry said in a statement. It further said that all eligible states and UTs (with the legislature) have agreed to the arrangements for the funding of the compensation shortfall under the back-to-back loan facility. "For effective response and management of Covid-19 pandemic and a step-up in capital expenditure, all States and UTs have a very important role to play. For assisting the States/UTs in their endeavour, Ministry of Finance has front-loaded the release of assistance under the back-to-back loan facility during FY 2021-22 Rs 75,000 crore (almost 50 per cent of the total shortfall for the entire year) released today in a single instalment," the ministry added. The balance amount will be released in the second half of 2021-22 in steady instalments. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-releases-rs-75000-crore-to-states-as-gst-compensation-1009032.html
15-07-2021||National||SC takes up suo motu cognisance of delay in release of prisoners despite bail||The Supreme Court has taken a Suo Motu cognisance of delay in release of prisoners despite bail. A three-judge bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana decided to consider the matter on Friday. On July 13, the convicts' counsel informed the court 12 of them have been released a day ago and one would be released on the date. It was seen in case of Delhi riots accused Devangana Kalita, Natasha Narwal and Asif Iqbal Tanha, that they were released about 48 hours after having been granted bail by Delhi high Court on June 15. In their case, Delhi police sought more time from trial court to verify documents. The accused had to rush to the High Court alleging Delhi police were delaying the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-takes-up-suo-motu-cognisance-of-delay-in-release-of-prisoners-despite-bail-1009046.html
15-07-2021||National||Controversy brewing up over naming a garden after Tipu Sultan||Unrest and controversy is brewing up in Mumbai over a move to name a municipal garden after Tipu Sultan, the legendary ruler of Mysore. The issue has put the Shiv Sena in difficulty, which has been ruling the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for quarter of a century. Samajwadi Party corporator Rukhsana Siddiqui has moved a proposal to name a garden in the far eastern suburbs of Govandi to be named after Tipu Sultan. The BJP has opposed the move. Members of the Right-wing Hindu Janjagruti Samiti met Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar, a senior Shiv Sena leader against the move and submitted a memorandum. They also met Tukaram Patil, the Vice President of Markets and Gardens Committee of the BMC. “Various places in Mumbai have been named after great personalities from different religions. We never objected to the same; but giving name of a tyrant like Tipu Sultan, who had demolished more than 1000 Hindu’ temples in southern India; had oppressed millions of Hindu women; had killed millions of Hindus and forcibly converted millions of Hindus, is like hurting religious sentiments of Hindus,” HJS spokesperson Dr Uday Dhuri said. According to him, glorification will not be tolerated by Hindus at any cost. “See the difference between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, who has set an ideal before us by treating all religious with same respect and Tipu Sultan, who is known for inordinate torture of Hindus. The Municipal administration should be able to make out such differences,” he said. Dr Dhuri further pointed out: “In future demand could be made for giving names of the cruel rulers like Aurangzeb, Babar, Khilji, Mohammad Gazani, Mohammad Ghouri, Taimur Lang, Tughalaq if name of tyrant Tipu Sultan is given to a garden today.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/controversy-brewing-up-over-naming-a-garden-after-tipu-sultan-1009062.html
15-07-2021||National||Will Sasikala be able to take control of the AIADMK?||V K Sasikala was the shadow of late Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa and a backroom operator for long. Sasikala’s first attempt to emerge out of Jayalalithaa’s shadow after the latter’s death was abruptly cut short by the Supreme Court which upheld a Bengaluru trial court order sentencing her to four years in prison in a disproportionate assets (DA) case. Her second shot at aiming to control the AIADMK now is being challenged by none other than the very people she controlled from behind as the ever-powerful friend of Jayalalithaa. Sasikala’s chief challenger now is not O Panneerselvam, who rebelled against her after Jayalalithaa’s death, but Edappadi K Palaniswami, a trusted lieutenant once handpicked by her to occupy the Chief Minister’s chair before she proceeded to Bengaluru to serve her jail term. Her political stocks have plummeted to an all-time low, thanks to the political maneuvering of EPS, who not just controlled the government and the party, but also ensured that Sasikala is not taken back into the AIADMK before the state went into elections in April, though BJP was in favour. Though the AIADMK is still smarting under the April 6 election defeat, EPS has managed to stonewall Sasikala’s every effort to make a comeback. He controls the party and has pushed OPS, technically his boss in the party, to the backseat. Many thought AIADMK seniors would make a beeline at Sasikala’s residence in T. Nagar after the election results, but by leading the party to its best performance in a losing election – it won 66 seats – EPS did not just ensure he stayed the boss but is also keeping the party united, albeit for now. Sasikala’s calculations in the past six months have gone wrong more than once. Her camp expected an uprising in the party following her release, but she was cold-shouldered even by her staunchest supporters that eventually forced her to “step aside” from politics before the elections. Even after the defeat of the AIADMK, Sasikala’s telephone diplomacy has not created any ripples within the party, though her continued outreach to cadres has unsettled EPS. Sasikala has not been able to galvanise cadres so far, but she cannot be brushed aside too, political observers say. That her nephew’s party, AMMK, fared very poorly in the election, and leaders quitting the party choosing the DMK over the AIADMK also do not behoove well for her. However, there is growing realisation within the AIADMK that Sasikala cannot be taken for granted and it is being reflected in actions -- every cadre who has engaged with Sasikala has been shown the door. Her camp is also attempting at consolidation of Mukulathors, a dominant caste, and hoping that OPS will put his weight behind them if there is a public showdown between Sasikala and EPS. OPS and Sasikala are Mukulathors, who had traditionally supported the AIADMK. Another factor that has boosted EPS’ image and has prevented many from expressing their support to Sasikala is the BJP’s support to the former Chief Minister. Though EPS has put up a brave front and has managed to keep the party united since 2017, his problems aren’t over as yet – a slew of alleged corruption charges during his tenure still hangs around his neck, and the DMK government may give life to such complaints anytime. Political observers point out Sasikala may be waiting for EPS to fall on his own so that her claim to leadership is less resisted. They added that EPS would walk the extra mile to stop her from claiming AIADMK’s leadership. “EPS will do his best in stopping Sasikala from coming anywhere near the AIADMK headquarters, much less than letting her stake claim to the leadership. Because he knows any space to her will only derail his political career abruptly,” senior journalist R Bhagwan Singh told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-sasikala-be-able-to-take-control-of-the-aiadmk-1009065.html
15-07-2021||National||PM Modi to virtually inaugurate redeveloped Gandhinagar railway station on Friday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually inaugurate the redeveloped swanky railway station in Gandhinagar on Friday. Developed jointly by Gujarat government and India Railways, the railway station in state capital is hailed as the first one with a five star hotel atop its building that has 318 rooms. The station has been redeveloped jointly by Gandhinagar Railway and Urban Development (GARUD) of Gujarat government and Indian Railway Station Development Corporation (IRSDC) at a cost of Rs 71.5 crore. In a presentation, the state government on Thursday said that the "capital station" is the first redeveloped station that has facilities at par with airports. It has two escalators, three elevators and two pedestrian subways connected to three platforms. The station, spread over 26,000 square meters, has 400 people waiting capacity, centrally air-conditioned multipurpose hall, baby feeding room, prayer room, among others. It also has a dedicated display area for the art gallery with audio-video LED screen, dynamic theme changing façade lighting, besides 7,600 sqm area kept for commercial use. development like multiplexes, food courts, gaming zones, shopping areas, among others. The station is close to Mahatma Mandir convention and exhibition centre (MMCC), which hosts major events of the state including biennial Vibrant Gujarat Summits and Gujarat Assembly. Similarly, a luxury hotel, built at a cost of Rs 790 crore, has also been constructed that has 318 rooms which will be operated by a private agency. It is spread across 7,400 square meters. Officials said that it will complement MMCC for guests during large events. "With the development and modernisation, the newly constructed five-star hotel near this railway station will be a major attraction for the visiting delegates from home and abroad. The metro train route from Ahmedabad-Motera to Mahatma Mandir, which will be completed in early 2024, and the Sarkhej-Gandhinagar six-lane highway will further boost station's usage," officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-virtually-inaugurate-redeveloped-gandhinagar-railway-station-on-friday-1009068.html
15-07-2021||National||Amarinder Singh will lead Congress to win in Assembly polls, says his media advisor; junks resignation reports||The Punjab chief minister’s media adviser on Thursday evening said Amarinder Singh will take the Congress to victory in the Assembly polls next year, trashing reports that he has resigned. He also urged the media to stop “speculating and spreading misinformation”, saying the CM has neither quit nor offered to do so. “Media reports of CM @capt_amarinder resigning are humbug. He has neither quit nor offered to do so. He'll lead @INCPunjab to victory in 2022 Assembly polls as he did in 2017. Urge media to stop speculating & spreading misinformation,” the advisor said in a tweet. The remarks have come amid media reports that Amritsar MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu is likely to be announced as the Punjab Congress chief by the party high command. Sidhu has been at loggerheads with the CM as he attacked him over the alleged delay in justice in the 2015 desecration cases. The Congress leadership is working out a formula for Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and Sidhu to work together. The Congress had set up a three-member panel, headed by Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, to resolve the infighting in the Punjab Congress. The party high command has been trying to resolve the internal rift in the Punjab unit, with just months to go before the next Assembly polls||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amarinder-singh-will-lead-congress-to-win-in-assembly-polls-says-his-media-advisor-junks-resignation-reports-1009069.html
15-07-2021||National||Sedition cases jump 160% between 2016-19: Rights lawyer||Sedition cases spiked by 160 per cent between 2016 to 2019 and conviction rate in such matters stood at just 3.3 per cent in 2019, according to an analysis of officlal data by a rights lawyer. The National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data, referred to and quoted by rights lawyer Vrinda Grover, assumes significance in view of the observations of an apex court bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana that there have been “enormous misuse” of the colonial era penal law on sedition and very low rate of conviction in such cases. Grover, using the NCRB data, told PTI that there has been a consistent rise in the number of sedition cases being filed, and between 2016 to 2019, there has been a 160 per cent increase in the number of cases filed for sedition. On the issue of cases culminating in convictions, she again referred to data and said in 2019, 30 cases of sedition were decided, with 29 acquittals and one conviction and the “rate of conviction is abysmal, being 3.3 per cent”. Concurring with Grover, senior advocate Geeta Luthra said that the conviction rate is low in such cases because the basic principle and ingredient for invoking the law is not there in most cases. “The prosecution may not even produce evidence or file charge sheet because their intention is only to put someone behind the bars. It is not that the government wants to necessarily punish somebody. It is for sending a message across and making dissent disappear,” she added. Mrinal Bharti, lawyer and senior partner in MZM Legal firm, who represents media houses and journalists facing sedition cases, said the cases are foisted by the government of the day to quell the dissent. “The reason for poor conviction rate is obvious as there was hardly any material to establish the offence and moreover, police do not investigate such cases properly,” he added. Grover also attributed the spike in sedition cases to the rising authoritarianism in governance and claimed that the State Executive is increasingly resorting to it to silence any criticism, questions, or dissent raised by citizens through the exercise of freedom of speech. She further said that out of 30 cases of sedition decided in 2019, there was conviction in only one case, adding that the “rate of conviction is abysmal, being 3.3 percent.” Calling it as a “vestige of colonial rule”, she said that the State is foisting sedition cases to silence citizens, intimidate the public, and throttle democracy. “Sedition cases foisted based on trumped-up charges which fall upon judicial scrutiny; often after people have suffered long incarceration as undertrials,” she added. Luthra, however, said that even though the law is being misused rampantly, more and more people are becoming conscious that it should be abolished. “I cannot tell if it is being misused or invoked more, but I definitely think that people are becoming more conscious,” Luthra said about the law the existence of which was questioned by the apex court for the last 75 years. The top court asked the Centre why it was not repealing the provision used by the British to “silence” people like Mahatma Gandhi to suppress the freedom movement. The non-bailable provision makes any speech or expression that brings or attempts to bring into hatred or contempt or excites or attempts to excite disaffection towards the Government established by law in India a criminal offence punishable with a maximum sentence of life imprisonment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sedition-cases-jump-160-between-2016-19-rights-lawyer-1009076.html
15-07-2021||National||Covid-19: Centre seeks proposals from the states on health infrastructure improvement||The Union Health Ministry on Thursday asked the states to carry out a “gap analysis” of their health infrastructure and quickly submit expenditure proposals to the Centre to bridge such gaps under the government's new Rs 23,000 crore Covid package to boost the health infrastructure in the next nine months. At a review meeting, ministry officials told the states and union territories to send their proposals at the earliest to enable expeditious approval and sanctioning. Last week, the Union Cabinet approved a Rs 23,123 crore scheme to improve health infrastructure over the next nine months with a focus on upgrading the medical facilities at 736 districts as the government gears up to tackle the third wave of the epidemic as and when it comes. Among other things, the government plans to use the scheme to establish a dedicated paediatric care unit in each of the 736 districts, increase the availability of ICU beds including 20% paediatric ICU beds, expand ambulance services to eliminate delays in transport and referral of Covid-19 patients and enhance testing capacity and corresponding supportive diagnostics. The states will also be supported to set up 1,050 liquid medical oxygen storage tanks along with a medical gas pipeline system - at least one per district - to augment the availability of medical oxygen in the public healthcare system, the Union Health Ministry said in a statement. Another thrust area would be upgrading the IT and communication infrastructure to run the Hospital Management Information System in every district hospital and strengthening the teleconsultation platform to provide up to five lakh teleconsultation services per day. Ministry officials advised the states to conduct a quick gap analysis for infrastructure components including their IT infrastructure readiness. On manpower shortage, the states have been asked to rope in the final year medical and nursing students who would work under the supervision of senior faculty and staff nurses for Covid-19 related emergencies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-centre-seeks-proposals-from-the-states-on-health-infrastructure-improvement-1009078.html
15-07-2021||National||IIT Hyderabad researchers develop AI powered Covid-19 test kit||Indian Institute of Technology Hyderabad researchers have come out with an Artificial Intelligence-powered Covid-19 test that can be performed at home. The chip based kit named “COVIHOME”, stated as India's First Rapid Electronic Covid-19 RNA Test Kit, produces results within 30 minutes for both symptomatic and asymptomatic patients. The kit, connected to an Android smartphone, gives out the results with the support of the iCovid app, where prior registration is done. Explaining the procedure, Prof Shiv Govind Singh, Department of Electrical Engineering, said that the swab samples drawn from the nose or throat would be first placed in the Molecular Transport Medium liquid for 30 seconds. “After the chip is registered through the app, the solution is dropped on the four sensor spots. The chip is then kept at human body temperature for 20 minutes, a provision for which is available in the kit. The chip is then inserted into the kit connected to the mobile app. By pressing the Test Sample button and feeding the chip ID and unique ID, it will automatically generate the positive or negative result,” Prof Singh, who led the IIT research team, told DH. Singh stated it as Oligo based testing as the chip contains the RNA sequence of the SARS-CoV-2 to detect the virus presence. According to IIT-H, the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology-Hyderabad has validated the performance of the rapid RNA electronic diagnostic device with test samples from within the institute and hospitals as advised by the Indian Council of Medical Research. “Samples were cross checked for their Covid-19 positivity or negativity through the standard RT-PCR method. CCMB report confirmed the kit’s efficiency at 94.2 %, sensitivity 91.3%, and specificity 98.2%,” the research team said. “The benefit of our kit is that it does not involve RT-PCR (Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction) analysis, expert resources, or a BSL-2 lab facility for the extraction of RNA. It thus offers the potential for one to take the test at home without expert supervision,” Prof Singh says. While each test would cost Rs 400 (for the one time use of each chip), the kit i.e., the reading device where the chip is inserted and connected to the phone is priced at Rs 1500. The makers, who have applied for a patent and are now looking for industry partners for technology transfer, believe that mass production could reduce the cost of the chip to around Rs 300. The kit requires ICMR approval for commercialisation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iit-hyderabad-researchers-develop-ai-powered-covid-19-test-kit-1009080.html
15-07-2021||National||India destined to be global leader in science: Jitendra Singh||India is destined to be a global leader in science, said Union Science and Technology Minister Jitendra Singh on Thursday and stressed that the quality of its human resource in this field is far superior to most of the developed countries. The present government has given a special fillip to science and technology. India's prowess in science is going to have a major role in the making of 'aatmanirbhar Bharat' (self-reliant India), he said. Singh also referred to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's personal indulgence in promoting every pursuit in the field of science. The union minister was addressing the 12th foundation day of 'Translational Health Science and Technology Institute' (THSTI), a Faridabad-based institute under the Department of Biotechnology (DBT). "India is destined to be a global leader in science and the quality of our human resource in this field is far superior to most other developed countries of the world," he asserted. Singh, who also is the minister in charge of the Department of Space and Department of Atomic Energy, was given the responsibility of the Ministry of Science and Technology and Ministry of Earth Sciences last week following a reshuffle in the Cabinet.  The minister inaugurated a series of new scientific facilities, including India's first-ever FERRET facility for vaccine research and development, which is expected to attract worldwide attention, particularly in the wake of the current Covid pandemic, according to an official statement said. Singh also inaugurated Immunology Core Lab, BSL-3 Lab, Office of Connectivity, Ferret Facility, Bio Repository and Small Animal Centre at the cluster. He complimented the young scientists of the country for shouldering the challenge thrown up by the pandemic and overnight reorienting themselves for this. Singh also lauded the path-breaking achievements of the institute and said it has performed remarkably well in the face of the pandemic. However, he cautioned that the era of working in silos is over.  The minister said that in space technology India is a frontline nation and the fact that even NASA procures data obtained by ISRO speaks volumes about our scientific progress. In her keynote address, DBT Secretary Renu Swarup mentioned the state-of-the-art research and development facility available at THSTI.  Touching upon the diagnostic and drug development facility, anti-virus screening programmes and other ongoing research efforts of the THSTI, Swarup said the institute enjoys national importance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-destined-to-be-global-leader-in-science-jitendra-singh-1009104.html
15-07-2021||National Politics||Uttarakhand minister's mask seen hanging on foot; photo goes viral||Uttarakhand Minister for Sugarcane Swami Yatishwarananda came under attack from different quarters after a photo showing his (minister) mask hanging on his foot during a meeting went viral on social media platforms. The photo shows the saffron-clad minister holding discussions with another state minister Subodh Uniyal and some other officials. The mask of Yatishwaranada is seen hanging on his foot. Interestingly none of the participants in the meeting were wearing masks. Uttarakhand Congress leader Garima Dasauni slammed the minister and also posted the photo on her Facebook page. ''It shows how serious the minister and others are toward tackling the infection....they tell the people to wear the masks but do not do it themselves,'' Dasauni said. ''The photo is proof that the BJP leaders and the saffron party ministers put the Covid 19 protocol under their feet,'' said another state Congress leader while reacting to the photo. BJP, however, sought to make light of the matter saying that the minister might have done it 'inadvertently'. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/uttarakhand-ministers-mask-seen-hanging-on-foot-photo-goes-viral-1008854.html
15-07-2021||National Politics||PM Modi heaps praise on Yogi, virtually blows poll bugle||In an apparent bid to put at rest the speculations about rift between them, prime minister Narendra Modi on Thursday heaped praise on Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath for the latter's ''hard work'' to make a ''modern UP'' even as he virtually sounded the poll bugle by launching developmental projects worth over Rs 1500 crore in his Lok Sabha constituency of Varanasi. Assembly election is scheduled to take place in UP in March next year. ''Yogiji kadi mehnat kar rahen hain...woh lagatar yehan (Varanasi) aten rehte hain aur yojnaon ki sameeksha karte hain'' (Yogiji is working hard....he keeps coming here and reviews the projects), Modi said while speaking at a function in Varanasi. ''He (Adityanath) has ended corruption and nepotism.....the people of the state are getting the benefits of the government schemes....there is rule of law in UP and the women now feel safe,'' he went on to say as Adityanath, who was also present at the stage, looked on. Adityanath, however, had the last laugh as he succeeded in thwarting attempts to make Modi's trusted former bureaucrat A.K.Sharma the deputy CM of the state. Sharma was instead appointed the vice-president of the BJP state unit. Modi virtually sounded the poll bugle as he inaugurated and laid the foundation stone of developmental projects worth Rs 1,583 crore in his constituency even as he listed the achievements of the BJP government in the state during its stint. The developmental projects inaugurated by Modi included a maternal and child health unit at the Banaras Hindu University and an International Cooperation and Convention Centre 'Rudraksh', which was being constructed with assistance from the Japanese government. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-heaps-praise-on-yogi-virtually-blows-poll-bugle-1008908.html
15-07-2021||National Politics||Prashant Kishor to join Congress? A look at poll strategist's big wins in the past||Poll strategist Prashant Kishor recently held meetings with Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi, Priyanka and Rahul Gandhi fuelling speculations that he might join the party or could be working on a coordination plan between Congress and other Opposition parties. Kishor, who was instrumental in the thumping victory of the Trinamool Congress in the West Bengal Assembly polls, has a good relationship with Priyanka Gandhi and was also in touch with Sonia Gandhi on few occasions since the West Bengal poll results came out. There is no denying Kishor is something of a campaign design genius, who understands the needs and requirements of present-day political campaigning from technology to branding, and has found a way to make his style of packaging personalities from Modi to Amarinder Singh and from Nitish to Jaganmohan Reddy a hit with voters. What's brewing in Maharashtra? A meeting of opposition leaders from many anti-BJP parties, all except the Left being regional forces, hosted by the veteran leader and NCP president Sharad Pawar is being seen by political pundits as a beginning of an exercise by them to join forces to put up a more cohesive challenge to the saffron party. However, no one can overlook the fact that it was hosted by Pawar at his residence and comes close on the heels of the astute politician's recent meetings with political strategist Kishor, political watchers feel. Kishor had held meetings with NCP chief Sharad Pawar several times, who is believed to be in a position to gather disparate Opposition voices together for the 2024 Lok Sabha polls in which no single party in Opposition can challenge the BJP. There is also a thinking that before Lok Sabha polls, 2022 Presidential polls could be a testing ground when Opposition can give a common candidate and explore whether some non-NDA parties friendly to the government can also be brought in the larger Opposition canvass. Dabbled in politics In his 10-year-long career as a political strategist, Kishor has worked with all hues of political parties and seen many political fights. His detractors have held that the secret of his success has been to cast his lot with the winning side (Modi in 2014, Nitish in 2015, Kejriwal in 2020 and so on). He certainly proved them wrong with Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's resounding victory in the West Bengal Assembly elections held earlier this year, in which the ruling party TMC thrashed BJP. Born in the Konar village of Rohtas in 1977, Kishor, the son of Shrikant Pandey, a doctor, shifted to Buxar in Bihar from where he completed his secondary education. After a stint with the UN in Chad, in north-central Africa, he formed Citizens for Accountable Governance, which he later converted into the Indian Political Action Committee. The year 2010 was the turning point for Kishor. One of his papers documenting economic prosperity and malnutrition in Chad caught the attention of then Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi, who invited him for a meeting over coffee. There has been no looking back for him since then. He ended his association with BJP by 2015 but soon moved on to advising Nitish Kumar in Bihar in the 2015 polls that saw the emergence of the successful Mahagathbandhan between Nitish and Lalu. With two massive election victories under his belt, he was considered the go-to man when it came to election strategy. Big names were lining up to be advised by him. But things didn't go as planned in the UP polls of 2017, where his ‘UP ke ladke’ campaign bombed badly. But Kishor delivered for Congress in 2017 Punjab polls, for Shiv Sena’s Uddhav Thackeray and YSR Congress’ Jagan Mohan Reddy in 2019 and for AAP’s Arvind Kejriwal in 2020. All are chief ministers now – Thackeray after a change of alliance partners post the Maharashtra elections. The buzz was that Kishor was one of the brains behind the new alliance in Maharashtra. In contrast to his successful role as a strategist, when Kishor directly dabbled in politics, his stint was short-lived. He joined JD(U) in September 2018 and he became its national vice president, virtually the number two in the party after Nitish Kumar. But 15 months later he was expelled by Nitish himself. (With DHNS/PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/prashant-kishor-to-join-congress-a-look-at-poll-strategists-big-wins-in-the-past-1008910.html
15-07-2021||National Politics||Mamata Banerjee to visit Delhi amid fresh buzz over anti-BJP front||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is likely to visit New Delhi later this month where she will hold talks with leaders of non-BJP parties, TMC sources said on Thursday, amid the renewed buzz over formation of an anti-BJP front ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. According to some reports, she will head to the national capital on July 25. Sources in West Bengal's ruling TMC said the party supremo's Delhi visit could happen any day after the Martyr's Day rally in Kolkata on July 21. The TMC holds a rally every year to commemorate the killing of 13 people in police firing on Youth Congress workers on July 21, 1993, during a protest led by Banerjee, who was then its leader. The talk of an anti-BJP front got revived after leaders of various parties and prominent individuals congregated at NCP chief Sharad Pawar's New Delhi residence last month. However, there was no tangible movement forward in that direction at the meeting hosted by Pawar and called by former union minister Yashwant Sinha, who is now in the TMC. Sinha, a former BJP stalwart, is a strident critic of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The speculation about an anti-BJP coalition grew again after election strategist Prashant Kishor had a string of meetings with Pawar and the Gandhis, including the one he had with Congress president Sonia Gandhi, former party chief Rahul Gandhi and general secretary Priyanka Vadra together. Though what exactly transpired at the parleys is not known yet, media speculated a broadbased coalition against the Centre's ruling NDA might have been on the agenda. "Banerjee is likely to visit New Delhi after the 21st July Martyr's Day rally. She may give details about her visit during her speech. The date is yet to be fixed but it will be after the rally," sources told PTI. Banerjee, who is likely to spend a few days in the national capital, has apparently timed her visit to coincide with the monsoon session of Parliament as senior leaders of opposition parties will be in town. The sources said Banerjee may visit some other states as well. On her part, Banerjee told a press conference that there was nothing unusual in her visit. "Everytime after elections I visit Delhi to meet old and new friends. So, this time too, I would be going to Delhi for few days as the COVID-19 situation is presently under control," she said. "Mamata didi has further grown in stature after defeating the BJP in the assembly elections. She now wants to reach out to anti-BJP and non-BJP parties at the national level ahead of the 2024 general elections," a TMC leader said. He said Banerjee will, in all probability, meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, her Delhi counterpart and AAP convenor Arvind Kejriwal and Sharad Pawar during the visit. Kishor, who crafted Narendra Modi's 2012 Gujarat assembly campaign and devised his successful prime ministerial bid in 2014, is also being hailed for drawing up the TMC's strategy that saw Banerjee triumph over the formidable BJP in the West Bengal polls. The astute election manager also rendered his services to AAP in Delhi, Jaganmohan Reddy's YSRCP in Andhra Pradesh and, more recently, M K Stalin's DMK in Tamil Nadu with great success. Banerjee, arguably the most doughty opposition face after the TMC's resounding victory, now seeks a larger role in national politics and, helped by Kishor's personal equation with a host of opposition leaders, will try to become the rallying point for anti-BJP parties. "This is the first step towards reaching out to them," the TMC leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamata-banerjee-to-visit-delhi-amid-fresh-buzz-over-anti-bjp-front-1008962.html
15-07-2021||National Politics||MLAs must not interfere with everything, says Assam CM||Urging the MLAs not to get swayed by the version of accused persons about alleged police excesses, Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Thursday said in the assembly that legislators must not interfere with everything, as power of every organ is defined in a democracy. Opposition parties have decried police encounters against alleged criminals that led to the death of 15 people in the last two months. "An MLA shouldn't interfere with everything. There is a tendency among the MLAs to encroach on the space of the judiciary, of the executive," Sarma said during a discussion on a Special Mention brought by Opposition AIUDF legislator Aminul Islam on police modernisation. Sarma urged the legislators not to be swayed by the sob stories of people who find themselves at the receiving end of the law as repeated questions on actions of the police by the MLAs could be detrimental to controlling crime. The powers are well defined, he added, referring to the role of the police in investigating and arresting suspected criminals, that of the judiciary in deciding a case as per the law. The MLAs have the responsibility in framing laws, the chief minister said. "If we (MLAs) start getting swayed by what the accused tells us and question every action of the police, they will become hesitant to act. If we don't adopt a zero tolerance policy against crime, our sons and daughters could be the next victims," he said. Sarma, who also holds the Home portfolio, elaborated on some of the steps being taken to modernize the police force. He said that steps are being taken to have separate wings for investigation and for maintaining law and order in every police station. The investigation wing is also being made more effective, he added. Ten commando battalions are being formed with some operational mandate and will be deployed at crucial areas, like border areas. Further, retired sub-inspectors aged between 60 to 65 years will be engaged to go through all pending cases at police stations and write charge-sheets, so that workload in police stations can be decreased. "The police personnel will henceforth be given one month compulsory paid leave every year to visit their families. It will be one week for personnel who get official quarters. Also, we are trying to bring down the shift to eight hours a day," Sarma added. Earlier, raising the matter, AIUDF legislator Islam pointed to a large number of vacancies in the police department. On the police encounters, he said, "We are not saying that all these are fake, but we can't certify that all are genuine either. The government must maintain a vigilant eye." Islam suggested that a cameraperson or a photographer could accompany police teams during operations to ensure there is evidence of genuineness of the encounter or firing incident. In the last two months, 15 accused people were killed and 23 others were injured in police encounters when they snatched service weapons, tried to attack and attempted to escape. Taking suo moto cognisance, the Assam Human Rights Commission (AHRC) had on July 7 asked the state government to institute an inquiry into the circumstances that led to the death and injury of the accused in police encounters over the past two months. Earlier, a New Delhi-based lawyer from Assam, Arif Jwadder, had filed a complaint with the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) against the Assam police for a series of encounters that have taken place since Sarma took over on May 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mlas-must-not-interfere-with-everything-says-assam-cm-1009077.html
15-07-2021||National Politics||Kamal Nath meets Sonia Gandhi, sets off Congress reshuffle buzz||Amid indications of a “drastic change” in Congress in coming days, party veteran and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath met Congress president Sonia Gandhi, setting off a buzz that he is in for a major role in the party. The changes in Congress are to be carried from the top to the bottom. While interim president Sonia Gandhi is not keen to continue the arrangement for very long, former President Rahul Gandhi is yet to give any indication about his willingness to come back as party's chief. The buzz is that a veteran like Nath could be made Working President. Mallikarjun Kharge, another veteran has been accommodated as Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha while two more such leaders Ashok Gehlot and Captain Amarinder Singh are Chief Ministers in Rajasthan and Punjab. Nath shares good relations with leaders across the spectrum in Opposition space and also has good equations with many leaders in the G-23 camp of Congress, which had sought a leadership change in the party. A meeting of the Congress Working Committee to set the process for electing new Congress President is likely to be decided after the Monsoon session. The  CWC meeting would be followed by an AICC session after at least a five weeks gap. The demise of Ahmed Patel, political secretary to Sonia Gandhi has left a void in a key position. Among states to witness a rejig, the dissidence-torn Punjab could be the first, where Navjot Singh Sidhu is likely to be given a larger role with Captain Amarinder Singh remaining the CM face, a formula which is expected to bring together warring factions. Gujarat, where the party is rudderless with its AICC general secretary in-charge for the state Rajiv Satav’s tragic death and its PCC chief and CLP leaders --Amit Chavda and Paresh Dhanani having resigned after a debacle in local bodies polls in March this year, could be the next. Congress leaders from Gujarat had met AICC general secretary K C Venugopal on July 14 to discuss organisational changes. AICC in-charge for West Bengal Jitin Prasad joined the BJP,  a post that has to be filled up. Nitin Raut, who headed the Scheduled Caste Morcha of Congress is now a minister in the Maharashtra government while Tamradhwaj Sahu who headed OBC Morcha is a minister in the Chattisgarh government. Nana Patole, who headed AICC Kisan Morcha was made Maharashtra PCC chief. All these posts are to be filled. Former Uttarakhand Chief Minister Harish Rawat on Thursday met Sonia Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi two days after he had held discussions with Rahul Gandhi regarding organisational reshuffle in the poll-bound state. Congress is looking for a total revamp of the state unit after the death of its Legislature Party leader Indira Hridayesh. Rawat is tipped to be the party's face for 2022 state polls there while for the party chief, Congress is looking for a popular Brahmin face to balance caste equations. Another major rejig is on the cards in trouble-torn Rajasthan to broker peace between warring factions of Ashok Gehlot and Sachin Pilot. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kamal-nath-meets-sonia-gandhi-sets-off-congress-reshuffle-buzz-1009089.html
15-07-2021||National Politics||Congress infighting in Punjab intensifies: AICC in knots||With simmering tension between Captain Amarinder Singh and Navjot Sidhu once again rising, the Congress leadership found itself in a difficult situation on Thursday amid no indication of a clear resolution. "No no, I didn't say that. I was asked if he (Navjot Singh Sidhu) will be made president of Punjab Congress & I said that a decision will be taken around what you're saying," he said. Immediately after Rawat's clarification, the Media Advisor to the CM Raveen Thukral took to Twitter to clarify that the "media reports of CM resigning are humbug".   While Rawat appeared tying himself in knots with seemingly conflicting remarks, a resolution of the Punjab trouble in "two-three days" as promised by him appeared bleak with supporters of both Sidhu and Captain holding separate meetings with their supporters. Rawat had in a television interview earlier emphasised that both leaders have to work together and referred to Singh's "sagacity" in saying that he will abide by any decision taken by Congress chief Sonia Gandhi. Setting the house in order in Punjab is the first priority of the Congress as it sees a chance of coming back to power in the state, where the contest has turned quadrangular this time with BJP falling apart from Shiromani Akali Dal, which has now a tie-up with BSP and AAP trying to emerge as a force. A three-member team of Congress had multiple rounds of meetings with both leaders, trying to work out a formula for them to work together and resolve the infighting in the Punjab Congress. Rawat said Singh will continue as chief minister when the next assembly elections are fought. Sidhu is keen for PCC chief's post, an idea not acceptable to Captain, The sharp divisions between the two leaders starting soon after the party had come to power in 2017, is threatening to upset the Congress applecart in the poll-going state. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-infighting-in-punjab-intensifies-aicc-in-knots-1009115.html
15-07-2021||National Politics||Adityanath has become my majnu: Owaisi's dig at Uttar Pradesh CM||AIMIM Chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Thursday described Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath as his "Majnu" and himself as "Laila", saying instead of targeting him in every interview, the BJP leader should tell about the health services in the state. “There is 40 per cent shortfall in health sub-centres in rural UP and there no specialist doctor in 84 per cent health centres," Owaisi told reporters here. He said in the state which sent PM Narendra Modi to the Lok Sabha twice, three to four lakh families lost their near and dear ones to Covid in the second wave. “They did not have wood to cremate or place to bury bodies. The state government had failed to provide oxygen," the Hyderabad MP alleged. "The CM, who has become my 'Majnu' and crying 'Laila-Laila' in all interviews, should tell about health services in the state,” he said. Owaisi also took a swipe at the state government over the draft population control bill, terming it a bid to befool the youth, for which unemployment has become a problem. "On November 22, 2019, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said in the Lok Sabha that against 4,509 posts, there are only 1,344 doctors in UP. And you are talking about population control," he said attacking the UP CM.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/adityanath-has-become-my-majnu-owaisis-dig-at-uttar-pradesh-cm-1009119.html
15-07-2021||North and Central||Drone spotted near Jammu Air Force station||A drone was spotted near the Air Force station in Jammu last night. Jammu and Kashmir: A drone was spotted near the Air Force station in Jammu last night. Details awaited. On the intervening night of July 13 and 14, a blinking red light was observed by the troops in the Arnia sector at a height of 200 metres on its own side, according to a statement.  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/drone-spotted-near-jammu-air-force-station-1008824.html
15-07-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh's control over second wave of Covid-19 'unprecedented', says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday praised the Uttar Pradesh government for its handling of the Covid crisis and said the way it had controlled the second wave of the infection was “unprecedented”. The Prime Minister, who arrived at his parliamentary constituency in the morning, also appreciated the Yogi Adiyanath-led government for working with a development-oriented approach rather than one based on corruption and nepotism. Describing the efforts of the government in combating Covid-19 as “commendable”, the Prime Minister said, “The way in which UP has controlled the second wave of corona and stopped its spread is unprecedented.” Earlier, even minor problems assumed monstrous proportions due to the shortage of health facilities and the lack of willpower, he said. “There is rule of law in UP today. Mafiaraj and terrorism, which were once out of control, are now controlled by law. Criminals who dare to eye sisters and daughters know they will not be spared…,” Modi said. "Another important thing… the government today is not run through corruption and nepotism ('bhrashtarchar aur bhai bhatijawaad') but through development ('vikasvaad'). Therefore, in UP, the benefits of schemes are reaching the people and new investments and opportunities of employment are increasing,” he added. The Prime Minister inaugurated and laid the foundation stones of multiple development projects worth more than Rs 1,500 crore at the IIT-BHU ground. He inaugurated, among other things, a 100-bed mother and child health (MCH) wing at BHU, a multi-level parking at Godauliya, ‘Ro-Ro’ (roll on-roll off) vessels for tourism development on the Ganges and a three-lane flyover bridge on the Varanasi-Ghazipur highway. The Prime Minister inaugurated projects worth around Rs 744 crore. He also laid the foundation stones of projects and public works worth about Rs 839 crore. These include the Centre for Skill and Technical Support of Central Institute of Petrochemical Engineering and Technology (CIPET) and 143 rural projects under the Jal Jeevan Mission. Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel, the chief minister and several state ministers were also present on the occasion. Modi will also inaugurate an International Cooperation and Convention Centre constructed with Japanese assistance. Besides, he will meet officials and medical professionals to review Covid preparedness.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradeshs-control-over-second-wave-of-covid-19-unprecedented-says-pm-modi-1008867.html
15-07-2021||North and Central||Shivraj Singh Chouhan asks officials to rope in youngsters for collecting electricity dues in Madhya Pradesh||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has suggested that youngsters in the state be roped in to collect electricity dues from people in exchange for some honorarium, an official said on Thursday. The chief minister made the suggestion while reviewing the energy department's performance in the presence of state energy minister Pradyumna Singh Tomar and principal secretary of the department Sanjay Dube, among other officials, on Wednesday, the official said. According to official sources, Chouhan said the responsibility of collecting power bill payments can be handed over to groups of youngsters in some districts as a model, on the basis of each transformer. He further directed the power companies to give quality services to people and make full recovery from them. People engaging in power thefts and stealing electricity wires should be punished immediately and department officials should keep an eye on such elements, the chief minister instructed. He also took a serious note of the maintenance issues, especially interruptions in power supply, changing of transformers and tripping of electricity, and said that any negligence on these issues will not be tolerated, the official said. The chief minister insisted that citizens should be involved in the activities of the electricity department to prevent power theft and ensure maintenance of transformers by raising awareness.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shivraj-singh-chouhan-asks-officials-to-rope-in-youngsters-for-collecting-electricity-dues-in-madhya-pradesh-1008890.html
15-07-2021||North and Central||Formula soon for Amarinder, Sidhu to work together in Punjab: Harish Rawat||Amid speculation over Navjot Singh Sidhu getting a bigger role in the party in Punjab, the Congress leadership is working out a formula for Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and Sidhu to work together. AICC general secretary in-charge for Punjab affairs of the party Harish Rawat said Singh will continue as chief minister when the next assembly elections are fought. "We are working out a formula where both the chief minister and Sidhu could work together," he told reporters. "Amarinder Singh will continue as chief minister of Punjab and the party will go to polls with him in the top position," he also said. He, however, said that the party president's final approval on the Punjab unit revamp is awaited. Rawat said the Congress wants that both should work towards uniting the party and steering it to victory in the next assembly polls, slated early next year. Both Sidhu and Singh have been at loggerheads with each other and have made public statements against each other, prompting the party to set up a three-member panel headed by Mallikarjun Kharge to end factionalism. Sources said Sidhu could land up with a bigger role in the party's revamp in Punjab ahead of assembly polls. The sources add that the Punjab Congress could have two working presidents too, in a bid to accommodate all sections, regions, religions and castes. The party will announce a major revamp in Punjab in the next few days which may see a new PCC chief. Congress president Sonia Gandhi has met Singh, and Sidhu has met party leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. The chief minister has told reporters that any decision with regard to the party will be acceptable to all and will be implemented. Sidhu is also learnt to have told the leadership that any of its decisions will be acceptable. Sidhu is keen for a bigger role in the revamped organisation ahead of assembly elections. The party leadership has met almost all senior leaders and legislators from Punjab and taken their views before initiating the changes in the organisation||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/formula-soon-for-amarinder-sidhu-to-work-together-in-punjab-harish-rawat-1008894.html
15-07-2021||North and Central||Umar Khalid seeks bail in Delhi riots case, hearing on July 27||A Delhi court on Thursday said it will hear the bail application of former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student leader Umar Khalid, arrested under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in the northeast Delhi riots conspiracy case, on July 27. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat has sought a reply from the prosecution on Umar's bail plea by the next day of the hearing. Senior advocate Trideep Pais is representing the accused in the case. Khalid along with several others has been booked under the anti-terror law in the case. Notably, they are accused of being the "masterminds" of the February 2020 violence, which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured. Besides him, Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha, JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, Jamia Coordination Committee members Safoora Zargar, former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain and several others have also been booked under the stringent law in the case. Recently, the Delhi High Court had granted bail to Tanha, Narwal, and Kalita in the case, saying the State blurred the line between the right to protest and terrorist activity in anxiety to suppress dissent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/umar-khalid-seeks-bail-in-delhi-riots-case-hearing-on-july-27-1008909.html
15-07-2021||North and Central||Students not to be denied admission in govt schools due to unavailability of TC, says Manish Sisodia||Students seeking admission to Delhi government schools from private schools will not be denied admission due to unavailability of Transfer Certificate (TC), Deputy CM Manish Sisodia said on Thursday. "Many parents have approached me that they want to shift their children to Delhi government schools from private schools due to multiple reasons but they do not have a TC from the current school. "It has been decided that no such student will be denied admission due to unavailability of TC," Sisodia said at an online press conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/students-not-to-be-denied-admission-in-govt-schools-due-to-unavailability-of-tc-says-manish-sisodia-1008928.html
15-07-2021||North and Central||Govardhan’s Giriraj Parikrama cancelled due to Covid-19||The Giriraj Parikrama at Mudiya Poono fair in Govardhan has been banned in view of the coronavirus pandemic, officials said on Thursday. Due to Covid-19 protocol, Thadeswari parikrama (spiritual walk), as well as Dandavat Parikrama (in which, one circumambulates Vrindavan by offering prostrations on the ground), have been banned, District Magistrate (DM) Navneet Singh Chahal said. Entry points to Govardhan would be blocked from July 19 to July 24 as the authorities have banned the Giriraj Parikrama and the Mudiya Poono Mela. Major temples and markets in the district would also remain closed for five days, officials said. During the Mudiya Poono fair, lakhs of devotees perform Govardhan Parikrama with a major rush of tourist residents from Rajasthan. Rajasthan government has assured to help to prevent the same. Earlier, the administration had cancelled the annual Mudiya Poono fair slated between July 20 and July 24. The decision to cancel the fair and Parikrama was taken after consulting all the stakeholders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/govardhan-s-giriraj-parikrama-cancelled-due-to-covid-19-1008935.html
15-07-2021||North and Central||Court rejects bail application of PDP leader Waheed Para; to hear arguments on chargesheet||A special court on Thursday rejected the bail plea of PDP leader Waheed Para, the second time in five months, and decided to hear Friday arguments on the chargesheet filed against him, officials said. Para is considered a close aide of former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti. The in-camera proceedings had been hearing the arguments of defence and prosecution over the maintainability of the case filed against Para, who was initially arrested by the NIA in a different case related to terror-funding. The complete judgement on the rejection of the bail application would be made available Friday, the officials said. In a related development, the court also said that it would begin hearing arguments on the charges filed against Para from Friday. This is the second time in the last five months that the court has rejected Para's bail application. Dismissing the bail plea in February, the court had said the charges against him were "grave, serious and heinous in nature" and that a preliminary analysis of evidence collected till then showed he was allegedly aiding militancy in Jammu and Kashmir in the garb of a politician. In the 19-page order, the special court had rejected the argument that Para was a budding politician and said "a perusal of the CD file transpired that in the garb of a politician, the petitioner had been playing an active role in funding the militants and had also been demanding arms and ammunition against payment by misusing his position". Para was detained by the Criminal Investigation Department (Kashmir) and brought from Jammu on a transit remand, after his release by an NIA court on January 9. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) had arrested Para on November 25 in a separate case related to terrorism. The counsel for Para claimed that his client had managed to win the District Development Council elections while in the custody of the NiA, which alleged that he had paid Rs 10 lakh to Naveed Babu, a terrorist of the banned Hizbul Mujahideen, for "managing" the 2019 parliamentary elections in south Kashmir. The Jammu and Kashmir Police last month filed a chargesheet against Para in a case related to the alleged nexus between politicians and terror groups in the union territory. Para has been chargesheeted by the Criminal Investigation (Kashmir) wing of the Jammu and Kashmir's CID under various sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act dealing with waging war against the country and threatening peace. The CIK had filed a case last year against unknown politicians and others based on "reliable and confidential sources" who said some political functionaries were misusing their power and helping militants. The Jammu and Kashmir Police had also carried out an Internet Protocol Detail Records (IPDR) analysis of Para, the PDP youth wing president, to probe allegations that he was in touch with secessionists and terrorists across the border. The IPDR helps track the details of a call or message generated by a phone device and includes details like the number from which the call was made, destination port, start and end date and time. In March this year, Para was chargesheeted by the NIA and it was alleged he had paid Rs 5 crore to the son-in-law of hardline Hurriyat Conference leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani for keeping Kashmir in turmoil after the death in 2016 of Burhan Wani, who was then the poster boy of banned Hizbul Mujahideen terror group In January this year, Para was granted bail by the NIA court, which said there was no reference to him in the original, as well as the supplementary charge sheets presented in July and October last year respectively. However, he was arrested by the CIK wing in the case related to nexus between mainstream politicians and secessionists, and continues to be in jail since then. His bail was rejected by the NIA court in Srinagar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/court-rejects-bail-application-of-pdp-leader-waheed-para-to-hear-arguments-on-chargesheet-1009023.html
15-07-2021||North and Central||'Kanwariyas' entering Haridwar despite ban on yatra to be quarantined for 2 weeks: Uttarakhand DGP||Uttarakhand police chief Ashok Kumar Thursday said the ‘Kanwariyas’ entering Haridwar despite the suspension of the Kawad Yatra this year will be quarantined for 14 days. The director general of police held a meeting with senior police officials here on effectively enforcing the suspension and asked them to identify places in and around Haridwar where such 'Kanwariyas' (devotees of lord Shiva) can be kept under quarantine. He also ordered the formation of Kanwar enforcement teams in Haridwar, Dehradun, Tehri and Pauri districts to patrol the streets and enforce law and order during the period of the banned Kanwar mela. The DGP said if a 'Kanwariya' is seen on the road, he or she should be sent back by a bus or some other means of transport. Police officials were also asked to prepare SOPs in consultation with district magistrates in view of the suspension of the annual ritual. 'Kanwariyas' coming by trains to Haridwar will be forced to deboard at stations before Haridwar and sent back in buses, he said. He said IG (law and order) should hold a meeting in Haridwar with DIG-level officials of neighbouring states to discuss how Ganga water can be sent in tankers to their states. Meetings should be held with Kanwar associations and committees to apprise them about the suspension of the yatra and a record of such meetings kept at police stations concerned so that action can be taken against violators under the epidemic act, he said. Shopkeepers in districts should be asked not to sell items related to Kawad Yatra, he said. However, the DGP said those coming to Haridwar for immersing ashes should not be stopped. The Uttarakhand government cancelled the Kawad Yatra on Tuesday in view of the looming threat of a third wave of Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kanwariyas-entering-haridwar-despite-ban-on-yatra-to-be-quarantined-for-2-weeks-uttarakhand-dgp-1009056.html
15-07-2021||North and Central||No plans to reopen schools in Delhi for now: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal Thursday ruled out the reopening of schools in the national capital in the near future in view of the coronavirus pandemic. He was responding to a question about whether schools in Delhi will begin to reopen like in other states. The states that have partially reopened schools this month include -- Gujarat, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Bihar. Madhya Pradesh also plans to reopen schools later this month. The Puducherry government had earlier announced its plans to reopen schools from July 16 but has now deferred the decision. Schools in the national capital were ordered shut last year in March ahead of a nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of novel coronavirus. While several states started partial reopening of schools in October lat year, the Delhi government allowed physical classes only for 9-12 grades in January this year, which were again suspended following the exponential rise in Covid-19 cases. The Delhi government, however, allowed the auditoriums and assembly halls in schools to be used for training and meeting purposes, but physical teaching and learning remains suspended. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-plans-to-reopen-schools-in-delhi-for-now-arvind-kejriwal-1009074.html
15-07-2021||North and Central||Varanasi wants good governance not speeches: Congress takes jibe at PM Modi||The Congress on Thursday took a swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over his Varanasi visit, saying the city wants good governance and not speeches. The party's chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala took to Twitter to pose several questions such as why was Varanasi "left to fend for itself" during the second wave of Covid pandemic and did 'Kashi become Kyoto'. The prime minister, who visited his parliamentary constituency of Varanasi on Thursday, inaugurated and laid the foundation stones of multiple development projects worth more than Rs 1,500 crore at the IIT-BHU ground. Later, he inaugurated the International Cooperation and Convention Centre -- Rudraksh, constructed with Japanese assistance. Alleging lack of development in Varanasi, Surjewala said the development of Kashi, the city of Lord Vishwanath, is the wish of every person in the country and asked what did Prime Minister Modi do as an MP in the last seven years. "Was the Ganga cleaned up? In 2013-14, 32 dirty drains used to empty in the Ganga, today it is 34. Sewage treatment plants sometimes work and sometimes don't," he said in a series of tweets. बाबा विश्वनाथ की नगरी काशी का विकास हो, ये हर देशवासी की अभिलाषा है। पर मोदी जी ने 7 साल में सांसद के तौर पर क्या किया -: 1. क्या गँगा मैया की गंदगी साफ़ हुई? साल 2013-14 में 32 गंदे नाले गँगा में गिरते थे, आज 34 गंदे नाले आ गिर रहे हैं। STP कभी चलता है और कभी नही। 1/n Asking rhetorically whether Kashi had become Kyoto, Surjewala said in one instance of rainfall there was waterlogging while the sewers got blocked sewer and garbage spread on the roads, but the "smart city" is missing. 2/nबाबा विश्वनाथ की नगरी काशी का विकास हो, पर मोदी जी ने 7 साल में सांसद के तौर पर क्या किया -: 2. क्या काशी को क्योटो बनाया? He alleged that Varanasi was left to fend for itself during the pandemic.  The Banarasi sari industry, which provides employment to five lakh families, is on the verge of closure while handlooms and powerlooms are getting ruined, the Congress spokesperson alleged. In the name of Baba Vishwanath Corridor, why were dozens of temples and 250 to 300-year-old buildings demolished, he asked. The Congress leader accused the BJP of tampering with the history and culture of the city. "Why Jayapur and Nagepur, both the villages adopted by the prime minister, are in shambles? If the villages adopted by the prime minister cannot make progress, what will happen to Kashi?" Surjewala said. When will Varanasi and Purvanchal's wait for development, progress and employment end? he asked. Taking a dig at Modi, Surjewala said, "Swapanjeevi ji (one who shows big dreams), Kashi needs good governance, not speeches." Speaking about development works in Kashi in the past seven years, Modi remarked that it is marching ahead on the development path while maintaining its original identity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/varanasi-wants-good-governance-not-speeches-congress-takes-jibe-at-pm-modi-1009123.html
15-07-2021||Opinion||BJP’s election strategy begins to unfold in Uttar Pradesh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has initiated the battle for Uttar Pradesh (UP) from his parliamentary constituency Varanasi. Besides inaugurating the Japanese funded Rudraksh Convention Centre, he has launched developmental projects worth Rs 1,583 crore. These include new wings and oxygen plants for hospitals, smart schools, girls hostels, residential flats for teachers, road over-bridges, multi-level parking lots, renovation of sewer lines, and cruise boats. Prime Minister Modi is expected to throw open the Lucknow-Ghazipur Poorvanchal Expressway after August 15 and inaugurate the new All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and a fertiliser plant with an employment potential of 4,000 jobs in Gorakhpur, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s pocket-borough. Yet, none of this means that the BJP will contest the UP polls only on a developmental narrative. It will offer voters a buffet of issues with communalism as the reliable main dish.  Communal polarisation is not just a pre-poll insurance policy for the BJP. More than a tactic for winning elections, it is meant to alter the long-term worldview of citizens. The BJP was conceived as a communal political instrument by its ideological parent, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). Communalism is an integral element of its cosmology and will always remain central to its poll campaigns. Communal polarisation will be especially important in UP in the run-up to the general election in 2024. The Yogi government’s communal signalling has been relentless in the last 15 months. Its crackdown on organised crime led to the confiscation and destruction of gangsters’ properties worth Rs 1,138 crore. The UP police reported these as mainly belonging to mafia dons Atiq Ahmad, a former Samajwadi Party MP, and Mukhtar Ansari, currently in Sabarmati (Gujarat) and Banda (UP) jails, respectively. About 89 associates of Atiq Ahmad have also been arrested, nine sent to jail, 21 FIRs registered against them and the arms licences of 60 cancelled. In the case of Mukhtar Ansari, properties worth Rs 178 crore have been seized or razed, 158 associates arrested, arms licences of 122 cancelled, and police inquiry initiated against 37. To be sure, the properties of some gangsters from the majority community were also seized. Still, the police told the media that most of the seized property belonged to Ansari and Ahmad. The public is free to draw whatever communal conclusions it wants from this information. The Yogi government has also singularly targeted the minority community for protesting the Citizenship Amendment Act. Now, the Anti-Terror Squad of the UP Police has arrested two alleged operatives with Al-Qaida links for planning explosions and a suicide bombing in the state capital during Independence Day celebrations. According to the DGP of UP, “Investigations have so far acted on 30 per cent of the actionable evidence gathered in the case” and there is more to come. How the promised police action will pan out and fill voter mind space with fears of Islamic terrorism before the elections is anyone’s guess. However, Yogi’s latest trump card is the Uttar Pradesh Population (Control, Stabilisation and Welfare) Bill 2021 to reward those with two children through preference in government jobs and social schemes such as free rations and deny them to violators. This, too, will contribute to a communal debate. Anxiety about Muslims demographically swamping out Hindus has been a central and often revisited trope of the Hindutva imagination since the 1909 publication of “Hindus A Dying Race”. The RSS has long campaigned for righting “religious imbalance” in the population. Its 2015 resolution claims, “Vast differences in growth rates of different religious groups, infiltration and conversion resulting in a religious imbalance of the population … may emerge as a threat to the unity, integrity and cultural identity of the country.” If the initial debate on relative population size of India’s religious communities evolved against the backdrop of separate Hindu-Muslim electorates in the British Raj, its new avatar pretends to address economic growth through population policy. Several BJP MPs have tried to bring this debate into the political domain through private members’ Bills. Among these are Rakesh Sinha, a nominated MP to the Rajya Sabha, Ajay Bhatt, BJP MP from Uttarakhand and now a Union minister and Ravi Kishan, actor-turned-MP from UP. The issue is being raised by the BJP in Assam and Gujarat as well. All these moves draw on the assertion that Muslims have a higher total fertility rate than Hindus and will eventually outnumber the latter. The minute anyone enters the debate they will give life to a discussion that is motivated and falsely constructed. By pursuing a communal narrative in the guise of a developmental one, the BJP will be able to offer the voters and its campaigners a new item on their erstwhile spectrum of issues ranging from Islamic terror, Pakistan, the special status of Jammu and Kashmir, triple talaq, Ram Temple and Uniform Civil Code. It also serves to push anti-incumbency and the horrific mismanagement of the Covid-19 pandemic by the Yogi Adityanath administration into the background. (The writer is a journalist based in Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/bjp-s-election-strategy-begins-to-unfold-in-uttar-pradesh-1008819.html
15-07-2021||Opinion||Pilgrims, politics and the Covid-19 pandemic||The coronavirus does not distinguish between a pilgrim, a pub-goer and a politician. Nor between a secular soccer fan attending a tournament or a believer marching alongside other believers. What is then the way ahead for societies where religion, for better or worse, is embedded in everyday thought and life at a time when the pandemic has reignited the old debate between religion and science? As an agnostic, I acknowledge that, on the one hand, religion can be a sanctuary when everything seems uncertain. On the other, there is no getting away from religiously-sanctioned practices and gatherings being potential super-spreaders of the virus. It is also obvious that the coronavirus has changed so much about how we live that it was inevitable that it would alter how we play, pray or even die. In a deeply religious and increasingly polarised country like India, this has thrown up piquant moments - there is no consensus among Hindutva protagonists on the best pathway to God. It also makes all of us face the Indian pilgrim's story - a mix of religion, politics and judiciary with twists and turns and high-decibel talk about a possible third wave of the pandemic. The man of the moment The Kawad Yatra is an annual pilgrimage of devotees of Shiva. They collect water from the river Ganga (usually at Haridwar in Uttarakhand) and offer it at Shiva temples in their home states. This year, the yatra is supposed to kick off on July 25 and end on August 6. However, there is uncertainty about the pilgrims' onward march as large swathes of the country continue to grapple with a second wave of the pandemic. Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself has warned about a third wave. Dhami is in the news for mustering the courage to call off the Kawad Yatra on public health grounds. The Uttarakhand chapter of the Indian Medical Association had been petitioning the state government to cancel the yatra; the state government did just that this week, after dilly-dallying and talking about consulting other states. Interestingly, Dhami had met Prime Minister Modi before he decided to call off the yatra. On Wednesday, the Supreme Court bench headed by Justice RF Nariman took suo moto cognisance of the decision of the Uttar Pradesh Government to allow Kawad Yatra amid the Covid-19 pandemic. "We read something disturbing in the Indian Express today that the state of UP has chosen to continue with the Kawad Yatra, while the state of Uttarakhand, with its hindsight of experience, has said that there will be no Yatra. We wish to know what the stand of the respective governments is. The citizens of India are completely perplexed," Justice Nariman said to India's Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, according to LiveLaw, a legal portal. "They don't know what is going on. And all this amid the prime minister, when asked about a third wave of Covid striking the nation, saying 'we cannot compromise even one bit'," Nariman said. The Supreme Court has issued notice to the Centre, the states of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand and directed them to file an early response so that the matter can be heard on Friday). In 2019, the last time the Kawad Yatra was held, nearly 3.5 crore pilgrims had visited Haridwar, while over 2-3 crore people had visited pilgrimage spots in Western UP. The big picture and doable strategies Public health specialist Dr Chandrakant Lahariya acknowledges that "from the public health perspective, any congregation or procession, including religious ones, adds to risk of transmission of the coronavirus."  Yet, "one must recognise that there will be political, social and cultural considerations. Therefore, a complete ban is ideal, but something which may not be practical," he says. "We must institute sustained dialogue with community members and representatives of all religions. It is not just about one yatra. Whether it is the Kawad Yatra or some other religious procession, or opening up of a place of worship, there need to be standard protocols with reasonable restrictions. Self-regulation is not always the best approach." Lahariya points to recent images from places like Kempty Falls (in Mussoorie, Uttarkhand), where huge numbers of holidaymakers congregated. The state government eventually decided to slap restrictions. Lahariya says what is being done to restrict tourists' entry to Kempty Falls offers lessons that should be replicated for other gatherings - the number of people must be strictly monitored. What is most important, he points out, is to have the same set of rules for gatherings of all religions, the same rules for non-religious gatherings, and rope in religious groups in spreading awareness about risks and the need to follow public health protocols. Arguably, there are challenges even with the best-laid plans.  Hill state Uttarakhand attracts lay tourists and pilgrims in equal measure. It hosted the Maha Kumbh Mela at Haridwar this year, but as we all know, the virus had a field day despite all the talk about Covid protocols. Media reports subsequently revealed that fake names, mobile numbers and addresses were used in more than 100,000 tests during the Kumbh festival in April. Many reports from other states suggest that those who returned from the festival ended up infecting many people. The Uttarakhand High Court has stayed the state's plans of holding another popular pilgrimage, the Char Dham Yatra. Interestingly, the Dhami government has moved the Supreme Court against the state High Court order staying the Char Dham Yatra while reversing a state cabinet's decision to open it partially for residents of three districts from July 1. Is there a contradiction here? Uttarkhand says 'no. It argues that the Char Dham Yatra draws a smaller crowd. Political observers say there is possibly a local vs outsider angle at play here. The Uttarakhand government wants residents to do the Char Dham Yatra, while the High Court has said no one should do it. Even as twists and turns in Kawad Yatra remain centrestage, there have been other religious gatherings - the annual Ashada Bonalu celebration, for example, which kicked off in Hyderabad with hundreds of devotees thronging the Goddess Jagadamba temple atop the historic Golconda Fort. News reports show that many people participating in the Bonalu festival were not wearing masks. "Small-scale religious festivals can be conducted. But huge ones are difficult to control. We also need to think about the massive deployment of police personnel in these festivals. They have to go home too. In Puri, Odisha, policemen were pulling the chariots last year. This year, it is only the servitors (pandas). There were also smaller gatherings as compared to last year. They have learnt some lessons. Puri has a total curfew this year, too," says health policy analyst Dr Sambit Dash. At the time of writing, the curfew in Puri, imposed from 8.00 PM of July 11 to 8.00 PM of July 13 in view of the Rath Yatra and Covid-19, has been withdrawn in some areas by the district administration. The annual Rath Yatra of Lord Jagannath in Ahmedabad was also held this year without the usual crowd. All this goes to show that religion can and has adapted to the exigencies of the pandemic. There are global examples as well, including from the Islamic world. As early as mid-February 2020, Al-Azhar, Egypt's oldest degree-granting university and a venerable centre of Islamic learning, held a conference on preventive measures, educating attendees (largely Al-Azhar community members) on the nature of the coronavirus, preventive steps as well as on treatment methods in the event of illness. In Saudi Arabia, the Ministry of Hajj and Umrah stated that only "immunised people" will be permitted to perform Umrah and prayers in the Grand Mosque in the holy city of Mecca. The bottom line – no religion is diminished by following pandemic-appropriate norms. And religious leaders can be allies. What matters most is political will and energy to ensure that Covid protocols are followed each time there is a gathering, secular or religious, and to have the exact same rules for everyone, without any exception. There is another equally important lesson -- fakery and optics do not work in the time of a pandemic. Allow some people to game the system by fake diagnostic tests, fake cures and so on, and the virus will have the last laugh. The writer is a Delhi-based journalist.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/pilgrims-politics-and-the-covid-19-pandemic-1008933.html
15-07-2021||South||5 more people test positive for Zika virus in Kerala||Amid concerns of identifying a cluster of Zika virus in the capital city, five more people, including four women, have tested positive for the infection in Kerala, taking the caseload in the state to 28. Of the fresh cases, two were natives of Anayara here, where a cluster of the disease had been identified within a three kilometre radius, Health Minister Veena George said on Thursday. The other infected people were those hailing from East Fort, Kunnukuzhi and Pattom here and all the samples were tested at the National Virology Institute at Alappuzha, she said. Four samples were sent from a private hospital here, while one was collected by the Health Department as part of surveillance, the minister said. Meanwhile, 16 other samples tested negative. "With this, the total number of infections in the state rose to 28," the minister added. The Health Department had said yesterday that acluster of Zika virus was identified within a three km radius of Anayara and steps were being taken for extermination of mosquitoes in the area to prevent its spread to other places. They also said a control room had been set up at the district medical office in the wake of the Zika outbreak in the capital city, where all the 23 cases were reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/5-more-people-test-positive-for-zika-virus-in-kerala-1008833.html
15-07-2021||South||Hindu couple cremated at church's cemetery in Kerala||A church in Kerala has allowed the funeral of a Hindu couple at its cemetery as the deceased did not have their own land and the rented premises they were staying was waterlogged. The St George Forane Church at Edathua in the Alappuzha district of Kerala had sent the message of harmony through the novel gesture of allowing the funeral rites as per Hindu customs on the premises of the church cemetery. Sreenivasan and Krishnaveni, residents of Mariyapuram near Edathua, who died in a gap of about one month, were cremated on the church's premises. Both were in their eighties. While Sreenivasan died following Covid-19 last month, his wife Krishnaveni died on Tuesday following an aged related illness. Edathua panchayat president Mariyamma George said that on both occasions the rented premises on which they were living were waterlogged and hence the church authorities were approached for space to conduct the funeral. Vicar of the church Father Mathew Chooravadi told DH that it was for the first time that funerals of members of other communities were being conducted in the church's cemetery. The church is for the people of the locality who are living cordially. Hence there were no objections from anyone in allowing the funeral of the couple in the church's cemetery. Parish committee member Bilby Mathew said that the funerals were held as per Hindu rituals and the ashes were collected by the relatives. The couple had their roots in Tamilnadu. They came down to Kerala for business purposes several decades back and were now financially weak also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hindu-couple-cremated-at-churchs-cemetery-in-kerala-1008895.html
15-07-2021||South||Puducherry puts off reopening of schools and colleges following plea from parents, organisations||The Puducherry government has decided to postpone reopening of schools and colleges from July 16 following a plea from various sections that the decision to reopen institutions be reconsidered, Home and Education minister A Namassivayam said on Thursday. The government would announce the fresh date of reopening of schools and colleges after studying the pandemic situation, Namassivayam told newsmen after holding discussions with Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan at her office here. According to him, as of now the number of new coronavirus cases has not come down and there were pleas from various sections including parents and voluntary organisations to put off reopening of schools and colleges. The minister said he held talks with Chief Minister N Rangasamy and also with education department officials on the matter and now it had been decided to put off reopening of the institutions. Rangasamy had a few days ago announced that schools would resume functioning and would conduct classes for Standards 9-12 from July 16. He had also said colleges would resume classes. There was however opposition to reopening of the institutions by the Congress and AIADMK among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-puts-off-reopening-of-schools-and-colleges-following-plea-from-parents-organisations-1008903.html
15-07-2021||South||Normal life thrown out of gear at several places in Telangana following heavy rains||Normal life was thrown out of gear at several places here and some districts of Telangana on Thursday following heavy rains. Some residential localities in the city suffered inundation, official sources said. More than 20 localities in the state capital, which experienced rains since Wednesday, received above 100 mm rainfall by this morning. Several residential colonies, including at Nagole, Dilsukhnagar and Saroornagar, faced inundation and residents had a tough time trying to bail out water from their houses. The car of D Sudheer Reddy, MLA from LB Nagar here, was stuck in water when he was visiting rain-affected areas and the vehicle had to be pushed to make it move. Reddy said relief personnel were on the job following the downpour. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation's (GHMC) Disaster Response Force (DRF) teams were on the field trying to address problems caused by the rains, a GHMC official said. The GHMC has provided a helpline number to the citizens for any emergency assistance. Meanwhile, Jagtial, Nirmal and other districts in the state have also witnessedheavy rains. Rivulets and other water bodies were in spate at some places and low-lying areas faced inundation. The Met Centre of IMD here said light to moderate rain or thunderstorm is very likely to occur at most places over Telangana in the next few days. It also said heavy rain is very likely to occur at isolated places in Rajanna Sircilla, Karimnagar, Siddipet and other districts in the next few days. Police warned mischief mongers against circulating old videos of flash floods claiming them to be recent. Hyderabad was lashed by rains last year which left a trail of destruction at various places in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/normal-life-thrown-out-of-gear-at-several-places-in-telangana-following-heavy-rains-1008979.html
15-07-2021||South||ISRO espionage case witnesses fresh twists||The 25-year-old ISRO espionage case of Kerala is witnessing fresh twists with some of the police officers now facing probe for allegedly fabricating the case and coming out with fresh allegations like shady land deals against former ISRO scientist Nambi Narayanan, who was exonerated from the espionage allegations. It was during a hearing on the anticipatory bail pleas filed by some of the ex-police officers, against whom the CBI recently registered a case for conspiring to fabricate the espionage case, that fresh allegations were being raised to substantiate their stand that the espionage case was not fabricated one. Former Kerala police officers S Vijayan and Thampi S Durgadutt have raised the fresh allegations that a land deal by Narayanan in favour of a former CBI officer in DIG rank and wife of a Kerala former DGP, who had also faced allegations of links with the 'espionage accused'. While 40 acres was given to the ex-CBI officer, 12 acres were allowed to the former CBI official. The deals took place in 2004 and were done through his son and relatives, they alleged and sought probe into these aspects. Narayanan told DH that the ex-police officials were only trying to deliberately delay the probe against them by raising new baseless allegations even as the espionage case was already rejected by the Supreme Court. He also said that since the matter is now before the court, he is reserving his comments. Narayanan's counsel had maintained that the conspiracy part of the case was not probed by the CBI earlier as the then Prime Minister did not want to affect the relationship with the US, which was also allegedly involved in the conspiracy behind the espionage case. While the CBI maintained that the ISRO espionage case of 1994 was a concocted one and it could be the outcome of a conspiracy to delay India's cryogenic technology development, the ex-police officials including former DGP Siby Mathews were maintaining that the case was initiated as per IB reports. They also maintained that Narayanan had no involvement in cryogenic technology development and he had even decided to take voluntary retirement from ISRO before the espionage allegations surfaced. While the anticipatory bail pleas of Durgadutt and Vijayan are pending before the Kerala High Court, the plea of Mathews is pending before a local court in Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/isro-espionage-case-witnesses-fresh-twists-1008980.html
15-07-2021||South||4 Kerala workers engaged in digging well die||Four workers engaged in digging a well in Kollam district in Kerala died following asphyxiation. The incident took place at Kundara in the suburbs of the Kollam in South Kerala on Thursday. The workers were involved in removing mud from the well being dug on the premises of a house under construction. Initially, two workers who entered the well suffered uneasiness. Subsequently, two more entered the well to rescue them. But all of them died. A Fire and Rescue Service personnel who entered the well to rescue the workers also suffered uneasiness. Lack of oxygen in the well was said to be the prima facie cause of death. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/4-kerala-workers-engaged-in-digging-well-die-1008984.html
15-07-2021||South||Will take control of media in six months: Annamalai||Stoking a row, Tamil Nadu BJP chief K Annamalai has said, “we will take control of the media” in six months to “put an end to fake news” as no media outlet can keep “spreading lies” for long. “Forgot about the media which is writing false news about us. Just forget about them. We can take control of the media in the next six months. We can take them into our hands. The reason is no media can continue to spread false news for a long time,” Annamalai said. He went on to remind the cadres that former TN BJP chief L Murugan is now the Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting under whom “all media will come.” “They cannot keep doing the same mistake. They cannot keep spreading wrong news. You cannot keep doing politics with false news for long,” Annamalai said. This is not the first time that Annamalai has stoked a row – during the election campaign in Aravakurichi in Karur district, he had threatened Electricity Minister V Senthil Balaji. Annamalai’s comments triggered a political slugfest with DMK calling it an “open threat to media.” “This is nothing but intimidating the media and giving an open threat. We condemn Annamalai’s statement,” Information Technology minister Mano Thangaraj told reporters. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/will-take-control-of-media-in-six-months-annamalai-1009066.html
15-07-2021||South||Kerala government to restructure minority scholarship||The Kerala government has decided to restructure the ratio of scholarships to minority committees as the Kerala High Court recently scrapped an earlier decision to give reservations to Muslims and Christian communities in an 80:20 ratio. The state cabinet on Thursday decided to restructure the ratio based on the 2011 census in which the Christian community constitute 18.38 per cent and the Muslim community 26.56 per cent. According to an official press release, the new ratio would be implemented without affecting the existing beneficiaries. The Left Front government was in a tight spot over the issue as various Christian forums welcomed the HC order scrapping the 80:20 ratio that favoured the Muslim community, while various Muslim outfits urged the government to file an appeal against the HC order. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had convened an all-party meeting on the matter and decided to seek legal opinion as well as to constitute an expert committee to look into the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-government-to-restructure-minority-scholarship-1009067.html
15-07-2021||South||Lockdown in Puducherry extended till July 31||The territorial government has extended the lockdown triggered by Covid-19 till the midnight of this month. The lockdown was to end tonight at 12. But, the coronavirus curfew would continue to be in force from 10 pm to 5 am on all days, said an official press release here. Socio-political celebrations and entertainment- related gatherings are prohibited. Shops and other commercial establishments, and trade centres are permitted to function from 9 am to 9 pm while vegetable and fruit stalls can be open from 5 am to 9 pm, the release said. Government departments and offices would function as per the guidelines of the Department of Public Administration and Reforms. Private offices are permitted to function from 9 am to 6 pm. Restaurants and bars within hotels, lodges and guest houses and stand-alone eateries are permitted to function with 50 per cent capacity up to 9 pm. Tea and juice stalls can stay open till 9 pm, so can retail outlets of liquor and arrack, the release said. The Department of Excise, in coordination with the police, should enforce Covid-19 protocols at the liquor shops on the border of the Union Territory. The release said the Excise Department should issue instructions for door delivery of liquor within the territorial limits to reduce footfalls at the stores. Private, government and public buses, autos, and taxis are permitted to ply till 9 pm. Vehicles for medical and emergency purposes, marriages, funerals of relatives, interviews, examinations would be permitted on all days. Vehicle registration, issue of driving licences by the Transport Department are allowed subject to adherence to Covid-19 norms. Document registration is also permitted. Beach roads, parks and gardens can be visited between 5 am and 9 pm. Places of worship can remain open till 9 pm. The release further said the number of guests at weddings should not exceed 100 and the number of mourners at funerals not more than 20. Petrol bunks, ATMs, milk sales, hospitals and newspaper distribution are permitted to function without curbs. Sports activities without spectators, and gymnasiums and yoga centres are permitted with 50 per cent capacity. Film and television serial-shooting can go on with 100 people. Tourist spots can be open at 50 per cent crowd capacity, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lockdown-in-puducherry-extended-till-july-31-1009084.html
15-07-2021||South||Krishna river board asks Telangana to stop using waters for power generation||The Krishna River Management Board has asked the Telangana government to stop withdrawal of waters for power generation at the Srisailam, Nagarjuna Sagar and Pulichintala projects. All the three projects on Krishna straddle the two Telugu states. For some time now, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana are accusing each other of building unauthorized lift irrigation schemes dependent on the Krishna waters. The issue precipitated last month with Telangana using the river waters to generate electricity at these projects following Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao's orders. In a letter sent on Thursday, KRMB member (power) LB Muanthangi has asked the Telangana power generation corporation officials to stop further release of waters immediately through Srisailam Left Power House, Nagarjuna Sagar Dam and Pulichintala project, “as it is agreed that quantum of water drawn for power generation purpose is incidental to irrigation and drinking water needs.” “It is therefore imperative to follow the water release orders issued by the KRMB.” The KRMB had, last month, asked Telangana to stop water releases from Srisailam Left Power House, “except in case of extreme grid exigency.” Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has been complaining to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, union water resources minister Gajendra Shekhawat and the KRMB that Telangana producing hydel power at the Krishna basin projects is “resulting in precious water wasted into the Bay of Bengal due to the surplus at Prakasam Barrage.” The Rao government had earlier rejected Reddy's request to stop power production at the Srisailam project. On Thursday, KRMB has reportedly also asked the Reddy government to not proceed with the Rajolibanda Diversion Scheme Right Canal without the board's approval. Meanwhile, farmers of AP's Rayalaseema region, Prakasam, Guntur and Krishna districts have approached the National Green Tribunal stating that Telangana is proceeding with construction of the Palamuru Lift Irrigation Project “despite earlier undertakings that it would be limited only to drinking water supply until environmental clearance is obtained.” The Tribunal has constituted a committee to examine the project and furnish a report, AP officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/krishna-river-board-asks-telangana-to-stop-using-waters-for-power-generation-1009095.html
15-07-2021||South||Vaccination drive for pregnant women to begin from July 16 in Kerala||The Kerala government's campaign -- 'mathrukavacham' -- to vaccinate all the pregnant women in the state against Covid-19 infection will be inaugurated at the district level here on July 16. The inaugural function will be held at the Thycaud Women's and Children's Hospital in the presence of the District Collector, the health department said on Thursday. Spot registrations for vaccination of pregnant women would be carried out at various government hospitals in the state capital, a release said. It also said that Covid vaccination for pregnant women will be made available in all hospitals in the coming days depending on the availability of the vaccine. Pregnant women can receive the Covid vaccine at any time during their pregnancy, it added. State Health Minister Veena George, on July 12, had announced that the government would be starting a campaign for vaccinating pregnant women. Under the initiative, Asha workers will register the details of all pregnant women in the ward level. Meanwhile, on Thursday, the state received 2,49,140 doses of Covishield vaccine, George said in another release. On Thursday, 1,49,434 people in the state were vaccinated at 1,234 vaccination centers. So far, a total of 1.63 crore people have been vaccinated with one or two doses across the state. Of these, 1.18 crore were given the first dose and 44,01,477 were given the second dose, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vaccination-drive-for-pregnant-women-to-begin-from-july-16-in-kerala-1009105.html
15-07-2021||State||Sumalatha seeks details of last year’s repairs at KRS||Lok Sabha member Sumalatha, who claimed that she had nowhere stated that there were cracks on the Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam, contradicted her statement saying she still stands by her words that rampant mining posed a threat to the KRS dam and cracks developed over the years. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru on Wednesday, Sumalatha said she had nowhere stated that there are cracks on the KRS dam, but had raised the issue during the District Infrastructure Scheme Advisory (DISHA) committee meeting in Mandya, seeking information from the officials. It was given a political twist and misinterpreted, she said. The experts report says that quarrying will pose a threat to the KRS dam. Tremors and vibrations have been recorded 11 times around the dam. As it caused anxiety among the farmers and locals, I asked about it during the DISHA meeting, she said. “I will not accept that there are no cracks. Crack-filling and grouting works were taken up at a cost of Rs 76 crore last year only because there were cracks inside. A comprehensive probe should be conducted,” the MP said. She asked the officials to submit all the bills and receipts on the repair works taken up last year. Experts team Revenue Minister R Ashoka said an experts’ team would be sent to Mandya district, to assess if cracks have developed on the Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam. “I will also ask the Mandya DC to conduct an inspection and submit a report,” he said. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru, Ashoka, without taking the name of Sumalatha, said, “Experts have already given a report that there are no cracks on the dam. We should trust their report and not the claims ofothers”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sumalatha-seeks-details-of-last-year-s-repairs-at-krs-1008762.html
15-07-2021||State||Flood threat looms large over Kodagu||Heavy showers, coupled with strong winds, continued to pound Kodagu and other Malnad districts on Wednesday, as the reservoirs clocked good inflows. Relentless downpour has revived fears of a repeat of last year’s devastating floods in Kodagu district. Triveni Sangam in Bhagamandala has gone under water. Water level in Lakshmanathirtha has also gone up drastically. Most of the streams and rivulets in the hilly district are in spate. A minor bridge under Cauvery near Balamuri has been flooded. The bridge is out of bounds for traffic. Six families were evacuated following a minor landslide at Talattamane on Madikeri-Mangaluru road. The stretch had witnessed a major landslide in 2018. A mudslide near Madikeri Akashavani tower has triggered panic among the residents in the vicinity. Unrelenting showers in Chikkamagaluru and Shivamogga districts have upped the water level in Linganamakki, Tunga and Bhadra reservoirs. On Wednesday, Linganamakki received as much as 33,331 cusec following heavy rain in the catchments of Sharavathi river. Bhadra reservoir level has gone up to 157.4 feet. A good 11,456 cusec of water was discharged downstream Tunga from Gajanur dam. With Kumaradhara river flowing in spate, the bath ghat at Kukke Subrahmanya and Kindi dam downstream have submerged. Tree fall incidents were reported on Subrahmanya-Bisile-Sakaleshpur stretch, affecting traffic movements. A portion of earth caved in at the housing board colony at Sakaleshpur following a prolonged wet weather. Hassan town and surrounding areas also experienced heavy showers in the day. One house was completely damaged while several suffered partial damages in the twin districts of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi. Nethravathi and Kumaradhara rivers are flowing at danger levels at several places. As much as 45,932 cusec of water is being discharged from AMR reservoir and as much quantum of water is being released downstream Nethravathi. The protection wall of Kallamajalu bridge near Vittal (Vitla) collapsed while a compound wall of a house at Devinagar in Puttur taluk was damaged. The house is precariously balanced and may fall anytime. The situation is no different in Uttara Kannada, where Kadra reservoir clocked an inflow of 22,111 cusec. A flood alert has been issued to the villages downstream. Meanwhile, many parts of Belagavi, Dharwad and Gadag districts are experiencing intermittent spells of moderate to heavy rain. Several parts of south interior Karnataka also witnessed moderate rainfall intermittently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/flood-threat-looms-large-over-kodagu-1008763.html
15-07-2021||State||HC bins PIL challenging pension to info commissioners||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday dismissed a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) challenging grant of pension and additional pension to retired State Information Commissioners. The court was also informed that as per the amended Act (The Right to Information Act 2019), pension and other allowances as well as terms and conditions will be determined by the central government. The term of office has also been reduced to three years from the five years. The court has also noted that the petitioner had also applied for the post of information commissioner but was unsuccessful. The PIL was filed by Wing Commander G B Athri (Retd). He contended that the authorities are illegally granting additional pension to information commissioners, who have rendered three years of service without any statutory law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hc-bins-pil-challenging-pension-to-info-commissioners-1008765.html
15-07-2021||State||BSY disburses aid for Karnataka Olympics athletes||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday disbursed financial incentive to three sports professionals from Karnataka who have qualified for the Tokyo Olympics. Srihari Nataraj (swimming), Aditi Ashok (golf) and Fouaad Mirza (equestrian) from the state have booked their berths for the Olympics this year. He announced an award of Rs 5 crore for gold medalist.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bsy-disburses-aid-for-karnataka-olympics-athletes-1008771.html
15-07-2021||State||Karnataka allows electric bikes to be run as taxis||In a move that is set to have a major impact on the urban public transport, the Karnataka government on Wednesday made legal provisions for operating electric bike taxis to provide first- and last-mile connectivity in the urban areas. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa unveiled the ‘Electric Bike Taxi Scheme 2021’ which allows aggregators as well as individual bike owners to offer services. He said the policy will create self employment through eco-friendly e-bikes which will complement public transport. “The main objective of this scheme is to reduce the travel time and inconvenience faced by the public travelling between home and bus or railway or metro stations in the cities, especially in Bengaluru,” the chief minister said. The GPS-enabled e-bike taxis have to operate for a maximum distance of 10 km. The transport authorities will specify the colour of the vehicle but the riders have to compulsorily wear yellow helmets and a jacket with the words ‘Electric Bike Taxi’ marked in reflective colour. The riders have to have their antecedents checked and approved by the police. To a question on the exemption provided to service providers with less than 50 bike taxis from installing GPS devices, an official in the Transport Department said they will have a relook into the matter. “We will seek to make all e-bikes comply with the rule. The data should be shared with the authorities,” he said. Those interested in offering the services have to apply for a five-year licence, under the Karnataka On Demand Transport Technology Aggregator Rules 2016. Individual e-bike owners who seek to operate bike taxis are exempted from paying the licence fee and the Rs 5,000 security deposit. However, the taxes, fitness certificate and insurance rules will apply. An official notification on the scheme is likely to be issued in Thursday’s gazette indicating when it will come into effect in urban areas across the state. While officials expressed confidence that the measure will benefit the public, some autorickshaw and cab drivers shared their concerns over the e-bike taxis taking away the measly earnings during the pandemic. Aravind Sanka, co-founder of bike taxi aggregator company Rapido, welcomed the policy but said the government should consider extending the scheme to conventional bikes. “We also should not forget that most of the Bengaluru citizens currently own a fuel-based two-wheeler, which can help us solve the challenges of traffic congestion and the impact on income due to the pandemic. We are in talks with the state government to consider bikes as a taxi service and hope to see a similar development on this front as well,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-allows-electric-bikes-to-be-run-as-taxis-1008776.html
15-07-2021||State||Army officers' laptops targeted using German IP address||A series of “phishing” attacks on laptops being used by army officers in the city and other areas in April has been traced to a logistics firm in the city. According to an FIR filed under the Official Secrets Act, the email attacks were mounted on April 16 and 17 against several army officers, using a National Informatics Centre ID and routed through an IP address based in Germany.  Sources said that the army officers had been sent a PDF which contained malicious images which when clicked, routed the user to other websites. When military and police teams dug deeper, they discovered the IP was being remotely used by unknown individuals operating out of a private logistics company located in HRBR Layout, Kalyan Nagar. In a joint raid by the police and Military Intelligence, Southern Command on Tuesday, officials seized computer equipment. The Central Crime Branch (CCB) said it is analysing the computer equipment. “No arrests have been made so far. We need to analyse the seized equipment and then take action,” said CCB chief Sandeep Patil. “Phishing” involves a threat or request for information such as an imminent account closing, a fake message that a balance is overdue or that information is missing from an account. The email will ask the recipient to supply confidential information, such as bank account details, PINs or passwords. These details are then used by the owners of the website to conduct fraud.  “The objective of the attack was to access sensitive information,” army sources said. In a letter to the police inspector, Cyber Crime Police Station, the case was described as pertaining to data theft, stealing of confidential data, hacking and a criminal breach of trust and violation of the Official Secrets Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/army-officers-laptops-targeted-using-german-ip-address-1008780.html
15-07-2021||State||Three persons allegedly try to assault woman constable in Urwa Police Station||Three persons allegedly misbehaved and tried to assault a woman constable in Urwa Police Station on Wednesday. According to City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar, Pooja Hiremath, the woman constable, suffered injuries on her leg while the uniform of Head Constable Narayana was torn while trying to stop the assault on the woman constable. Narayana too suffered injuries. Both have been admitted to Wenlock Hospital. Police have taken two persons into custody following the incident, Kumar added. The commissioner said two cases were reported in Urwa Police Station limits in the past related to denial of water connection to a flat owner by the apartment welfare association, along with an assault on a minor child of the said flat owner. After the cases were booked, the apartment welfare association sorted out the issue and the complainant decided to withdraw cases. Three people -- Noel Sequeira, Novel Sequeira and Johan Sequiera -- visited the station and allegedly misbehaved with the woman constable. They also attempted to record the conversation with the inspector. The commissioner appealed to the public to be careful of their behaviour while visiting the police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/three-persons-allegedly-try-to-assault-woman-constable-in-urwa-police-station-1008881.html
15-07-2021||State||Two students from Alva’s educational institutions selected for Olympics||Two students from Alva’s educational institutions have been selected for the Tokyo Olympics. Alva’s Education Foundation president Dr M Mohan Alva said that Dhanalakshmi and Shubha, who are pursuing their studies under the adoption scheme of the Foundation, will represent India in 4x400 metres mixed relay. As students, the duo has represented Mangalore University since 2016-17 in various competitions. They have also taken part in all-India inter-university meets. Dr Alva announced a cash prize of Rs one lakh each for Dhanalakshmi and Shubha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/two-students-from-alva-s-educational-institutions-selected-for-olympics-1008882.html
15-07-2021||State||Karnataka's Global Investors' Meet in February 2022||Karnataka’s flagship Global Investors' Meet-Invest Karnataka - will be held in February next year after a gap of five years, the Cabinet decided on Thursday. The last Global Investors' Meet-Invest Karnataka summit was held in 2016. Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the 3-day Global Investors' Meet will be held on February 9. "It will be held in Palace Grounds in Bengaluru. The Commerce & Industries department has already done a lot of groundwork for the event," he said, briefing reporters. The government will offer concessions for industries and is in touch with multi-national companies for investment in Karnataka, Bommai added. The Cabinet also approved a slew of incentives for oxygen manufacturers in Karnataka to ramp up production and storage capabilities as well as address any shortage of medical oxygen. "There are nine oxygen manufacturing-associated enterprises in Karnataka belonging to six manufacturers, with a manufacturing capacity of 815 metric tonnes and a storage capacity of 5,780 metric tonnes," Bommai explained. To increase this, the Cabinet approved incentives that include a capital subsidy of 25% of the value of fixed assets (subject to a minimum investment of Rs 10 crore), 100% exemption from electricity duty for three years after commencement of production, Rs 1,000 per metric tonne subsidy on power tariff for oxygen supply to government, 100% stamp duty exemption for registering the unit and loan documents, 100% reimbursement of land conversion fees among others. Other decisions In other decisions, the Cabinet recommended the names of 139 convicts to be released for good behaviour. "The governor will have to clear the list before they are released," Bommai said. A Modified Chronic Assets Resolution Scheme for defaulters of loans borrowed from the Karnataka State Finance Corporation was also approved. The scheme was introduced in 2015 from which around 15,000 loanees benefitted. There are around 2,500 people yet to pay back pending dues for several years and the scheme is expected to help them, Bommai said. Further, the Cabinet set aside Rs 48 crore for a mobile app-based crop survey system for the 2022 Kharif season.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnatakas-global-investors-meet-in-february-2022-1008965.html
15-07-2021||State||There may be illegitimate parents but no illegitimate children: Karnataka HC||The Karnataka High Court has held that there may be illegitimate parents but no illegitimate children, because a child has no role to play in his or her birth. A division bench of Justices B V Nagarathna and Hanchate Sanjeevkumar made the observation recently while setting aside a single judge order quashing a petition by K Santosha seeking a job in the state-run Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (BESCOM) on compassionate grounds, following the death of his father After the death of his father, a lineman grade-2, in 2014, Santosha had applied for appointment on compassionate grounds. However, the petitioner was born out of second marriage when the first marriage was in subsistence, which was against the policy of the BESCOM. Hence, his application was rejected by the company. The petitioner then approached the High Court and his plea was rejected by a single judge. While setting aside the single judge order, the division bench noted, “We add that no child is born in this world without a father and a mother. A child has no role to play in his or her birth. Hence, the law should recognise the fact that there may be illegitimate parents, but no illegitimate children.”      It is for the Parliament to bring about uniformity in law vis-a-vis legitimacy of children and to determine in what way protection could be extended to children born outside a valid marriage, the bench pointed out. “For the limited purpose of this case, we find that children born out of void and voidable marriages under other personal laws, where there is no provision for conferment of legitimacy, must also have equal protection of the law by treating them on a par with children born of out of void and voidable marriages under the Hindu Marriage Act or the Special Marriage Act, 1954 insofar as the appointment on compassionate basis is concerned,” the bench observed. It then directed the company to consider the petitioner’s job application in accordance with the law and the observation made by it. The court also quashed a clause in the electricity department’s circular with respect to the appointment of children born out of second marriage, issued on September 23, 2011. According to the clause, the second wife or her children are not eligible for compassionate ground appointment, if the marriage has taken place during the subsistence of the first marriage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/there-may-be-illegitimate-parents-but-no-illegitimate-children-karnataka-hc-1009003.html
15-07-2021||State||Karnataka reports 1,977 new Covid-19 cases, 48 deaths||Karnataka reported 1,977 new cases of Covid-19 and 48 deaths, taking the total number of infections till date to 28,78,564 and fatalities to 36,037, on Thursday. The day saw 3,188 people getting discharged, thereby continuing to outnumber fresh cases. The total number of recoveries till date is 28,10,121. Out of the new cases, 462 were from Bengaluru Urban. The city saw 10 deaths. The total number of active cases in the state is 32,383. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 1.42 per cent, the case fatality rate (CFR) was 2.42 per cent. Of the newly reported deaths, Dakshina Kannada reported seven, Mysuru (5), Belagavi (4), Chikkaballapura and Shivamogga (3). Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Mysuru recorded 197, Hassan 158, Udupi 110 and Chikkamagaluru 109. Cumulatively, 3,64,31,379 samples have been tested in the state so far. Of these, 1,38,274 were tested on Thursday. On Thursday, 1,19,909 doses were administered and so far, 2,66,10,097 doses have been administered. Dose 1 recipients include 2,16,06,568 people and dose 2 recipients include 50,03,529 people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-reports-1977-new-covid-19-cases-48-deaths-1009026.html
15-07-2021||State||Scheduled Caste students to get 'freeship cards' in Karnataka||Karnataka is all set to introduce "freeship cards" for Scheduled Caste (SC) students receiving post-matric scholarships. A first-of-its-kind effort, these freeship cards are basically an e-authentication that the students can show in colleges during the admission process as proof of eligibility for the scholarship. Upon showing this card, the college will be obliged to give admission to the student without payment of fees. The government is implementing this based on the Centre's directions. Once a student secures admission, the government will credit the scholarship amount to the student into their Aadhaar-seeded bank account. The student will then pay this amount to the college. The freeship card will not be a hard copy but will be an e-document that can be downloaded and printed. Additional Chief Secretary (e-Governance) Rajeev Chawla said this process will ensure that all students eligible for scholarship can secure admissions. The process of issuing the cards will begin within a week, he said. Chawla's department has also proposed 'e-vouchers' for scholarships. These vouchers will be sent online to the student, who will then present them to the college. The institution will be able to credit this e-voucher into its account. "This will ensure that a student will not misuse the scholarship amount. The e-voucher will be valid only to pay the fees to the colleges," Chawla explained. How can a student secure a freeship card? According to the Centre's guidelines, the student should register for the freeship card on the respective scholarship portal by giving Aadhaar, the name of the course they want to join along with an undertaking that they would pay the institution the scholarship amount within seven working days from which it is credited to their account. The verification of the student's details will be automatically done through the existing State Scholarship Portal (SSP). According to Chawla, Karnataka is the only state to have a comprehensive and integrated online SSP portal meant for both pre and post-matric scholarships. The portal was first introduced in 2018. Through this, students can apply for scholarships by merely submitting their Aadhaar numbers and college/school registration numbers. The Centre has appreciated Karnataka's efforts and has directed other states to emulate the state, Chawla said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/scheduled-caste-students-to-get-freeship-cards-in-karnataka-1009061.html
15-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Yediyurappa unveils 'Karnataka Electric Bike Taxi Scheme - 2021'||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday unveiled the 'Karnataka Electric Bike Taxi scheme-2021' and said it is aimed at enhancing ease of living and creating self-employment and entrepreneurial opportunities in urban mobility. The main objective of the scheme is to reduce the travel time and inconvenience faced by the public, travelling from their homes to bus stands, railway and metro services, especially Bengaluru, the CMO said in a statement. "Karnataka Electric Bike Taxi scheme-2021 will serve as a bridge between public transport and daily travellers. It will also boost the creation of self-employment, eco-friendly environment, fuel conservation, strengthen public transport and encourage establishment of related industries," Yediyurappa said. "The vehicles registered under this scheme will be in the transport category for which the government has given several exemptions like permit, tax. Also financial benefits will be given for the electric vehicles manufacturers," he was quoted as saying in the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/yediyurappa-unveils-karnataka-electric-bike-taxi-scheme-2021-1008766.html
15-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||There can be illegitimate parents, but not illegitimate children: HC||The Karnataka High Court said on Wednesday that law should recognise the fact that there may be illegitimate parents, but no illegitimate children. A division bench headed by Justice B V Nagarathna made this observation while allowing an appeal filed by a petitioner, who was denied eligibility for compassionate grounds appointment based on a 2011 circular by the Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation Limited (KPTCL). One of the clauses of the 2011 KPTCL circular said the second wife or her children are not eligible for compassionate grounds appointment, insofar as it deals with children of the second wife, if the marriage has taken place during the subsistence of first marriage.   The petitioner’s father, who was working as a lineman, had died in June 2014. When his representation requesting to consider his case for compassionate grounds appointment was rejected, he filed a petition. His petition as well as review petition was dismissed by the single judge. The KPTCL pressed the contention that the petitioner’s father had married for the second time during the subsistence of his first marriage. Hence, his mother was not a legally wedded wife and therefore, he was not a legitimate son. The division bench pointed out that insofar as the appointment on compassionate basis is concerned, children born out of void and voidable marriages, under other personal laws where there is no provision for conferment of legitimacy, must also have equal protection of the law. “We add that no child is born in this world without a father and a mother. A child has no role to play in his/her birth. Hence, law should recognise the fact that there may be illegitimate parents, but no illegitimate children. Therefore, it is for Parliament to bring about uniformity in law vis-à-vis legitimacy of children. Thus, it is for Parliament to determine in what way protection could be extended to children born outside a valid marriage,” the court said. The respondents have been directed to consider the application made by the petitioner in accordance with law. The court said the consideration shall be made within a period of two months from the date of receipt of certified copy of the judgment, as the employee died around seven years ago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/there-can-be-illegitimate-parents-but-not-illegitimate-children-hc-1008767.html
15-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Prevalence of stroke in K'taka higher than national average||Karnataka had 109 new stroke patients for every 1,00,000 of its population in 2019, higher than the national average of 93, according to the India State-Level Disease Burden Initiative. This was published in The Lancet Global Health on Wednesday. Stroke is the leading contributor to neurological disease burden in the state much like the rest of the country. Head of the Initiative, Lalit Dandona, told DH controlling risk factors like alcohol use, smoking, high body mass index, cholesterol and low physical activity can go a long way in reducing the risk for stroke. This data has been sourced and collated from cases reported in various scientific articles and journals. India has a National Stroke Registry Programme with population-based registries and hospital-based registries but the state-wise prevalence data in absolute numbers is not publicly available year-wise. India State-Level Disease Burden Initiative Director Lalit Dandona, said, “Karnataka is one of a group of states with relatively higher non-communicable neurological disorders. Across India, stroke is responsible for 38 per cent of the disease burden due to neurological disorders. 68 per cent of deaths caused due to neurological disorders is on account of stroke. It is the third leading cause of deaths in India in 2019, seven lakh to be precise.” Dandona, who is also a scientist and National Chair of Population Health, Indian Council of Medical Research, said, “Stroke has a long list of risk factors. It is the only neurological disorder for which there is good evidence of why stroke happens. High blood pressure, and air pollution, are some of them. “About 55 per cent of strokes can be avoided if there is no high blood pressure and 42 per cent of stroke can be avoided if there is no air pollution. At least the morbidity due to stroke can be avoided if not stroke in the absence of these risk factors.” Lifestyle choices and more exercise can make people less prone to stroke. “Neurological services need to be improved to cope with this increased disease burden,” he said. Dr Pramod Kumar Pal, Professor of Neurology, Nimhans, who is also one of the authors of this neurological disease burden analysis, said, “Karnataka ranks ninth among 31 states/Union Territories in the country in incidence of stroke. It is a little worrisome that the prevalence of stroke in the state is higher than the national average. It may also be due to better reporting in our state compared to others.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/prevalence-of-stroke-in-ktaka-higher-than-national-average-1008770.html
15-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||HC asks state to remove lake encroachments under Land Revenue Act||The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday asked the state government to direct authorities to remove encroachments on lake/tank areas by exercising powers under the Land Revenue Act. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka was hearing a batch of petitions on issues surrounding the preservation, rejuvenation as well as removal of encroachments along buffer zones of lakes.  It pointed out that after the amendment to the Karnataka Tank Conservation and Development Authority Act (Tank Conservation Act 2014) in March 2018, there is a complete prohibition on any construction within 30 metres of outer boundaries of tanks. The bench said that Section 12 of the Act has to be strictly implemented. It ordered issuance of notice to the Karnataka Tank Conservation and Development Authority. "We therefore direct the state government to issue directions to the authorities under the Land Revenue Act to take action of removal of encroachment on the lake and tank area by exercising powers under the Land Revenue Act. Similarly, the Urban Development Department shall issue directions to all municipalities to take action of removal of illegal constructions made on tank/lakes and 30-metre buffer zones of tank/lakes,” the bench said. The court said it is necessary to lay down the powers and functions of various authorities and committees. “Prima facie we are of the view that the basic functions of these committees should be to oversee and monitor the performance as well as duties and obligations of various authorities in connection with lakes/tanks and buffer zones.” The bench also directed the government to issue specific instructions to deputy commissioners to resume the survey of tanks/lakes. The government submitted that of the 39,179 lakes in various districts, the survey of 17,009 has been completed as on February 23, 2021. “We are conscious of the fact that from April 2021, state government officers were busy dealing with the second wave of Covid-19. But now that the situation has improved, the government must take immediate steps to carry out the survey,” the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hc-asks-state-to-remove-lake-encroachments-under-land-revenue-act-1008782.html
15-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Heavy to very heavy rains forecast for Karnataka until July 18||A trough over the East Arabian Sea off the Karnataka coast is expected to trigger heavy to very heavy rainfall in many parts of the state until the weekend.  A low-pressure area above Kutch and in the neighbouring areas and a circulation that lies 528 kilometres above sea level over Chhattisgarh and neighbouring areas are adding to the precipitation.  “Under the influence of the three systems, North Interior Karnataka, South Interior Karnataka and coastal Karnataka will receive widespread rainfall until July 18”, C S Patil, scientist and director, IMD (Bengaluru), said on Wednesday.  The IMD has sounded an orange alert on July 14, 15 and 17 and a red alert on July 16 in the districts of Uttara Kannada, Udupi, Dakshina Kannada, Chikkamagalur, Hassan and Kodagu. The districts are likely to experience heavy to very heavy rainfall with a few places receiving extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places.  The districts of Chitradurga, Davangere, Belagavi, Dharwad, Haveri, Gadag, Vijayapura, Bagalkot, Bidar and Kalaburagi are also likely to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall in the next few days. While an orange alert has been sounded between July 15 - 17, yellow alert has been sounded on July 18.  KSNDMC scientist Sunil Gavaskar said monsoon conditions are active over the state and the rain spells are expected to continue till July 20 besides cloudy conditions.  Moderate rains in Bengaluru Cloudy weather with moderate shower spells accompanied by strong winds is expected to continue over the next few days in Bengaluru, the weathermen said.  The city received light to moderate rain on Wednesday afternoon and evening. Many localities recorded more than 20 mm of rainfall on Wednesday.  Kengeri in RR Nagar Zone and Chowdeshwari Layout in Yelahanka Zone received the maximum rainfall of 28.50 mm and 27 mm of rainfall, respectively. Other areas like Jakkur, Puttenahalli, Varthur, Koramangala, Nagarabhavi, Sarakki and Marathahalli experienced good amounts of rainfall.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/heavy-to-very-heavy-rains-forecast-for-karnataka-until-july-18-1008789.html
15-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Common cooperative software for banks, PACS to be made: S T Somashekar||A common cooperative software for Apex bank, 21 DCC banks, 5,400 Primary Agricultural Credit Societies (PACS) will be developed, Minister for Cooperation S T Somashekar said. The central government has promised to share 60% of the cost of the development of the software while 40% will be borne by the state government. SCDCC Bank Chairman M N Rajendra Kumar has been made in-charge of the development of the software, he said while inaugurating the 'Raitha Spandana' programme organised by SCDCC Bank, in Mangaluru on Wednesday. “The DCC banks have been told to achieve 100% target in disbursing crop loans like last year. Last year, 114% target was achieved. The target last year was to disburse crop loans of Rs 15,300 crore to 24.50 lakh farmers. However, 21 DCC banks had disbursed more than the target achieving 114% target,” he said. Amid the pandemic situation, all those, who had availed the crop loans, have promptly repaid and 95% of the loans borrowed from the banks have been repaid, he said while thanking the farmers for the prompt repayment despite difficulties faced by them. On the alleged irregularities in the DCC banks of Gulbarga and Shivamogga, the Minister said that steps had been taken with regard to the irregularities and crop loans will be disbursed by the banks this year. The minister lauded the SCDCC Bank for waiving loans up to Rs 1 lakh of farmers who have died of Covid-19. The state government has issued an order to provide Rs one lakh compensation for BPL families that have lost an earning member due to Covid-19. The details have been sought from deputy commissioners. Once the details are furnished, the amount will be credited to the accounts of the grieving families. The Minister said that a meeting will be convened shortly to fix MSP for the current year. He called upon the cooperative department officials not to harass the banks and cooperatives unnecessarily. District in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary and SCDCC Bank president M N Rajendra Kumar also spoke on the occasion. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/common-cooperative-software-for-banks-pacs-to-be-made-s-t-somashekar-1008886.html
15-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to create 1 crore jobs in five years: CM B S Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday said 1 crore job opportunities will be created over the next five years in the state under a new programme called Mission Yuva Samruddhi. A task force has been constituted for this, which is expected to submit its report shortly, Yediyurappa said. Yediyurappa was speaking at the World Youth Skill Day event organised by the department of skill development, entrepreneurship and livelihood. Under Mission Yuva Samruddhi, pilot projects will be taken up in eight districts of the state. According to Yediyurappa, India was the second-highest country in the world in terms of human resource in the 18-35 age group. “The state has a population of 2.21 crore in the 16-35 and many programs have been initiated to improve the economic and social development by skilling the youth as per global standards,” he said. The government will hold month-long skill development activities till August 21, which is World Entrepreneurship Day. Yediyurappa pointed out that the government had inked an agreement with Tata Technologies to upgrade 150 state-run industrial training institutes (ITI) at a cost of Rs 4,636.50 crore. “Upgradation work of these ITIs is expected to be completed by September,” he said. The government plans to release Rs 400 crore to 1.93 lakh self-help groups as Community Investment Fund under the National Rural Livelihood Mission. “So far, 17,121 self-help groups have received R 149.03 crore,” Yediyurappa said. On the occasion, the government inked eight agreements with leading companies to up-skill the youth. “The memorandums of understanding include starting courses related to the automotive sector in select ITIs in the districts of Bengaluru, Ramanagara and Tumakuru in collaboration with Toyota Motors,” Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan, the skill development minister, said. Other agreements were signed with Wipro, GE, Narayana Hrudayalaya, ELCIA, Aditya Birla Group and Home Lane. “Another agreement was with Auto Desk to provide training in Mastercam design software at the Karnataka Germany Technology Training Institute (KGTTI),” Narayan said, adding that 40 more MoUs will be signed going forward. Under the Chief Minister’s Kaushalya Karnataka Yojane (CMKKY), Narayan said 57,833 people were given skills training and 7,876 got jobs between July 2019 and now. Under Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY), 16,375 have been trained and 1,561 are employed, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-create-1-crore-jobs-in-five-years-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-1008896.html
15-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||JD(S) to contest in at least 150 seats in 2023 Karnataka Assembly polls: Kumaraswamy||The JD(S) will contest at least 150 seats in the 2023 Assembly polls and the party's first list of candidates will be out as early as January next year, former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy said on Thursday.  "By January 15, when the election will be about a year away, we're planning to finalise candidates for at least 150 constituencies so that they can start working," Kumaraswamy told reporters.  The regional party is eyeing a contest in 150-170 seats "to form the government on our own," Kumaraswamy said.  The early bird move signifies the desperation of the regional party to make it big electorally. The 2023 Assembly polls could well be do-or-die for Kumaraswamy's team, party observers say.  The JD(S) leader said he would tour districts over the next one week to meet party leaders and take stock of the organization and appointment of office-bearers in villages, taluks and districts, keeping the Assembly polls in mind.  "I will tell people about the need for a regional party for Karnataka's overall development. I will tell them about our party's vision on education and solutions to deal with the agrarian crisis and unemployment," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/jds-to-contest-in-at-least-150-seats-in-2023-karnataka-assembly-polls-kumaraswamy-1008902.html
15-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Special incentives for oxygen manufacturing units in Karnataka||The Karnataka Cabinet on Thursday approved a scheme to provide special incentives for Oxygen Manufacturing and Associated Enterprises in the State. Pointing out that the state had faced a shortage of oxygen due to Covid, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Basavaraj Bommai said there were 9 oxygen manufacturing units/factories in the state and six oxygen suppliers. "The manufacturing capacity is 815 MT and storage capacity is 5,780 MT.To increase the capacity, if any entrepreneurs come forward, we will give them incentives," he told reporters after the cabinet meeting. The incentives include capital subsidy of 25 per cent of the value of fixed assets subjected to minimum investment of Rs 10 crore, 100 per cent exemption from electricity duty for three years after commencement of commercial production, additional power tariff subsidy of Rs 1,000 per metric tonne on supply to the government. There will also be 100 per cent stamp duty exemption and reimbursement from loan and land documents, concessional registration charges, 100 per cent reimbursement of land conversion fees, he added. The cabinet also decided on premature release of 139 prisoners sentenced to life from central prisons in the state on the grounds of good behaviour. "It will go to the Governor for approval," Bommai said. Other decisions taken by the cabinet include administrative approval for establishing Goshalas in all the districts of the state at a total cost of Rs 15 crore in the first phase to supplement the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Act, 2020. "The cabinet has decided to release additional funds, depending on the progress of the work," Bommai said. The cabinet has also approved Rs 48 crore for the implementation of crop survey project during 2022 kharif season, with the help of a mobile app, in which farmers will themselves share the information. If the farmers cannot do it on their own, they can seek the help of private or government staff deployed for this purpose,the minister said. Other decisions include considering the Karnataka State Job Oriented Courses (JOC) as equivalent to PUC (pre- university course), to bring the Karnataka Prison Development Board Bill 2021 before the legislature, approval for construction of buildings for KGTTI (Karnataka Germany Technical Training Institutes) at Belagavi (Rs 16.43 crore) and Mangaluru (Rs 15.23 crore). The cabinet gave its approval for installing a statue of 12th-century social reformer Basavanna on the premises of Vidhana Soudha, the seat of the State legislature and Secretariat in Bengaluru, by the Kannada and Culture Department. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/special-incentives-for-oxygen-manufacturing-units-in-karnataka-1008942.html
15-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Darshan assaulted Dalit waiter? Bommai asks Mysuru police to investigate||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday said he directed the Mysuru police to investigate filmmaker Indrajit Lankesh’s allegation that Sandalwood star Darshan and his friends assaulted a Dalit waiter at a hotel. Indrajit met Bommai and submitted a petition seeking action against Darshan and others. “(Indrajit) has given me a petition on some recent incidents in Mysuru. I have asked the Mysuru police commissioner to thoroughly investigate,” Bommai said. After meeting Bommai, Indrajit claimed to have evidence and said: “Darshan, Rakesh Papanna, Harsha Melanta and others hit a Dalit waiter during a party in Mysuru’s Sandesh The Prince hotel. That waiter sustained an eye injury and his vision was blurred. The next day, there was a settlement when his family sought justice.” Indrajit also said that the Mysuru police were compromised. “There’s no justice for the common man. Mysuru police stations have become settlement stations. They’re settling cases. It’s unfortunate,” he said. According to Indrajit, one of Darshan’s aides Rakesh is the son of Pappanna, a follower of former chief minister Siddaramaiah. “Papanna says the entire Mysuru police is in his hands,” he said. Bommai declined to react to specific allegations made by Indrajit. “In his petition, things aren’t very clear...we need evidence to substantiate such claims.” He also refuted charges that the Mysuru police were acting at the behest of influential locals. “The Mysuru police are in the hands of the Mysuru police commissioner.” Speaking to reporters, Siddaramaiah did not deny knowing Papanna. However, he said: “Anybody can say they know me and that they can get things done. But, it never works that way.” Indrajit said he went public with this because he could not keep quiet looking at “the excesses of celebrities”. Indrajit’s claim comes in the wake of an ongoing case involving Darshan. Earlier this month, a case was filed in Mysuru against Melanta and three others, including a woman named Aruna Kumari, for attempting to fraudulently borrow Rs 25 crore in loan by forging property documents of Darshan’s farmhouse. Siding with Aruna, Indrajit said this case was also headed towards “settlement”. Refuting the charges, Darshan dared Indrajit to prove his claims and said: “invisible hands” were working against him. Sandesh Nagaraj, who runs the hotel in question, admitted that there was a fight. “Darshan only yelled at the waiter. In fact, I reprimanded Darshan for doing that,” he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/darshan-assaulted-dalit-waiter-bommai-asks-mysuru-police-to-investigate-1009054.html
15-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka inks investment pacts worth Rs 28,000 crore||The B S Yediyurappa administration on Thursday inked agreements with 23 companies for a cumulative investment of Rs 28,000 crore and they are expected to generate 15,000 direct employment opportunities in the state. The memorandums of understanding were signed at an Invest Karnataka conclave organized by the state government. Among the MoUs signed include one with the Gautam Adani-led Adani Group worth Rs 5,000 crore to set up data centres across the state. Then, the government signed a deal worth Rs 4,015 crore with US-based lithium-ion cell manufacturer C4V and another one with Singapore-based liquid natural gas terminal operator LNG Alliance for Rs 2,250 crore. Other MoUs were signed with companies from sectors such as electric vehicles, aerospace and defence. Speaking at the event, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa said that the state government had cleared over 520 projects with an investment of around Rs 77,000 crore in multiple sectors since March 2020. "Additionally, there are proposals and MoUs submitted worth Rs 23,000 crore, taking the total investment to Rs 1 lakh crore," he said, adding that it reflected the "strong commitment of investors" towards Karnataka despite the challenging Covid-19 situation. Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said that the government was striving to retain Karnataka's position as the global manufacturing hub and place the state on the global manufacturing value chain. "The government is also actively working to promote Tier-2 and Tier-3 regions of the state by developing multiple sector-specific clusters. We have developed dedicated clusters for toys in Koppal, consumer electronics in Dharwad, pharmaceuticals in Yadgir to name a few,” Shettar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-inks-investment-pacts-worth-rs-28000-crore-1009064.html
15-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Cabinet rejig? B S Yediyurappa to meet BJP top brass in Delhi||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has planned a visit to New Delhi on Friday to meet top BJP leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and he is expected to bring up the possibility of revamping his Cabinet. The 34-member Cabinet currently has one vacancy, but it is said that Yediyurappa is considering inducting new faces by dropping some of the incumbents, in line with what Modi did to his team. By doing this, Yediyurappa will look to rein in some of the disgruntled elements. Speaking to reporters, Yediyurappa did not rule out a Cabinet reshuffle. “While I don’t have any proposal in front of me, let’s see after it comes up for discussion [in New Delhi],” he said. Yediyurappa said he was going to the national capital to meet PM Modi and other union ministers to discuss development works and stalled irrigation projects, including the controversial Mekedatu. “The PM said he will meet me. He’ll give me an appointment,” he said. Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s office has given Yediyurappa an appointment while the PM’s office has yet to confirm, sources said. Yediyurappa is also planning to meet BJP national president J P Nadda and the party’s Karnataka supervisor Arun Singh. Yediyurappa’s son BY Vijayendra is also tagging along. It is a known fact that several legislators are eyeing ministerial positions. Some of them are Muniratna, MP Renukacharya, MP Kumaraswamy, V Sunil Kumar among others. A section of MLAs has sought Yediyurappa’s removal on the grounds of corruption and nepotism involving his family members in the administration. In this backdrop, the CM wants to meet the party top brass to explain himself, tell them about the “effective” handling of the Covid-19 situation and show that all is well, a senior leader told DH. However, one leader said that the anti-Yediyurappa camp did not want a Cabinet reshuffle. They see it as Yediyurappa’s ploy to remain in power, dodging attempts to have him removed. Also, they are wary that the Cabinet reshuffle could be timed for the announcement of local body elections, further ensuring his continuation. Former union minister Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, who is the face of the anti-Yediyurappa camp, has camped in New Delhi for the past three days to “congratulate” the newly-appointed union ministers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cabinet-rejig-b-s-yediyurappa-to-meet-bjp-top-brass-in-delhi-1009075.html
15-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||ACB conduct raids on nine Karnataka government officials over disproportionate assets||The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials conducted raids on nine alleged corrupt government officials in Bengaluru, Mangaluru, Bidar, Kolar, Ballari, Mandya, Vijayapura and other places on the charges of possession of disproportionate assets in the early hours on Thursday.  The ACB officials are tightlipped on the names of the officials and the seizures made during the raids conducted. According to sources, the raids were conducted simultaneously in more than 35 places, including the homes, offices and relatives' properties related to the officials.  The raids were conducted on an officer working in Urban Development Department, office of district commissioner, Mangaluru, two engineers of Karnataka Rural Infrastructure Development Ltd (KRIDL) in Udupi, an officer in Malur Town Planning Authority, an officer of junior engineer rank in Bidar, an officer of Forest Department in Mandya, an engineer in Hescom in Vijayapura, an electrical engineer in Ballari and motor vehicle inspector in Koramangala Regional Transport Office (RTO).  The officials are said to be verifying the documents found during raids with all the nine officers. The seized valuables are worth in crores, including gold jewellery, immovable properties including land and homes, vehicles and others. Some officers have properties in Bengaluru and other districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/acb-conduct-raids-on-nine-karnataka-government-officials-over-disproportionate-assets-1009083.html
15-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government to float tender for Nandi Hills ropeway: Tourism minister||Tourism Minister C P Yogeshwar has directed the officials to set the ball rolling on the long-pending Nandi Hill ropeway project. In a departmental review meeting on Thursday, the minister asked the officials to float a tender for this soon. The department is also planning to make a documentary on the historical Gomateshwara statue at Shravanabelagola. This will be done on the model of Sun Temple at Konark, where visitors first view a documentary, before visiting the temple. Likewise, once the film is ready, visitors will see the documentary before visiting the iconic statue, the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-to-float-tender-for-nandi-hills-ropeway-tourism-minister-1009085.html
15-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HC upholds grant of licenses to MSIL for retail liquor outlets||The High Court of Karnataka in a recent order upheld the license granted to Mysore Sales International Limited (MSIL) for setting up of retail liquor outlets across the state. Several private liquor retail outlet owners of north Karnataka had challenged the insertion of Rule 3 (11-C) of the Karnataka Excise Rules 1968, to accommodate such licenses to government-owned companies. The petitions challenged the insertion of Rule 3 (11-C) contending that it excludes the applicability of Rule 12 (3), that provides for a maximum number of licences in an area/taluk on the basis of population.  Rule 3 (11-C) specifies that a license in Form CL (11-C) shall be granted by the Deputy Commissioner only to such companies owned or controlled by the state government. K N Phaneendra, senior counsel appearing for the MSIL, argued that the petitioners have no locus standi to challenge the validity of the Rule since the licences granted to them are not cancelled while granting licence in favour of MSIL. Dismissing the batch of petitions, Justice Hemant Chandangoudar pointed out that the Rule cannot be said to be invalid or unconstitutional as it is being inserted as duly authorized under Section 71 of the Karnataka Excise Act. The court said the exclusion of applicability of Rule 12 (3) cannot be said to be discriminatory since the right to carry on the business of sale of liquor is subject to limitations. The court also observed that the state government can create a monopoly either in itself or the agency created by it for sale of liquor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hc-upholds-grant-of-licenses-to-msil-for-retail-liquor-outlets-1009088.html
15-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Approach Block Education Officers for hall tickets, SSLC students told||The Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) has directed students preparing for the SSLC examinations to reach out to the officers at the local level if the schools are denying them exam hall tickets. Following complaints from students and parents against private school managements withholding hall tickets demanding school fee, the Board issued a circular on Wednesday. "In case students find it difficult to get the hall ticket, they can contact the block education officer or they can even reach out to the Board if needed. No student should undergo mental pressure or tension due to the non-availability of hall tickets," reads the circular. However, private school managements raised objections to this. D Shashi Kumar, General Secretary of Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka said, "There are parents who have not paid fees for the last two years, some have not even paid the minimum fees. The board and department should understand the fact that private schools are paying salaries to teachers and should direct the parents to clear the dues. We will be forced not to send our staff for examination duty and evaluation work if the Board gives such misleading directions."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/approach-block-education-officers-for-hall-tickets-sslc-students-told-1009094.html
15-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to host second edition of 'Khelo India' in March 2022||The second edition of 'Khelo India' University-level sports will be held at the Kanteerava Stadium from March 5, 2022. The state government will invite Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the event. A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting chaired by Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan and Youth Empowerment and Sports Minister K C Narayana Gowda. The event will be held for 12 days at an estimated cost of Rs 40 crore. As many as 3,182 sportspersons from 158 universities are set to participate in 18 sports events. About 6,000 support staff will be involved in coordinating the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-host-second-edition-of-khelo-india-in-march-2022-1009112.html
15-07-2021||West||Time for 'Hum Do, Hamare Ek', says Rajasthan minister||Health Minister of Congress-ruled Rajasthan Raghu Sharma on Wednesday batted for population control and said it is time that the country thinks about "Hum Do, Hamare Ek", one child per family. The minister said this when asked about his views on the BJP-led Uttar Pradesh government's draft bill proposing to control population. The Rajasthan Health Department released a video of the minister in which he suggested population control. Commenting on it, the Rajasthan health minister said growing population is a matter of concern. It is time when the country needs to think about the slogan, "Hum Do, Hamare Ek" (one child per family), he said. "In today's (Covid) pandemic era, whether it is about vaccination or development, growing population has an adverse impact on everything. It is time to think about how to control population so that future generations get better education, health and other facilities for a better lifestyle," the minister said. However, state Congress president Govind Singh Dotasra said Rajasthan already has population control laws in panchayat, urban local bodies, selection and promotion of government employees. He told reporters that the Uttar Pradesh government brought the draft bill as it failed to provide “good governance and maintain law and order”. According to the UP draft bill, people having more than two children in the state will be debarred from contesting local body polls, applying for government jobs or receiving any kind of subsidy. The BJP-ruled Assam government has also announced to bring a policy in population control.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/time-for-hum-do-hamare-ek-says-rajasthan-minister-1008777.html
15-07-2021||West||Bombay HC permits use of A4 size paper for filing pleas||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday approved the use of A4 size papers printed on both sides for filing pleas across all benches of the courts, in order to save paper and free up storage space. The court's decision came following a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by lawyer Ajinkya Udane, who stated in the petition that using A4 size paper for all judicial and administrative work instead of the current practice of using only one side of larger-sized sheets would save paper, result in felling of fewer trees and free up storage space in the court. Advocate S R Nargolkar, who appeared for the High Court administration, informed a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni that a notification about using only high-quality A4 size sheets printed on both sides in the court, had been issued, amending the Bombay High Court Rules. Nargolkar submitted that the notification had also been issued in the gazette on July 6. "In view of this notification, the petitioner's grievance stands redressed," he said. The bench took the submission on record. Advocate P R Katneshwarkar, who appeared for Udane, urged the High Court to make the above notification applicable also to subordinate courts in Maharashtra. The bench, however, directed Katneshwarkar to make a representation to the Registrar General of the High Court to get appropriate directions issued for the subordinate courts in M to permit use of A4 size papers. The notification issued by Registrar General of High Court Mahendra Chandwani provides for use of "superior quality A4 size paper not having less than 75 GSM with printing on both sides", instead of "foolscap size paper" across all benches of the High Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-hc-permits-use-of-a4-size-paper-for-filing-pleas-1008836.html
15-07-2021||West||Thane Covid hospital head booked for sexually harassing staff||Police have registered a case against a senior official of the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) for allegedly sexually harassing a 35-year-old assistant matron at a civic-run Covid-19 hospital in the city, an official said on Thursday. The offence was registered against Deputy Municipal Commissioner Vishwanath Kelkar, who is in-charge of Global Hub Covid Hospital, at Kapurbawdi police station on Wednesday evening, he said. “The victim, who worked as an assistant matron at the hospital, alleged that the accused used to pass lewd remarks at her and make sexual advances towards her. Once he also indulged in an indecent act with her. But as she did not fall prey to his attempts, she was sacked before being reinstated later,” the official said. The victim said she had complained about the harassment to the municipal commissioner and other seniors officials in the TMC as well as to the police, but no action was taken against Kelkar, he added. On Wednesday, the state unit vice president of the BJP, Chitra Wagh, and the party’s Thane city women’s wing office-bearers met municipal commissioner Vipin Sharma, apprised him of the woman's allegations and demanded immediate action against the official. Wagh also warned that if no action was taken, they would hold an agitation outside his office. They also met Thane Police Commissioner Jai Jeet Singh later and submitted a written complaint. After that, the FIR was registered against Kelkar under IPC section 354 (a) (1) (sexual harassment). However, he has not been arrested so far, the official said. Global Hub Covid Hospital was set up by the Thane civic body during the first wave of the pandemic last year and it was virtually inaugurated by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/thane-covid-hospital-head-booked-for-sexually-harassing-staff-1008850.html
15-07-2021||West||P S Sreedharan Pillai takes oath as Goa Governor||P S Sreedharan Pillai on Thursday took oath as the Governor of Goa, replacing B S Koshyari, who was holding the additional charge of the state along with Maharashtra. Chief Justice of the Bombay High Court Dipankar Datta administered the oath of office to Pillai in the morning at the Raj Bhavan, where Chief Minister Pramod Sawant was also present. Koshyari had been holding the additional charge as the governor of Goa since August 2020 after the transfer of Satya Pal Malik from the post. Talking to reporters after the swearing-in ceremony, the chief minister welcomed the new governor and said that his guidance would be sought on different issues related to the state. Pillai was serving as Governor of Mizoram before he was shifted to the coastal state. Assembly elections in Goa are due in February 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/p-s-sreedharan-pillai-takes-oath-as-goa-governor-1008877.html
15-07-2021||West||Covid-19 patient attacks doctor with saline stand in Alibaug, booked||A 55-year-old coronavirus patient undergoing treatment in a government-run hospital at Alibaug in Maharashtra’s Raigad district allegedly attacked a doctor with a saline stand after the latter asked him not to remove his oxygen mask repeatedly, police said on Thursday. “The patient had been undergoing treatment at the hospital since the last four days. During his round, the doctor asked the patient not to remove his oxygen mask again and again. However, the doctor’s instructions annoyed the patient,” he said. Later, when the doctor was sitting on a chair, the patient came from behind and started hitting him on his head with a saline stand, the police official said. The doctor received injuries in the incident and was admitted to the same hospital, he added. Police have registered a case against the patient under IPC section 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty). Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-patient-attacks-doctor-with-saline-stand-in-alibaug-booked-1008900.html
15-07-2021||West||Why is MVA govt scared despite majority in House? asks Fadnavis on Assembly Speaker’s election||Amid reports that the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) dispensation in Maharashtra was planning to change rules to adopt the method of open voting for the state Assembly Speaker’s election, senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Thursday asked why the state government was scared despite having majority in the House. He said the move showed that the MVA allies not only trust one another, but also their own legislators. Fadnavis also reiterated that the three-party MVA dispensation will collapse under its own weight, and asserted that once that happens, his party would provide an alternative government in the state. The Leader of Opposition in the state Assembly was speaking to reporters at the Rambhau Mhalgi Prabodhini. The Assembly speaker's post has been lying vacant since February after Nana Patole resigned to take charge as the state Congress president. As per tradition, the speaker is elected unopposed. When asked about the state government considering changing rules for holding the speaker's election, Fadnavis said, “If you have majority, why are you scared and why are you changing rules? Why do you want elections through show of hands (open voting)? This means that the MVA allies don't trust each other and also their own legislators.” “Any meeting for change of the legislative rules has to be convened by the speaker. Deputy speaker doesn't have the authority. Without the speaker such a meeting is not valid,” he added. Meanwhile, sources said that change in rules for holding the speaker's election is under consideration of the government. A preliminary meeting took place recently, but nothing has been finalised yet, they said. Fadnavis said, “When the issue comes before us, we will take a stand." The former chief minister said when Congress’s state unit chief Nana Patole speaks of going alone in the next Assembly polls, NCP president Sharad Pawar counters him and Congress leaders, who meet Pawar, don't take Patole along, which shows what is happening among the ruling allies. "We are playing the role of a strong opposition. I have been saying from day one that this government will collapse under its own weight. I did not give any time-frame. When it collapses, we will give an alternative government," he said. His statement comes a day after Maharashtra BJP president Chandrakant Patil said the MVA allies will fight among themselves, but they will not let the three-party government fall. The MVA, an unlikely coalition of the Shiv Sena and its one-time opponents, the NCP and the Congress, came to power in November 2019. In the past, the opposition BJP has raised questions over the stability of the Shiv Sena-led government with Fadnavis and other leaders saying the coalition will collapse under the weight of its internal contradictions. However, MVA allies have repeatedly asserted that the Uddhav Thackeray government is stable and will complete its full five-year term (which ends in 2024). Fadnavis also said that senior NCP leader and minister Chhagan Bhujbal met him to discuss about preparing the empirical data of the Other Backward Classes (OBC) to restore the political reservations to the community in local bodies that was struck down by the Supreme Court. “During our government, we prepared the empirical data of Marathas, which was upheld by the Supreme Court," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/why-is-mva-govt-scared-despite-majority-in-house-asks-fadnavis-on-assembly-speaker-s-election-1008913.html
15-07-2021||West||Navi Mumbai’s metro line to be operational soon||Navi Mumbai’s metro line would soon be operational, adding to the facilities in one of the fast-growing planned cities of India. The City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO), the nodal agency for the development of Navi Mumbai, has given its Letter of Acceptance to Maha Metro for operation and maintenance services of  Metro Line 1 of Navi Mumbai Metro. A formal agreement would soon be signed between CIDCO and Maha Metro, said Dr Sanjay Mukherjee, the vice-chairman & managing director, CIDCO. “After appointing Maha Metro for engineering assistance of Metro Line 1, CIDCO has given Letter of Acceptance to Maha Metro for the operation and maintenance services on this line. Thus, the work on this line will be completed speedily and it will be possible to start the passenger services on this route at the earliest. Giving prime importance to all infrastructural projects is my priority. This decision is a prominent step towards it,” said Mukherjee. The CIDCO is developing four elevated corridors under Navi Mumbai Metro to make the public transport system of Navi Mumbai more efficient and interconnect different nodes. The trial run of the Metro Line 1 of around  11.1 km with 11 stations and a depot at Taloja was conducted successfully. To complete the works of the above line at the earliest and to create an economic source for the project, CIDCO began to explore options and out of all options it came to a decision of appointing Maha Metro as engineering assistance for Navi Mumbai Metro Line 1 after considering its experience and proficiency in the field of Metro Rail operations. “Maha Metro has work experience of recently executed Nagpur Metro phase 1 as well as the construction, development and Operations & Maintenance work of metro lines 1 and 2 being developed under Pune Metro. Maha Metro has also appointed a team of 20 expert engineers for the engineering assistance of Navi Mumbai Metro Line 1,” said Mukherjee. CIDCO has to spend approximately Rs. 885 crores for the operation and maintenance services on the said route which is the lowest in the state of Maharashtra. The period of the Maha Metro contract for operations and maintenance services will be a one-year pre-commercial operation date on this route and for the next 10 years from the date of commencement of commercial operations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/navi-mumbai-s-metro-line-to-be-operational-soon-1009024.html
15-07-2021||West||Governor's office cannot play a political role, says Goa Guv Sreedharan Pillai||Pillai also said that he needed time before he could comment on the ongoing Mahadayi inter-state river water dispute with Karnataka. "The Governors are not expected to play one way or another way, (take a) political stand. Any political part to play is banned in India. Governors are expected to have the committment to society, not politically," Pillai told a press conference at Raj Bhavan, hours after he took over as the Governor of Goa. Pillai was also all praises for Kerala Governor Arif Mohammad Khan, who undertook a daylong fast at Raj Bhavan on Wednesday in protest against dowry. When asked about the ongoing Mhadei inter-state river water dispute, Pillai however said that he needed to "study" the matter. Pillai called for revamping of the education system in the country on scientific lines, adding that the colonial roots in the education system founded by Thomas Macaulay stemmed from a belief that Indians, as a people, were substandard. "The education system needed a substantial change. The Macaulay system, you know, started with... the first sentence in the Macaulay education policy that in India people are lower grade people, they are not best," Pillai said. Pillai was earlier sworn in as Goa Governor by Bombay High Court Chief Justice Dipankar Datta. He was transferred to Goa from a similar gubernatorial assignment in Mizoram.   Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/governors-office-cannot-play-a-political-role-says-goa-guv-sreedharan-pillai-1009028.html
15-07-2021||West||Liquor has become cheaper than fuel, says Ashok Chavan||Thanks to price hikes, liquor has become cheaper than petrol and diesel in the country, Congress leader and Maharashtra PWD minister Ashok Chavan said on Thursday. The former chief minister led a protest march against rising prices from Old Mondha area to the district collector's office. "Earlier, during our government, when fuel prices went up by a rupee or two, opposition leaders would launch agitations. Today they are in power and the per litre fuel prices have crossed Rs 100 and LPG cylinder prices have tripled," he said, addressing the protesters. This has led to the price of every commodity going up and transportation costs rising", the Congress leader said. "During the BJP regime, liquor has become cheaper than fuel," he added. He also said that it was up to the Union government to give reservation to Maratha, Dhangar and OBC communities. "Since the issue is before the central government, BJP leaders in Maharashtra are quiet," Chavan alleged. During the protest march, a cycle rickshaw on which Mayor Abdul Sattar and his supporters were standing overturned, but nobody was injured in the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/liquor-has-become-cheaper-than-fuel-says-ashok-chavan-1009036.html
15-07-2021||West||Borivali, Thane to be linked via tunnel below national park||In a first-of-its kind project involving India’s longest proposed road-tunnel, the western and eastern suburbs of Mumbai would be connected through a tunnel passing below the Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP). Incidentally, SGNP is the only national park in the world to be located within a metropolitan area. The distance between the western suburb of Borivali and eastern suburb of Thane in the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) would be bridged in 15 to 20 minutes as against the one to two hours currently - depending on the traffic on the Ghodbunder Road. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) is the nodal agency for the project. The estimated cost of this project is Rs 11,235.43 crore and the twin tunnel connecting Thane- Borivali would make travel faster for commuters, as well as aid to minimise current traffic congestion on Ghodbunder Road, Public Works Minister Eknath Shinde said on Thursday. The route would feature an 11.8-kms-long connecting road with 10.25-km-long two three-lane tunnels built beneath the SGNP, running from Tikuji-Ni-Wadi in Thane to the Western Expressway in Borivali. Considering that the tunnel will pass through SGNP, the MSRDC has taken special precautions to avoid causing harm to the park's biodiversity by using tunnel boring machinery to avoid upsetting the lives of the park's animals and flora. The Thane-Borivali tunnel would necessitate the acquisition of 16.54 hectares of private land and 40.46 hectares of land within the Sanjay Gandhi National Park. The project, which is scheduled to begin in March 2022, is expected to take five and a half years to complete. There will be cross tunnels every 300 metres, and the design will allow vehicles to travel at a top speed of 80 kilometres per hour. The 60-minute trip time will be cut to 15 to 20 minutes, resulting in time savings and a reduction of 10.5 lakh metric tonnes of fuel. The initiative will contribute to a 36 per cent reduction in carbon dioxide emissions, assisting in the maintenance of environmental balance. Safety features will be implemented, including a drainage system, a smoke detector, and a jet fan. Special measures will be taken to ensure that the air within the tunnel remains clean and fresh.The Thane-Borivali subterranean tunnel's detailed project report (DPR) has been finished, and land acquisition work has begun. Additionally, the project is exempted from the requirement of environmental approval. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/borivali-thane-to-be-linked-via-tunnel-below-national-park-1009047.html
15-07-2021||West||Sharad Pawar, Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray meet in Mumbai||Amid war-of-words in the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi dispensation and multiple issues in hand, NCP president Sharad Pawar met Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday. The meeting lasted for nearly 30 minutes, official sources said, however, what transpired in the meeting is not yet in public domain. The meeting assumes significance as next week the monsoon session of Parliament starts. With the BJP constantly mounting pressure and a battery of MVA leaders under investigation by various agencies - it is a sort of rough sailing for the MVA. One of the major issues that the MVA is faced with is the state Congress leadership’s call to go alone in all the future local bodies and the 2024 Lok Sabha and Vidhan Sabha polls. Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole’s repeated statements have irked both Thackeray and Pawar, the latter being the chief architect of the MVA dispensation that has kept the BJP out of power. On the administrative front, the MVA is under immense pressure to ease the lockdown/restrictions even as the threat of the Covid-19 pandemic’s third wave and the Delta Plus variant is looming large. Besides, the shortage of vaccines is still a big issue. The state is also faced with growing protests with Maratha community's long-pending demand for reservations in jobs and education and political reservation of the OBCs. The meeting comes a day after the 80-year-old Pawar ruled out contesting the 2022 Presidential polls or become the Prime Ministerial face of the Opposition ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. The Shiv Sena wants Pawar to play a larger role and consolidate the UPA grouping - a development that has not been liked by the Congress. It may also be mentioned that while Pawar aide and former Home Minister Anil Deshmukh is facing a probe by the CBI and ED into allegations of corruption and misuse of power while the BJP has also demanded a probe against his nephew and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar of NCP and Transport Minister Anil Parab, who is a close aide of Thackeray.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sharad-pawar-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-meet-in-mumbai-1009053.html
