16-07-2021||Comment||Stan Swamy's deaths shows why protecting India’s institutional design is a must||The death of Father Stan Swamy, while being held as an undertrial without bail, charged with offences under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) but never tried for them, has exposed the shaky foundations of India’s criminal justice system. While condemnation of the State and judicial actions that resulted in Fr. Swamy’s death in custody have poured in from a variety of sources, both domestic and international, many have been quick to point out the Congress party’s hypocrisy in condemning Fr. Swamy’s death — the UAPA, under which Fr. Swamy was charged and held indefinitely as an undertrial, was passed by the Congress when it was in power and strengthened significantly by Congress governments through amendments in 2004, 2008 and 2012. The latest round of amendments to the Act, brought by the BJP government to further strengthen the government’s powers under it in 2019, also saw rare cross-party support from the Congress on most of its provisions. The Congress’ position on the UAPA has resulted in a unique situation. Fr. Swamy’s case is a clear instance of a gross violation of human and constitutional rights — He was an octogenarian with Parkinson’s held as an undertrial without bail in an overcrowded jail through the Covid-19 pandemic, with limited access to even the most basic facilities. However, the legislation that enabled these actions (even if not the actions themselves) has the support of both the ruling and the principal opposition parties. Seen in this light, UAPA represents an instance of the political class, across parties in power and in the opposition, acting in their common self-interest by accumulating power in their hands, despite their political differences. These self-interested actions by the political class come at the cost of the common citizen, whose human rights are made vulnerable by such actions, irrespective of which political party is in power. Weakening institutional design The UAPA is not the only such example. For instance, in the area of campaign finance, amendments to the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010, were brought by the BJP, without Opposition from the Congress, to retrospectively legalise foreign donations received by both the Congress and the BJP that had been declared illegal by the Delhi High Court in 2014. These instances have a uniform theme — the measures brought by the government of the day alter the institutional design of India’s democracy, ensuring that more power is taken away from the common citizen (through an abrogation of her human/constitutional rights) and given instead to politicians in power. The support of the opposition also comes from a place of self-interest — opposition politicians know that if they were to return to power later, the compromised institutional design that they have helped their political rivals create will work to their benefit, allowing them to accumulate greater power for themselves and use the system to suppress political opposition. In many ways, this exposes the inherent weakness of any democracy — politicians on either end of the political spectrum are united by a desire for a system that allows them to exercise and retain increasing amounts of political power. Actions taken by one party to benefit itself, therefore, often see support from political rivals because their common interest as politicians unites them. The victims, of course, are citizens, who are left with weaker rights and a weaker institutional design underpinning their liberal democracy. Put simply, therefore, the example of the UAPA tells us this — if India’s people let a political party in power take measures that attack their fundamental rights and result in the accumulation of power in executive hands, they are implicitly enabling the degradation of the institutional framework that underpins India’s liberal democracy. Once these changes are made and cemented, political change through action at the ballot box won’t matter because any new government, even if led by a political party on the opposite end of the spectrum, will likely use this same compromised framework to its own advantage, similarly attacking citizens’ rights in the process. The need for all citizens’ support It is for this reason that opposition to the UAPA, and condemnation of its misuse in Fr. Swamy’s case, should see widespread support from citizens of all political persuasions. After all, if the political class can be united in ensuring the concentration of power in a way that benefits them when they are in power, the citizenry should also cross political lines and present a united front against such actions. Of course, Fr. Swamy was not alone— Anand Teltumbde and Sudha Bharadwaj are among the many others still facing charges under the UAPA. Their plight and preventing a repeat of Fr. Swamy’s tragedy in their cases should be enough of a reason to speak up against the misuse of the UAPA in a way that allows the State to continue to hold them in custody without a conviction. Most importantly, even for those who completely disagree with them politically, it is important to speak out against their continued detention. Today, they continue to languish in custody as undertrials owing to the UAPA, and it is Fr. Swamy who had to face the indignity of a death in custody as an undertrial. In a different time, with a different political party in power, it could be a different set of people, perhaps of a different ideological leaning, who face this treatment. The only way to prevent that is to strengthen the system and to ensure that the institutional design that underpins India’s liberal democracy is not eroded, that it cannot be misused by any political party in power. By speaking up in unison, across political lines, India’s citizens have the power to do this and to protect themselves from such treatment in the future. (The writer is a London-based lawyer)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/stan-swamys-deaths-shows-why-protecting-india-s-institutional-design-is-a-must-1009164.html
16-07-2021||First Edit||Vaccination: Blaming states won’t help||India’s vaccination drive has slowed down in July after registering improved numbers for some days before that. In the last seven days, the number of doses delivered daily averaged about 3.5 million, a far cry from the 5.8 million doses a day in the week after June 21. The government had started the present campaign with a bang on June 21 when it reversed the earlier vaccination policy. But it has turned into a whimper since. States like Delhi and Maharashtra are again complaining of vaccine shortage and under-utilisation of vaccination capacity. Odisha and Madhya Pradesh have stopped vaccination in some districts. Tamil Nadu has said that the vaccine allocation for the state is not only inadequate but low compared to BJP-ruled states like Gujarat and Karnataka. While some states have said that the supply is irregular, the Centre has blamed “poor planning by states” for their difficulties. The new Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya has asserted that there is no shortage and that states are making “useless statements'' and “creating panic.’’ The figures show that the problem is more about the availability of vaccine than about management. The states can only be expected to optimise the vaccinations and there are no reports of poor implementation of the programme or wastage of vaccines. The government has proclaimed that all eligible adults would be vaccinated by the end of this year. That would call for about 8.8 million vaccinations per day all days of the week until the end of the year. That number was achieved only on June 21. At the present pace of 3-3.5 million per day, the target will not be achieved this year. There is an immediate need to increase the supply of vaccines and to consider a change of strategy wherever necessary. The supply of vaccines can be increased only if their production is increased and more vaccines are imported. The government had earlier claimed that 2.16 billion doses of vaccines would be made available between August and December. Later, in an affidavit submitted to the Supreme Court, it gave a different figure and said that 1.35 billion doses would be made available. This will be inadequate as at least 1.88 billion doses are needed to achieve the declared target. Vaccine manufacturers need to be incentivised to increase their production. They have said that some important inputs are not available and have requested the government to take steps to ease trade restrictions. Covaxin producer Bharat Biotech, which had promised to triple its capacity, is said to be facing serious delays due to various reasons. The government should ensure that adequate doses are produced or imported and distributed among states in a fair and transparent manner. Blaming states will not help.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/vaccination-blaming-states-won-t-help-1009169.html
16-07-2021||In Perspective||Federal front? First fight for federalism||Since 1989, as no party managed to win a majority on its own till the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, regional political entities took centre-stage at the national level and influenced national politics. With regional satraps flexing their muscle, power equations changed considerably -- keeping in check the overarching tendencies of the Centre and forcing greater decentralisation, in some ways putting the Indian Union on the path of greater federalisation. But the landslide victory of the BJP in the 2014 elections and its emergence as the dominant political force across the country reversed this trend. In the last few years, especially after its re-election in 2019, the Modi government has been riding roughshod over the states and opposition parties, making it clear that it has no intention of sharing power with the states in a constitutionally fair manner. Consider the manner in which constitutionally elected governments have been toppled. Or even the vicious manner in which central probe agencies like the CBI, ED and the I-T department have been unleashed on political adversaries, especially in Opposition-ruled states. While it was the Congress that, in its heyday, started the trend of undermining the autonomy of state governments and encroaching on their powers, the BJP, in the Modi era, has gone further in usurping the rights of the states with its highhanded approach and unilateral policymaking. The pandemic has completely laid bare the flaws in our federal democracy and strained Centre-state ties further. Over the past few months, the Modi government and the Opposition-ruled states have locked horns over several issues – from the availability of ventilator beds and oxygen cylinders to lockdown provisions and the procurement and distribution of vaccines. While the states struggled to manage their finances, the Union government did not call for a meeting of the GST Council for seven months, although it is legally mandated to meet every quarter. It was only after several chief ministers and state finance ministers wrote to the Centre that the Union finance ministry finally announced a GST Council meeting on May 28. Even the crucial decision to lower or waive off taxes on several essentials like life-saving drugs was delayed for months, partly due to hostility between the Union and state governments. The heavy loss suffered by the BJP in Bengal despite its high-decibel campaign has breathed a fresh lease of life into non-BJP ruled states and regional parties. Emboldened by the results in Bengal and elsewhere, the chief ministers of these states have grown increasingly vocal in expressing their displeasure about the Modi government’s heavy handedness and its attempts to trample upon the rights of the state governments and centralising power and resources. Interestingly, the ostensibly non-confrontational CMs like YS Jagan Mohan Reddy and Odisha’s Naveen Patnaik have also shown signs of siding with their counterparts. In the past few weeks, following the Assembly elections in which the regional parties performed impressively in different states, talk of a federal front of regional parties being floated to take on the BJP in 2024 has gained ground. These speculations have been heightened further after Yashwant Sinha’s Rashtriya Manch meeting at Sharad Pawar’s residence and a series of meetings between the Maratha strongman and political strategist Prashant Kishor. The idea of regional parties coming together to take on the BJP in 2024 is a welcome move as the balance of power in the Opposition has decisively shifted away from the Congress to the regional satraps. But before India’s regional parties prepare their blueprint for 2024, they need to challenge the political centralisation project that is underway and staunchly reassert their commitment to federalism. Successive Union governments headed by national parties in their dominant days have been guilty of encroaching on the autonomy of states and of imposing Delhi’s views and rule. The BJP has been aggressively pushing forward its slogans of ‘one nation…’ and ‘double engine ki sarkar,’ which are in sync with the ideological core of the party and its vision of a unitary, heavily centralised, Hindu majoritarian conception of India. It is imperative for state governments to resist the overarching tendencies of the Union and fight the good fight for safeguarding India’s federal ideals. In short, before forming a federal front to fight the BJP in 2024, the regional forces need to fight for federalism. The two goals are not mutually exclusive. The fight to safeguard federalism can become the rallying point for the Opposition. But apart from being the glue that can bring together disparate political parties, it can also give the proposed front greater credibility and wider acceptance by countering the charge that it is merely a ragtag coalition of overtly ambitious regional stalwarts who have nothing to offer to the electorate other than sheer anti-Modi-ism. (The writer is a Mumbai-based freelance journalist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/federal-front-first-fight-for-federalism-1009167.html
16-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Dignitaries visits Chamundi Hill on Aashada Friday||Several dignitaries including Ministers visited the Chamundeshwari temple atop Chamundi Hill in Mysuru and offered puja on the occasion of Aashada Friday. Ministers B A Basavaraj, S T Somashekar, MLC A H Vishwanath and others visited the temple and offered puja to the deity. Union Minister Shoba Karandlaje is also likely to visit the temple. The Minister visits the temple every Aashada Friday and she climbs steps to reach the temple. However, the district administration has banned the entry of devotees to prevent spread of Covid-19. Actor Darshan Thoogudeepa is likely to visit the temple. The actor reached Mysuru last evening to visit the temple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dignitaries-visits-chamundi-hill-on-aashada-friday-1009284.html
16-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||10-year-old boy grievously injured as mobile phone explodes||A 10-year-old boy suffered grievous injuries after the battery of an unused mobile phone exploded on his face at Huralikuppi in the taluk. The impact of explosion was such that the boy, identified as Karthik Ramesh Kaladagi, has sustained severe burns in his eyes, face and fingers. The boy has completely lost three of his right hand fingers in the blast.  The incident occurred when the boy put the phone on charge while playing with it. The boy was rushed to Savanur taluk hospital, where he was administered first aid, before referring him to KIMS, Hubballi. The Savanur police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/10-year-old-boy-grievously-injured-as-mobile-phone-explodes-1009454.html
16-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka bans news cameras in Vidhana Soudha’s corridors||The state government on Friday banned mediapersons from filming or photographing the corridors of Vidhana Soudha, the seat of the legislature, as this was coming in the way of VIP movement. In a circular, the Department of Personnel & Administrative Reforms (DPAR) said Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa had signed off on this proposal to ban news cameras from Vidhana Soudha corridors. The circular also cited “security and discipline” as a reason for the decision. “A provision has been made for the chief minister and other ministers to issue media statements near the Kengal Hanumanthaiah entrance,” the circular stated. The DPAR has directed personal secretaries of ministers to make arrangements for news conferences and bytes for mediapersons in meeting rooms or ministerial chambers. This is not the first time the government has tried to regulate media access to the corridors of power. In September 2019, guidelines were issued saying only 150 journalists chosen by the government will be allowed to enter the Vidhana Soudha, the Vikas Soudha and the Multistorey Building - Karnataka’s Secretariat - as part of a larger measure to regulate visitors to the corridors of power. The guidelines were issued in the backdrop of the government's plan to declare the Vidhana Soudha and its surroundings as a high-security zone with a dedicated 100-member security force to guard the secretariat, an idea mooted when the Congress-JD(S) coalition was in power. However, the guidelines were not enforced. In July 2018, the police suggested the imposition of curbs on visitors and media personnel, which the then chief minister HD Kumaraswamy was keen on enforcing. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-bans-news-cameras-in-vidhana-soudha-s-corridors-1009441.html
16-07-2021||National||Facebook says it received 646 complaints from May 15-June 15 through grievance mechanism||Social media giant Facebook on Thursday said it received 646 reports in India through its grievance mechanism channel between May 15 and June 15 under categories like bullying, account hacking, nudity and fake profiles. The US-based firm in its monthly compliance report as per the new IT rules said it provided tools for users to resolve their issues in 363 of these cases. Facebook said 198 complaints were related to accounts being hacked (which represented the largest share of grievances), while reports were also received for categories such as 'fake profile that's pretending to be me' (73), 'bullying or harassment' (45), 'content showing me in nudity/partial nudity or in a sexual act' (36), and 'inappropriate or abusive content' (18). Facebook also received reports under 'lost access to a page or group I used to manage' (47), 'request access to personal data' (22), 'report issue with how Facebook is processing my data' (14), 'content I appear in that I do not want displayed' (19) and other issues (174).  On July 2, Facebook had stated that it had 'actioned' over 3 crore posts across 10 violation categories in India during the same time period. Instagram, which is part of the Facebook family of apps, received 36 reports through the Indian grievance mechanism during the same time period. "We responded to 100 per cent of the 36 reports... Of these incoming reports, we provided tools for users to resolve their issues in 10 cases," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/facebook-says-it-received-646-complaints-from-may-15-june-15-through-grievance-mechanism-1009144.html
16-07-2021||National||Choksi back in Antigua after getting bail in Dominica, alleges kidnapping attempt by Indian agencies||Fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi, who was granted bail after spending nearly two months in a Dominican jail, alleged a "kidnapping attempt" by Indian agencies and said he was willing to cooperate in the Rs 13,000-crore scam investigation. Choksi told news agency ANI that the two-month period in Dominica had left "permanent scars" on him psychologically and physically. I've been considering returning to prove my innocence in India. My medical condition is bad&has worsened like anything from past 50 days of my kidnapping. I'm apprehensive about my safety in India. Don't know if I'll be back in normal physical or mental state: Mehul Choksi to ANI He claimed that he was ready to cooperate with agencies and had requested them to interrogate him in Antigua. Choksi also said that he had changed his mind about returning to India to "prove my innocence" after his experience over the last two months. Choksi, wanted in Rs 13,500 crore bank fraud case in India, had mysteriously gone missing on May 23 from Antigua and Barbuda where he has been staying after fleeing India.  He was detained in neighbouring island country of Dominica for illegal entry on May 24 after a possible romantic escapade with his rumoured girlfriend. His lawyers alleged that he was abducted from Jolly Harbour in Antigua on May 23 by policemen looking like Antiguan and Indian and brought to Dominica on a boat. While seeking bail in Dominica, Choksi had attached his medical reports including CT scan reports which showed "mildly worsening hematoma". The doctors recommend an urgent review of his medical condition by a neurologist and a neurosurgical consultant.  "The services are not currently available on the island. All courtesies extended to him would be greatly appreciated," the CT scan report dated June 29 signed by Doctors Yerandy Galle Gutierrez and Rene Gilbert Veranes of Princess Margaret Hospital of Dominica had said. Going by medical reports, the high court allowed Choksi to return to Antigua for his treatment. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/choksi-back-in-antigua-after-getting-bail-in-dominica-alleges-kidnapping-attempt-by-indian-agencies-1009146.html
16-07-2021||National||Centre in better position to negotiate terms of procurement of Covid vaccines: Finance Commission chairman||The central government is in a better position to negotiate the terms of procurement of Covid-19 vaccines and the current vaccine buying policy shows success of cooperative federalism, 15th Finance Commission Chairman N K Singh said on Thursday. He said a complication that was created earlier was on account of some states believing that they could do a much better job than what the central government could do. "In the end it's the central government which should have been and was always in a much better position to do so. It was a learning curve, but I think we have reached the right equilibrium in this," he said at a NCAER webinar. Initially, Singh said, it was the states which wanted the central government to delegate the vaccine procurement to the states and when that was done, states found themselves not in a position to persuade the vaccine manufacturers to give directly to the states on account of various issues. "In the end, what has succeeded is cooperative federalism," he said adding  "the central government is in a much better position negotiate the best conditions and secure the procurement of vaccines involves a interplay of foreign policy, diplomacy, negotiating skills, pricing, marketing". Reversing a policy where states competed for vaccine supplies for certain age categories, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 7 announced that the central government will procure vaccines for all adults.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-in-better-position-to-negotiate-terms-of-procurement-of-covid-vaccines-finance-commission-chairman-1009175.html
16-07-2021||National||Hardeep Singh Puri ‎calls Saudi Arabia to convey concerns over high oil prices||India, the world's third-biggest oil consumer, has conveyed to OPEC countries its concern over high oil prices that are threatening to impact the nascent economic recovery after the devastating pandemic. New Oil Minister Hardeep Singh Puri has made phone calls to key OPEC nations to convey the desire for an affordable price for consumers. After calling his counterparts in Qatar and the UAE, he called Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) kingpin Saudi Arabia on Thursday evening. "Had a warm and friendly discussion with His Royal Highness, Prince Abdul Aziz bin Salman Al Saud, Minister of Energy of Saudi Arabia on strengthening bilateral energy partnership and developments in the global energy markets," Puri tweeted. Saudi Arabia, he said, is a central player in the international energy market. "I conveyed my desire to work with His Royal Highness Prince Abdulaziz to bring greater predictability and calm in the global oil markets, and also to see hydrocarbons become more affordable," he said. Saudi Arabia is the world's largest exporter of crude oil and India's second-biggest source after Iraq. The discussions focused "on strengthening bilateral energy partnership and developments in the global energy markets," he said. "Highlighted the crucial role of Saudi Arabia in rapidly growing energy needs of India in the coming years, and my strong desire to work with His Royal Highness to further diversify our bilateral strategic energy partnership beyond buyer-seller to see greater two-way investments." Concerned over the rising oil prices, India has been reaching out to key oil producers in the Middle East. Puri on July 14 called UAE Minister of Industry Ahmed Al Jaber, who is the chief executive of Abu Dhabi National Oil Co (ADNOC), seeking the UAE's support in lowering prices. The rebound in international oil prices from lows hit in May on the back of demand recovery has sent petrol and diesel rates to a record high in India. Petrol has crossed the Rs-100-a-litre mark in more than one and a half dozen states and union territories, while diesel is being sold at over Rs 100 a litre in Rajasthan and Odisha. India, which imports 85 per cent of its oil needs, has long pressed producers' cartel OPEC and its allies, called OPEC+, to phase out its production cuts and allow oil prices to come to reasonable levels that support growth. It wants OPEC+ to stop propping up prices with its output cuts. In March, Puri's predecessor Dharmendra Pradhan and Saudi Arabia's Energy Minister Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman had an unpleasant exchange over oil prices. To Pradhan blaming production cuts by OPEC+ members for the surge in oil prices, Prince Abdulaziz said India should take some of the crude out of the storage that it had purchased "very cheaply last year". Days later, Pradhan termed the statement an "undiplomatic response from a friendly nation". Since then, the petroleum ministry has asked refiners to look at sources outside of the Middle East for buying oil. Puri, a former diplomat, is widely expected to smoothen flared tensions with oil-producing nations in general and Saudi Arabia in particular. OPEC, Russia and several other allies in a production accord could not reach an agreement earlier this month on output quotas for August and possibly beyond. Expectations were that the alliance may agree to raise production by 500,000 to 700,000 barrels per day but the decision was postponed as the UAE differed on the baseline for such output increase. India is the world's third-largest consumer of crude and OPEC nations such as Saudi Arabia have traditionally been its principal oil source. But OPEC and OPEC+ ignoring its call for easing of supply curbs had led India to tap newer sources to diversify its crude oil imports. As a result, OPEC's share in India's oil imports has dropped to about 60 per cent in May from 74 per cent in the previous month. The two sides have somewhat patched up relations, with Saudi Arabia and the UAE supplying critical medicine, oxygen and equipment to help India battle its second wave of coronavirus infections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hardeep-singh-puri-calls-saudi-arabia-to-convey-concerns-over-high-oil-prices-1009179.html
16-07-2021||National||India pulled back global supply to COVAX due to surge in Covid-19 cases: USAID||India pulled back its supply of vaccines to the rest of the world after the second wave of pandemic hit the country, resulting in acute global shortage of Covid-19 vaccines, the Biden Administration has informed the lawmakers. “When the Delta variant is raging around the world and supply is lacking globally because the Serum Institute of India pulled back hundreds of millions of vaccines that were supposed to go to COVAX because Europe is still in the throes of the pandemic, hopefully coming out of it now with light at the end of the tunnel,” USAID Administrator Samantha Power told a Congressional Committee here. Testifying before a Congressional committee on the annual budget of the agency, Power said that the shortage is going to end soon because the United States has purchased Pfizer’s vaccine which will start to come online in August. “COVAX is in the position it's in because India has had to pull back so much supply that had been intended to go for second shots and for health workers. COVAX has found itself in this third quarter in a really difficult pinch,” she said. That's going to change when the Pfizer doses start coming online in August, she told the lawmakers. “It's already changing for some countries because of our bilateral dose sharing of surplus vaccines. But the more doses we can bring online that can be part of the American leadership on this issue, where we single-handedly are not going to vaccinate the world, but we can mobilise the world to get it vaccinated,” she added. Early this year, she said, they thought that they would be able to get the exact numbers, received first doses of AstraZeneca, for example, and thought that the Indian Serum Institute would be providing the second dose and then those were prohibited to export those in light of the devastation unfolding within India. “So COVAX has found itself in this period in a very difficult spot. And when I say COVAX, it's not COVAX. It's a developing country. It's the poorest countries in the world,” Power said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-pulled-back-global-supply-to-covax-due-to-surge-in-covid-19-cases-usaid-1009182.html
16-07-2021||National||11 dead, 19 rescued after falling into well to rescue boy in Madhya Pradesh||Eleven bodies were recovered and 19 persons were brought out alive from a well in which several people had fallen while trying to rescue a boy in Madhya Pradesh's Vidisha district, a minister said on late Friday night as the rescue operations ended. The last body retrieved from the well was that of the boy, he said. The incident took place on Thursday night when the parapet wall of the well in Lal Patar village in Ganj Basoda area, 50 km from here, gave way. To make things worse, a tractor deployed for the rescue operation skidded into the well with four policemen. A total of eleven bodies were retrieved while 19 people were pulled out alive, state Medical Education Minister Vishwas Sarang told PTI from the spot late at night. The rescue operation was over and all the missing persons were accounted for, Sarang, who is also the district's guardian minister, said. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had announced in the morning that families of the deceased will be given financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh each, while the injured will be provided Rs 50,000 each and free medical treatment. According to localites, the well is around 50 feet deep and had about 20 feet of water. Ravi, a teenage boy, fell into the well on Thursday night. While some people climbed down to rescue him, others were standing on the surrounding parapet wall to help them. They were thrown into the water when the wall crashed, eye witnesses said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/11-dead-19-rescued-after-falling-into-well-to-rescue-boy-in-madhya-pradesh-1009198.html
16-07-2021||National||38,949 new Covid cases, 542 deaths in 24 hours: Maharashtra, Kerala account for half of new infections||India registered 38,949 new Covid-19 cases and 542 deaths over the last 24 hours on Friday with states like Maharashtra and Kerala alone accounting for half of the fresh infections in the country.  The southern state of Kerala registered the most number of cases with as many as 13,773 people testing positive for the virus, followed by Maharashtra with over 8,000 cases. The active cases have declined to 4,30,422 and comprise 1.39 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate stands at 97.28 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. It said that a decrease of 1,619 has been recorded in the number of active cases in a span of 24 hours. The ministry said 19,55,910 tests were conducted on Thursday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 44,00,23,239, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.99 per cent. The positivity rate has been less than three per cent for 25 consecutive days, it said. The weekly positivity rate stands at 2.14 per cent, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recovered from the disease has increased to 3,01,83,876, while the case fatality rate has risen to 1.33 per cent, the data stated. The vaccine doses administered so far has reached 39.53 crore under the nationwide inoculation drive against Covid-19. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16 last year. It went past  60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19 last year. India crossed two crore cases on May 4 and three crore cases on June 23. (with inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/38949-new-covid-cases-542-deaths-in-24-hours-maharashtra-kerala-account-for-half-of-new-infections-1009201.html
16-07-2021||National||'Balika Vadhu' actor Surekha Sikri dies of cardiac arrest||National award-winning actress Surekha Sikri – who excelled equally in theatre, television and films – passed away in Mumbai on Friday. She was 75. She died of a cardiac arrest on Friday morning surrounded by family members and caregivers. Sikri was ailing for some time having suffered a paralytic stroke in 2018 and a brain stroke in 2020. A veteran of Hindi theatre, she made her debut in the 1978 political drama film Kissa Kursi Ka and went on to play supporting roles in numerous Hindi and Malayalam films, as well as in Indian soap operas. Sikri has received several awards, including three National Film Awards and a Filmfare Award. Born in Uttar Pradesh, she graduated from National School of Drama (NSD) in 1971. She also won the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award in 1989. Sikri won the National Film Award for Best Supporting Actress thrice, for her roles in Tamas (1988), Mammo (1995) and Badhaai Ho (2018). She was awarded the Indian Telly Award for Best Actress in a Negative Role in 2008 for her work in the primetime soap opera Balika Vadhu and won the Indian Telly Award for 'Best Actress in a Supporting Role' for the same show in 2011. In addition, she won the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award in 1989 for her contributions towards Hindi theater. Her last release Badhaai Ho (2018) got her immense recognition and appreciation from viewers and critics. She won three awards: the National Film Award for Best Supporting Actress, Filmfare Award for Best Supporting Actress and the Screen Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance in the film.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/balika-vadhu-actor-surekha-sikri-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-1009212.html
16-07-2021||National||Covid-19 third wave to hit in August end, perhaps with lesser intensity than second wave: ICMR member||According to Dr Panda, four things could lead to the third wave – drop in immunity from the first and second wave, emergence of a new variant that could bypass immunity, ora variant that can spread faster, and premature lifting of restrictions by the states. Talking about the Delta Plus variant of the coronavirus, he said that while it had swept the country, he did not expect “any more public health havoc from the Delta variant.” In the past few weeks, different medical bodies and organisations across the world have been talking about the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Indian Medical Association has said that the third wave is  "inevitable and imminent" and pointing that "in many parts of the country both the government and public are complacent and engaged in mass gatherings without following Covid protocols”. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, World Health Organisation chief, has warned that the third wave driven by the Delta variant is in the “early stages” in the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-third-wave-to-hit-in-august-end-perhaps-with-lesser-intensity-than-second-wave-icmr-member-1009219.html
16-07-2021||National||Pvt hospitals scramble to raise vaccine orders with 24 hours deadline||Private hospitals scrambled to place vaccine indents on Thursday as the Centre gave about a 24 hours window (Wednesday to Thursday) to place the order and pay for it. Evidently, the private hospitals could only place orders for just three lakh doses until Wednesday evening according to the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA). The constant flip-flap in vaccine procurement procedures has led private hospitals to lose interest. PHANA President Dr Prasanna HM said hospitals have been made to place indents thrice so far, first with the state government, then with the Karnataka Private Medical Establishments portal (10 lakh doses' indents raised), and then on the Co-WIN portal which did not work until Monday. "On Wednesday there was a communication from the immunisation deputy director that by Thursday 2:00 pm all vaccine indents have to be raised and paid for. How many can do that within 24 hours? People have lost interest. We have requested for an extension," he said. National Health Mission Director Dr Arundhathi Chandrasekhar did not respond to DH's queries. Meanwhile, Bharat Biotech has apparently sent feelers to city hospitals to buy vaccines directly. Three hospitals have already bought vaccine doses according to Prasanna. "I do not want to name these three hospitals. But the purchase happened definitely after June 21, and the payment happened within a day," he said. As per the revised vaccination guidelines by the Centre, the union government procures 75% of the vaccines meant for free vaccination and provides the private hospitals 25%. Hospitals are not allowed to directly buy vaccines from manufacturers. DH had also previously reported how the health department had no vaccine procurement details of private hospitals. Also, a few of the big chain hospitals are selling their stock at a discounted price to smaller hospitals to exhaust their piled up stock. "A major hospital has offered ₹50 off on the MRP for each vial of Covishield. A few other hospitals in Bengaluru sold off their vaccine stock to smaller hospitals by keeping a margin of ₹50," explained a source in PHANA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pvt-hospitals-scramble-to-raise-vaccine-orders-with-24-hours-deadline-1009223.html
16-07-2021||National||States mustn't allow movement of devotees, arrange 'Ganga Jal' in tankers: Centre to SC||Centre in its affidavit to the Supreme Court on Friday over the Kawad Yatra said that State governments must make arrangements for Kawadiyas to bring 'Ganga Jal' from nearby tankers and not allow the Kawadiyas to bring this 'holy water' from Haridwar in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. It also said that state governments must aid ensure the distribution of 'Ganga Jal' among devotees and rituals in nearby Shiv Temples and monitor that it is done in compliance with Covid norms. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-mustnt-allow-movement-of-devotees-arrange-ganga-jal-in-tankers-centre-to-sc-1009232.html
16-07-2021||National||Kodaikanal homestay owner offers free accommodation for students who failed in SSLC exams: Report||In an attempt to give a break to the students who could not clear their SSLC examinations this year, Sudheesh K, owner of ‘Hammock’ homestay in Kodaikanal, is offering a free vacation to the students and their families. Extending moral support to the students, Sudheesh said, “I thought of offering something in my capacity to help them deal with the crisis.” In his initiative, Sudheesh is offering the students and their families free accommodation at any of his properties for two days. The students need to provide the certificate of their results which says that they could not pass the examination, the report said. “The place is silent and away from all craziness. It is the ideal place to get away from all stress and get refreshed,” he told the publication, adding, “It isn’t like old times, during my school days. Then, a failure would be taken in its stride. Now, students are under tremendous pressure. And passing the tenth standard is a matter of prestige for the family. A little bit of time away from this stress can work wonders for the kids and their parents.” The offer is open till the end of July. Students need to come with their families to enjoy this opportunity. Ever since Sudheesh has shared the news of this unique opportunity on social media, his phone has not stopped buzzing. He has been getting calls from students, educationists and families to enquire about the initiative. “I have been getting calls from students asking me if they could come alone or with friends. These are very young kids and so we will only let them in only if they are with their families. Two kids who called me today shared how depressed they were. I tried to tell them not to worry and that this is not the end of the world,” Sudheesh told the publication.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kodaikanal-homestay-owner-offers-free-accommodation-for-students-who-failed-in-sslc-exams-report-1009233.html
16-07-2021||National||SC asks UP to reconsider Kawad Yatra, gives it time till Monday||The Supreme Court on Friday told the Uttar Pradesh government to reconsider its decision on allowing the Kawad Yatra, or the court will pass its order on Monday, in view of the looming fear of the third wave of Covid-19. "We are prima facie of the view that this is a matter concerning every citizen and all other sentiments including religious are subservient to right to life of citizens," a bench presided over by Justice R F Nariman said. The court stressed that the UP government cannot go ahead 100 per cent with a physical yatra.   The bench, also comprising Justice B R Gavai, told senior advocate C S Vaidyanathan, representing the UP government, in view of Covid pandemic and the fear of third wave, which looms over all Indians, the authority should reconsider of allowing Yatra at all for compelling religious reasons. Vaidyanathan, for his part, replied, said we just want a symbolic yatra. He pointed out that the Disaster Management Authority deliberated upon the matter and was of the opinion that due to compelling religious reasons if someone wanted to undertake the Yatra, they should seek permission, have negative RT-PCR report and also be fully vaccinated.   "We are all Indians and this Suo Motu has been taken up as Article 21 (right to life) of the Constitution applies to all of us. Either you reconsider to have it at all or we deliver the order," the bench said. Vaidyanathan said authorities will be apprised and will come out with additional affidavit by Monday morning as to whether there can be a reconsideration of holding a physical yatra amid these conditions if at all.   The top court fixed matter for further hearing on Monday.   On July 14, the top court took suo moto cognizance of the Uttar Pradesh government's decision to allow Kawad Yatra amid the ongoing Covid pandemic. In an affidavit, the Center said Kawadiyas should not be allowed to visit Haridwar to bring 'Ganga Jal' to offer at temples of their choice. However, in view of age-old customs and religious sentiments, 'Ganga Jal' should be provided through tankers at different places. It also said the state governments must ensure devotees adhere to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour during Kawad Yatra.      Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-up-to-reconsider-kawad-yatra-gives-it-time-till-monday-1009236.html
16-07-2021||National||Earthquake of 3.4 magnitude hits Assam||An earthquake of 3.4 magnitude hit several districts of Assam on Friday morning, an official bulletin said. There was no immediate report of any loss of life or damage to property, it said. The earthquake took place at 8.39 am and the epicentre was at Nagaon in central Assam, the National Center for Seismology said. The depth of the earthquake was 10 km, it said. According to the bulletin, the place of occurrence was 40 km west of Tezpur on the northern bank of Brahmaputra river. Panic-stricken people ran out of their homes as the quake struck the state. Northeastern states fall in the high seismic zone and earthquakes frequently hit the region. A 6.4 magnitude quake had shaken the region on April 28.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/earthquake-of-34-magnitude-hits-assam-1009238.html
16-07-2021||National||PM stresses 'Test-Track-Treat-Vaccinate' approach in meeting with CMs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday asked chief ministers of six of the worst-hit states by Covid-19 to take “proactive measures” to prevent the possibility of a third wave of the pandemic. Interacting with chief ministers of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Odisha, Maharashtra and Kerala, the Prime Minister said these six states have reported 80% of the total Covid-19 cases detected last week as well as 84% of the total fatalities. “We have to remind the people time and again that the Covid-19 pandemic is not over yet,” he said, adding that the US, Europe and even eastern nations such as Bangladesh, Myanmar, Indonesia and Thailand have reported an exponential increase in fresh infections. He asked the chief ministers to plug the gaps in the health infrastructure in their respective states, particularly in the rural areas, using the Rs 23,000 crore Emergency Covid Response Fund. “Initially, experts believed that the situation would be in control first in states where the second wave of the pandemic began. But, cases are increasing in Maharashtra and Kerala. This indeed is a matter of serious concern for all of us,” the prime minister said. Experts have cautioned that if cases continue to rise for a long time, chances of mutation of the virus also increase, Modi said, asking chief ministers to follow the strategy of test-track-treat-vaccination with a special focus of micro-containment zones. He said the six states have been allotted 332 PSA oxygen plants of which only 53 have been commissioned. Modi asked chief ministers to deploy an officer dedicated to ensure commissioning of the PSA oxygen plants in mission mode within the next 15-20 days. He emphasised on the need to prevent crowds from gathering at public places, and stressed on the need to be aware, alert and strict in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-stresses-test-track-treat-vaccinate-approach-in-meeting-with-cms-1009247.html
16-07-2021||National||Shringla, US Ambassador to UN Thomas-Greenfield discuss enhancing multilateral cooperation between US, India||Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla and America's Permanent Representative to UN Ambassador Linda Thomas Greenfield have discussed enhancing multilateral cooperation between the United States and India, including at the Security Council. Thomas-Greenfield met here Thursday with Shringla, who is on an official visit to New York from July 14-16 to participate in high-level meetings of the Security Council being held under the French Presidency this month. Shringla’s visit comes as India prepares to assume the Presidency of the powerful 15-nation Security Council for the month of August. “Great meeting today with Indian Foreign Secretary @harshvshringla to discuss how the United States and India can tackle our shared challenges and priorities at the UN,” Thomas-Greenfield tweeted. US Mission to the UN Spokesperson Olivia Dalton said in a statement that Thomas-Greenfield and Shringla "discussed enhancing multilateral cooperation between the United States and India, including at the Security Council, as the two countries deepen their strategic partnership." "The Ambassador also expressed the need for continued coordination between the two countries to combat the global pandemic,” it said. Earlier in the day, Shringla called on UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres and the two exchanged views on regional situations, including Afghanistan and Myanmar, climate change, Security Council reforms and the COVID-19 situation around the world. Shringla congratulated Guterres on his reappointment as chief of the world organisation for a second tenure. “Foreign Secretary briefed Secretary-General about India’s priorities for the Security Council during its Presidency in August, namely maritime security, peacekeeping and counter-terrorism,” a press release issued by the Ministry of External Affairs said. “Views were exchanged, inter alia, on regional situations, including Afghanistan and Myanmar, on climate change, International Solar Alliance, UNSC reforms and on the COVID-19 situation around the world,” it said. The release added that Guterres expressed solidarity with the Government and people of India in their efforts against the recent wave of COVID-19 pandemic. He “appreciated the positive role India is playing in the UN Security Council as well as India’s robust contribution to UN peacekeeping,” the release said. Guterres also wished India the best for its upcoming Presidency of the UNSC. Shringla participated in the High-Level Security Council briefing on the "Situation in Libya” chaired by the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs of France Jean-Yves Le Drian. On the sidelines of the UNSC high-level meeting, Shringla also called on the French Foreign Affairs Minister and briefed him on India’s August UNSC Presidency initiatives. He extended him External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar’s invitation to attend the high-level meetings that would be chaired by India next month. Shringla also held meetings with other senior officials of the United Nations, including Under Secretary General, Department of Political and Peacebuilding Affairs (DPPA) Rosemary DiCarlo, United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Administrator Achim Steiner, Chef de Cabinet to the Secretary-General Maria Viotti, UN Women Executive Director Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka and High Representative for Least Developed Countries & Small Island Developing States Courtenay Rattray “to discuss the entire gamut of India’s engagement with the UN system and its agencies,” the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shringla-us-ambassador-to-un-thomas-greenfield-discuss-enhancing-multilateral-cooperation-between-us-india-1009248.html
16-07-2021||National||Navjot Singh Sidhu meets Sonia Gandhi ahead of Punjab Congress revamp||Amid continued infighting in the Punjab Congress, former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday met party chief Sonia Gandhi at her residence here. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and party in-charge of Punjab affairs, Harish Rawat were also present during the meeting, sources said. The meeting comes ahead of the party's Punjab unit revamp and amid reports that Sidhu may get a key role in the organisation. After the meeting, Rawat said Sonia Gandhi is yet to take a final decision on the issue and he will share it soon after it is done. Asked whether a decision to appoint Sidhu as Punjab Congress chief has been made, Rawat said, "Who says this?" "I had come here to submit my report on Punjab to the Congress chief and as soon as a decision is taken by the Congress President, I will come and share it with you," Rawat said.  "Please read my statement very carefully and try and understand the words and their meaning," he also said. Sources said Rawat may now be meeting Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh in a bid to pacify him and work out a formula. On Thursday when he was asked if Sidhu was being made the PCC chief, Rawat had said that "a formula is being worked out around that". Rawat said the media interprets news as it wants but the Congress normally does not react until it is essential. Asked about what transpired at the meeting, he said, he cannot divulge details and whatever a state leader says to the Congress president is between them. Sidhu, however, left Sonia Gandhi's 10, Janpath residence without talking to the media. According to sources, the Punjab chief minister has expressed resentment over Sidhu being given a key role. AICC general secretary Rawat had, however, denied such reports. Rawat had maintained that the central leadership was working out a peace formula where both Singh and Sidhu could work together to help the party win in the Punjab Assembly polls next year. Both the leaders are at loggerheads with each other and have made public statements against each other. Both Singh and Sidhu have held parallel meetings in Chandigarh with their loyalists. While the chief minister has met some party MPs, MLAs and ministers, Sidhu is learnt to have met Punjab ministers Sukhjinder Randhawa and Tript Rajinder Bajwa, and some MLAs close to him at Randhawa's residence. Meanwhile, amid reports of Sidhu's elevation, party MP Manish Tewari batted for a Hindu face for the PCC chief's post while giving details of the composition of the state's population. "Punjab is both progressive and secular… but balancing social interest groups is key. Equality is the foundation of social justice!" he said in the tweet, while giving details of Punjab's demography mentioning that Sikhs constitute 57.75 per cent of the population while Hindus and Dalits constitute 38.49 and 31.94 per cent respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/navjot-singh-sidhu-meets-sonia-gandhi-ahead-of-punjab-congress-revamp-1009249.html
16-07-2021||National||India orders 66 crore Covid vaccines amid warnings over shortages||The Centre has placed an order to procure 66 crore more doses of Covishield and Covaxin to be supplied between August and December this year, at a revised price of Rs 205 and Rs 215 per dose, respectively, excluding taxes, official sources said. They said 37.5 crore of Covishield doses from the Serum Institute of India and 28.5 crore Covaxin doses from Bharat Biotech will be procured by December. "An order to procure 66 crore more doses of Covid-19 vaccines--Covishield and Covaxin--to be supplied between August and December, at a revised price of Rs 205 and Rs 215 per dose, respectively, excluding taxes, has been placed," the source said. The price of each dose of Covishield amounts to Rs 215.25 and Covaxin Rs 225.75, including taxes, it said. The Union health ministry which was procuring both the vaccines at Rs 150 per dose, had indicated that the prices would be revised after the new Covid-19 vaccine procurement policy came into effect from June 21. Under the new policy, the ministry will procure 75 per cent of the vaccines being produced by the drug manufacturers in the country. While the Centre has asked both the vaccine manufacturing firms to scale up their production, the manufacturers had indicated that getting Rs 150 for each dose while making investments to ramp up the production was not viable for them, sources said. The Union government had earlier allowed states and private hospitals to procure 50 per cent of the vaccines following demands for decentralisation of the process. However, after several states complained of problems including of funding, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the revision of the vaccine guidelines on June 8. Domestic vaccine manufacturers are given the option to provide 25 per cent of their monthly production of vaccines to private hospitals. According to the revised guidelines which came into effect from June 21, vaccine doses provided free of cost by the Centre will be allocated to states/UTs based on criteria such as population, disease burden and the progress of vaccination, and all above the age of 18 will be eligible for the free jabs. Any wastage of vaccine will affect the allocation negatively. The states and UTs would aggregate the demand of private hospitals keeping in view equitable distribution between large and small private hospitals and regional balance. "Based on this aggregated demand, the Government of India will facilitate the supply of these vaccines to the private hospitals and their payment through the National Health Authority's electronic platform. This would enable the smaller and remoter private hospitals to obtain a timely supply of vaccines, and further equitable access and regional balance," the ministry had said. The price of vaccine doses for private hospitals would be declared by each vaccine manufacturer, and any subsequent changes would be notified in advance, it said. More than 41.69 crore vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far, through all sources, the health ministry said on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-orders-66-crore-covid-vaccines-amid-warnings-over-shortages-1009253.html
16-07-2021||National||Pulitzer-winning photojournalist Danish Siddiqui killed in Afghanistan’s Kandahar province||Reuters journalist Danish Siddiqui was killed on Friday while covering a clash between Afghan security forces and Taliban fighters near a border crossing with Pakistan, an Afghan commander said. Afghan special forces had been fighting to retake the main market area of Spin Boldak when Siddiqui and a senior Afghan officer were killed in what they described as Taliban crossfire, the official told Reuters. Siddiqui had been embedded as a journalist since earlier this week with Afghan special forces based in the southern province of Kandahar and had been reporting on fighting between Afghan commandos and Taliban fighters. "We are urgently seeking more information, working with authorities in the region," Reuters President Michael Friedenberg and Editor-in-Chief Alessandra Galloni said in a statement. "Danish was an outstanding journalist, a devoted husband and father, and a much-loved colleague. Our thoughts are with his family at this terrible time.” Siddiqui told Reuters he had been wounded in the arm by shrapnel earlier on Friday while reporting on the clash. He was treated and had been recovering when Taliban fighters retreated from the fighting in Spin Boldak. Siddiqui had been talking to shopkeepers when the Taliban attacked again, the Afghan commander said. Reuters was unable to independently verify the details of the renewed fighting described by the Afghan military official, who asked not to be identified before Afghanistan’s Defence Ministry made a statement. Siddiqui was part of the Reuters photography team to win the 2018 Pulitzer Prize for Feature Photography for documenting the Rohingya refugee crisis. A Reuters photographer since 2010, Siddiqui's work spanned covering the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, the Rohingya refugees crisis, the Hong Kong protests and Nepal earthquakes. Taliban fighters had captured the border area on Wednesday, the second-largest crossing on the border with Pakistan and one of the most important objectives they have achieved during a rapid advance across the country as U.S. forces pull out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pulitzer-winning-photojournalist-danish-siddiqui-killed-in-afghanistan-s-kandahar-province-1009257.html
16-07-2021||National||Rajya Sabha bypoll to seat vacated by Dinesh Trivedi on August 9: EC||Bypoll to the Rajya Sabha seat from West Bengal vacated by Dinesh Trivedi earlier this year will be held on August 9, the Election Commission said on Friday. Then a Trinamool Congress member, Trivedi had announced his resignation from Rajya Sabha on February 12, saying he feels suffocated in the House as he is unable to do anything for the violence going on in West Bengal. He is now with the BJP. Trivedi's term was to end in April, 2026. The Commission said the notification for the bypoll would be issued on July 22 and poll would be held on August 9. The counting for RS polls is held on the same day after polling ends. The Commission reiterated that Covid-appropriate behaviour should be following during the bypoll. In May this year, the EC had deferred certain proposed bypolls to Lok Sabha and assembly seats in view of the prevailing coronavirus situation in the country. Also in May, it had deferred legislative council polls in a total of nine seats in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana due to the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-bypoll-to-seat-vacated-by-dinesh-trivedi-on-august-9-ec-1009265.html
16-07-2021||National||Zydus Cadila concluded Covid-19 vaccine trial for children of 12 to 18 years, Centre tells Delhi HC||The Centre has informed the Delhi High Court that Zydus Cadila, which is developing DNA vaccines, has concluded its clinical trial for the age group of 12 to 18 years. The Department of Health and Family Welfare said the DNA vaccine may be available in near future for children of the age group of 12 to 18 years of age. The Centre said the vaccination is its topmost priority and all efforts are being made to achieve ”an objective of 100% vaccination in the shortest time possible keeping the available resources in mind and availability of vaccine doses into consideration”. The Centre filed this affidavit in response to the plea, filed by Tia Gupta through advocate Bihu Sharma demanding for immediate vaccination of children between the ages of 12-17 in the city, and also prioritising of vaccination for parents having children up to 17 years of age. In June last week, the Centre had informed the Supreme Court that Zydus Cadila, has concluded its clinical trials for the 12 to 18 age group, and the vaccine may be available in near future, subject to the statutory permissions On Friday, the Delhi High Court asked the central government to frame a policy for children’s vaccination expeditiously.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/zydus-cadila-concluded-covid-19-vaccine-trial-for-children-of-12-to-18-years-centre-tells-delhi-hc-1009268.html
16-07-2021||National||ED attaches Anil Deshmukh's assets worth Rs 4 crore in money laundering case||In a development that has rattled the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, the Enforcement Directorate has attached properties of former Maharashtra home minister and senior NCP leader Anil Deshmukh. A senior politician, Deshmukh (72), close to NCP supremo Sharad Pawar and general secretary Praful Patel, had to resign from the Uddhav Thackeray-led government. According to a press statement, the Directorate of Enforcement has provisionally attached assets worth Rs 4.20 crore of Deshmukh and his family, held in name of his wife Aarti Deshmukh and company Premier Port Links Private Limited under PMLA. The attached assets are in the form of one residential Flat valued at Rs 1.54 crore, located at Worli in Mumbai and 25 land parcels of book value Rs 2.67 crore, located at Dhutum Villages in Uran in Raigad district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-attaches-anil-deshmukhs-assets-worth-rs-4-crore-in-money-laundering-case-1009275.html
16-07-2021||National||Delta variant behind 86% of breakthrough Covid-19 infections: ICMR study||An Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) study has found that among 677 Covid positive samples of those who were vaccinated, 86.09 per cent were infected by the Delta variant (B.1.617.2). As many as 181 samples (26.7 per cent) were taken from Karnataka’s National Institute of Virology in Bengaluru and Mysore Medical College, which is the largest share in the sample pool. The rest of the samples were taken from 16 other states and union territories. While 9.8 per cent (67) cases required hospitalisation, the fatality was observed in only 0.4 per cent (3) cases. “This clearly suggests that the vaccination does provide a reduction in hospital admission and mortality,” the ICMR said in its study. A breakthrough infection is one where an individual gets infected even though he/she is vaccinated. This study is the largest and first nationwide study of breakthrough infections in India. A source said, “The ICMR findings confirm what the Karnataka health department also independently found. Out of 11,400 breakthrough infections that it analysed in the state, 9,000 of whom received one dose and 2,000 of whom received both doses, 90 died and only 87 were hospitalised.” The clinical samples for the ICMR analysis were collected in April and May during the peak of the second wave in the state. Out of 677 patients, 85 got infected after the first dose and 592 were infected after getting both doses. While 604 (89.2 per cent) of these had received the Covishield vaccine, 71 (10.5 per cent) had received Covaxin and two (0.3 per cent) were vaccinated with Sinopharm. A total of 482 cases (71 per cent) were symptomatic with one or more symptoms, while 29 per cent had asymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infection. Dr Vishal Rao, member of the State Genomic Surveillance Committee said the ICMR study proves that a majority of the Karnataka samples had Delta, Kappa and Alpha variants, which is corroborated by state’s numbers. “The predominant strain in the second wave was Delta variant. Among the vaccinated, the fatality rate is less than 1 per cent,” he said. “Even a single dose of vaccine confers protection against morbidity and mortality. This tells us that 100% of our state’s population should be given at least one dose as soon as possible. Even the intensity of the infection was drastically reduced whether they were asymptomatic, hospitalised or home-quarantined,” he stressed.  Also, only 134 of the 677 Covid patients had comorbidities, and 458 had no comorbidities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delta-variant-behind-86-of-breakthrough-covid-19-infections-icmr-study-1009285.html
16-07-2021||National||YouTuber Karl Rock blacklisted for violation of visa condition, Centre tells Delhi HC||The Centre on Friday defended before the Delhi High Court its decision to blacklist YouTube vlogger Karl Rock, saying he was conducting business on a spouse visa in violation of conditions. “He has been blacklisted for visa violation. He was conducting business on a spouse visa," advocate Anurag Ahluwalia, appearing for the Centre told a bench of Justice Rekha Palli. The court, however, asked the Centre to file a response within three weeks on a petition by Manisha Malik, the wife of the vlogger, against the "arbitrary and unreasonable" decision to deny a visa to her husband to enter India.  The court said though the grant of visa was the prerogative of the Centre, it has to be reasonable and be communicated to the party. “You may be justified but they have to know. It is the prerogative of the government but they have to be justifiable,” the court said while issuing notice to the Centre. The court further said if there was any confidential information, it was open to the Centre to furnish it in a sealed cover. Counsel for Malik, advocate Fuzail Ahmad Ayyubi said his client received no word from the government on the denial of visa and while exiting India in October last year, the visa was simply stamped “cancelled without prejudice”. "I asked for an extension and instead they gave me an exit permit," Ayyubi stated. He added that during his stay in India, the vlogger even donated plasma twice after recovering from Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/youtuber-karl-rock-blacklisted-for-violation-of-visa-condition-centre-tells-delhi-hc-1009287.html
16-07-2021||National||Covid-19 Vaccine Matters: Centre orders more jabs as experts warn of third wave||Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-matters-centre-orders-more-jabs-as-experts-warn-of-third-wave-1009301.html
16-07-2021||National||Still looking for pigeons to communicate our orders: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday expressed its annoyance at the slow pace of communication of its orders related to the bail, delaying the citizens' fundamental rights of liberty. It decided to launch a scheme setting in motion an innovation aimed at revolutionising the transmission of court orders to all concerned in a fast and secure manner. "In this age of information and communication technology, we are still looking at the skies for the pigeons to communicate the orders," Chief Justice of India N V Ramana said, presiding over a three-judge bench. Acting Suo Motu, the court directed its own Registry to prepare a detailed report of a scheme for delivery of its orders for execution to all concerned through a secure, credible and authentic channel. "Christened as FASTER (Fast and Secure Transmission of Electronic Records), the innovative scheme is conceived for delivery of orders to concerned prisons, District Courts, High Courts, as the case may be, for instantaneous delivery of orders passed by apex court through a secure communication channel," the bench said. This will save time and effort and will ensure that there are no delays in the implementation of orders passed by the Supreme Court, the bench added. The top court asked the Secretary-General of the Supreme Court to submit a comprehensive report formulating a scheme on the initiative within two weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/still-looking-for-pigeons-to-communicate-our-orders-supreme-court-1009305.html
16-07-2021||National||Delhi HC to hear plea for direction to EC to stop using EVMs, use ballots in polls||The Delhi High Court Friday said it will hear in August a plea seeking a direction to the Election Commission to stop using electronic voting machine (EVM) and use ballot paper in the forthcoming polls in the country. When the matter was called out, the petitioner faced some technical glitches in the virtual hearing and a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh said it was giving one more chance to him to present the case and listed the petition for hearing on August 3. Petitioner advocate C R Jaya Sukin said many developed countries have banned the use of EVMs and have chosen to the ballot system of voting as these machines can be hacked while the ballot system is extremely safe. “Article 324 of the Constitution of India states that elections conducted by Election commission need to be free and fair, and reflect the will of the voters. The EVMs must be replaced across India with traditional ballot papers. Voting through ballot papers is a more reliable and transparent method for the electoral process of any country,” the petition said. During the brief hearing, Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma submitted that similar matters were before the Supreme Court which has already disposed them of. Advocate Sidhant Kumar, appearing for the EC, said the Supreme Court and four different high courts have already decided the matter and the apex court has endorsed the system of the commission. The plea said, “to save democracy, we must introduce the ballot paper system back in the electoral process in the country. EVMs have replaced the old ballot paper system in India, although many countries of the world; including England, France, Germany, Netherlands, and the United States have banned the use of EVMs.” Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-to-hear-plea-for-direction-to-ec-to-stop-using-evms-use-ballots-in-polls-1009307.html
16-07-2021||National||I&B Minister, Press Club condole death of Indian photojournalist Danish Siddiqui in Afghanistan||Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur on Friday condoled the death of Indian photojournalist and Pulitzer Prize winner Danish Siddiqui in Afghanistan, saying he leaves behind an extraordinary body of work. He was killed in Afghanistan while covering fighting between Afghan troops and the Taliban. "Danish Siddiqui leaves behind an extraordinary body of work. He won the Pulitzer Prize for photography and was embedded with the Afghan Forces in Kandahar. Sharing one of his pictures below. Sincere condolences. RIP," Thakur tweeted. Siddiqui, in his early 40s, was killed during clashes in Spin Boldak district in Kandahar, Tolo News quoted sources as saying. It said fierce fighting has been underway in Kandahar, especially in Spin Boldak, for the last few days. The Indian journalist was covering the situation in Kandahar. The Press Club of India also expressed shock at the death of the journalist. "The Press Club of India is shocked at the passing of @Reuters' @PulitzerPrizes winning photojournalist @dansiddiqui at Kandahar where he fell to the bullets of the Taliban. True journalism needs courage and Danish's body of work is a testament to that. We are at a loss of words," it tweeted. Siddiqui was based in Mumbai. He had received the Pulitzer Prize as part of the Photography staff of Reuters news agency. Danish graduated with a degree in Economics from Jamia Millia Islamia, Delhi. He had a degree in Mass Communication from the AJK Mass Communication Research Centre at Jamia in 2007. He started his career as a television news correspondent, switched to photojournalism, and joined Reuters as an intern in 2010. Afghan Ambassador Farid Mamundzay said on Friday that Siddiqui has been killed in Kandahar, . "Deeply disturbed by the sad news of the killing of a friend, Danish Seddiqi in Kandahar last night. The Indian Journalist & winner of Pulitzer Prize was embedded with Afghan security forces. I met him 2 weeks ago before his departure to Kabul. Condolences to his family & Reuters," Mamundzay tweeted. Afghanistan witnessed a series of terror attacks in the last few weeks as the US withdrew the majority of its troops from the country and aimed to complete the drawdown by August 31, ending nearly two-decade of its military presence in the country. The Taliban was evicted from power by the US-led forces in 2001. Now, as the US is pulling back its troops, the Taliban fighters are attempting to gain control of various parts of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ib-minister-press-club-condole-death-of-indian-photojournalist-danish-siddiqui-in-afghanistan-1009312.html
16-07-2021||National||Over 81k paramilitary personnel took voluntary retirement, 16k resigned between 2011-20: MHA data||More than 81,000 personnel of the paramilitary forces such as the CRPF and the BSF have taken voluntary retirement in the last decade, the maximum of over 11,000 in 2017 alone. According to the Union Home Ministry data, 15,904 personnel also resigned from their respective organisations between 2011 and 2020 -- the highest 2,332 in 2013. No specific study for ascertaining the reasons for such retirements or resignations has been conducted by the Home Ministry so far, but an analysis carried out by the forces themselves indicates that personal and family issues, health reasons and better career opportunities are some of the main causes, a ministry official said. The data pertains to six paramilitary forces namely the CRPF, BSF, ITBP (Indo-Tibetan Border Police), SSB (Sashastra Seema Bal), CISF (Central Industrial Security Force) and Assam Rifles. A total of 81,007 personnel of these forces have taken voluntary retirement since 2011, according to the data. The highest among all forces -- 36,768 personnel -- have taken voluntary retirement from the BSF in the last decade, followed by the CRPF (26,164 personnel), the CISF (6,705), the Assam Rifles (4,947), the SSB (3,230) and the ITBP (3,193). According to the data, of the 15,904 personnel who have resigned in the 10 years, the highest was in the CISF (5,848), followed by the BSF (3,837), the CRPF (3,366), the ITBP (1,648), the SSB (1,031) and the Assam Rifles (174). Among those who have taken the voluntary retirement, the highest 11,728 personnel made the move in 2017, followed by 11,260 personnel in 2011. The number was 10,859 in 2012, as many as 9,355 in 2013, altogether 5,931 in 2014 and 1,686 in 2015, and altogether 6,981 in 2016. In the last three years of the decade, 8,132 took VRS in 2018, a total of 7,611 in 2019, as many as 5,935 in 2020, Among the total 15,904 personnel who have resigned in the 10 years, the highest 2,332 personnel took the step in 2013, 2,026 in 2015, 1,931 in 2014, 1,768 in 2012, 1,673 in 2018, 1,535 in 2017, 1,364 in 2019, 1,144 in 2016, 1,122 in 2011 and 877 in 2020. The total strength of the six paramilitary forces is around 10 lakh. The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) is deployed for assisting in internal security, law and order, operations against militants in Jammu and Kashmir and the Northeast besides for anti-Naxal operations. The Border Security Force (BSF) is primarily deployed for guarding the India-Pakistan and India-Bangladesh borders besides in internal security duties. The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) is primarily deployed at vital installations like airports, metro services, atomic and key industrial plants and government buildings. The Indo-Tibetan Border Police is deployed for guarding the Sino-India border while the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) guards the India-Nepal and India-Bhutan borders. The Assam Rifles guards the India-Myanmar border and is deployed in anti-insurgent operations in the Northeast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-81k-paramilitary-personnel-took-voluntary-retirement-16k-resigned-between-2011-20-mha-data-1009314.html
16-07-2021||National||Banks consortium gets over Rs 792 crore in Mallya loan default case: ED||A consortium led by State Bank of India (SBI) on Friday sold shares worth Rs 792.11 crore owned by Vijay Mallya, which were seized by the Enforcement Directorate after the fugitive businessman defaulted on repaying loans. Earlier, the ED said on Friday, the SBI-led consortium had realised Rs 7,181.50 crore by liquidating the assets handed over to it in connection with the Mallya case. Altogether, the ED said the banks and the government exchequer have realised 58% out of the total fraud perpetrated in two of the country's biggest criminal bank loan fraud cases -- the Mallya case and another involving Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi -- to date. Of the Rs 22,585.83 crore defrauded by millionaires Mallya, Nirav and Choksi in two separate cases, the ED said, it has so far attached assets of Rs 18,217.27 crore under the provision of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. To date, the ED has transferred assets worth Rs 12,762.25 Crore to the Public Sector Banks and confiscated assets of Rs 329.67 crore. In both the cases, the ED had claimed, the investigation has proved that a substantial part of these assets was held in the names of dummy entities, trusts third persons, relatives of the accused and these entities were proxies to hold these assets, the ED said in a statement. The seized assets also include those worth Rs 969 crore located in foreign countries. Mallya has been declared a fugitive economic offender and is wanted in connection with the loan fraud involving Kingfisher Airlines. The extradition of Vijay Mallya has been ordered by the Westminster Magistrates Court and confirmed by the UK High Court. The Westminster Magistrates Court has also ordered the extradition of Nirav, who is also declared a fugitive economic offender, to India. He has been in London Jail for the last two years and three months on the basis of an extradition request by India. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/banks-consortium-gets-over-rs-792-crore-in-mallya-loan-default-case-ed-1009335.html
16-07-2021||National||47 districts report over 10% Covid positivity rate for the week ending July 15, says Health Ministry||Forty-seven districts across 12 states and UTs reported over 10 per cent Covid-19 positivity rate for the week ending July 15, the government said on Friday. Just 73 districts recorded more than 100 cases daily in the week ending on July 14, it said. The slow decline in number of coronavirus daily cases is a warning for the country that the situation is currently under control but it can deteriorate if Covid appropriate behaviour not followed, the government said. "Our vaccines are effective and hugely safe and people with comorbidities, pregnant and lactating women must also take them. However, we cannot be fully dependent on vaccines, need to mask up as well," NITI Aayog member (Health) Dr V K Paul said. The government said that 47 districts across 12 states and UTs reported over 10 per cent positivity rate for the week ending July 15. The states and UTs were Manipur, Kerala, Rajasthan, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Sikkim, Tripura, Assam, Maharashtra and Puducherry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/47-districts-report-over-10-covid-positivity-rate-for-the-week-ending-july-15-says-health-ministry-1009337.html
16-07-2021||National||No serious connectivity initiative can ever be a one-way street: Jaishankar||Building connectivity is an act of trust and it must, at the minimum, conform to laid down laws as respecting the sovereignty and territorial integrity are the most basic principles of international relations, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said at a regional conference in Tashkent on Friday. He also said that connectivity efforts must be based on economic viability and financial responsibility and they should not create debt burdens, seen as an oblique reference to China's Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). He said no serious connectivity initiative can ever be a one-way street and that the real issues are of "mindsets, not of disputes" as blocking connectivity in practice while professing support in principle benefits no one. There has been growing global criticism of the BRI as Chinese financing has resulted in rising debt in several countries where infrastructure projects under the mega initiative are being implemented. In his address, Jaishankar said there was a need to address not just physical infrastructure but all its accompanying facets while expanding connectivity between Central Asia and South Asia. The conference on 'Central and South Asia: Connectivity' has been hosted by Uzbekistan with an aim to significantly boost connectivity between the two regions. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan, Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and leaders from around 35 countries attended the conference. "Tourism and societal contacts can create a fostering enabling environment. But, at the end of the day, building connectivity is an act of trust and must, at the minimum, conform to international law. Respecting sovereignty and territorial integrity are the most basic principles of international relations," he said. Jaishankar said that connectivity efforts must be based on economic viability and financial responsibility. "They should promote economic activity and not create debt burdens. Ecological and environmental standards, as also skill and technology transfers, are musts. Connectivity must be consultative, transparent and participatory," he said. Jaishankar said that for reliable connectivity within and through Afghanistan, the world must have confidence in its governance, noting that development and prosperity go hand in hand with peace and security. "Our connectivity deliberations expect predictability, efficiency and observance of norms of our time as its foundation," he said. Jaishankar said economic growth is universally driven by "3Cs: connectivity, commerce and contacts", adding all three need to come together to ensure regional cooperation and prosperity. "The challenge we face is that politics, vested interests and instability can be formidable impediments to its realization. There are lessons too from our experiences that need to be understood," he said. "The real issues are of mindsets, not of disputes. Blocking connectivity in practice while professing support in principle benefits no one. A one-sided view of trade rights and obligations can never work. No serious connectivity can ever be a one-way street," Jaishankar added. The external affairs minister also referred to practical steps taken by India since 2016 to operationalize the Chabahar port in Iran. "This provides a secure, viable and unhindered access to the sea for Central Asian countries. Its efficacy is now clearly proven. We have proposed to include the Chabahar port in the framework of INSTC," he said. Jaishankar described as a welcome development the formation of the India-Uzbekistan-Iran-Afghanistan Quadrilateral working group on the joint use of Chabahar port. The International North-South Transport Corridor (INSTC) is a 7,200-km-long multi-mode transport project for moving freight among India, Iran, Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Russia, Central Asia and Europe. "We are gathered here today in pursuit of a more prosperous and inter-connected Eurasia. To realise that, India stands ready to cooperate, plan, invest and build," Jaishankar said. The conference extensively deliberate on practical ways to enhance connectivity with a larger aim of deepening trade, investment and people-to-people ties in the region. "Connectivity acquires a particular salience in the context of post-Covid economic recovery. It is itself an economic multiplier," Jaishankar said. "But there is also a widespread realization of the need now for more resilient and reliable supply chains. This is not just a matter of production; it is equally a challenge of efficient logistics," he said. "All of us need more and multiple options. And this applies to the domain of connectivity most of all," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-serious-connectivity-initiative-can-ever-be-a-one-way-street-jaishankar-1009338.html
16-07-2021||National||Danish Siddiqui: The Pulitzer-winner photojournalist who captured the people behind the story||Danish Siddiqui, the Reuters journalist killed in crossfire on Friday covering the war in Afghanistan, was a largely self-taught photographer who scaled the heights of his profession while documenting wars, riots and human suffering. A native of New Delhi, Siddiqui, 38, is survived by his wife Rike and two young children. He was part of a team that was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for Feature Photography in 2018 for documenting Myanmar's Rohingya refugee crisis, a series described by the judging committee as "shocking photographs that exposed the world to the violence Rohingya refugees faced in fleeing Myanmar." Friends and colleagues described a man who cared deeply about the stories he covered, carrying out meticulous research before embarking on assignments and always focusing on the people caught up in the news. "Even in breaking news cycles he would think about humanizing a story, and you see that so often in his pictures, including those that won the Pulitzer and stories we have done in the last few years," said Devjyot Ghoshal, a Reuters correspondent based in New Delhi and a neighbour of Siddiqui. "Covering the Delhi riots together and the Covid-19 pandemic more recently – his most compelling images were about people, isolating the human element." A Reuters photographer since 2010, Siddiqui's work has spanned wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, the Rohingya crisis, pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong and unrest in India. In recent months, his searing photographs capturing the coronavirus pandemic in India have spread across the world. "Ninety percent of the photography I have learnt has come from experimentation in the field," Siddiqui once wrote. "What I enjoy most is capturing the human face of a breaking story. I shoot for the common man who wants to see and feel a story from a place where he can't be present himself." Ahmad Danish Siddiqui was born on May 19, 1983. He became a journalist after a Master's degree in Mass Communications from Delhi's Jamia Milia Islamia University. Siddiqui joined Reuters after stints as a correspondent with the Hindustan Times newspaper and the TV Today channel. Last year, while covering sectarian unrest in a Delhi suburb, Siddiqui and Ghoshal saw a Muslim man being beaten hby a frenzied Hindu mob. The images were widely featured in international media, highlighting the danger of wider conflagration between India's Hindu majority and sizeable Muslim minority. Siddiqui, a Muslim, had a narrow escape when the mob turned their attention on him. Those photographs were part of a selection of Reuters pictures of the year in 2020. Siddiqui provided video and text from his assignments as well as photographs. On his final assignment, he was embedded with Afghan special forces in the city of Kandahar. Earlier this week he was travelling with a convoy of commandos when it came under heavy fire from Taliban militants on the outskirts of Kandahar. He captured the drama in pictures, film and words.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/danish-siddiqui-the-pulitzer-winner-photojournalist-who-captured-the-people-behind-the-story-1009369.html
16-07-2021||National||PM Modi inaugurates redeveloped Gandhinagar station, other development projects in Gujarat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said that the new redeveloped railway station in Gandhinagar is a "revelation of changing mindset with regard to infratructure" in the country as in the past "class-based discrimination in infrastructure building was encouraged". He also said that it is "useless talk" to say that such modern infrastructure is only meant for a few elites, people from all classes should get such facilities. Modi said this while inaugurating projects worth over Rs 1,100 crore including the swanky Gandhinagar railway station, several attractions at Science City in Ahmedabad, among others. He also flagged the first train virtually started from Gandhinagar to Varanasi. Modi hailed it as a service that connect "land of Somnath (temple) to land of Vishwanath (temple in Varanasi). After inaugurating the station virtually from Delhi, Modi said in his speech, "Friends, the new railway station in Gandhinagar is a revelation of changing mindset with regard to infrastructure. For a long time in India, class-discrimination was encouraged in infrastructure development. I want to tell you that, people in Gujarat know it, how when I served the state (as chief minister), we modernised our bus stations on a public-private partnership (PPP) basis. We developed many of such of bus station and brought airport-like facilities. I told my officers in Delhi to go and see these stations. I asked them why can't we develop our railway station like them...the way airports and bus stations in Gujarat have developed in the same way Indian railway stations are also getting developed." The prime minister said that "The requirement of 21st century India can't be fulfilled through the ways of 20th century. That is why railways needed reforms through a new approach. We worked to develop railways not only as a service but as an asset, the result of which can be seen today....today, the image of Indian railways and its reputation are improving. Safety, speed, cleanliness and facilities have improved. The speed of trains will increase after the operationalization of dedicated freight corridors in the coming days." Modi inaugurates revamped station he sold tea! The PM also inaugurated the revamped railway station in Vadnagar in Mehsana district where he is said to have sold tea during his childhood. In his speech, Modi didn't speak much of his hometown but said that he has ample memories connected with the railway station. Modi also flagged off Gandhinagar-Varetha MEMU train. Since Vadnagar station falls under heritage circuit, the station has been developed into a "heritage style building" at a cost of Rs 8.5 crore by Western Railways and tourism department. The station is located about 100 km from Ahmedabad in Mehsana district where his father Damodardas Modi ran a tea stall. "The new station looks attractive. Vadnagar has better railway connectivity now as it is part of the Vadnagar-Modhera-Patan heritage circuit which has been converted to broad gauge and electrified," Modi said after inaugurating it virtually from Delhi. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-inaugurates-redeveloped-gandhinagar-station-other-development-projects-in-gujarat-1009371.html
16-07-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi moves into chatty, interactive Twitter zone, asks what people are reading||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday signalled a shift in his social media outreach, going from mostly commentative to conversational with this simple poser: “I’m wondering what you guys are reading these days?” I’m wondering what you guys are reading these days. Gandhi’s communication on Twitter and maybe other social media platforms is set for a makeover and will get more interactive in the days to come, party insiders said. And the casual, informal question on Twitter is perhaps the first step towards that. Sources said the former Congress president, who has 19.3 million followers on Twitter, may in the next few days share on Twitter the books he is reading. Gandhi -- who usually posts trenchant comments about the government, makes observations on news developments of the day, tagging articles of interest, or condoles the death of a known person – now wants his social media engagement to be more interactive so his connect with people increases, the sources added. Pratishtha Singh, a former Mahila Congress functionary, is playing a key role in reshaping his outreach on Twitter. The un-following of some Twitter handles, including of journalists and some of his staff, was also part of his social media revamp, the insiders said. On his birthday on June 19, Gandhi for the first time responded on Twitter to random people who wished him. He also replied to political leaders who had extended wishes to him on the social media platform. In less than an hour, Friday's open ended question on what his followers are reading saw more than 13,000 likes and 2,200 comments – many trolling him and some responding earnestly with their book list. In the coming few days, more interactive engagements are in store from Gandhi's handle, the sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-moves-into-chatty-interactive-twitter-zone-asks-what-people-are-reading-1009382.html
16-07-2021||National||2 vaccine doses given to police personnel successful in preventing 95% Covid deaths: ICMR study||The study, presented by NITI Aayog member (Health) Dr V K Paul, was conducted in Tamil Nadu to see the vaccine effectiveness in preventing Covid-19 deaths. About 1,17,524 police personnel were analysed for the study out of which those unvaccinated were 17,059, while those who received one dose were 32,792 and those fully vaccinated were 67,673. The study further showed that the number of Covid-19 deaths among unvaccinated police personnel was 20, while among those who received the first dose was 7 and second dose was four. Moreover, vaccine effectiveness in those who took the first dose was 82 per cent and in those who took both doses was 95 per cent. "Two doses of Covid-19 vaccine administered to high-risk police personnel were successful in preventing 95 per cent deaths due to coronavirus in the Delta variant-driven second wave," the study said. "Incidence of Covid-19 deaths per 1000 was 1.17 among unvaccinated, 0.21 among partially vaccinated and 0.06 in fully vaccinated," the study showed. Sharing the study, Paul reiterated the importance of Covid-19 vaccines in preventing severe infection. "We would like to reiterate that our vaccines are effective and hugely safe. Pregnant women and lactating women should receive it. Patients with cancer and diabetes are even more needy in this requirement and here is real life data to show vaccine effectiveness to prevent deaths is huge," Paul said. "But we should also remember that not just vaccines but we also need to mask up to prevent infection," he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-vaccine-doses-given-to-police-personnel-successful-in-preventing-95-covid-deaths-icmr-study-1009396.html
16-07-2021||National||Prime Minister Imran Khan blames RSS for continued suspension of India-Pakistan talks||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan on Friday blamed the ideology of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) for the continued suspension of a formal dialogue between his nation and India. “We can tell India that we (Pakistan) have been waiting for a long time to coexist as civilised neighbours...but what to do? The ideology of (the) RSS has come in between,” Khan said in Tashkent when a journalist asked him about the possibility of talks between New Delhi and Islamabad. He had attacked the RSS – the mentor of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) – earlier too. “While the Nazis hate was directed at the Jews, the RSS directs it towards the Muslims and to a lesser extent towards the Christians. They believe that India is exclusive for Hindus and others are not equal citizens,” the Prime Minister of Pakistan had said at the United Nations General Assembly in September last year. The Indian Army and the Pakistan Army on February 25 agreed to stop firing at each other across the Line of Control (LoC) and strictly adhere to the 2003 ceasefire agreement – fuelling speculation about the possibility of resumption of the bilateral dialogue, which remained suspended since 2013. India and Pakistan also had back-channel talks for restarting the stalled dialogue, with the top brass of the intelligence agencies of the two nations holding several rounds of informal talks in the United Arab Emirates over the past few months. New Delhi, however, neither officially confirmed nor denied the reports about its back-channel talks with Islamabad. What, however, apparently stalled the process is Khan’s public stand that Pakistan could restart formal talks with India only when Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government in New Delhi would roll back its August 5, 2019 move to strip Jammu and Kashmir of its special status and to reorganize the state into two Union Territories. New Delhi strongly rejected the Khan government’s demand, underlining that the decision on J&K was an internal affair of India and endorsed by the Parliament of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prime-minister-imran-khan-blames-rss-for-continued-suspension-of-india-pakistan-talks-1009397.html
16-07-2021||National||Imran Khan rakes up J&K issue in Tashkent, Jaishankar counters, says mindsets hinder connectivity||Mindsets, not disputes, are impeding connectivity initiatives among the South Asian and Central Asian nations, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Friday, countering Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s statement that huge potential of regional cooperation remained untapped due to the unresolved row over Kashmir. Jaishankar tacitly blamed Pakistan for blocking connectivity initiatives launched by India. He also took a subtle dig at China for pushing smaller nations in South Asia, South East Asia and Central Asia as well as in other regions into debt-traps with its controversial Belt and Road Initiative. Pakistan’s Prime Minister was speaking at a conference on connectivity between Central Asia and South Asia in Tashkent on Friday. The conference was hosted by Uzbek President Shavkat Mirziyoyev. Jaishankar represented the Government of India. His counterpart and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi also attended the conference. “Unfortunately, because of our disputes, unresolved disputes, the huge potential remains untapped,” said the Prime Minister of Pakistan. Jaishankar said that the 3Cs of connectivity, commerce and contacts drove economic growth universally and they needed to come together to ensure regional cooperation and prosperity. “The challenge we face is that politics, vested interests and instability can be formidable impediments to its realization,” said the External Affairs Minister. India has been accusing Pakistan of blocking several connectivity initiatives launched within the framework of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC), including the ones for facilitating hassle-free movement of trains and trucks within the region. The successive governments in Islamabad have also been rejecting repeated calls from New Delhi and Kabul for facilitating unrestricted transit of goods between India and Afghanistan through Pakistan. “There are lessons too from our experiences that need to be understood. The real issues are of mindsets, not of disputes,” said Jaishankar, tacitly taking a dig at the Pakistan Prime Minister, who promised to support regional connectivity initiatives. “Blocking connectivity in practice while professing support in principle benefits no one. A one-sided view of trade rights and obligations can never work. No serious connectivity can ever be a one-way street.” He also said that building connectivity was an “act of trust and must, at the minimum, conform to international law”. “Respecting sovereignty and territorial integrity are the most basic principles of international relations,” said the External Affairs Minister, indirectly referring to China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) linking China's Xinjiang Autonomous Region and the port city of Gwadar in southern Pakistan. New Delhi has been opposing the CPEC, because it passes through Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) areas, which India claims to be part of its own territory and accuses Pakistan of illegal occupying. Beijing has pledged over $70 billion to invest in CPEC. It is one of the flagship projects of the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), the ambitious cross-continental connectivity project, which Chinese President Xi Jinping launched a few years back, but already triggered controversy due to the predatory lending by the government of the communist country. “Connectivity efforts must be based on economic viability and financial responsibility. They should promote economic activity and not create debt burdens,” said Jaishankar. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/imran-khan-rakes-up-jk-issue-in-tashkent-jaishankar-counters-says-mindsets-hinder-connectivity-1009407.html
16-07-2021||National||Next 100 days crucial to ward off threats of Covid-19 third wave, says Centre||Six months into Covid-19 vaccination and nearly half of India's 45 plus population have received at least one dose of the vaccine, a top government official said on Friday, asserting that the next 100 days are crucial for India to ward off the threats of a severe third wave. “Nearly 50% of people over 45 years received one dose. This will impact Covid mortality. But the infection can spread as the virus is still around and its presence is more in some states and districts,” said Vinod Kumar Paul, NITI Aayog member and the government's principal advisor on Covid-19. “Our decline (in daily Covid-19 cases) has slowed down. It is a warning for us. It is in our hands to ensure that the situation doesn't deteriorate further. It is possible to block the third wave but the next 100-125 days are crucial as we have to be cautious and behave responsibly.” More than 17 crore people aged 45 years and above received at least one dose till Thursday while another 6 crore got both the shots. The Union Health Ministry had earlier stated that the 45-plus age group accounted for 85% of Covid-19 deaths in India. The milestone of inoculating more than 50% of the senior citizens (60 plus age group) was crossed last month, reducing their vulnerabilities from the epidemic. Health Ministry sources said the Centre is in the process of placing an order of more than Rs 14,500 crore to buy another 66 crore doses of vaccines from Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech. The supply – expected in the later part of the year – would help the government continue with its vaccination campaign as it seeks to provide the shots to 94.47 crore population by December end. Underlining the need to expand vaccination coverage, Paul shared the outcome of an ICMR study on Tamil Nadu policemen demonstrating how even a single dose of the Covid-19 vaccine can provide 82% protection to the policemen from Covid deaths. The protection level goes up to 95% with two doses. According to the study carried out on 1,17,524 policemen, as many as 32,792 got one dose of the vaccine while 67,673 received both. There was no vaccination for 17,059 individuals. Among those who received one dose, there were seven Covid deaths (82% protection) whereas four deaths (95%) were recorded among those who received both the shots. There were 20 deaths in the unvaccinated group. “This is a real-world study conducted in the middle of the second wave,” he said. A similar outcome was seen in another study carried out on Punjab policemen. A second ICMR study carried out by the National Institute of Virology demonstrates the protection given by the Covid-19 vaccines against breakthrough infections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/next-100-days-crucial-to-ward-off-threats-of-covid-19-third-wave-says-centre-1009416.html
16-07-2021||National||Centre notifies Godavari, Krishna river management boards||The Centre has notified the Godavari and the Krishna river management boards, giving them more teeth to administer, regulate, operate and maintain projects listed on these two rivers in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, the Jal Shakti Ministry said on Friday. The notification issued on July 15 is expected to reduce the friction in the area of water management between the two states, it added. "The decision of the Union government for notifying the jurisdiction of two boards would go a long way in enabling the rive boards to discharge their responsibilities to the fullest as mandated in the APRA (Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act) 2014 and ring about the much needed neutrality on water resources matters between the two states," the ministry said. The APRA contains provisions for effective management of river water in the states of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. It also has provisions for constitution of the Godavari and the Krishna River Management Boards and an Apex Council to supervise the functioning of these boards. The Centre constituted the two river management boards on June 2, 2014 for administration, regulation, maintenance and operation of such projects on the Godavari and the Krishna rivers. However, there was divergence between the two states on the issue of notification of the boards by the Centre. This issue was addressed in the second meeting of the Apex Council, headed by Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat along with the chief ministers of the two states, held in October 2020. In this meeting, it was decided that the jurisdiction of the GRMB and the KRMB will be notified by the Centre. Accordingly, the Centre has issued two notifications --- one for the GRMB and another for the KRMB --- for administration, regulation, maintenance and operation of projects in the Godavari and the Krishna rivers basins in these two states. The notification states that the boards "shall ordinarily exercise" jurisdiction on the Godavari and the Krishna rivers with regards to projects like barrages, dams, reservoirs, regulating structures, part of canal network and transmission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-notifies-godavari-krishna-river-management-boards-1009417.html
16-07-2021||National||Volume of direct benefit transfers rises 37% to 3.9 lakh crore transaction so far this year: Garg||The volume of direct benefit transfers (DBT) has jumped 37 per cent to 3.9 lakh crore transactions so far this year from 2.8 lakh crore transactions in 2020, UIDAI chief executive Saurabh Garg said on Friday. The DBT transfers grew 37 per cent to 3.9 lakh crore transactions so far this year over the full year of 2020, Garg told an event organised by the Economic Times newspaper. Addressing the same event, Union Urban Development and Housing Minister Hardip Singh Puri said the amount of money that the Centre transferred as part of the DBT scheme stood at Rs 68,903 crore so far this year. He did not offer details and the previous numbers. Puri, who also heads the petroleum ministry after the recent Cabinet reshuffle, said financial inclusion is not only a desirable objective but a developmental imperative today. He further said the government has taken many steps towards financial inclusion and specifically mentioned the bank account opening drive that helped open 42 crore accounts now. The scheme, launched to help plug the leakages in the subsidy system, is being used by the Centre and the states today to transfer money to crores of eligible beneficiaries under various schemes. The DBT cash transfers include pensions, fertiliser subsidies, the now discontinued LPG subsidy, Covid-related cash help from the Centre and a host of other schemes under the Centre and state administrations. The DBT scheme transfers central subsidies and other cash transfers to the no-frills accounts opened mostly with the public sector banks under the financial inclusion drive. When the no-frills account scheme was launched, banking penetration was only under 45 per cent, which in the first year itself had crossed around 55 per cent, and then went to touch over 80 per cent now, with over 42 crore such no-frills accounts. Addressing the same event, India Post Payments Bank chief executive J Venkatramu said over 70 per cent of his accounts are no-frills but they have more transactions and more balance at the same time. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/volume-of-direct-benefit-transfers-rises-37-to-39-lakh-crore-transaction-so-far-this-year-garg-1009431.html
16-07-2021||National||Trains rescheduled, regulated after landslide in Konkan coast||Southern railway in consultation with Konkan railway has regulated or cancelled a few trains after the landslide near Kulshekar tunnel between Mangaluru and Thokur Friday morning. The trains regulated include No.06071 Dadar-Tirunelveli weekly special which is regulated between Udupi and Thokur section for four hours. Train No.06333 Veraval-Thiruvananthapuram central weekly special is regulated between Kumta and Thokur for four hours,according to a railway release. Train No.01133 Mumbai CSMT-Mangaluru junction special terminates at Surathkal. Train No.01134 Mangaluru junction-Mumbai CSMT special is partially cancelled between Mangaluru junction and Surathkal and will start from Surathkal station on scheduled time. Train No.02620 Mangaluru central-Lokmanya Tilak daily special has been fully cancelled. The passengers booked on this train are being taken by road to Surathkal to board train No.01134 Mangaluru junction-Mumbai CSMT special which will start from Surathkal, the release said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trains-rescheduled-regulated-after-landslide-in-konkan-coast-1009433.html
16-07-2021||National||Man claims to be Union Minister Kishan Reddy's aide, dupes TN BJP ticket aspirant of Rs 50 lakh||A BJP office-bearer has lodged a complaint alleging that a man claiming to be an assistant of union minister Kishan Reddy duped him of Rs 50 lakh by falsely promising party ticket to contest the April 6 Assembly polls and an FIR has been registered, police said on Friday. The complainant, Bhuvanesh Kumar, Arani town president said that he gave Rs 50 lakh before the party decided on nominees to Narothaman, who claimed that he was Reddy's aide and promised him party ticket to contest the polls. He, however, did not get party ticket to contest from any Assembly constituency. Reddy was the party election incharge for Tamil Nadu Assembly polls. "We have filed an FIR (cheating) against four men, Narothaman, his father Chittibabu, Vijayaraman and Siva Balaji," a police inspector said, adding Narothaman and Chittibabu were said to be residents of Hyderabad and others hailed from here. A senior police officer confirmed the registration of FIR but declined to elaborate on the veracity of the complaint and if Narothaman had been Reddy's assistant or if he is presently associated with the minister. "We sought legal opinion too before registering this FIR," he told PTI. When asked if Bhuvanesh Kumar was indeed a party functionary, a BJP state-level office bearer confirmed that he was a party office-bearer based in Arani. Asked if he was aware of the complaint, he answered in the affirmative. On what action the party contemplated against him, he said,"we were surprised and shocked when we got to know about this claim of giving money to get party ticket." "Such a thing cannot happen in this party. Bhuvanesh was a recent entrant to the BJP. He was previously with another party. As an initial action, we have recommended that he be removed from his party post." On the claim that Narothaman had been Reddy's "assistant" during the run up to polls, he said,"we have never heard of this name. We don't know who he is." Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-claims-to-be-union-minister-kishan-reddys-aide-dupes-tn-bjp-ticket-aspirant-of-rs-50-lakh-1009439.html
16-07-2021||National||Nearly 40 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in country: Government||Nearly 40 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have so far been administered in the country, including over 38.79 lakh on Friday, according to the health ministry. A total of 16,35,591 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years received the first dose and 2,11,553 were administered the second dose of the vaccine on Friday, the ministry said. Cumulatively, 12,16,46,175 people in the 18-44 age group have received the first dose and 45,98,664 have received the second dose across the 37 states and Union territories since the start of the third phase of the nationwide vaccination drive, it added. The ministry said a total of 39,93,62,514 Covid vaccine doses have so far been administered in the country. More than 38.79 lakh (38,79,917) vaccine doses were administered on Friday, according to a provisional report compiled at 7 pm. Eight states -- Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra -- have vaccinated more than 50 lakh beneficiaries each in the 18-44 age group for the first dose of the vaccine. Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 10 lakh beneficiaries each in the 18-44 age group for the first dose of the vaccine, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nearly-40-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-in-country-government-1009443.html
16-07-2021||National||BJP leader's son shot at in J&K's Kupwara||A BJP leader's son was injured in Jammu and Kashmir's Kupwara district on Friday when the weapon of his personal security guard went off accidentally, police said. Earlier, it was reported by officials that the son of BJP district president Mohammad Shafi was injured in a militant attack. "Weapon of PSO went off accidently in the car which hit the arm of BJP worker Ishfaq Mir. The other PSO fired in fear. Ishfaq got minor arm injury. People are requested not to spread rumours of militant attack. The injured is discharged from hospital," the Kupwara police said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-leaders-son-shot-at-in-jks-kupwara-1009445.html
16-07-2021||National||Body of Indian photojournalist Danish Siddiqui handed over by Taliban to Red Cross: Sources||The body of Pulitzer Prize-winning Indian photojournalist Danish Siddiqui, killed in Kandahar in Afghanistan, has been handed over by the Taliban to the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), sources said on Friday. India has been informed about the handing over of the body by the Taliban to the ICRC and Indian authorities are working on bringing it back, they said. "We have been informed that the body has been handed over by the Taliban to the ICRC. We are actively facilitating the return of the body in coordination with Afghan authorities and the ICRC," said a source. The sources said the Indian embassy in Kabul is in touch with Afghan authorities to bring back Siddiqui's mortal remains. Earlier, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the government is in touch with the photojournalist's family. Afghanistan's Tolo News, quoting sources, reported that Siddiqui was killed during clashes in Spin Boldak district in Kandahar. It said fierce fighting has been underway in Kandahar, especially in Spin Boldak, for the last few days. Afghanistan witnessed a series of terror attacks in the last few weeks as the US withdrew the majority of its troops from the country and aimed to complete the drawdown by August 31, ending nearly two-decade of its military presence in the country. The Taliban was evicted from power by the US-led forces in 2001. Now, as the US is pulling back its troops, the Taliban fighters are attempting to gain control of various parts of the country. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/body-of-indian-photojournalist-danish-siddiqui-handed-over-by-taliban-to-red-cross-sources-1009467.html
16-07-2021||National||Don't make released prisoners surrender, SC asks states||The Supreme Court on Friday ordered that all prisoners, released by the High-Powered Committee (HPC) of various state governments following its directions in May last year, shouldn't be asked to surrender until further orders. Taking up the matter on Friday, a bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana also directed all states to submit a report by next Friday detailing the criteria adopted by the HPCs to release prisoners on emergency parole. The bench, also comprising Justices Nageswara Rao and A S Bopanna, noted that there were no uniform criteria adopted across the States. It asked the states to explain if they have considered factors like age, and comorbidities in granting parole. Amicus curiae in the matter, senior advocate Dushyant Dave submitted that suo motu cognisance was taken by the court on March 16 last year. He added that the court had directed all prisoners or undertrials in cases punishable with imprisonment of 7 years or less be released forthwith to prevent overcrowding in jails. He said jails are overcrowded due to four lakh prison inmates. Decongestion was needed to protect the right to health of the accused amid the pandemic. Dave claimed there was no information available on how the top court's order was implemented by different states. Appearing for the Centre, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta submitted the government does not have any objection if the earlier orders are extended. The bench noted that states should also explain if prisoners whose appeals are pending in higher courts were also considered for release by HPCs. "We think it fit to direct Secretary of National Legal Services Authority (NALSA) and states to submit a report stating norms followed in releasing prisoners. Issues of why appeals by prisoners seeking release was not entertained to be clarified," the bench said in its order. The court fixed the matter for consideration on August 3. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-make-released-prisoners-surrender-sc-asks-states-1009483.html
16-07-2021||National||IPI condoles Indian photojournalist Danish Siddiqui's death in Afghanistan||The International Press Institute, a global network of media professionals, on Friday mourned the death of Pulitzer Prize-winning Indian photojournalist Danish Siddiqui in Afghanistan, terming it an “immense loss” for journalism and a reminder of the enormous risks that journalists face while reporting from the conflict zones. Siddiqui, 38, was on assignment in Afghanistan when he died. The award-winning journalist was killed while covering clashes between Afghan troops and the Taliban in Spin Boldak district of Kandahar city. He was injured on Thursday night while accompanying Afghan soldiers who were attacked and succumbed to his injuries on Friday. “IPI is incredibly saddened to learn of the death of Danish Siddiqui, one of the most accomplished photojournalists of our age. Journalism has suffered an immense loss. We send our solidarity to his family and colleagues,” the Vienna-based IPI said in a tweet. Siddiqui won the Pulitzer Prize in 2018 as part of the Reuters team for their coverage of the Rohingya crisis. He had extensively covered the Afghanistan conflict, the Hong Kong protests and other major events in Asia, Middle East, and Europe. "As a member of the Reuters team, he brilliantly chronicled some of the biggest international news events in recent years, with his images reaching millions around the globe and bringing him well-deserved recognition,” IPI Deputy Director Scott Griffen said in a statement. “Danish’s death is a reminder of the enormous risks that journalists face in conflict zones as they work to bring the news to the world. Afghanistan, in particular, remains an especially dangerous environment for the press, a situation we fear will escalate with the ongoing withdrawal of foreign forces from the country,” Griffen said. According to IPI, Siddiqui is the fifth journalist to be killed in Afghanistan this year. Three women media workers, who worked for the Enkass radio network, were killed on March 2 in Nangahar province, and on January 1, a journalist was shot dead in Ghor province. Journalists in Afghanistan are extremely concerned over their safety following the rapid withdrawal of US and NATO troops, it said. The safety of female journalists in Afghanistan is especially tenuous. According to the Afghan Journalists Safety Committee, 20 per cent of Afghan women journalists have quit or lost their jobs in the past few months because of the attacks and killings. “They attack them to tell the other women journalists to stay at home. Since the fatal attack in Jalalabad, some media houses have asked their female employees to work from home for their own safety,” the IPI quoted Sharif Hasanyar, the head of Ariana News TV which is one of Afghanistan’s biggest news channels, as saying in a report in May. “They (the Taliban) may not directly attack journalists or the media outlets, but there will be more restrictions on information. A lot will change in the constitution or the media laws,” Ahmad Quraishi, the executive director of Afghanistan Journalists’ Center, told IPI. According to a report by Reporters without Borders (RSF), a total of 937 journalists have been killed over the past decade, with 50 journalists losing their lives in 2020, most of them deliberately targeted. The report compiled by the Paris-based media watchdog said it had tallied 50 cases of journalists killed in connection with their work in 2020 (from January 1 to December 15), adding that this figure is very similar to 2019 (when 53 journalists were killed), although fewer journalists worked in the field last year because of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ipi-condoles-indian-photojournalist-danish-siddiquis-death-in-afghanistan-1009488.html
16-07-2021||National||India raises killing of photojournalist Danish Siddiqui at UN Security Council||“We condemn the killing of Indian photojournalist Danish Siddiqui, while he was on a reporting assignment in Kandahar in Afghanistan yesterday,” Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla said, while making a statement at the UN Security Council on “Protection of civilians in armed conflict: Preserving humanitarian Space”. Siddiqui, an award-winning photojournalist of Reuters, was killed during an exchange of fire between the soldiers of Afghan National Defence and Security Forces (ANDSF) and the militants of the Taliban at Spin Boldak in the Kandahar district of Afghanistan late on Thursday. He was covering the war between the ANDSF and the Taliban in Afghanistan over the past few weeks. He was embedded with the special forces of the ANDSF. The Embassy of India in Kabul is in touch with Afghan Government authorities to bring back the mortal remains of Siddiqui, who was based in New Delhi, a source said, adding that the Taliban had handed over his body to the International Committee of the Red Cross. The government has been in touch with the family of the slain photojournalist and is facilitating the return of the body in coordination with the authorities in Kabul and the ICRC. The Foreign Secretary told the UN Security Council that the humanitarian law principles found their existence in India long before modern humanitarian jurisprudence evolved. India had followed the path of ‘Dharma’ or ‘Righteous Conduct’ and provided refuge to persecuted people over centuries. “The Dharma-based norms for armed conflict in ancient India were founded on the principle of humanity and humanitarian norms and had many rules protecting civilians during conflict,” said Shringla, adding: “High importance was attached to distinguishing combatants and non-combatants during armed conflicts. In a "Dharma-yuddha” or ‘Righteous War”, civilians were not attacked. On the contrary, they had to be protected.” Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-raises-killing-of-photojournalist-danish-siddiqui-at-un-security-council-1009497.html
16-07-2021||National||Covid-19: Gujarat extends night curfew till August 1 in 8 cities||Coronavirus-induced night curfew was on Friday extended in eight cities in Gujarat for 12 more days, while water parks and swimming pools were allowed to operate at 60 per cent capacity from July 20 provided their staff receive at least the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccination by July 31, an official said. A curfew between 10 pm and 6 am, which was in force till July 20 in Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Rajkot, Surat, Bhavnagar, Jamnagar, Gandhinagar and Junagadh, has now been extended till the morning of August 1, a state government release said. "Owners, managers and staff of water parks will have to get inoculated with the first dose by July 31," it said. An official said non-AC private and public transport buses can operate at 100 per cent capacity and AC buses at 75 per cent capacity from July 20, and it will be mandatory for drivers and conductors to take the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. A release also said hotels, resorts-restaurants and water parks in the state have been exempted from fixed electricity charges for a period of one year as per an announcement made by Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on June 7, and such entities will have to pay only for actual consumption.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-gujarat-extends-night-curfew-till-august-1-in-8-cities-1009499.html
16-07-2021||National||Centre formalises registration process of vintage motor vehicles||Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari on Friday said his ministry has formalised the registration process of vintage motor vehicles in India, to promote and preserve the heritage of such vehicles. The Centre in November last year had said it intends to formalise the registration process of the vintage motor vehicles, and had sought public comments for proposed rules regarding this. "With an aim to preserve and promote the heritage of vintage vehicles, the MoRTH has formalised the registration process of vintage motor vehicles in India," Gadkari said in a series of tweets. With no existing rules for regulating the process of registration across different states, he said the new rules shall provide a hassle-free process along with salient features such as retention of old numbers for already-registered vehicles and a 'VA' series (unique registration mark) for fresh registrations.  The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) had invited public comments for proposed rules on registering vintage vehicles. "The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has published GSR 734 (E) dated November 25, 2020, seeking comments and suggestions in regards to amendment to CMVR, 1989, relating to vintage motor vehicles," it had said. CMVR stands for Central Motor Vehicles Rules. The draft rules define vintage motor vehicles as all those vehicles that are two-wheelers and four-wheelers (non-commercial and personal use) and are more than 50 years old from the date of their first registration (including imported vehicle). There is a restriction in the definition — no substantial overhaul of the vehicles that includes modification in chassis or body shell, and/or engine. A vintage motor vehicle is allowed to run on Indian roads only for display, technical research or taking part in a vintage car rally, refuelling and maintenance, exhibitions, vintage rallies, and to and fro to such exhibition or car rally. The government had said the objective is to preserve and promote the heritage of old vehicles in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-formalises-registration-process-of-vintage-motor-vehicles-1009504.html
16-07-2021||National||In 50 years, India can be free of poverty, sickness, says Narayana Murthy||Infosys co-founder Narayana Murthy on Friday expressed hope that 50 years from now, India can be free of poverty, sickness and malnourishment. It will not be an easy task but one must take this as a responsibility and despite difficulties, there will be opportunities to succeed, chief guest Narayan Murthy said while delivering his address at the 23rd convocation of Indian Institute of Guwahati on a virtual mode. "The only instrument you have to remember is performance, performance leads to recognition, recognition leads to respect. "I have hope that 50 years from now, this country will have 70-75 years old who have achieved their aspirational dreams. I have confidence they will create a developed India, an India that is not held back by problems of poverty, sickness and malnourishment," Narayana Murthy said. This can be achieved only if the country becomes an economic power through aspiration, discipline, good values, hard work and sacrifice, the chairman emeritus of Infosys said. "It will only happen if India becomes a moral leader in science, technology and medicine and the land of good and fair governance, open-mindedness, plurality, tolerance, meritocracy and honesty," he said. A developed India will emerge only if every Indian regardless of religion and economic class becomes a happy, enthusiastic, optimistic, confident and committed partner in this march, Murthy said. In the future people from other countries would want to come and study in India, he said. As the guest of honour, the president of Gifu University Hisataka Moriwaki, said that along with IITG, his university has successfully carved three international joint degree programmes that "spur and embody the true concept of globalisation". "These programmes are a channel for graduates who are expected to become leaders in relevant industries in both India and Japan, leading to a sustainable society which will benefit both the countries," he said. IITG Director Prof T G Sitharam said that they have set a goal to be recognised as one of the world's top institutes within the next three years. "IITG is trying to leap forward by embracing the rising demands of newer and interdisciplinary areas of research and technology development by incorporating the policies of NEP 2020, including industry interaction and participating in offering courses in futuristic areas, providing thrust to the startup culture, entrepreneurship at all levels and creation of jobs in the North East," Sitharam said. Even during the pandemic, a significant number of full-time students from different countries such as Bhutan, Tanzania, Bangladesh, Nepal, Cameroon, Germany have registered for different programmes at IIT Guwahati. Chairman, Board of Governors, IIT Guwahati Dr Rajiv I Modi complimented the faculty for being open to collaboration and to assimilate new ideas. A total of 1,338 students received their degrees in various disciplines during the online convocation of IITG which included four students who received Joint Degrees with Gifu University, Japan. The graduating students include 649 BTech and BDes students, 175 PhD students and 518 Master degree students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-50-years-india-can-be-free-of-poverty-sickness-says-narayana-murthy-1009518.html
16-07-2021||National Politics||Security forces bust LeT module in Jammu and Kashmir, arrest three in Bandipora||Security forces busted a terror module of Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) outfit by arresting three militant associates in Bandipora district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said on Thursday. A terror module of proscribed terror outfit LeT was busted by arresting three militant associates and recovering incriminating material including arms and ammunition from their possession, a police spokesman said. He identified the arrested as Suhaib Ahmad Malik alias Asif and Aejaz Ahmad Najar — both residents of Gundpora, and Touseef Ahmad Sheikh, a resident of Chittaybanday, Bandipora. Incriminating material, arms and ammunition, including a pistol, fake SIM cards, forged documents etc were recovered from their possession, the spokesman said. Preliminary investigation revealed that they were involved in providing logistics and other support like providing fake SIM cards to the active militants of the LeT, he said. The trio was also in contact with active LeT militants across the border including operational commander Babar who had tasked them to monitor the movement of police, security forces and political functionaries in the area, the spokesman said. He said Babar had also promised the trio for the supply of three AK rifles in the coming days so that they could formally join the militant ranks. The three were further tasked to carry out weapon snatching till the consignment of weapons could be smuggled in and delivered, he added. A case has been registered and investigation into the matter initiated, the spokesman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/security-forces-bust-let-module-in-jammu-and-kashmir-arrest-three-in-bandipora-1009176.html
16-07-2021||National Politics||Priyanka slams Yogi govt over 'worsening' law and order, says democracy being 'disrobed' in UP||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi patted the back of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for taking effectively managing the Covid-19 pandemic and taking 'tough' action against mafia elements, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi slammed the state government over alleged deteriorating law and order situation and violence in the recently concluded panchayat polls. Priyanka, who arrived in Lucknow on a two-day visit on Friday, embarked on a 'silent dharna' before the statue of Mahatma Gandhi at the GPO Park here along with hundreds of party workers. ''Democracy is being disrobed in UP...constitution is being trampled...women do not feel safe here,'' Priyanka told reporters after ending her two-hour-long silent dharna. She also referred to the yanking of the saree of a Samajwadi Party (SP) woman candidate in the panchayat polls allegedly by BJP workers. मोदी जी के सर्टिफिकेट से यूपी में कोरोना की दूसरी लहर के दौरान योगी सरकार की आक्रामक क्रूरता, लापरवाही और अव्यवस्था की सच्चाई छिप नहीं सकती। लोगों ने अपार पीड़ा, बेबसी का सामना अकेले किया। इस सच्चाई को मोदीजी, योगीजी भूल सकते हैं, जिन्होंने कोरोना का दर्द सहा, वे नहीं भूलेंगे ''The people experienced the agony and helplessness without any help....Modiji and Yogiji may forget this truth but those, who suffered the agony, will never forget it,'' she said. Earlier, Priyanka was accorded a rousing reception upon arrival in Lucknow. Congress workers and leaders had turned out in large numbers to welcome her and banners were put up all along the road from the airport to the party office. According to the Congress leaders, Priyanka, during her stay, here would be holding meetings with the members of the Pradesh Congress Committee and the district and city presidents of the party. She would also be meeting delegations of farmers and review the progress of preparation of the party's manifesto for the next assembly polls in the state, which were due in March 2022. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-slams-yogi-govt-over-worsening-law-and-order-says-democracy-being-disrobed-in-up-1009264.html
16-07-2021||National Politics||Punjab Congress row escalates: Amarinder Singh writes to Sonia Gandhi against Navjot Singh Sidhu as PCC chief||The Punjab Congress row further escalated on Friday with Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh writing an anguished letter to party chief Sonia Gandhi as the countdown to a final decision on the vexed issue began after Navjot Singh Sidhu met Sonia, Rahul Gandhi and the party in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat earlier in the day. In his letter, Singh is learnt to have expressed his serious reservation over the possible appointment of Sidhu as the state party chief, saying it can adversely impact the party's prospects in the polls. Singh has raised the issue of "ignoring the old guard". Both Rawat and Sidhu, who is in Delhi, remained tight-lipped. The former is likely to meet the CM in Chandigarh on Saturday. On Thursday, both Singh and Sidhu held separate meetings with their supporters in Chandigarh after Rawat's remarks to a TV channel fuelled speculation that Sidhu is tipped to be the  PCC chief. While the local media reported that a miffed Singh may not contest or campaign for the party, the CM's advisor had, hours after Rawat's clarification that he did not say Sidhu will become PCC chief, took to Twitter to clarify that talks about him withdrawing from the contest are speculation and that the Chief Minister will lead from the front to make Congress victorious in the upcoming Assembly polls. On Friday, Rawat tried to downplay his remarks. "Who said so? Please read my statement very carefully and try to understand the words and their meanings," he said when asked whether Sidhu is getting the state chief's post. Earlier in the morning, former I&B Minister Manish Tewari, who is close to Singh, advanced the Chief Minister's social representation argument, tweeting about the electoral importance of communities. Talking about the demographics of Punjab, Tewari flagged that while 57.75 per cent population of electorates are Sikhs, the Hindus are 39.49%. Of this, Dalits are 31.94%, which comprise both Sikhs and Hindus. Demographics of Punjab: 1. Sikhs : 57.75 % 2. Hindus : 38.49% 3. Dalits : 31:94 % (Sikh&Hindus) Punjab is both progressive & SECULAR. ਹਿੰਦੂ ਤੇ ਸਿੱਖ ਦਾ ਨਹੁੰ-ਮਾਸ ਦਾ ਰਿਸ਼ਤਾ ਹੈ! BUT balancing SOCIAL INTEREST GROUPs is key बराबरी सामाजिक न्याय की बुनियाद है! Tewari argued Punjab is both progressive and secular but balancing social interest groups is the key, which is required for maintaining the principle of equality. One of the arguments advanced by the Captain camp was that two Jat Sikhs (community to which he and Sidhu both belong) cannot occupy two top slots in the state politics. The AICC was earlier working on a formula of having two working presidents—a Dalit and a Hindu face to balance the caste equations and names doing rounds were Vijay Inder Singla and MP Santokh Chaudhary respectively. The Amarinder camp was earlier keen on either Manish Tewari or Singla for the chief's post. Incidentally, both of them are Hindus, and the incumbent chief Sunil Jakhar, who is to be replaced, is a Hindu. If the dissension festers further, it can damage Congress substantially, which is otherwise hopeful of a comeback in Punjab despite a strong incumbency wave against the Singh government. The Assembly election is going to be a four-cornered contest between Congress, SAD-BSP alliance, AAP and BJP. With SAD and AAP already in campaign mode, Congress is running short of time and a decision is likely to be made very soon, sources say.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/punjab-congress-row-escalates-amarinder-singh-writes-to-sonia-gandhi-against-navjot-singh-sidhu-as-pcc-chief-1009330.html
16-07-2021||National Politics||Priyanka Gandhi arrives in Lucknow on 2-day visit, will meet party leaders, farmers||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra Friday arrived here on a two-day visit during which she will hold meetings with party functionaries and leaders to prepare it for the next year's Assembly polls. She reached Lucknow's Chaudhary Charan Singh Airport in the afternoon and moved in a procession through the main roads of the state capital to the Gandhi statue at Hazratganj GPO Park and garlanded it. All through the route, Congress workers warmly welcomed her and showered flower petals at various places. Ashok Singh, the Convenor of Media and Communication Department of Uttar Pradesh Congress, said Priyanka Gandhi reached Hazratganj via Alambagh, Charbagh and Bapu Bhawan. He said she will hold a meeting with the state executive, office-bearers and district and city unit presidents on Friday at the Congress officer. After that, she will also meet with various farmer organisations. Priyanka Gandhi will also meet the block Congress presidents of Amethi and Rae Bareli on Saturday, the second day of her tour, and hold a meeting with the office-bearers of the 'Berozgar Manch', a body representing the unemployed. She will also hold a meeting with former MPs, ex-MLAs, former district and city presidents and former heads of frontal organisations and departments and later meet the heads of frontal organisations, departments, members of zilla panchayats and blockheads. She is scheduled to return to Delhi Saturday evening, Singh added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-gandhi-arrives-in-lucknow-on-2-day-visit-will-meet-party-leaders-farmers-1009333.html
16-07-2021||National Politics||Govt reaches out to Opposition ahead of Monsoon Session||Newly-appointed leader of Rajya Sabha and Union Minister Piyush Goyal on Friday held consultations with former PM Manmohan Singh, NCP chief Sharad Pawar, and senior Congress leader Anand Sharma ahead of the Monsoon Session of Parliament beginning July 19 for which the government has also convened an all-party meeting on July 18 to reach out to Opposition parties for smooth conduct of legislative business. Goyal also met NCP chief Sharad Pawar at his residence. Pawar later had a meeting with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. Centre's initiatives to reach out to the Opposition has begun amid the possibility of a larger Opposition meeting on Parliamentary issues in the next few days. "An all parties leaders meeting is convened by the government on the eve of the Monsoon Session 2021," a government release said. Congress has entrusted its leader in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge to rope in other Opposition parties to work out common strategies on issues like Covid-19 and price rise on which it wants to corner the government. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who had earlier given a call for an Opposition meeting, is also likely to visit the national capital this month. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-reaches-out-to-opposition-ahead-of-monsoon-session-1009341.html
16-07-2021||National Politics||Those scared of RSS free to leave Congress, fearless welcome to join: Rahul Gandhi||Rahul Gandhi on Friday hit out at Congress deserters, saying those in the party who are scared of RSS should leave the party and "enjoy" their company while the party should induct people also from outside, many of whom have the courage to fight the Sangh. Addressing over 3,000 social media workers of the party at an online event, Gandhi also cited the example of his one-time colleague in the party Jyotiraditya Scindia, who delivered Madhya Pradesh back to BJP after deserting Congress last year and is now Civil Aviation Minister in the Narendra Modi government. Scindia's name cropped up while Gandhi was answering queries of some participants, who asked him how they could face alleged "intimidation tactics" of BJP while taking them on as many times FIRs are being slapped against them. Responding, Gandhi did some pep talk, talked about the strength of the hand symbol of the party and told them most godly and saintly figures like Guru Nanak and others have their hands up in blessing mode, which gives a message that you should not be scared (Daro Mat). This is the message of Congress' hand, he said. "Scindia ji dar gaye ki unka ghar chala jaayega, mahal chala jaayega. Hence he went to RSS-BJP (Scindia ji got scared that he will lose his house, his palace. Hence he went to RSS," Gandhi said, according to sources. The meeting started with the introduction of AICC Social Media in charge Rohan Gupta. AICC general secretary in charge K C Venugopal also addressed the participants. "There are many people who are not scared, but are outside the Congress. All these people are ours. Bring them in, and those scared within our party should be shunted out. They are RSS people and they should go, let them enjoy. We do not want them, they are not needed. We want fearless people. This is our ideology. This is my basic message to you," Gandhi said. National co-coordinator of AICC social media Nitin Agarwal told DH that Gandhi asked members of the party's social media team not to be afraid of talking to him as they were a part of his family. He also sought to paint a picture of contrast between RSS and Congress saying while the former believes in empowering only a few, his party wants to empower all. Since the Modi government came to power in 2014 or a little before that, a large number of BJP leaders--some former Chief Ministers and former Union ministers left the party and joined BJP. Some of them like Himanta Biswa Sarma (current Assam Chief Minister from BJP) had hit out at Rahul, questioning his style of functioning. Many of them ended with plum posts in BJP but not all. Prominent leaders, who deserted Congress in this period include Birender Singh and Rao Inderjit Singh (both joined BJP) from Haryana, Narayan Rane and Radhakrishna Vikhe Patil from Maharashtra, Rita Bahuguna Joshi, Sanjay Singh and Jagdambika Pal (from UP), Vijay Bahuguna, Yashpal Arya, Satpal Maharaj (Uttarakhand), N Biren Singh (now Manipur CM from BJP),  Khushboo Sundar (Tamil Nadu), Tom Vadakkan (Kerala). The list is endless.   The latest to join BJP was Jitin Prasada. During his interaction, Rahul tried to strike a personal rapport with participants. He started the conversation with a woman participant from Chhattisgarh, who talked of her paternal aunt's demise due to Covid. When a youth from Maharashtra told about his father's death due to cardiac arrest three years back, Rahul said he can feel his pain as he himself had lost his father at an early age. When another participant asked him how they should react to evolving issues, Rahul told him to think beyond his personal view and think how Congress should react to it. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/those-scared-of-rss-free-to-leave-congress-fearless-welcome-to-join-rahul-gandhi-1009343.html
16-07-2021||National Politics||Suvendu Adhikari attends hearing on Mukul Roy's disqualification plea, says BJP may move court||Leader of Opposition and BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari on Friday attended the hearing on a petition seeking Mukul Roy's disqualification as an MLA at Speaker Biman Bandyopadhyay's chamber, and said that a decision should be taken in the matter at the earliest. He also said that the saffron party may move the court, if necessary. Adhikari had recently submitted a 64-page document to the Speaker demanding immediate disqualification of Roy as MLA under the anti-defection law on the grounds that he has won an assembly seat on a BJP ticket but switched over to the TMC shortly after. The BJP MLA from Nandigram, along with other legislators, had staged a walkout in the Assembly last week in protest against Roy's appointment as Public Accounts Committee (PAC) chairman. Emerging out of the speaker's chamber, on the premises of the Assembly, Adhikari told reporters, "We would want a specific time frame within which the hearing will be completed. We want Roy to get disqualified as soon as possible. We are considering our legal options... The party may move the court." The senior BJP leader, who had also switched camps ahead of the state elections, said all documents, audio clips and video footage backing our demand have been placed before the speaker. "We have already provided a 64-page dossier to the office of the speaker. The process of hearing should not take too long. We have great respect for the speaker's chair but past experiences have made us sceptics. "Over the last 10 years, there had been at least 50 cases of such defections in West Bengal. Not much happened... We don't have confidence in this (TMC) government." Adhikari further said that July 30 has been fixed as the next date of hearing. Asked about the development during Friday's hearing, he said, "The BJP will not go into technicalities... We have been asked to attend the hearing again on July 30." Sources in the Assembly said the speaker sought certain clarifications from Adhikari during the hearing. Roy, however, but didn't talk to media persons after the hearing. The legislator attended a meeting of the Public Accounts Committee as its chairman, during the day. No BJP MlA was present at the session. TMC MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, when approached, said the speaker has just taken cognizance of the complaint against Mukul Roy. "There is no question of any acknowledgment of the BJP's stand by the speaker. The hearing has only begun," the Rajya Sabha MP said. He further hailed the move of Lok Sabha secretariat to send notices to turncoat MPs Sisir Adhikari and Sunil Mondal, who crossed over to the BJP from the TMC before the polls. "Our party has sought the disqualification of Adhikari and Mondal as MPs to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla. We are happy that the process to hear their cases has started. Let's hope for a positive outcome," the TMC deputy leader in the Upper House said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/suvendu-adhikari-attends-hearing-on-mukul-roys-disqualification-plea-says-bjp-may-move-court-1009353.html
16-07-2021||National Politics||Tomar urges farmers to take benefit of govt's Agri-reforms; launches Kisan Sarathi app||Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday urged farmers to take benefit of the government's farm reforms that are not only aimed at improving their lives, but also boosting the agriculture sector. He also said the Modi government is continuously strengthening the foundation of the country's agriculture sector, which lagged due to the neglectful policies of the previous regime. Tomar was addressing the Indian Council of Agricultural Research's (ICAR) 93rd Foundation Day and award ceremony virtually. The minister is the chairman of ICAR. On the occasion, the minister also launched an Information Communication and Technology (ICT) based platform 'Kisan Sarathi' to support agriculture at the local level with a national perspective. Through this platform, officials at various levels can view and monitor daily activities such as farmer registration, live calls, messages, advisories given and pending. "The agri reforms undertaken by the central government under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi are going to bring a change in the lives of the farmers. If farmers across the country take advantage of these agricultural reforms will prove to be revolutionary for them as well as increase the contribution of the farm sector in the economy," an official statement quoted Tomar as saying at the ICAR's event. At one time, the contribution of the agriculture sector in GDP was about 50 per cent, but the sector lagged due to the neglectful policies adopted by the then governments, he said. "But now since Modi became the Prime Minister, the foundation of the agriculture sector is continuously being strengthened," he added. Tomar said the Prime Minister has emphasised the overall progress of the agriculture sector, including reducing the cost of farmers, paying attention to soil health, adopting micro-irrigation methods, reducing the use of pesticides, and organic-natural farming. "ICAR has special importance and contribution in this direction," he added. Stating that agriculture is the mainstay of the country's economy, Tomar said the sector has proved its relevance by showing its strength in many adverse circumstances, including the current COVID crisis. Union Minister of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying and Vice President of ICAR, Parshottam Rupala talked about the importance of animal husbandry and fisheries along with agriculture. Union Minister of Electronics, Railways and Information Technology Ashwini Vaishnav assured to work in the interest of farmers in collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture. The Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Choudhary stressed creating employment opportunities in agriculture for the youth, getting a fair price to the farmers and developing the best varieties of seeds. He urged the farmers to engage in the processing, packaging, and marketing of their products themselves by joining farmer producer organisations (FPOs) to increase their income. The Minister of State for Agriculture Shobha Karandlaje said the agricultural extension has a special role in providing new information, technologies and advanced information to farmers. ICAR Director General Trilochan Mohapatra said the research body is committed to provide higher education in agriculture, research, identification of new indigenous varieties, development of technologies, filling the gap between lab to land and direct interaction with farmers. Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Agarwal as well as IT and Electronic Secretary Ajay Prakash Sawhney were also present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tomar-urges-farmers-to-take-benefit-of-govts-agri-reforms-launches-kisan-sarathi-app-1009355.html
16-07-2021||National Politics||Trinamool Congress wants Women's Reservation Bill in Monsoon Session||Trinamool Congress on Friday demanded that the Narendra Modi government should bring the Women's Reservation Bill in the upcoming Monsoon Session of Parliament and get it passed. Rajya Sabha floor leader Derek O'Brien said that the BJP in its 2014 and 2019 manifesto had promised to bring the Bill if it comes to power. However, he said, the BJP has not moved an inch on these bills. "Trinamool Congress demands that the Bill be brought in the Monsoon Session. There are 19 sittings during this session and we don't want a delay," he told reporters. Even without any quota, he said, Trinamool Congress has 41% among the Lok Sabha MPs are women while the corresponding figure in Rajya Sabha is 36%. In the upcoming session, he said, his party would raise mismanagement of Covid-19 handling, faltering economy, inflation and fuel price. Riding high on the successive victories in West Bengal Assembly elections, Trinamool Congress is expected to be "super aggressive" during the Session, as the BJP has been its principal political opponent in the state polls. "We will be constructive opposition but at the same time we would not be compromising on our political attack on the BJP," a senior Trinamool leader said. The party will be demanding that new bills should be sent to Parliamentary committees for scrutiny. The party also has objections to a Bill that seeks to ban strikes in defence production units. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/trinamool-congress-wants-womens-reservation-bill-in-monsoon-session-1009368.html
16-07-2021||National Politics||Conversion, farmers' agitation, govt-party coordination, 'dangers from jihadi elements' in focus at UP BJP meet||Farmers' agitation, ''dangers to national security from jihadi elements'', conversion and need for better coordination between the state government and the party organisation were among the issues discussed on the first day of the two-day Uttar Pradesh BJP executive committee meeting, which began in Lucknow on Friday. While the BJP national president J P Nadda, in his inaugural speech, lauded the UP government for bringing back the rule of law in the state and effectively managing the Covid-19 pandemic, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, in his address, referred to the recent arrest of some alleged Al-Qaeda terrorists in Lucknow and said that such elements posed a ''grave danger to national security''. Apparently wary of a possible adverse impact of the alleged 'mismanagement' during the Covid-19 pandemic in the state, Nadda asked the saffron party workers to actively take part in the ongoing vaccination campaign and encourage the people to get themselves vaccinated. He also asked the party leaders to 'maintain' the 'tempo' generated by the BJP's massive victory at the district panchayat president and Block Pramukh polls. Nadda added that the party would felicitate the winning district panchayat chiefs and Block Pramukhs. Adityanath, who spoke at the concluding session of the meeting which was held virtually, said that the 'jihadi elements' had targeted ''deaf and dumb' children to 'convert' them as part of a 'conspiracy'. ''The Opposition has always compromised in matters of national security. They are questioning investigating agencies,'' Adityanath said. He also asked the party workers not to be 'mislead' by the 'propaganda' of the Opposition parties on Covid-19 management and vaccination in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/conversion-farmers-agitation-govt-party-coordination-dangers-from-jihadi-elements-in-focus-at-up-bjp-meet-1009380.html
16-07-2021||National Politics||Centre interfering with Delhi govt's work through Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal: Manish Sisodia||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Friday alleged that the Centre has been interfering with the work of the Delhi government through the lieutenant governor, and described it as "murder of democracy". He said the city government has decided that its panel of lawyers will be public prosecutors in court matters related to the farmers' protest and it comes under the purview of the Delhi government only. "The appointment of lawyers comes under the purview of the Delhi government. The LG can only give his opinion on the Delhi government's decision in rarest of the rare cases. "The Supreme Court has defined the use of this veto power by the LG. Doorstep delivery of ration and court matters related to farmers' protest are not the rarest of the rare cases. This power cannot be used left, right and centre. This is murder of democracy," he alleged at an online press conference. On Thursday, the Delhi government had accused the BJP-ruled Centre of putting pressure on it to replace its prosecutors appearing in cases related to the anti-farm laws stir with those of the Delhi Police. Lieutenant Governor (LG) Anil Baijal has "rejected" the panel of Delhi government lawyers appearing in the cases against the farmers protesting the Centre's three new farm laws at the city's borders, a statement from the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-interfering-with-delhi-govts-work-through-lieutenant-governor-anil-baijal-manish-sisodia-1009384.html
16-07-2021||National Politics||Farmers issue ‘Voters' Whip' to Opposition MPs, ask them to be present in House, raise their issues||Agitating farmers on Friday issued a ‘voters’ whip’ to all opposition Members of Parliament, threatening to boycott them and their respective parties at every public forum if they failed to raise the demand for repeal of farm laws during the monsoon session. “… in exercise of our sovereign right, we direct … that you must not allow any other business to be transacted in the House till the Union Government accedes to the farmers’ demands on the floor of the Houses,” the ‘voters’ whip’ issued by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha said. It asked MPs to remain present, “without fail” in Parliament every day of the monsoon session beginning July 19 and must raise the issues and demands of the farmers’ movement on the floor of the House. The group of farmers, under the banner of Samyukta Kisan Morcha, have been camping on Delhi’s borders since November 26 last year demanding repeal of three farm laws. Government had held 11 rounds of talks with the farmers, who rejected the offer to amend the farm laws to accommodate their concerns and insisted on repealing the laws. The stalemate between the government and the farmers has continued since January, when the 11 rounds of talks ended. The farmers have also asked MPs not to stage a walkout in Parliament as it would allow the ruling party to push through its business unhindered. “...you must return to the House if suspended or removed from the House,” the voters’ whip said. “This may be treated as the Voters’ Whip that overrides the Whip issued by your party. If you and your party defy this Voters’ Whip, the farmers of India will be compelled to oppose you on every public stage just as we oppose the leaders, MLAs, MPs of the BJP and its allies,” it said. The agitating farmers have been mobilising support from across the country and plan to march to Parliament everyday from July 22 to push for their demand for repeal of the farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farmers-issue-voters-whip-to-opposition-mps-ask-them-to-be-present-in-house-raise-their-issues-1009409.html
16-07-2021||National Politics||VHP to raise pitch for central anti-conversion law ahead of UP Assembly polls||Ahead of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections, the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) is set to raise the pitch for central anti-conversion law and freeing temples and mutts from government control. The two-day meeting of the Governing Council and Board of Trustees of the VHP at Faridabad will also take stock of the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya and discuss plans to spread awareness about Covid-19 and the importance of vaccination. “Temples and mutts are a matter of the faith of the people. Their management should also vest with the people and not with the government, as is the case in several states,” VHP General Secretary Milind Parande told reporters. The VHP demand comes against the backdrop of recent arrests in Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat on allegations of forced religious conversions. Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat have brought in laws making forced religious conversions a criminal offence with a jail term of up to 10 years. The VHP leaders will also deliberate on the freedom of monasteries and temples from the control of governments. According to the VHP, the demand for ceding government control of temples has been gaining ground in states such as Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana. The VHP leaders contended that temples such as Tirupati and Srisailam have been governed by people from other communities, which hurts the Hindu society. On the Ram Temple issue, Parande dismissed the allegations of fraud in land acquisition for the temple complex in Ayodhya as “political” which were levelled keeping the Uttar Pradesh elections in mind. “These people have made no contribution to the Ram Janmabhoomi movement. They are opposed to the temple and are now creating hurdles in its construction,” he said referring to the allegations levelled by AAP and SP. The VHP will complete 60 years in 2024 and the two-day meeting will also plan further expansion of the organisation in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/vhp-to-raise-pitch-for-central-anti-conversion-law-ahead-of-up-assembly-polls-1009415.html
16-07-2021||National Politics||Covid pandemic exposed chinks in political system: Chidambaram||Former Union finance minister P Chidambaram on Friday said the coronavirus pandemic has exposed gaping loopholes in the political system, charging that in a corroded diminished democracy, rulers find diverse ways to evade responsibility. He said the pandemic may be contained by universal vaccination or the disease may be cured by discovery of medicines but the question is "Did Indian democracy rise to the challenge of the pandemic and protect the lives, livelihood and well-being of its people, especially the poor and children". Taking part in a seminar on “Global Pandemic and Challenges Before the Democracy” in the Rajasthan Assembly, the Rajya Sabha MP said every political system boasts that it is best suited to address the needs of people. "What the pandemic has done is to expose the gaping loopholes in the boasts. In a true parliamentary democracy system, the prime minister is responsible every day to the Parliament and to people. However, in a corroded diminished democracy, the rulers will find diverse ways to evade accountability," he said. He said faced with any adversity, the weaknesses would have been exposed in due course but the pandemic has exposed these brutally with no scope of excuses or cover-up. The Congress leader further said the rule of law requires multiple institutional support and when government institutions fail and bend before the executive or collaborate with rulers, they aid the executive to subvert the rule of law. When this happens, energies of the rulers will be focused on self-preservation and not fighting the pandemic, he said. The Rajya Sabha MP said it is a challenge to make the legislative branch work to mitigate the sufferings of people. He said challenges to the democracy are not at the national level alone. The pandemic has thrown an unusual phenomenon of vaccine nationalism, he stressed. "What I make is mine, what I can afford to buy is mine is vaccine nationalism," he said. He said countries are not allowing use of other vaccines in order to promote their vaccine. Vaccine nationalism has thrown a spanner in the wheel of global cooperation in fight against the pandemic, he said. Chidambaram highlighted seven challenges, including perils of centralisation in not placing orders for vaccines, design and execution of vaccination programme, resources and allocation thereof, widening of disparity among people. He said the elimination of poverty and reducing inequalities are accepted goals among democratic countries. According to a study, 23 crore people were pushed to poverty in last two years, he said. "The deprivation of school education has been the most devastating impact of the pandemic. Indian democratic governments at the Centre and the states have found no answer to this catastrophe and stand by as helpless spectator," he added. Speaker C P Joshi and Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Gulab Chand Kataria also spoke on the occasion. The chief guest of the concluding session of the seminar, Rajya Sabha MP Dr Vinay Prabhakar Sahasrabuddhe, said democracy is not just a matter of voting, but also about innovation that emerges from discussions. He said India did not restrict freedom of expression even during the pandemic, rather social media and the internet were used for the test, track and treat policy. The media was given complete freedom even during the pandemic in the country. Assembly speaker CP Joshi said at present, in this era of the Covid pandemic, policy decisions should be taken to reduce social inequality, strengthen economic policy and increase per capita income. He said along with India, other countries also adopted curative measures to fight the disease. No one took preventive measures, he said, expressing the need for these. Leader of Opposition Kataria said the pandemic has affected the whole world and the period is most difficult for democratic countries. He said the pandemic does not see pros and cons, religious beliefs, rich and poor. it is most important to strengthen the democratic structure with education and economic activities, he stressed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/covid-pandemic-exposed-chinks-in-political-system-chidambaram-1009421.html
16-07-2021||National Politics||Rajnath Singh meets AK Antony and Sharad Pawar, briefs them on Ladakh border row with China||Ahead of the Monsoon Session of Parliament, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday briefed his two predecessors – A K Antony of the Congress and Sharad Pawar of the Nationalist Congress Party – about the continued military stand-off between India and China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. Singh was accompanied by Chief of Defence Staff, Gen Vipin Rawat, and Chief of Army Staff, Gen M M Naravane, during his meeting with Pawar and Antony, which appeared to be a part of the outreach by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government to the leaders of the Opposition parties ahead of the forthcoming Session of Parliament. The Defence Minister gave his predecessors an update about the talks between the diplomats and the senior military commanders of India and China to resolve the 15-month-long stand-off, which had started in April-May 2020. Singh reached out to Pawar and Antony, anticipating that the opposition parties would raise the issue of the India-China stand-off during Parliament’s monsoon session, which would commence on July 19. Rahul Gandhi of the Congress as well as other opposition leaders have been criticizing the Modi Government on the issue, particularly after New Delhi worked out a deal with Beijing for disengagement of front-line troops from both banks of the Pangong Tso lake in February this year. Though the two sides had also agreed to build on the disengagement from Pangong Tso banks, they could not work out similar deals to pull out troops from other face-off points along the LAC, including Gogra Post, Hot Springs and Depsang Plains. Singh on Friday also briefed Pawar and Antony about the situation along the Line of Control between India and Pakistan, particularly after the two sides agreed on February 25 last to strictly adhere to the 2003 ceasefire agreement and to stop firing at each other’s soldiers and border guards.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajnath-singh-meets-ak-antony-and-sharad-pawar-briefs-them-on-ladakh-border-row-with-china-1009432.html
16-07-2021||North and Central||DH Toon | Irony drowns in the Ganga as PM hails UP's 'unprecedented' Covid handling||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday praised the Uttar Pradesh government for its handling of the Covid crisis and said the way it had controlled the second wave of the infection was “unprecedented”. Describing the efforts of the government in combating Covid-19 as “commendable”, the Prime Minister said, “The way in which UP has controlled the second wave of corona and stopped its spread is unprecedented.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dh-toon-irony-drowns-in-the-ganga-as-pm-hails-ups-unprecedented-covid-handling-1009168.html
16-07-2021||North and Central||Death toll due to heavy rains in Himachal Pradesh rises to 13||The death toll due to landslides and flash floods triggered by the recent heavy rains in Himachal Pradesh has risen to 13, an official said on Thursday.  State disaster management department director Sudesh Kumar Mokhta said as reported by the meteorological department, Bhagsu nullah in Kangra district changed its course due to the heavy rains recently.  The death toll due to landslides and flash floods triggered by the recent rains in the state have risen to 13 so far, he added.  The deaths include seven females and six males, he said.  Two people are still missing and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) is continuing its rescue operation, he added.  Of the 13, 12 people died in Kangra district, while one in Kullu district, he added.  In Kangra district, nine people lost their lives in Boh valley, one each in Nagrota Bagwan, Mcleodganj's Liyun Khad and Baijnath's Baith Khad, he said, adding their bodies had been recovered.  Two people, including one each at Boh valley and Manjhi Khad in Samirpur, are still missing, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/death-toll-due-to-heavy-rains-in-himachal-pradesh-rises-to-13-1009174.html
16-07-2021||North and Central||Two ISJK militants killed in Srinagar encounter||Two local militants affiliated with the Islamic State of Jammu and Kashmir (ISJK) outfit were killed in an encounter with security forces in Danmar area of Eidgah in Srinagar on Friday. Two paramilitary CRPF personnel, identified as Bupinder Sharma and Anis Ahmed, were also injured in the gunfight and have been shifted to a hospital for treatment. Reports said the gunfight erupted when a joint team of J&K police and Central Reserve Police Force CPF) launched a cordon-and-search-operation in Alamdar Colony of Danmar, Eidgh during the wee hours of Friday. The search operation turned into an encounter after the militants opened fire on the security forces, who retaliated. “The slain militants were involved in three incidents that took place in June after which we were tracking their movement. We got a lead about them yesterday (Thursday),” Kashmir police chief, Vijay Kumar said. He said the militants were asked to surrender “but they refused after which an encounter took place in which both the terrorists were killed. As per police list the slain were affiliated to LeT and had later switched to ISJK as per social media reports.” The police said the slain militants were locals from uptown Natipora area of Srinagar and identified them as Irfan Ahmed Sofi and Bilal Ahmed, who had joined militant ranks in December last year. While 16 ultras were killed in May and June, in the first 16-days of this month 20 ultras, mostly from the LeT, have been gunned down by security forces in eight encounters. While all the seven previous encounters were reported in south Kashmir districts of Kulgam, Pulwama and Anantnag, today’s gunfight was first in July reported outside these three districts. Pertinently 78 militants and 18 security forces and J&K police personnel have been killed in Kashmir since the beginning of this year. Out of 78 militants killed this year, 39 belonged to the LeT followed by Hizbul Mujahideen, Al-Badr, Jash-e-Mohammad and Ansar Ghazwat-ul-Hind. Over 200 militants were killed in Kashmir in 2020 while the number was 157 in 2019. In 2018, the number of militants killed stood at 257, the highest in a decade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-isjk-militants-killed-in-srinagar-encounter-1009184.html
16-07-2021||North and Central||J&K bans slaughter of cows, camels on Eid-ul-Azha||In a major development that could stir a fresh controversy, the Jammu and Kashmir government has banned the slaughter of cows, calves and camels on Eid-ul-Azha  (Bakra-Eid) in the Union Territory (UT). The ban on the slaughters of cows, calves, camels and other animals has been communicated by the director of Planning, J&K Animal/Sheep Husbandry and Fisheries Department, to divisional commissioners and IGPs of Jammu and Kashmir divisions. Quoting an official letter from the Animal Welfare Board of India, Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry & Dairying, the letter reads: “In this regard, large numbers of sacrificial animals are likely to be slaughtered in the UT of J&K during Bakra Eid festival scheduled from 21-23 July, 2021 & the Animal Welfare Board of India, in view of animal welfare, has requested for implementation of all precautionary measures to strictly implement the Animal Welfare Laws viz. Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960; Transport of Animal Welfare Rules, 1978; Transport of Animals (Amendment) Rules, 2001; Slaughter House Rules, 2001; Municipal Laws & Food Safety & Standards Authority of India directions for slaughtering of animals (under which camels cannot be slaughtered) during the festival.” “In view of the above, I am directed to request you to take all preventive measures as per the provisions of acts & rules referred above for implementation of the animal welfare laws, to stop illegal killing of animals & to take stringent action against the offenders violating welfare laws,” it added. On every Bakra-Eid, Muslims in Kashmir sacrifice animals worth Rs 500 crore. While most of the people in Srinagar and other urban areas sacrifice sheep and goat, in villages oxen are also sacrificed. Sacrificing sheep, goat, oxen and camels is an important ritual for Muslims on Bakra-Eid. In October 2015, the J&K high court disposed of a petition on beef ban issue, saying that the court cannot direct the state to frame a particular law or enact a law in a particular manner. Despite Muslims constituting 68.3% of J&K’s population, the slaughter of bovines and sale of beef has been banned since the pre-partition era when the then princely state was ruled by the Dogra rulers. In the Dogra era, the ban was strictly enforced across the state. Though traditionally Kashmiris prefer mutton over beef, especially in the urban areas, the order to ban beef in the past was seen as an attack on religious identity- especially in Kashmir with separatists terming it an “interference in the religion”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-bans-slaughter-of-cows-camels-on-eid-ul-azha-1009242.html
16-07-2021||North and Central||Recovery of mobiles from jail puts focus back on lax security arrangements in J&K prisons||The recovery of mobile telephones and other high-tech devices from inside high security Kot Bhalwal Jail has once again put focus back on lax security arrangements in Jammu and Kashmir prisons. On Thursday, Crime Investigation Department (CID) of J&K police and paramilitary during a raid recovered 18 mobile phones, 13 SIM cards, Bluetooth devices, chargers, earphones and other accessories from the barracks of Kot Bhalwal Jail on the outskirts of Jammu city. These devices were reportedly being used by the jailed militants to stay in touch with their colleagues outside and carry out their activities. This is not the first time that such devices have been recovered inside Kot Balwal jail premises. On April 12 last year, three mobile phones and SIM cards were recovered from the possession of jailed militants in a similar raid by the police. Prior to that in January 2019, police had recovered mobile phones, sharp-edged weapons and deep freezers from the same high-security jail, where the UN-designated terrorist, Masood Azhar, was once detained. There are over 500 prisoners, including Pakistani and local militants, lodged in the jail. On March 12, 2018 the National Investigation Agency (NIA) during a raid on Central Jail Srinagar had recovered over two dozen mobile phones, SIM cards, pen drives, iPod and other objectionable items. The Srinagar Central Jail attracted the attention of the security agencies after Lashkar-e-Taiba commander Naveed Jatt alias Abu Hunzullah, who was lodged there, escaped from a hospital while being taken for medical check up on February 6, 2018. In August 2018, the NIA had arrested Feroz Ahmad Lone, a deputy jail superintendent, for allegedly hatching a conspiracy inside Central Prison, Srinagar to recruit youth into the militancy. Immediately after Jatt’s escape, “higher and high risk” category prisoners were shifted secretly from Srinagar Central Jail to various prisons in Jammu region including Udhampur, Kotbalwal and Hiranagar. A probe conducted by a special investigation team (SIT) of J&K police in the conspiracy to kill Kashmiri lawyer and TV panelist Babar Qadri last September had also revealed that it had been hatched in Central Jail Srinagar. “The prisons in Kashmir were already known for being safe heavens for militants and their handlers. However, now the menace has spread to Jammu jails as well. Role of some jail officials in facilitating the entry of mobiles and other items for money can’t be ruled out,” sources said. “Apart from the money factor, there are some black sheep in J&K police, who are working for the militants and facilitating the entry of banned items into prisons. The mobile phones recovered in the latest raid were costlier ones loaded with all applications which gave militants easy access to stay in touch with their associates and pass directions for militant activities,” they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/recovery-of-mobiles-from-jail-puts-focus-back-on-lax-security-arrangements-in-jk-prisons-1009259.html
16-07-2021||North and Central||High Court asks Delhi government to explain steps taken to update family of hospitalised Covid-19 patients||The Delhi High Court on Friday asked the city government to explain the steps taken on the issue of updating family members or attendants of Covid-19 patients about their condition and treatment being provided in hospitals. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh allowed the request of Delhi government counsel Santosh Kumar Tripathi that some more time be granted to file reply to the petition filed in this regard by an NGO. The bench said the government’s affidavit shall include all the steps taken by them in this regard and the future road map and listed the matter for hearing on August 31. The high court had on May 27 issued notice and sought responses of the Ministry of Health and Delhi government on the plea by NGO Manav Awaaj Trust which has contended that presently families only receive news about the death of a patient or demand for deposit of hospital charges. It has said that providing the daily updates about patients' condition would "develop confidence and trust in the system of governance". The NGO has sought a direction to the Delhi government "to frame a policy and/or guideline for communication of status report" every 24 hours to family or attendants of patients about their condition, treatment provided and details of attending doctors. It said the status reports can be communicated via WhatsApp, SMS, email or any other mode or an option can be given to family members or attendants to collect the report from the hospital daily at a specified time. The NGO said there are no guidelines and/or directions to ensure that the attendant of a Covid-19 patient is updated about the condition or status of the patient regularly on a daily basis. "The community at large is losing confidence, trust and faith in the working of the government and private hospitals in the absence of a system or machinery where the attendant is briefed or updated about treatment administered to the patient and actual status or condition of the patient thereof regularly on daily basis by hospital authorities. "Only news reaching them is either of death of the patient or demand for the deposit of more fee. That the family members/attendants are time and again neglected by the hospitals, but for the clearance of bills," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/high-court-asks-delhi-government-to-explain-steps-taken-to-update-family-of-hospitalised-covid-19-patients-1009288.html
16-07-2021||North and Central||Kalyan Singh's health condition improving: Hospital||The health condition of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, who is admitted at the Sanjay Gandhi Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences here, is improving and he is much better now, the hospital said on Friday. Singh, 89, who has also been a governor of Rajasthan, was admitted to the facility on July 4 evening following an infection and reduced consciousness level. He is admitted in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of 'Critical Care Medicine' of the Sanjay Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI), Lucknow, and is undergoing treatment under the supervision of specialist doctors. According to a bulletin issued by the SGPGI on Friday morning, "Today Kalyan Singh's condition is much better than before and his health is continuously improving, he is communicative." "A team of senior doctors, including cardiology, neurology, endocrinology and nephrology, is involved in his treatment. Experts are monitoring the vital parameters and keeping an eye on their daily investigations,” it said. SGPGI Director R K Dhiman is personally supervising his treatment. Earlier, he was undergoing treatment at the Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kalyan-singhs-health-condition-improving-hospital-1009289.html
16-07-2021||North and Central||Amid reports of Sidhu being made Punjab Cong chief, Manish Tewari gives composition of population||Amid reports that Navjot Singh Sidhu, a Jat Sikh, is likely to be appointed as Punjab Congress chief, senior party leader Manish Tewari on Friday gave details of the composition of the state's population, appearing to bat for a Hindu face for the post. His party colleague Pawan Dewan asked the Congress about representation of the Hindu community on key posts in the state unit. Tewari, who is an MP, in a tweet cited Punjab's demography and mentioned that Sikhs constitute 57.75 per cent of the population while Hindus and Dalits constitute 38.49 and 31.94 per cent respectively. "Punjab is both progressive and secular… but balancing social interest groups is key. Equality is the foundation of social justice!" he said in the tweet and tagged the Congress and the party's in-charge of Punjab affairs, Harish Rawat. If the party chooses to appoint Sidhu as the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president then there will be two Jat Sikhs on key posts. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh is also a Jat Sikh. Currently, Sunil Jakhar is the PPCC's president. Congress leader and chairman of the Punjab Large Industrial Development Board, Dewan, sought to know the representation of the Hindu community in the state unit. "Punjab Congress president- Jat Sikh (if Sidhu is made state Congress chief). CM-Jat Sikh. Punjab Youth Congress President- Jat Sikh Campaign Committee Chairman- Jat Sikh Hindu kaha hai (where is representation from the Hindu community)?" he tweeted Earlier this month, Chief Minister Singh had a meeting with several party leaders, mostly Hindu leaders, representing urban areas at his official residence here. Recently, a section of the media reported that Sidhu was likely to be announced as the PPCC chief by the party high command. However, Singh's camp is opposed to making Sidhu the state chief, sources said. There is also talk of appointing two working presidents -- a Dalit and a Hindu. Congress leader Sidhu has been at loggerheads with Singh and he has attacked the chief minister over the alleged delay in justice in the 2015 sacrilege and subsequent police firing incidents. The Congress leadership is working out a formula for Singh and Sidhu to work together.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amid-reports-of-sidhu-being-made-punjab-cong-chief-manish-tewari-gives-composition-of-population-1009310.html
16-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi BJP stages protest near Kejriwal's residence over water crisis||Leaders and workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) Delhi unit staged a protest near Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's residence in the Civil Lines area here on Friday over the water crisis in the national capital. Led by Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta, the protesters raised anti-government slogans. Gupta, Leader of Opposition in Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri and others first gathered at the Chandgi Ram Akhara near Ring Road and then marched towards the CM's residence on Flagstaff Road. The protesters were stopped around 500 metres from the chief minister's house by police, a BJP leader said. Addressing the gathering, Gupta alleged that schemes for water production and distribution announced in the last seven years have not yet started. The Delhi government is responsible for the water crisis in the city as it is in connivance with the tanker mafia, the BJP leader claimed. “The Delhi government, which came to power with the promise to finish the tanker mafia in the city, is now minting money in connivance with them. Piped water supply is not being given in Delhi colonies so that the tanker mafia could flourish," Gupta said. The Delhi government has been blaming Haryana for the shortage of water in the city over the last few days. Delhi Jal Board vice-chairman Raghav Chadha had alleged that the Haryana government was releasing less water than prescribed for the national capital, thereby creating a shortage in some parts of the city. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-bjp-stages-protest-near-kejriwals-residence-over-water-crisis-1009347.html
16-07-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh: Rs 30 lakh relief each to kin of over 2,000 employees who died of Covid during poll duty||The Uttar Pradesh government will give Rs 30 lakh as compensation to the family of each of its over 2,000 employees, half of them teachers, who died due to Covid during the panchayat polls duty. Earlier, the state government had claimed that only 74 government employees, including three teachers, had died during the poll duty. The Uttar Pradesh Prathamik Shikshak Sangh had released a list of 1,621 primary school teachers and other staff, claiming that they died after contracting Covid-19 while performing election duty between April 15 and May 5. The decision came after the government revised it norms. A senior official said of the Rs 600 crore sanctioned for it, the Department of Panchyati Raj released Rs 300 crore to the State Election Commission for disbursement. "We received 3,078 applications for compensation. Of them, 2,020 were found eligible and recommendations to give them compensation were forwarded to the SEC. Among, the 2020 eligible for compensation, 50 per cent are teachers," Additional Chief Secretary (Panchayati Raj) Manoj Kumar Singh told PTI. He said in the panchayat polls, over 11 lakh government employees were put on election duty and among them 65 per cent, over 6.5 lakh, were teachers. The applications were received under revised protocols for determining death on duty from Covid. The protocols were revised after various associations contested the state government's numbers. Under the earlier rules, compensation could be given only if the employee died on duty or during travel to and from the place of duty, which factored in a day or a maximum of two, depending on how far the employee travelled. The UP Cabinet in June approved the financial assistance, including those who succumbed to Covid-19 within 30 days of poll duty, a spokesperson had said. The Cabinet also increased the relief amount from Rs 15 lakh to Rs 30 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-rs-30-lakh-relief-each-to-kin-of-over-2000-employees-who-died-of-covid-during-poll-duty-1009387.html
16-07-2021||North and Central||Kawad Yatra: Uttarakhand to seal borders for kawadias from July 24||The borders of Uttarakhand will be sealed for kawadias from July 24. The Uttarakhand government has decided to suspend the Kawad Yatra for the safety of people in view of the looming threat of the third wave of Covid-19. The borders of the state will be sealed for kawadias from July 24, Uttarakhand Director General of Police (DGP) Ashok Kumar said. However, barring kawadias, there will be no restriction on the movement of others, he added. With the start of the month of Shravan in the Hindu calendar on July 25, kawadias begin to pour into Haridwar in large numbers to collect the holy water of the Ganga. However, as the yatra has been suspended by the state government, kawadias will be stopped at the state's borders and returned from there. The DGP asked police officials to strictly implement the order, saying if a kawadia enters Haridwar defying the suspension, he should be put under forced quarantine for 14 days. The places where they would be kept in quarantine should be identified in advance, he said. Police officials were also asked to prepare a standard operating procedure (SOP) in consultation with the district magistrates concerned in view of the suspension of the Kawad Yatra. The DGP said if a kawadia is seen on the road, he should be sent back by bus or some other means of transport. He also ordered the formation of Kanwar enforcement teams in Haridwar, Dehradun, Tehri and Pauri districts to patrol the streets and enforce law and order during the period of the banned Kawad Mela. kawadias coming by train to Haridwar should be asked to deboard at stations before Haridwar and sent back in buses. The DGP said the IG (law and order) should hold a meeting in Haridwar with DIG-level officials of the neighbouring states to discuss how water from the Ganga can be sent to their states in tankers. Meetings should be held with the Kawad associations and committees to apprise them of the suspension of the yatra and records of such meetings should be kept at the police stations concerned so that action can be taken against the violators under the Epidemic Diseases Act. Shopkeepers in districts should be asked not to sell items related to the Kawad Yatra, the DGP said. However, the state police chief said those coming to Haridwar for immersing ashes should not be stopped. The Uttarakhand government decided to suspend the Kawad Yatra on Tuesday in view of the looming threat of a third wave of Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kawad-yatra-uttarakhand-to-seal-borders-for-kawadias-from-july-24-1009389.html
16-07-2021||North and Central||J&K administration makes u-turn on cow slaughter ban on Bakra Eid||Director Planning of Animal, Sheep Husbandry and Fisheries Departments, G.L. Sharma, said the earlier communication was “misconstrued.” “It was not an order, (but) a letter. The letter was sent to enforcement agencies to enforce the laws of the Animal Welfare Board. This is not a ban on slaughter and sacrifice,” Sharma clarified. In an earlier communication to the divisional commissioners and IGPs of Jammu as well as Kashmir, he had called for banning slaughter of cows, calves, and camels on Bakra-Eid. “ …..large numbers of sacrificial animals are likely to be slaughtered in the UT of J&K during Bakra Eid festival scheduled from 21-23 July, 2021 & the Animal Welfare Board of India, in view of animal welfare, has requested for implementation of all precautionary measures to strictly implement the Animal Welfare Laws viz. Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960; Transport of Animal Welfare Rules, 1978; Transport of Animals (Amendment) Rules, 2001; Slaughter House Rules, 2001; Municipal Laws & Food Safety & Standards Authority of India directions for slaughtering of animals (under which camels cannot be slaughtered) during the festival,” the letter reads. “In view of the above, I am directed to request you to take all preventive measures as per the provisions of acts & rules referred above for implementation of the animal welfare laws, to stop illegal killing of animals & to take stringent action against the offenders violating welfare laws,” it added. The letter created uproar in Kashmir with an association of groups of Muslim scholars calling it “arbitrary” and “unacceptable.” The association, ‘Muttahida Majlis-e-Ulema’, said in a statement that “the sacrifice of permitted animals, including bovines” on Bakra-Eid “is an important tenet of religion on this day.” On every Bakra-Eid, Muslims in Kashmir sacrifice animals worth Rs 500 crore. While most of the people in Srinagar and other urban areas sacrifice sheep and goat in villages, oxen are also sacrificed. Sacrificing sheep, goat, oxen and camels is an important ritual for Muslims on Bakra-Eid. In October 2015, the J&K High Court disposed of a petition on beef ban issue, saying that the court cannot direct the state to frame a particular law or enact a law in a particular manner.  In July 2017, the Supreme Court had also suspended a newly introduced law that had banned sale of cattle for slaughter. Despite Muslims constituting 68.3% of J&K’s population, the slaughter of bovines and sale of beef has been banned since the pre-partition era when the then princely state was ruled by Dogra rulers. In the Dogra era, the ban was strictly enforced across the state. Though traditionally Kashmiris prefer mutton over beef, especially in the urban areas, the order to ban beef in the past was seen as an attack on religious identity- especially in Kashmir with separatists terming it “interference in the religion”. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-administration-makes-u-turn-on-cow-slaughter-ban-on-bakra-eid-1009399.html
16-07-2021||North and Central||Met dept issues warning for heavy rains in Himachal Pradesh||The meteorological department on Friday issued a fresh warning for heavy rains in Himachal Pradesh over the next few days. The Shimla Meteorological Centre predicted rain in the state till July 22 whereas the warning so far had been issued till July 20. For Saturday, the Met office issued a yellow warning for heavy rains, thunderstorm and lightning in the plains, low hills and middle hills of the state. The Met office also issued an orange warning for heavy to very heavy rains, thunderstorm and lightning in the plains, low hills and middle hills from July 18 to 20. The Met department issues colour-coded warnings to alert people ahead of severe or hazardous weather which has the potential to cause damage, widespread disruption and/or danger to life. Yellow is the least dangerous among the weather warnings, whereas orange is for weather conditions that have the capacity to impact significantly. Several parts of HP received light to moderate rains, the department said. Sarkaghat gauged 86 mm of rainfall, followed by 52 mm in Nadaun, 49 mm in Jogindernagar and 29 mm in Baijnath, 27 mm in Sujanpur Tira, 19 mm in Kasol, 16 mm in Hamirpur, 14 mm in Bhoranj, 13 in Rampur, 11 mm in Sarahan, 9 mm in Palampur and 4 mm in Mandi, it said. On Friday, the highest temperature was recorded in Una at 36.7 degrees Celsius, the department said. Tribal district Lahaul and Spiti's administrative centre Keylong recorded the lowest temperature at 12.3 degrees Celsius, it said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/met-dept-issues-warning-for-heavy-rains-in-himachal-pradesh-1009413.html
16-07-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: Rajasthan bans Kawad Yatra, other religious gatherings||The Rajasthan government on Friday issued fresh guidelines announcing curbs on gatherings ahead of upcoming religious festivals to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The three-tier public discipline guidelines 5.0 will come into effect from July 17. As per the guidelines, religious processions of 'Kavad Yatra' and gatherings on Eid-ul-Adha will not be permitted in the wake of the pandemic. Chaturmas festival is organised in many places of the state by the Jain community and many other people. This event lasts for four months. Devotees from all over the world come to participate in this event. Such events will not be allowed in any public and religious place, the guidelines said. They said there will be a ban on all religious events. The government appealed to people to take adequate precautions and follow the coronavirus protocol. As far as possible, stay at home and offer prayers with family members, it said. As per the guidelines, swimming pools will not be allowed to open. Public parks will remain open from 5 am to 4 pm, they said, adding persons who have taken at least one dose (first dose) of Covid vaccine will be allowed to enter parks from 4 pm to 8 pm. All the district magistrates, commissioners of police have been instructed to ensure strict compliance of "No Mask No Movement". The district administration will ensure monitoring of violation of quarantine rules and Covid appropriate behavior in all urban and rural areas, the guidelines said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-rajasthan-bans-kawad-yatra-other-religious-gatherings-1009435.html
16-07-2021||North and Central||NDMC extends last date for payment of property tax with rebate to July 31||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation has extended the last date for payment of property tax with 15 per cent rebate and additional benefit, to July 31, its mayor said on Friday. The last date earlier was July 15. North Delhi Mayor Raja Iqbal Singh said the NDMC has extended the last date of payment of property tax with 15 per cent rebate, along with 3 per cent 'Covid-19 vaccination' incentive for the year 2021-22. As per the 'Covid-19 vaccination' incentive, if all eligible members in a family have been fully vaccinated, then an additional rebate can be enjoyed, over and above the main rebate. Singh said that extension of date would facilitate the genuine taxpayers who could not do it earlier.  On the other hand, the corporation would get more revenues, and the enthusiasm of people for vaccination would also increase hence this decision has been taken in the interest of the public, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ndmc-extends-last-date-for-payment-of-property-tax-with-rebate-to-july-31-1009501.html
16-07-2021||North and Central||Roshni scam: CBI searches premises of 3 IAS officers, others in Jammu, Srinagar||The CBI on Friday conducted searches at nine locations in Srinagar and Jammu at the premises of three IAS officers, a politician and other officials in connection with the Roshni scam, officials said here. The searches were spread across the premises of former divisional commissioner, Kashmir Basharat Ahmad Dar (a 1989-batch IAS officer), Mehboob Iqbal (a 1990-batch IAS officer),  Deputy Commissioner, Srinagar Ejaz Iqbal (a 1995-batch IAS officer) and politician Sajjad Parvez, they added. The case pertains to ownership rights given to alleged encroachers on government land, which is also known as the Roshni scam, the officials said. Premises linked to other officials, including former assistant commissioner, Nazool, Srinagar and former tehsildar, Nazool, Srinagar were also searched. "During the searches conducted so far, incriminating documents including conferment of ownership rights, documents pertaining to several immovable properties located at Srinagar, Jammu, New Delhi, fixed deposits of more than Rs 25 lakh, cash of Rs 2 lakh (approximately), keys of six bank lockers and a number of bank accounts have been unearthed," CBI Spokesperson RC Joshi said. The central agency had taken over the investigation into the Roshni scam on the orders of the Jammu and Kashmir High Court. "It was alleged that the ownership rights of state land measuring around 7 Kanals 7 Marlas situated at a prime location in Srinagar were conferred arbitrarily on an ineligible applicant at a throwaway price, thereby causing a huge loss to the state exchequer. It was further alleged that the land category was also arbitrarily changed by the then public servants, who were members of the Price Fixation Committee (PFC)," Joshi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/roshni-scam-cbi-searches-premises-of-3-ias-officers-others-in-jammu-srinagar-1009507.html
16-07-2021||North and Central||Talking to 'kawad sanghs' to reach right decision: UP govt on annual yatra||Hours after a nudge from the Supreme Court, the Uttar Pradesh government on Friday said it is talking with "kawad sanghs" to take a “right decision” on the annual yatra and reminded that the organisations “themselves” decided to cancel it last year. The statement has come as the Supreme Court on Friday asked the state government to inform it by July 19 whether it would reconsider its decision to hold a "symbolic" Kawad Yatra. "The government was preparing itself for every situation for the Kawad Yatra, scheduled to start from July 25. The government did not want to take any risk. Officers have been asked to talk to 'kawad sanghs' so that a right decision could be taken. The officers are also apprising them of the Covid situation," a statement issued here said. "The government feels that religious sentiments should not be hurt and also there should be safety of people. Last year, 'kawad sanghs' after talks with government themselves decided to cancel the yatra," the statement said. The statement said Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed the Additional Chief Secretary (Home) and the Director General of Police (DGP) to talk to other states. On, state government's request, the SC has posted the matter for Jul 19, it said. The fortnight-long yatra, which begins with the onset of the month of Shravan as per the Hindu calendar goes on till the first week of August and sees a large gathering of people in Haridwar from neighbouring states, including Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/talking-to-kawad-sanghs-to-reach-right-decision-up-govt-on-annual-yatra-1009514.html
16-07-2021||North and Central||Monsoon Session of Delhi Assembly to start from July 29||The AAP government Friday decided to convene a two-day Monsoon Session of the Delhi Assembly starting July 29, officials said. The decision was taken at a Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday. "A two-day session will be convened on July 29 and 30. Subject to exigencies of business, the sittings of the House may be extended," a senior government official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/monsoon-session-of-delhi-assembly-to-start-from-july-29-1009528.html
16-07-2021||Opinion||Uttar Pradesh population issue: Myth and reality||The population of India in general and of Uttar Pradesh, in particular, has been on the rise for years. But realisation about it seems to have dawned quite suddenly on the state government led by saffron-clad Yogi Adityanath only as late as July 2021. In the final lap of his five-year tenure, Adityanath has sought to draft a new population policy, seeking to restrict the family size in Uttar Pradesh to two children. In his bid to justify the need for a check on the rising population, Adityanath said, "Increasing population is the root of major problems, including inequality, prevailing in society. Population control is the primary condition for the establishment of an advanced society." Sure enough, the proposed new law to restrict population barely seven months before the next state Assembly election in February-March 2022 is bound to arouse suspicion that the idea behind it was nothing other than the ruling party's tried and tested poll winning formula of religious polarisation. After all, there can be no denying that the entire right-wing, led by the RSS and its off-shoots, have systematically tried to build a perception that Muslims alone were responsible for taking India's population to unmanageable levels. On his part, the chief minister has repeatedly emphasised that the policy does not intend to discriminate against anyone based on religion. "We don't want to give a message in UP that we are against any particular religion or anyone's human rights. We just want to see to it that the government resources and facilities are available to those who are helping in and contributing to population control," emphasised UP Law Commission Chairman Justice AN Mittal. A retired High Court judge, Mittal was responsible for bringing laws like 'love jihad' and some recent enactments in the name of cow protection. Needless to say how these laws have been used systematically by Adityanath to push his obvious agenda of religious polarisation. Besides RSS leaders, Union minister Giriraj Singh has repeatedly blamed Muslims for India's population explosion. Therefore, it may not be baseless to assume that the new population policy, seen as a precursor to the proposed population control enactment, has a larger political objective.   The draft came close on the heels of the state law commission's recommendation for a new law to restrict population growth. According to the new policy, couples who do not have more than two children will benefit from the various government schemes. The draft has suggested several disincentives for those who do not conform to the new population policy. Anyone with more than two children after the law comes into force would be debarred from benefits such as government-sponsored welfare schemes, and ration card units would be limited to four. A person with more than two children would get barred from contesting elections to the local authority or anybody of the local self-government, says the draft. Those contravening the law would also become ineligible to apply for jobs under the state government and be denied promotions in government services. Neither will they receive any subsidies. These provisions would come into force one year after the date of publication of the new enactment in the gazette. But the question is, are Muslims actually responsible for India's population explosion? According to the Union government's data, Muslims contributed 14.6 per cent in the period 1901-2011, 16.1 per cent (1951-2011) and 16.7 per cent (1971-2011) to India's population growth. The contribution of Hindus in the corresponding periods was 79.4 per cent, 78 per cent and 77.4 per cent. The rest comprised 6 per cent, 5.9 per cent and 5.9 per cent. In 1901, Hindus outnumbered Muslims in India by 164 million, 268 million in 1951, 392 million in 1971, and 794 million in 2011. Thus, despite a lower growth rate but a much higher population, the numerical advantage of Hindus has increased in the last hundred years. At the same time, the population growth rate of Muslims has been declining since 1971 – from 30.9 per cent during 1961-71 to 24.6 per cent during 2001-11, says the National Family Health Survey (NFHS). A more recent study by Delhi-based think tank CSDS discovered that even the fall in the rate of the Muslim population between 2001 and 2011 was higher than that in the Hindu population. As against a 3.5 per cent decline in the Hindu population, the drop in the Muslim population was 4.9 per cent during the same period. And this was even though Muslim women were found to have a higher fertility rate than Hindu women. With a fertility rate of 2.13, Hindu women were lower than Muslim women with a fertility rate of 2.61. So, against 100 Hindu women giving birth to 213 children, 100 Muslim women were giving birth to 261 children. Yet, even at that rate, it would take 1340 years for the Muslim population to become 40 per cent of the Hindu population in India. The study says that India's Muslim population would touch the figure of 39 crore (double of today's Muslim population) in the year 2100 when the country's Hindu population is estimated to be around 157 crore. The right-wing propaganda that Muslims would become 84 per cent of the Indian population is, therefore, a myth intended only to misguide people so that forging a communal divide comes in handy. While the Yogi government was consistently arguing that population control would help in striking a balance between the nation's needs and resources, the fact remains that corrupt officials and politicians devoured a chunk of the country's resources. An effective and meaningful curb on such pilferage could conserve precious resources. (The writer is a Lucknow-based senior journalist.) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/uttar-pradesh-population-issue-myth-and-reality-1009255.html
16-07-2021||Panorama||Women in higher education: A long way to go||The Ministry of Education recently released the AISHE (All India Survey on Higher Education) 2019-20 report, according to which women in India now hold a 49% share in total enrolment in higher education. However, it is important to go beyond the headline numbers and analyse the performance at the micro-level. Women in India are not a homogenous category and their education journey is shaped by socio-religious context. The socio-cultural milieu of Indian society exerts influences on all aspects of a woman's life. Against all odds, women in India achieve a high echelon on the educational front. Women from all sections of society have entered the realm of higher education with full gusto. At all the national-level, there has been an upsurge of 18% in female enrolment in higher education from 2015 to 2019.  Among all the categories of women, the achievements of Muslim women is highly commendable. They have broken the shackles of exclusion and 40% more women have enrolled in higher education in 2019-20 as compared to 2015-16. Similarly, the SC-ST women, for whom schools had barred their doors for many centuries, have also recorded high improvement. ST women increased their enrollment by 38% and OBC women by 30%. However, we need to take this news with a pinch of salt. Is increasing enrolment enough? Can we just sit back and toast to the fact that we are very close to bridging the gender gap in higher education? The answer to these questions is an unequivocal no. As much as there is a reason to celebrate the overall increase in women participation in higher education, the averages hide a plethora of gaps. The news coverage has ignored the misses. The share of Muslim and ST women in higher education, despite improvements, is still abysmally low at 2.7% and 2.8%, respectively. SC women still hold only a 7.3% share. Women in the PWD category occupy only 0.1% of the total higher education seats.  Another issue towards which attention needs to be drawn is the persistent low share of women in institutions of national importance. In these institutions, the share of women is 25% while men occupy the rest. In the 2015 to 2019 period, women’s share has increased by mere 3 percentage points.  The enrolment pattern to undergraduate level (highest numbers of students are enrolled at undergraduate level) seems to follow a gender stereotype where some courses are deemed to be appropriate for women while others are for men. In Arts, the share of women is  52.9%; in science, it is 51.7% and in commerce, it is 48.8%. Although the share of women students is close to men in higher education, their share in the so-called “masculine subjects” such as engineering and technology is depressingly low at 29.2%. It has been pointed out by various reports that the participation of women in the STEM fields (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math) in India has been low. The government has taken various measures to address the low enrolments of women in technical education. One such measure is the supernumerary seat scheme in the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) wherein 20% of seats are reserved for female candidates.  While there is a case to celebrate the improvements in the gross enrolment levels of women in higher education, the devil in the details cannot be ignored and it is vital that the gaps are addressed through policy interventions to ensure that the women are not left behind. Further, the policymakers also need to take cognizance of a lack of transmission of higher participation of women in education to high participation in the labour force. India is among the five worst-performing countries in the world in the domain of economic participation of women. There is a need for a socio-cultural change where society recognises the intrinsic and instrumental values of education in the lives of women. Measures such as “Gender inclusion Fund” and “Special Education Zones” (proposed in NEP-2020) for inclusion of socially and economically disadvantaged groups can be a gamechanger. (The writer is a senior research fellow at Institute for Social and Economic Change)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/women-in-higher-education-a-long-way-to-go-1009158.html
16-07-2021||Panorama||Xi’s speech betrayed an unconfident Chinese leadership||Xi Jinping — China’s President, General Secretary of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) and Chairman of the Central Military Commission— sounded the battle cry for the party and country to prepare for the centennial celebrations of the People’s Republic of China (PRC) in 2049 through his speech on the centennial of the CCP on July 1. The tone and tenor on the grand occasion were shrill at times, catering to the domestic audience, perhaps also designed to enhance the hold of his political faction on the party in the run-up to the 20th party congress next year. Xi Jinping’s speech came at a time when the world is witnessing an unprecedented pandemic that originated in Wuhan, China, in late 2019, causing millions of deaths and the destruction of economies across the world. Combined with what China views as a United States in decline, Xi saw these developments as a “once in a century opportunity” for China. We should then expect more fireworks from Beijing in different directions. A similar “once in a century opportunity” in the 1940s catapulted the CCP to capture State power in 1949 as the two World Wars sapped the strength of the old powers of the world and the nationalists in China, even as a retreating Japan left vast swathes of rich Manchurian lands for Lin Biao’s Communist forces. Today, a United States retreating from Afghanistan and other places provides strategic opportunities for China internationally in the coming months and years. Some of these opportunities, according to Xi’s speech, are expected to come from a “patriotic united front” with Chinese people abroad, but also with those countries that have joined China’s Belt and Road Initiative. This suggests that China will further activate influence operations abroad in the near future. But with some of the 500-odd Confucius Institutes shut down in western countries for their alleged interference in the campuses and the general global backlash over the origins of the coronavirus, the going will be tough for Beijing. Xi repeated his pet themes of China’s national rejuvenation (mentioned as many as 26 times in the speech), the making of a well-off society, elimination of extreme poverty (a debatable claim), upholding unabashedly his own “core” position in the party, converting the armed forces into a “world-class” military to also protect “developmental interests” and “never seeking hegemony.” These are politically loaded terms that are intended to not only consolidate the Party-State hold over Chinese society but also a propaganda tool to approach the international community. Xi’s revisionism is reflected in his placing the Communist Party at the centre of Chinese politics and society by suggesting for the first time that the party “has no special interests of its own”— that is, not even the workers, peasants and soldiers that brought it to power— but that it “represented the fundamental interests of all Chinese people.” He further declared from the rostrum of Tiananmen Square that the party “never represented any individual interest group, power group, or privileged stratum!” In other words, Xi turned the legacy of the Communist Party topsy-turvy, in a bid to position it above societal, factional, corporate groups and thus make it immune from any future criticism. As millions of Chinese protest in what successive premiers of the State Council have mentioned as “mass incidents” every year, the issue of the political legitimacy of the party is increasingly under scrutiny, specifically as China has entered a low economic growth era. The 1989 Tiananmen Square promise of the Communist Party to maintain economic growth rates in exchange for Chinese people not demanding political reform has thus come under strain. Forty years of reforms and growth have brought over 60% of the Chinese population into the urban areas, triggering changes to the CCP’s ethos from being a rural-based “worker-peasant-soldier” alliance to one banking on the urban middle class. The change was noticeable even during Jiang Zemin’s (1989-2002) “three represents” phenomenon of the party representing “majority of the people”, “productive forces” (capitalists) and “advanced culture” (neo-Confucianism). But Xi has gone even beyond these. Another highly nationalist streak in Xi’s speech is denial, nay rejection, of any advice from outside. This, despite the fact that China’s rise in the past four decades has been based on external advice and technical and financial assistance. Xi declared his unwillingness to “accept sanctimonious preaching from those who feel they have a right to lecture us”— clearly in the light of a spate of international sanctions over its record in Xinjiang, Tibet, Hong Kong, and other aggressive moves on Taiwan and in the South China Sea. This suggests that China is likely to put out highly nationalistic rhetoric in the near future, consolidating the domestic audience behind the Communist Party, and also attempt to divide international opinion. While official English translations omitted Xi’s more aggressive talk of “breaking heads” — language he used last during his visit to Nepal in October 2019 soon after the “Chennai Connect” with Prime Minister Narendra Modi — it is clear that legitimacy was sought to be provided for the growing “wolf warrior” diplomacy of China. In doing so, however, Xi betrayed a shaky— not a confident— putative superpower, one that is expecting a “foreign force to bully, oppress, or subjugate” it, despite being the world’s second-largest economy and a growing military power. Xi most immediate battle cry was, of course, reserved for the Taiwan issue, for which he suggested a “resolute action to utterly defeat any attempt toward Taiwan independence.” Of late, China has ratcheted up tension in the Taiwan Straits, with unusually intense sabre-rattling by its naval and air forces, crossing the median line at will and threatening the 27 million people on the island and their recent democratic experiments. But any military aggression on Taiwan would also have ramifications for China’s own rise as Taiwan contributes substantially to China’s foreign direct investment and IT hardware competence.  The centenary speech was meant to prepare China for future endeavours laid out by Xi and the CCP, although in the din of current events, many significant historical and ideological debates of the Communist Party were either ignored or omitted for political convenience. For instance, the Communist Party is credited with having ushered in modernisation with marriage laws, land reforms, transforming agriculture, industry, science and technology and defence sectors, although it has all come at a very high cost to society in terms of State-driven mass death, destruction and distress.   Despite the launch of the “dual circulation” strategy recently— of internal consumption and external export to keep up economic growth— China is a more vulnerable society today, with the ageing of the population despite relaxation of the disastrous one-child policy, at a stage of comparatively low per-capita income and in danger of being caught in the “middle-income trap”, high debt to GDP ratio, rising urban-rural divide indicators, dependence on energy and food grain imports, ethnic unrest, lack of independent technology innovation (despite all the hype) and other issues. To be sure, while Communist parties around the world have disintegrated, the Chinese Communist Party, on the other hand, has grown in strength by numbers from 50 members at its inception to over 92 million now, is in control of vast human and financial resources of the country, and engaged in a “united front” with political dispensations across the world. But it is still vulnerable as an ideological battle against Western democracies intensifies, even as it loses international legitimacy and credibility due to the rise of jingoism, wolf warrior diplomacy and grave human rights abuses. (The writer is Professor of Chinese Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/xi-s-speech-betrayed-an-unconfident-chinese-leadership-1009161.html
16-07-2021||Panorama||Mind your tongue||Man is the only creature who has been endowed with the power of speech. It has been used to shape the ethos of the world we live in from time to time.  A folktale of ambiguous antecedents succinctly endorses the role of our tongues in moulding our personalities. There once lived a great Guru who had a lovely and intelligent daughter. When she came of marriageable age, the father decided to conduct a test to identify an apt partner for his only child. Accordingly, he made a formal announcement of his decision. Smart, young and eligible bachelors in the whereabouts turned up at the hermitage on the red-lettered day. The Guru said that the assessment would be based on their response to two questions that were asked of them. When an attentive silence reigned the premises, the Guru said: “Bring the sweetest and pleasantest thing on earth by tomorrow morning.”  The eager youth hurried out to carry out their assignment. They returned clutching jars of honey, sugarcanes, palm sugar and other sweets. Then came a young man who gave the Guru a casket. When the box was opened, the Guru was shocked to see the tongue of a goat there. When he looked at the young man’s face, he was told that the tongue of the goat represented the human tongue, which is capable of saying the sweetest, most comforting and wisest things. The Guru was pleased. He announced his second question: “Bring the bitterest and most unpleasant thing on earth by tomorrow morning” The crowd dispersed. They came back carrying neem leaves, bitter gourds etc. Then the young man who had pleased the Guru turned up with the same casket. The tongue was still there, it smelt foul. When the Guru grimaced, he was told that the tongue of the goat represented the human tongue, which is capable of saying the cruellest and bitterest words that can destroy the spirit of an individual. It is needless to say the young man won his bride. He also reiterated the power of speech which can make or break relationships. Yet, many of us lose track of mindful speech when we are caught in a swirl of emotions. The memory of this tale will help us speak measured and meaningful words.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/mind-your-tongue-1009162.html
16-07-2021||Right in the Middle||The downside of studying from the back bench||Some studies have found that seating arrangement in the classroom affects the performance of students and those in the back have a disadvantage. I can vouch for that from personal experience.   In 1967, my father, who was in the Army, was transferred to Yol Camp in Punjab. At the new station, I was admitted to class IV of a government school. I had been good at studies until then but lost focus because of the translocation and began to falter. I would often return home with my palm cherry-red having borne the blows of the teacher’s ruler.  Worse still, I was sent to the backbenches. As a result, I fell into the "bad company" which quickly convinced me that studies were for the dummies and mischief-making was the real thing. Backbenches were fun for another reason— From there one could see what exactly was going on in the class.  Fortunately, my father, who used to follow my progress, was too busy those days to pay much attention. So, I regressed further. But, one Sunday— that I cannot forget— he found time to catch up with my progress. When he saw the teacher’s adverse remarks in my notebooks, he was upset. Never the one to spare the rod, he restrained himself that day realising that I alone was not responsible for my situation.   He asked me why I was not doing well. I told him the half-truth that the teacher had relegated me to the backbenches from where I could not grasp anything. “I will come to your school tomorrow”, Father said and left me.      The next day, he came directly to my class and seeing that I was at the backbenches, he lost his cool at what he thought was a patently unfair thing. He asked the class teacher sharply why he had sent me to the backbenches. The teacher objected to my father’s interference in the class and a heated argument ensued after which the two went to the headmaster to complain against each other. I was terribly scared and thought I would be thrown out of the school.   There was a lot of respect for military men back then. The headmaster was, therefore, sympathetic. After hearing the two sides, he made my father apologise to the teacher who in turn agreed to let me sit in the front rows on the condition that my father would follow up my studies henceforth. Father agreed and I was saved. Well, within a short time, I recovered the lost ground. But when I look back, I am tempted to advise all teachers to never relegate a student to the backbenches just because he is weak in studies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-downside-of-studying-from-the-back-bench-1009163.html
16-07-2021||Second Edit||A wrong righted, but Nepal’s crisis continues||Recent history is repeating itself in Nepal, with the Supreme Court reinstating parliament for the second time in five months. However, unlike the judicial verdict of February, this time the apex court has also ordered the appointment of Nepali Congress leader Sher Bahadur Deuba as the country’s 43rd prime minister. Back in May, Deuba had presented the signatures of 149 legislators to President Bidya Devi Bhandari as evidence of support for a government led by him. But Bhandari had rejected Deuba’s claim under Article 76(5) to form a government and, on the advice of Oli, dissolved parliament and called for fresh elections. The SC has righted that wrong now by not only declaring Bhandari’s decision to be unconstitutional but also appointing Deuba as prime minister under Article 76(5). The SC verdict puts Nepal’s constitution, which suffered a series of debilitating blows over the past year, back on track. Some have criticised the verdict as an example of judicial activism, but the verdict was aimed at ending the political impasse. Oli, who tried every trick in the book to cling to power, has finally been ousted. He has no one but himself to blame. When he took charge as PM, he enjoyed unprecedented support; the Nepal Communist Party (NCP) enjoyed a two-thirds majority. But poor governance, his insatiable greed for power, and arrogance contributed to his fall. Deuba finds himself in the PM’s chair now not because of electoral success but because his predecessor messed things up so badly. He takes charge at a time when Nepal is facing multiple crises. Democratic institutions are declining, and the administration has been in a state of paralysis for over a year. The Covid-19 pandemic has hit Nepal hard. Additionally, the economy is in a crisis. While these issues require Deuba’s immediate and focused attention, he will be distracted by the vote of confidence his government is due to face in a month. It is unclear at this point whether he will win that vote as those who backed him in May might not do so now. Oli may be sitting in the opposition now but he still heads the largest party in parliament and can be expected to woo not only CPN-UML dissidents but also Deuba’s opponents in the NC. To win the vote of confidence, Deuba will therefore need to not only hold his flock in the NC together but also ensure that the Rajendra Mahato faction of the Janata Samajbadi Party, which voted with Oli during the trust vote, supports the new government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/a-wrong-righted-but-nepal-s-crisis-continues-1009170.html
16-07-2021||South||Kerala HC to hear Swapna Suresh's bail plea in NIA case on July 29||The Kerala High Court on Friday said it will hear on July 29 all the bail pleas of the accused, including Swapna Suresh, in the case registered by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the gold smuggling through diplomatic channel incident which occurred in July last year. A bench of Justices K Vinod Chandran and Ziyad Rahman A A said it had on Thursday listed similar matters for hearing on July 29 to await the Supreme Court's decision in related pleas. Suresh has approached the high court against the NIA court order denying bail. Opposing her plea, NIA has filed its statement of objections regarding the same. In her bail application, Suresh has said the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act case against her will not standthe test of law. She has also said the trial in the case was prolonging endlessly. The bail applications of seven accused in the case, including Suresh, K T Ramees, Sandeep Nair and P S Sarith,were dismissed by the NIA Special court on March 22. Various central investigating agencies are probing the gold smuggling case after nearly 15 kg of gold was seized at Thiruvananthapuram airport on July 5 last year from a diplomatic baggage addressed to the UAE consulate there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-to-hear-swapna-sureshs-bail-plea-in-nia-case-on-july-29-1009246.html
16-07-2021||South||HC frowns over acquittal of rape accused over a typo, reverses lower court order||Holding a typographical error in recording the word "semen" as Tamil word "semmann", meaning red soil, cannot contribute to the acquittal of a man booked under POCSO Act for sexually assaulting a child, the Madras High Court has reversed a trial court order setting him free. Justice P Velmurugan, before whom the appeal from the victim's mother, challenging the September 2018 orders of the Mahila Court in Tiruvarur, came up recently, also pulled up the trial court judge and the investigating officer for their lacunae. The typographical error had led the trial court judge to treat the semen found in the genitals of the child as "semmann", which was not uncommon on a child playing on the floor outside a house. In her complaint, the mother had stated that there was liquid in white colour in her daughter's genitals. The police official had written it as white colour fluid, like semen. The trial court typist typed it as "semmann", which became wrongly interpreted as red soil. It totally turned the case of the prosecution and admittedly, the defence side had taken advantage of this flimsy ground, the judge said. He also cited the doctor's report, which clearly stated that the three year-old victim was sexually assaulted. Turning down the other reasoning of the trial court there was delay in filing the complaint, the judge pointed out that the mother was an illiterate woman living in a remote village in Tiruvarur district. Her working husband was far away in another village when the offence took place in September, 2017. So it is natural for a hapless woman to not file the complaint in time as she would have been unaware on where to go and how to deal with the matter, the court said. Moreover, sentiments and stigma were attached to the issue. The culprits arrested under the POCSO Act are escaping over technical reasons and unfortunately the Investigation Wing was also not up to the standard. Due to the defect or fault in investigation, in most of the cases, the culprits go scot-free, the judge added. The trial courts also, sometimes not applying their minds, don't exercise their inherent or discretionary power either to order re-investigation or summon relevant records. They only search for proof beyond reasonable doubt, and taking advantage of the flaw in the investigation, the accused were acquitted by giving the benefit of doubt. "But in cases like this, we cannot give much importance to the technical ground of proof," the judge said and set aside the trial court order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hc-frowns-over-acquittal-of-rape-accused-over-a-typo-reverses-lower-court-order-1009266.html
16-07-2021||South||When the pandemic forced a street musician to put his kidney & liver for sale||Before the pandemic outbreak emptied the normally busy streets and turned the city centres into ghost towns, hunger pangs have never disturbed Ronald so terribly like this. No matter rain or shine, he used to travel to crowded beaches and bus stands here in his four-wheel scooter and sing old melodies in his profound voice, which would win him enough for his daily bread and some pennies to save for the future days. City dwellers, for the last several years, had been enjoying the nostalgic songs which he sang sitting under the make-shift roof of his vehicle, to which a sound mixer and a tiny amplifier are fixed. But, when the COVID-19 gripped the world and confined people within their houses, everything went upside down in this differently-abled street singer's life, which even forced him now to put his liver and kidney for sale to find a steady income for food and shelter. A notice board, which he placed on in his tiny vehicle saying that his "kidney and liver for sale," was more than enough to understand the depth of the penury the man was suffering. Two other placards, reading "I am hungry...please give some donations" and "The singer in me has resigned and waiting for his death", would also stare at passersby from his modified scooter. Ronald said he was a street singer before the pandemic and now his condition is not better than a wayside beggar who did not mind eating leftover food from garbage heaps battling with stray dogs. "There is no crowd in the street now-a-days...The once busy roads are almost deserted now. If there are no listeners, how can a street singer like me make out for the daily bread," he asked. The 59-year old singer also said the utter penury had forced him to put the 'kidney for sale' board on his scooter. "There is no other way than selling my organs to live without begging. I hope someone, who is in urgent need of organ transplantation will approach me and give me some good amount after accepting my kidney and liver," Ronald told P T I. He said as he did not know any medical agent involved inorgan donation, he used to roam around the premises of the government medical college here displaying these placards on his vehicle to get some "buyers" for his organs. His hardships have suddenly come under the media glare after some people shared pictures of him travelling on the vehicle, with display boards, on the social media platforms. Once a watch and radio repairer, he said the gnawing hunger recently persuaded him to eat the food waste from the wayside garbage heap snatching away stray dogs. With teary eyes, he also said his only dream was to get food everyday and buy half a cent land on his own, where he can erect a tent and stay without the nightmare of monthly rent. A native of the capital city, the singer wasliving in a rented house near the domestic airport here till the pandemic outbreak. "As there is no way to remit monthly, my scooter is my home...my everything now," he said. For the last 18 long years, he had been singing on the streets besides doing other menial jobs to run his family, which comprised his late wife, two sons and a daughter. Unfortunately, none of them are with him now. Ronald said he had even managed to construct a tiny house using the money which he earned singing on the street but had to sell it off when his children demanded a share when they got married. The daughter is away after marrying a Tamil Nadu native while one son is in jail in connection with a criminal case and the other one is bedridden, suffering from some chronic disease. "It is a great solace that I am getting a monthly disability pension of Rs 1,500 from the government. That's the only steady income. I used to sell the rice, which I get as ration, in a thattukada (wayside shop) for Rs 300," the singer said. To save money for petrol and mobile recharge, he would reduce his expenses for food. "After the pandemic outbreak, I used to buy only one food parcel daily using donations from generous people and would keep it for the whole day," he added. A worn-out mobile phone, bought with the money gifted by a well-wisher, and the rusty scooter are the only assets of this once-popular street musician now. Knowing his plight from the social media, Transport Minister Antony Raju, who is also the MLA of the constituency and Thrikkakkara legislator P T Thomas, reached out to him and offered all support to Ronald who is now banking on the hope thatthe government would extend a helping hand to him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/when-the-pandemic-forced-a-street-musician-to-put-his-kidney-liver-for-sale-1009274.html
16-07-2021||South||Congress alleges CPM-BJP understanding over Kerala gold and hawala cases; NIA calls gold smuggling a terror act||With Kerala High Court on Friday maintaining that many mysteries in the hawala money smuggling case linked to BJP have remained unresolved and reports that BJP leaders are unlikely to be implicated in the case by Kerala Police, Congress alleged that the CPM and the BJP have reached an understanding on settling the gold smuggling and hawala cases. Considering the bail pleas of the accused in the hawala case, the Kerala High Court pointed out that many aspects like the purpose of the fund are still unresolved and a major chunk of the money smuggled is yet to be recovered. The observations assumed significance as it was alleged that Rs 3.5 crore hawala money, smuggled just ahead of the April 6 elections at Thrissur, was meant to help BJP. Even BJP state president K Surendran's statement had been recorded by the Kerala Police recently as those involved in the smuggling were suspected to be in touch with Surendran. Meanwhile, there are reports that the state police have decided not to charge sheet any BJP leaders in the case for want of evidence. Congress president K Sudhakaran and Opposition leader V D Satheesan alleged that the Left Front government in the state and the BJP government at the centre have reached an understanding to settle the hawala money and gold smuggling cases. The recent visit of Pinarayi Vijayan to Delhi to meet BJP leaders including Prime Minister Narendra Modi could be the outcome of such understandings, they alleged. Gold smuggling was terrorism: NIA reiterates The NIA on Friday reiterated its earlier stand that the gold smuggling through diplomatic channels by the UAE consulate's former employees was an act of terrorism. The statement was made before the Kerala High Court while opposing the bail plea of key accused Swapna Suresh. The Kerala High court had earlier granted bail to several accused in the case while rejecting NIA's contention that it was an act of terrorism. The NIA contended that the gold smuggling affected the economic stability of the country and the accused were also aware that smuggling by misusing diplomatic tag would affect the relationship of India and UAE.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-alleges-cpm-bjp-understanding-over-kerala-gold-and-hawala-cases-nia-calls-gold-smuggling-a-terror-act-1009280.html
16-07-2021||South||Moved by boy's plight, Kerala police gift him a laptop||Sending the message that policing is not just enforcing the law but caring for people too, an 11-year-old boy, helping his grandmother sell fish to eke out a living for the family, has been gifted a laptop by the police after his ambition to become a police officer came to their notice. Abhijith, a seventh-standard student hailing from Thiruvallam in Thiruvananthapuram city, has received the laptop from Kerala state police chief Anil Kant the other day. Abhijith's plight came to the police's notice through a section of media. Abhijith and his elder sisters are being taken care of by their grandmother after their parents abandoned them. Their grandmother Sudhadevi used to sell fish to make a living. Abhijith used to carry the containers with fish on his cycle to help his grandmother in her door-to-door morning sales before beginning his studies, online. As Abhijith's ambition to become a police officer came to the state police's notice, they decided to support him. He was even gifted a special police uniform which he wore while visiting the Police Headquarters the other day with his grandmother and sister to receive the laptop presented by the police. State police chief Anil Kant and Additional Director General of Police Manoj Abraham appreciated the boy and advised him to work hard to achieve his ambition to be a police officer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/moved-by-boys-plight-kerala-police-gift-him-a-laptop-1009309.html
16-07-2021||South||Students who failed in Kerala SSLC exam get free biryani, hotel stay||As 4.19 lakh students who cleared the Kerala SSLC examinations are celebrating their success, the 2,236 students who failed to clear it are also receiving moral backing with some businessmen offering free hotel stay and biriyani. A campaign for analysis for the reason for the failure of the students is also gaining momentum as many students who failed, despite the very liberal exam policy, were reported to be either hailing from socially weak backgrounds or suffering from learning disabilities. Moreover, many are also expressing concerns over the quality of students who proceed for higher studies. Kerala government boasts of a record of 99.47 pass per cent in the SSLC examinations of 2021 March that was attended by 4.21 lakh students. The very liberal policy in setting questions and valuation, considering the Covid-19 situation, not only resulted in the record success but also a three-fold increase in the students who got A+ in all subjects. Even then, 0.53% students failed to clear the exam. It was Kozhikode native Sudheesh, who runs homestays and resorts in popular tourist spot Kodaikanal in Tamil Nadu, who came up with a free stay offer for students who failed in the exams. Subsequently, some others also came up with similar offers. A biriyani shop at Mulanthuruthy near Kochi is offering free 'Kuzhimanthi biriyani' to students who failed to clear the SSLC. Sudheesh told DH that social media posts by many students celebrating their SSLC victory made him think of the mental condition of those who could not clear it. He also said that among the several calls he received there were students, including girls, who are from weak social and financial backgrounds. A school teacher in the Alappuzha district said the two students in his school who failed are suffering from learning difficulties. The family backgrounds of many students who failed are also not that conducive for learning, he said. All India Save Education Committee Kerala secretary M Shajar Khan said that an in-depth analysis to identify the reason for the failure of only a few students despite the too liberal policy in the exams needs to be done. He also expressed concerns over the quality of the students going for higher studies. Director of General Education in Kerala, Jeevan Babu said that had the pass percentage in Kerala been lower than that of previous years, then also the government would have faced criticism for not being liberal to students even as the normal education was hit due to the pandemic.  "Kerala SSLC students were evaluated at least by conducting the exams, while in many other boards like CBSE and ICSE, the students were evaluated based on previous performance," he said. He also said that there was no suggestion of an all-pass policy for Kerala SSLC. "The government made maximum efforts to ensure that all students got access to online learning," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/students-who-failed-in-kerala-sslc-exam-get-free-biryani-hotel-stay-1009323.html
16-07-2021||South||K Annamalai takes charge as Tamil Nadu BJP chief||Former Karnataka-cadre IPS officer K Annamalai on Friday assumed charge as President of Tamil Nadu unit of BJP and declared that he would strive hard to take the policies of the party to all villages in the state. Annamalai reached Chennai on Thursday night after a two-day long journey from Coimbatore during which he was greeted by party workers in over half-a-dozen districts. On Friday, he assumed charge in the presence of BJP General Secretary C T Ravi, Union Minister of State and outgoing state BJP chief L Murugan, and other senior leaders of the party. In his first press conference, Annamalai targeted the DMK on NEET and vaccination. Replying to questions, the former IPS officer said he would work for the people of Tamil Nadu till “his last breath” as there was nothing wrong in calling himself a “proud Tamilian and a proud Kannadiga” as he is a nationalist. On Mekedatu, Annamalai said he supported the stand of Tamil Nadu, saying the dam should not be constructed. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/k-annamalai-takes-charge-as-tamil-nadu-bjp-chief-1009448.html
16-07-2021||South||Mentioning Kongu Nadu in bio-data was a 'clerical mistake': Murugan||Union Minister of State L Murugan on Friday sought to put an end to the controversy surrounding ‘Kongu Nadu’, saying the term appeared in his bio-data released by the BJP was due to a “clerical mistake”. “It is a clerical mistake. There is no need to talk about the issue anymore. It is over. Let us not talk about the issue,” Murugan told reporters after his colleague K Annamalai assumed office as President of Tamil Nadu BJP. Murugan and Annamalai suggested that the BJP does not support any demand for bifurcation of Tamil Nadu. “It is like making a mountain out of a mole. The term ‘Kongu Nadu’ was used as a social identity for Murugan Ji,” Annamalai said. The new BJP chief also said he has sought an explanation from the Coimbatore District office-bearers for passing a resolution demanding Kong Nadu. “We don’t subscribe to that,” he said. The ‘Kongu Nadu’ controversy began last week after a profile released by the BJP mentioned that Murugan hailed from Kongu Nadu, otherwise known as the western region of Tamil Nadu. The Kongu region comprises seven districts, and the AIADMK-PMK-BJP combine won 33 of the total 50 seats in the region while the DMK alliance almost every other region of the state. Adding fuel to the fire was a front-page report carried by popular Tamil daily Dinamalar that said the Centre was planning to carve out Kongu Nadu as a Union Territory from Tamil Nadu as a “befitting” response to the DMK government referring to the Union Government as ‘Ondriya Arasu” in Tamil. The Dinamalar report claimed the BJP was toying with the idea of announcing the region into a Union Territory since it enjoys popularity in the region. A few BJP leaders also appeared to support the demand by saying it was the government’s duty to fulfill the aspirations of people, leading to condemnation from across the political spectrum.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mentioning-kongu-nadu-in-bio-data-was-a-clerical-mistake-murugan-1009452.html
16-07-2021||South||IIT-M team undertakes detailed study on Bengaluru-Chennai hyperloop corridor||Avishkar Hyperloop, a team from the prestigious Indian Institute of Technology, Madras (IIT-M), is working on a detailed study for a Hyperloop corridor between Bengaluru and Chennai to assess the economic feasibility of the new technology. Team Avishkar estimates the travel time between the city pair to reduce to a mere 30-minute ride from the current six hours journey by car or train, the institute said on Friday, maintaining that the economic feasibility of Hyperloop in the country is being studied. The detailed study is being carried out after an initial study by the team. The two cities are already well connected by air, train, and road, and the team is studying the cost that will be involved in building the infrastructure for the Hyperloop corridor and its economic feasibility. “Many corporate employees shuttle between the two cities, and this is one of the reasons for us choosing the Bengaluru-Chennai corridor. Hyperloop can also be used to transport cargo and we thought of finding out the feasibility of such a corridor between India's very own silicon valley and its port city,” Neel Balar, Team Avishkar Lead, told DH. He added that the team was also conducting a detailed study on the current traffic between the two cities, besides the impact that the Hyperloop corridor will have on the environment. “We have found that a Hyperloop corridor between the two cities could offset the carbon emissions of two lakh people,” he said, adding that they are studying the sustainability of the model. The institute gave away this piece of information while announcing that the IIT-M team has qualified for the European Hyperloop Week to be held in Spain from July 19 to 25. Due to pandemic restrictions, Team Avishkar will participate in the competition virtually. The team has revamped the pods’ sub-systems with scalable and efficient technologies and manufactured and tested a hyperloop pod prototype during the pandemic. Students part of the team collaborated closely from home and made this possible, the institute said on Friday. Team Avishkar was adjudged as one of the top 21 teams out of 1,600 participating in the SpaceX Hyperloop Pod Competition 2019. This was the only team from Asia to have made it to the finals. Now, the team will participate in the European Hyperloop Week. Avishkar Hyperloop is the student team from Centre For Innovation (CFI), IIT-M, which is working on an indigenous design and development of a self-propelled, completely autonomous Hyperloop Pod in India. Hyperloop is the 5th mode of transportation, a high-speed train that travels in a near-vacuum tube. The reduced air resistance allows the capsule inside the tube to reach speeds of more than 1000 km/hour. More than a competition, the European Hyperloop Week is a confluence of student teams, start-ups, and companies working in the Hyperloop domain, the institute said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/iit-m-team-undertakes-detailed-study-on-bengaluru-chennai-hyperloop-corridor-1009460.html
16-07-2021||South||Relaxations in Covid-19 lockdown in Kerala for Bakrid||In view of the protest by traders against prolonging lockdown restrictions in Kerala, the state government decided to allow most categories of shops to function from July 18 to 20. The Chief Minister's Office informed that the relaxations were granted in view of the Bakrid festival. The shops will be allowed to function till 8 pm. The decision was taken after discussion with representatives of traders who had been strongly protesting against the prolonged lockdown restrictions. At present, shops of non-essential commodities and services are allowed to function only on alternate days, and Saturdays and Sundays are total lockdown. The test positivity rate of the state is hovering around 10 per cent and hence further relaxations are being given.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/relaxations-in-covid-19-lockdown-in-kerala-for-bakrid-1009493.html
16-07-2021||South||Tamil Nadu all-party delegation meets Union Jal Shakti Minister over Mekedatu row||Tamil Nadu on Friday claimed that Union Minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat told an all-party delegation from the state that the Detailed Project Report (DPR) prepared by Karnataka on the Mekedatu project will “not be accepted” as it was done “unilaterally.” Water Resources Minister Durai Murugan said in a statement that Shekhawat also told the delegation that Karnataka would need the permission of Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, and Kerala for going ahead with the DPR.  “The minister (Shekhawat) also told us that Karnataka did not follow any rules vis-a-vis DPR. He told us that Karnataka prepared DPR on its own and has asked us to approve it and sanction permission (for Mekedatu reservoir). The minister said he cannot accept Karnataka’s stand,” Durai Murugan was quoted as saying in an official release. Durai Murugan led a delegation of representatives from 13 political parties to Shekhawat and handed over a copy of the resolution passed at an all-party meeting chaired by Chief Minister M K Stalin in Chennai on July 12. The resolution had urged the Union Government not to sanction permission for Karnataka to implement the Mekedatu project.  The Water Resources Minister said the Union Minister told the delegation that he never gave an assurance to Karnataka on going ahead with the project. “Since they did not follow the rules, the DPR cannot be prepared and permission cannot be given. This was stated by the minister,” Durai Murugan added. The all-party meeting and the delegation’s discussions in Delhi came from the backdrop of Karnataka asserting that it will go ahead with the construction of a reservoir at Mekedatu across Cauvery despite strong opposition from Tamil Nadu.  Tamil Nadu has rejected Karnataka’s claims that the reservoir will not affect Tamil Nadu and its farmers. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-all-party-delegation-meets-union-jal-shakti-minister-over-mekedatu-row-1009506.html
16-07-2021||South||Over 20,000 Covid-19 deaths in Kerala allegedly suppressed||Behanan said that health experts pointed out that actual Covid deaths in Kerala were three times higher than the figure being given by the government. The number of deaths reported by local bodies was also 2.4 times higher than the figures of the state government in May. As per official figures the total number of Covid deaths in Kerala was 15,155. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/over-20000-covid-19-deaths-in-kerala-allegedly-suppressed-1009529.html
16-07-2021||State||Karnataka needs 1.5 crore vaccine doses monthly, CM B S Yediyurappa tells PM Modi||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for “at least 1.5 crore” Covid-19 vaccine doses every month, underlining the severe shortage of jabs against the high demand. Yediyurappa interacted with Modi during a video conference on the Covid-19 situation. “Till now, 2.62 crore vaccine doses have been administered in the state. The chief minister requested five lakh doses every day, which is 1.5 crore doses a month,” a statement from Yediyurappa’s office said. Over the last two weeks, the state has administered about 2.56 lakh doses on average daily, according to official statistics. For the month of July, Karnataka is supposed to receive 59.98 lakh vaccine doses - 49.77 lakh Covishield and 10.20 lakh Covaxin. To face the feared third wave of Covid-19, Yediyurappa asked Modi to not only increase the supply of vaccine doses but also give the state 800 neonatal and paediatric ventilators under the PM-CARES fund. “It was also requested to allocate 40 PSI oxygen generation units for taluk hospitals and decentralize the distribution of liquid medical oxygen. And, Amphotericin-B for mucormycosis and IVIG for children were requested,” the statement said.   During the video conference, Modi cautioned states to not let their guards down with cases rapidly rising in Europe and suggested ramping up health infrastructure. Yediyurappa told him that Covid-19 cases had dropped in Karnataka, with daily numbers as low as 1,900 throughout the state and 400 in Bengaluru. The positivity rate stands at 1.42% and the fatality rate is 1.25%, Yediyurappa said according to the statement. The CM also said the state was getting ready to face the third wave. “We are increasing oxygenated beds and paediatric ICUs in all healthcare institutions. Doctors, staff nurses and lab technicians are being provided. Also, the equipment necessary for Covid-19 treatment has been sufficiently procured. New RT-PCR and genome sequencing labs are being set up,” Yediyurappa said. The CM also told the meeting that deputy commissioners were given full authority to impose restrictions to contain the spread of the virus. Instructions have been issued to ensure Covid appropriate behaviour is followed, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-needs-15-crore-vaccine-doses-monthly-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-tells-pm-modi-1009260.html
16-07-2021||State||Toyota joins hands with Karnataka govt to impart industry specific training to ITI students||Toyota Kirloskar Motor on Friday said it has inked a pact with the Karnataka government for imparting industry-specific skill, culture and knowledge to the Industrial Training Institute (ITI) students in the state. The automaker has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Commissionerate of Industrial Training and Employment, Karnataka government, in this regard. Under the MoU, Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) has been identified as an industrial training provider to develop skilled human resources for manufacturing units and first-time entrepreneurs, to equip them for the high-volume production anticipated in the manufacturing sector in light of the central government's greater focus on Make in India and Atmanirbhar Bharat. Following the agreement, a programme focusing on developing students at ITIs situated in all the 31 districts of Karnataka is being implemented, TKM said in a statement. With the programme, the automaker would enable ITI students to acquire skills relevant to the manufacturing industry and improve their employment potential, it added. The youth will be trained by certified Toyota trainers, having extensive hands-on experience in the globally renowned Toyota production system, the company noted. Upon successful completion of the training, the students will have to take up an exam, which will be jointly conducted by ITI and TKM, to be eligible for an apprenticeship in the automotive industry, it added. "As we continue on the mission to achieve the objectives of Skill India, such collaborations play an important role. Today, the manufacturing industry is rapidly evolving with the advent of emerging technologies and the new normal due to the pandemic," Karnataka Government Secretary Department of Skill Development Entrepreneurship and Livelihood S Selvakumar said. The classroom training and apprenticeship programme being offered under the MoU will help make the ITI students more industry-ready and employable, he added. TKM Vice President - HR and Services - G Shankara said the Japanese automaker has developed models like Toyota Technical Training Institute (TTTI), Gurukul Skill Development Center and National Manpower Excellence Centers, which focus on transforming youth from the rural hinterlands into world-class competitive technicians. "Our mission is to bring about development by sharing our best practices and contributing to society," he added. Bengaluru-based TKM sells models like Fortuner and Innova Crysta in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/toyota-joins-hands-with-karnataka-govt-to-impart-industry-specific-training-to-iti-students-1009293.html
16-07-2021||State||Karnataka forms panel to trace, deport overstaying foreigners||The state government constituted a five-member committee on Friday to crack down on overstaying foreigners. The committee has been constituted following a request by the Ministry of Home Affairs to all states “for tracing the missing foreigners who are found overstaying in India since 01.01.2011”, according to a government order. The committee will be headed by the principal secretary (prisons, crimes, auxiliary services). The Foreigners Regional Registration Officer (FRRO), police superintendent (state intelligence), police superintendents of the concerned districts and a representative of NIC (state coordinator for Immigration, Visa and Foreigners Registration & Tracking) are members. The order states that the committee will trace out the missing foreign nationals, conduct a monthly review of overstaying foreigners, sensitize all district SPs to utilize the e-FRRO facility to locate/trace and report the illegally overstaying foreigners. “A monthly report indicating the status of tracing the missing foreigners is to be sent to the Government of India, Home Ministry by 7th of every month by the said committee,” the order states. The order was issued a day after the Central Crime Branch (CCB) on Thursday rounded up 38 foreigners said to be staying illegally or peddling drugs in Bengaluru. Fourteen of them were eventually let off. The “illegal” expats, mostly from African countries, were detected during a search of 65 houses in East and North Bengaluru, and they failed to produce valid documents. In some houses, the CCB found banned drugs such as ecstasy pills and ganja.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-forms-panel-to-trace-deport-overstaying-foreigners-1009356.html
16-07-2021||State||Karnataka govt has set up board to address animal issues: Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chavan||Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chavan stated that the government has set up an animal welfare board comprising 28 members including ministers and retired judges to strengthen laws aimed at protecting animals. Presiding over a meeting convened to review the progress of schemes of the department on Friday, he said the board will meet once in three months and discuss the implementation of laws and measures to be taken to address the issues related to animals.  He directed the deputy commissioner to identify a place for the set up of go-shala in Shivamogga before October and take steps for the implementation. Ambulance service for cows He said the department has provided 41 ambulance vehicles across the state so that cows could be saved by providing timely treatment to them. The phone number for this service is 1962. Farmers can call on this number so that a doctor will be sent to check the ailments of the animal. In case of emergency, veterinary doctors would visit the place to provide treatment to animals, he added He said the Bengaluru district alone has been given 10 such vehicles. Karnataka is the first state in the country to introduce such vehicles. The vehicle will have an operation unit, laboratory, scanning and emergency treatment unit, medicine and medical equipment. Each district has such an ambulance.  Chavan said to help animals suffering from disease, natural disasters or facing injury by humans, an animal helpline centre has been set up in Hebbal, Bengaluru. There is a plan to establish special hospitals to examine the health conditions of animals.  On cow slaughter, he said preventing the killing of cows is not the duty of the police alone. The officials of animal husbandry and the public too must come together to prevent it.  He said the survey of all grazing lands in the state has been started and deputy commissioners have been directed to clear encroachment of grazing lands. The government will set up a go-shala in each district and it would provide water, and fodder to cattle. He also stated that deserving employees have been promoted and administration has been strengthened. Besides, vacant posts would be filled. He said to strengthen veterinary services across the state, permission has been granted for the construction of buildings. He also directed the officials concerned to submit a proposal to the government seeking approval for the set up of buildings if necessary. He said the Anti-Cow slaughter law will be implemented effectively in the state and those who violate it will face action without fail. He said the department has issued an order directing employees who are serving in other departments to return to their mother department. He also warned that disciplinary action would be initiated against those who fail to return to the department in time. Shivamogga Rural MLA K B Ashok Naik, Malnad Area Development Board K S Gurumurthy, Deputy Commissioner K B Shivakumar, Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer M L Vyshali, Superintendent of Police B M Laxmi Prasad, Additional Deputy Commissioner Anuradha G and Deputy Director of Animal Husbandry Department Shivayogi Eli and others were present in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-has-set-up-board-to-address-animal-issues-animal-husbandry-minister-prabhu-chavan-1009360.html
16-07-2021||State||Karnataka logs 1,806 new Covid-19 cases, 42 deaths||Karnataka on Friday reported 1,806 new Covid-19 infections and 42 deaths, pushing the caseload to 28,80,370 and death toll to 36,079, the health department said. Active cases stood at 31,399. As many as 2,748 patients recovered today, taking the total recoveries to 28,12,869. The positivity rate for the day was 1.18 per cent and Case Fatality Rate 2.32 per cent, the department said. Bengaluru Urban district reported 411 infections, the highest among all the districts of the state whereas there were 10 deaths. The city has so far reported 12,21,371 infections and 15,781 deaths. There were 12,376 active cases. Dakshina Kannada remained a major Covid-19 hotspot with 225 infections and 10 fatalities. According to the health department bulletin, Mysuru reported 174 fresh infections, Hassan 138, Shivamogga 110 and Udupi 105. Other districts too reported new cases. Fifteen districts reported fatalities, while Bagalkote, Ballari, Chikkamagaluru, Chitradurga, Davangere, Gadag, Haveri, Kalaburagi, Koppal, Raichur, Ramanagara, Udupi and Vijayapura recorded zero deaths. The state conducted 1,52,908 Covid-19 tests including 1,22,758 RT-PCR tests and other methods. So far 3.66 crore tests were done cumulatively. There were 1,88,908 inoculations done on Friday taking the total vaccinations to 2.68 crore, the department added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-logs-1806-new-covid-19-cases-42-deaths-1009442.html
16-07-2021||State||Karnataka HC hopes Union govt will look into state’s plea for more vaccine doses||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday said that it expected the Union government to consider the request by the state government for more doses of vaccines to meet the requirement in July and August. Perusing the affidavit filed by the state government, the bench said the state may face shortage of both the categories - Covishield and Covaxin – of vaccines towards administering the second dose. The state government informed the court that a request had been placed on July 13 for release of minimum 30 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine to meet the requirement of second dose in July and August. A special division bench, comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar, said the figures placed before the court clearly indicate that the state may face shortage of doses of both the vaccines. The affidavit by the state said that there are 60.87 lakh people who are due for the second dose of Covishield in July and August and by August 4 the state will get about 41.35 lakh doses. The bench observed that most of 41.35 lakh doses may go to those who are taking the first dose. “Even the figures of Covaxin indicate that the state government may not be able to give a second dose to all the beneficiaries to whom the second dose is due in July and August,” the bench said. The state had submitted that as against 9.83 lakh beneficiaries who are due for a second dose of Covaxin in July and August, the availability is only 7.65 lakh doses tillAugust 3. Meanwhile, the state government submitted that a government order was issued on July 15 granting compensation of Rs 5 lakh to 13 families of the Covid-19 patients who died because of the lack of oxygen in Chamarajanagar on May 3, 2021. The bench indicated that appropriate directions will have to be issued to families of other 11 victims after the report is submitted by the commission of enquiry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-hc-hopes-union-govt-will-look-into-state-s-plea-for-more-vaccine-doses-1009447.html
16-07-2021||State||JSW land deal: Karnataka HC asks state to file statement of objections||The High Court on Friday pulled up the state government for not filing a statement of objections in the PIL challenging the proposal to sell 3,667 acres of land in Toranagallu in Ballari in favour of JSW Limited. On the request of the advocate general, the petition has been posted to Monday for the government to file a statement of objections. During the hearing, a division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, noted that the government has not filed a statement of objections. “The state is not willing to make a statement whether till next date sale deed will not be executed,” the bench said. However, on the request made by the Advocate General, the matter has been posted to Monday.  The court is hearing a PIL filed by K A Paul. The petitioner claimed that the state government has proposed to sell the land at the lowest rate despite the fact that many ministers in the cabinet had opposed the move.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/jsw-land-deal-karnataka-hc-asks-state-to-file-statement-of-objections-1009456.html
16-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Endangered plant species in Karnataka doubled since 2010; 40 mammals now critically endangered: Report||The number of endangered flora in Karnataka has doubled from 16 in 2010 to 32 at present, said a report by the Karnataka Biodiversity Board submitted to the Forest Minister The report also said 40 mammals were facing increased threat. The Board said it formed a committee of experts in 2020-21 to revise the list of endangered flora and fauna originally published by Union Environment ministry in 2010. The revised list has been submitted to the central government, including the National Biodiversity Board. The report said 16 new plants have been added to the list of endangered flora. The Board has classified as many as 40 mammals in state as critically endangered while identified 23 birds, 26 reptiles, 21 amphibians, 53 freshwater fish and 35 salt water fish as species in threatened categories. The expert committee set up by the Board recommended that there was a need to identify the endangered invertebrates in Karnataka. Board chairman Anant Hegde Ashisar said that the list of endangered and threatened species of flora and fauna should be provided to each assistant conservator of forests. “These species should be given priority during the conservation efforts,” he said. Forest Minister Aravind Limbavali received the report and said the department was committed to protecting such plants and animals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/endangered-plant-species-in-karnataka-doubled-since-2010-40-mammals-now-critically-endangered-report-1009141.html
16-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Shobha Karandlaje reviews rain situation in coastal, Malnad areas of Karnataka||Union Minister Shobha Karandlaje on Friday held a meeting with the deputy commissioners of Udupi and Chikkamagaluru and reviewed the situation in both the districts following heavy rains. In the meeting held through video conference, the Minister asked the officials to take up immediate relief work in the calamity-hit areas. Shobha, who is also an MP from Udupi-Chikkamagaluru,  asked the officials to visit all rain-damaged areas and shift people residing in low-lying areas to safer areas. She also asked officials to keep a contingency plan ready to face any challenge. Coastal and Malnad regions in Karnataka have been receiving heavy rains for the past few days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/shobha-karandlaje-reviews-rain-situation-in-coastal-malnad-areas-of-karnataka-1009332.html
16-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM Yediyurappa arrives in Delhi to meet BJP high command||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa arrived in Delhi on Friday to hold discussions with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other leaders. “I will meet the Prime Minister and other leaders and discuss state developmental issues,” the CM said. He also said during his stay in Delhi that he will also meet Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP National President J P Nadda and discuss state political development also. During the national leaders meeting, he will raise the Mekedatu project and explain the urgent need of the project and will seek necessary permission from the Centre. When asked whether discussion on cabinet reshuffle was on cards, the CM said, "I will tell you after the meeting with central leaders."   Yediyurappa's son B Y Vijayendra and Lehar Singh were with the CM during his visit to Delhi. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-arrives-in-delhi-to-meet-bjp-high-command-1009354.html
16-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||B S Yediyurappa meets PM Modi, laughs off buzz of CM change||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday to discuss development projects, an official statement said, but this was widely seen as a precursor to a change in the state’s leadership. His visit to the national capital came days before his government completes two years in office.  When asked about his visit fuelling speculation that he will be replaced, Yediyurappa said, “I don’t know anything about that. You tell me,” and laughed it off.  “During the meeting [Yediyurappa] requested that the Upper Bhadra Project be declared as a national project and also sought financial assistance of Rs 6,000 crore for the Bengaluru Peripheral Ring Road project. The Mekedatu project and establishing a US Consulate were also discussed,” Yediyurappa’s office said.  A person close to Yediyurappa told DH he would neither deny nor confirm the speculation over change in leadership. Yediyurappa, who has been battling dissent by a few legislators, came to Delhi to seek approval for a reshuffle of his Cabinet. However, the top leadership is learnt to have indicated to Yediyurappa’s close aides that he has to step down after completing two years in the office, sources said.  Yediyurappa was sworn in as chief minister on July 26, 2019.  Yediyurappa was closeted with Modi for nearly 30 minutes and told reporters thereafter that he discussed developmental projects. He did not take further questions.  Sources in the BJP said that when Yediyurappa reportedly tried to raise political matters and sought Modi’s nod to reshuffle his Cabinet, the Prime Minister is said to have refused to entertain a discussion, asking him to take it up with Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP national president J P Nadda. Yediyurappa is likely to meet Shah, Nadda and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday before returning to Bengaluru. A senior BJP leader told DH that Yediyurappa will not be allowed to reshuffle his Cabinet.  Former Union minister Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, the face of the anti-Yediyurappa camp, has camped in New Delhi for the past few days meeting senior leaders.   Yediyurappa came to Delhi by a special flight along with his son B Y Vijayendra, MLC Lehar Singh Siroya, a relative Sanjay Maradi and Officer on Special Duty Girish Hosur. No top officials or ministers accompanied the CM like in the past.  Meanwhile, Yediyurappa presented a memento to Modi, which was specially brought from Bengaluru on his special flight, sources said.   Yediyurappa also hosted dinner at Karnataka Bhavan for the newly-appointed Union Ministers from the state - Shobha Karandlaje, A Narayanaswamy, Rajeev Chandrasekhar and Bhagwanth Khuba.  Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi and Finance Minister Nirmala Seetharaman, both Karnataka MPs, were not invited. Yediyurappa’s office clarified that the dinner was for the new ministers only.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/b-s-yediyurappa-meets-pm-modi-laughs-off-buzz-of-cm-change-1009398.html
16-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government allows reopening of medical, dental colleges||All academic institutions in the health and medical education sector have been permitted to reopen “with immediate effect”, the government said in an order on Friday. “Medical/dental colleges, colleges and institutions related to Ayush, nursing colleges and other allied healthcare academic institutions/colleges” are permitted to reopen, Principal Secretary (Revenue) N Manjunatha Prasad said in his order.  Only students, teaching and non-teaching staff who have taken at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine will be permitted to attend college, the order stated. Also, the institutions should ensure strict adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour. Any violation will attract penal provisions of the Disaster Management Act, the order has warned. Last month, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had said that higher education institutions would be opened after vaccinating students and staff aged above 18 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-allows-reopening-of-medical-dental-colleges-1009446.html
16-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sex CD row: State to furnish probe details to Karnataka HC on July 19||The state government on Friday told the High Court of Karnataka that detailed reports of investigation carried out in connection with the FIRs pertaining to the CD case involving former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi will be filed on July 19. A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, said it will go into the question raised about the constitution of the Special Investigation Team after going through the investigation reports. During the hearing, Advocate General Prabhuling K Navadgi gave an assurance that the detailed reports of the investigation will be filed in sealed covers. The complainant woman in the alleged video had filed two petitions before the court. In the first petition, she had sought for direction to transfer the investigation to some other agency. She contended that the SIT has not carried out the investigation in fair manner. She alleged that the SIT was constituted based on a letter by the Home minister to the city police commissioner. This letter of the Home minister was based on the request made by Ramesh Jarkiholi, she contended. In the other petition, she had sought to quashing the complaint with the Sadashivanagar police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sex-cd-row-state-to-furnish-probe-details-to-karnataka-hc-on-july-19-1009450.html
16-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Jagadish Shettar-led delegation visits Gujarat special investment region||A delegation led by Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar on Friday held talks with Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani to make notes on how Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state was implementing the special investment regions (SIR).  Shettar’s study tour, however, drew flak from the Congress and JD(S).  According to a release, Shettar said his visit was to understand how the SIR played a significant role in Gujarat’s industrial growth.  Shettar visited the Dholera SIR, which he said was Modi’s dream project. “It is India’s first planned SIR and the first smart city,” he said. “The SIR has resulted in more investments flowing into Gujarat. Karnataka has also announced SIRs and we wanted to get more information on this. We discussed with the Gujarat CM on the changes that his state had made to the industrial policy and rules,” he added.  Shettar’s team also visited the Gujarat International Finance Tec-City (GIFT City) among other industrial projects and “we observed how they function,” the release said. “During our meeting with the Gujarat CM, we discussed how their land acquisition process worked. We told him about our policies as well,” the release said.  Reacting to Shettar’s visit to Gujarat, former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy of the JD(S) called it “a waste of money.” “All that Shettar had to do was check videos on YouTube on the GIFT City. It has not taken off in the last 10-12 years. Perhaps, even the people of Gujarat have forgotten about it. Instead of looking at the Gujarat Model, we should look within our state where enough models have been created,” he said.  Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar wondered what the Gujarat Model really was. “Is creating joblessness the Gujarat Model? Let the state government go to Gujarat and study, I don’t have any objection. But let them give justice to our people,” he said. “Karnataka has received not even 50% of the Covid-19 vaccines that Gujarat got,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/jagadish-shettar-led-delegation-visits-gujarat-special-investment-region-1009457.html
16-07-2021||West||Heavy rains lash Mumbai, suburban train service hit due to waterlogging||Heavy overnight rains lashed Mumbai and the larger metropolitan region on Friday affecting the suburban road and rail traffic. The arrivals and departures from the Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport remained normal. “Latest satellite image at 8.30am indicate very intense clouds over Mumbai suburbs and Thane leading to some very intense spells in last 3,4 Hrs. Entire Konkan is covered with clouds and North Konkan-Mumbai needs to watched please,” tweeted KS Hosalikar, Head SID, Climate Research and Services, Pune. In Mumbai, water-logging was reported from chronic spots of Dadar, Hindmata and Sion Circle. The services on the Central Railway were hit badly, however, so far, Western Railway traffic has been normal. “Due to heavy rains in Kurla-Vidyavihar-Ghatkopar-Chembur area leading to water level rising on track, trains are running cautiously, 20-25 minutes late on main line and harbour line. The rainfall in these areas from 0000 hrs to 0800 hrs was 130 mm & last one hour more than 40 mm,” the CR said. The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation is on alert mode. Waterlogging was seen in several parts of the city, and the areas around the Mithi River are being monitored. The entire North Konkan area comprising the twin districts of Mumbai City and Mumbai Suburban and neighbouring districts of Palghar, Thane and Raigad which includes the MMR is receiving heavy rainfall.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/heavy-rains-lash-mumbai-suburban-train-service-hit-due-to-waterlogging-1009215.html
16-07-2021||West||Mumbai records third highest one-day rainfall in July since 2009||Mumbai has received 253.3 mm rainfall in the 24 hours ending 8 am on Friday, making it the city’s third highest single-day rainfall in July in the last 12 years, the IMD data has revealed. This 24-hour period rainfall was recorded by India Meteorological Department’s Santacruz observatory in the state capital. On July 15, 2009, Mumbai had received 274.1 mm rainfall, while on July 2, 2019, it had recorded 376.2 mm rainfall, the IMD records showed. Another observatory in Mumbai - Colaba - however recorded only 12.8 mm rainfall during 24-hour period till Friday morning. Both the observatories also pointed out that Mumbai has received more rains than its average rainfall. The Santacruz observatory has reported a departure of 609.1 mm rainfall as it has recorded 1,544.9 mm rainfall since June 1. Similarly, the Colaba weather station has reported a departure of 132.68 mm rainfall as it has received 1,068.4 mm rainfall since June 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-records-third-highest-one-day-rainfall-in-july-since-2009-1009267.html
16-07-2021||West||99.95% students pass Maharashtra class 10 board exams||The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) on Friday declared the results for Class 10 students and recorded its highest ever passing percentage of 99.95 per cent. No examination was held for the Secondary School Certificate examination (Class 10) this year in light of the Covid-19 pandemic and the marks were calculated based on the internal assessment of the students' performance, an official said. "This year, the evaluation was done based on the internal assessment scores, which schools sent to the board. While a total of 15,75,806 fresh students had registered, the board received marks of 15,75,752 students, of which 15,74,994 have passed. The passing percentage is at 99.95 per cent, which is 4.65 per cent more than last year," board chairman Dinkar Patil said. At least 82,802 students, who repeated the class, registered for the evaluation this year, and of these 74,618 students have passed, which is 90.25 per cent, the official said, adding that 957 students have scored 100 per cent marks in the evaluation. According to the board, out of the nine divisions in the state, Konkan division recorded 100 per cent passing percentage, while Nagpur registered the lowest passing percentage at 99.84 per cent. The passing percentage among girls was 99.96 per cent, while 99.94 per cent of boys and 97.84 per cent differently-abled students passed the evaluation. The MSBSHSE will be conducting a CET for admissions to first year of junior college (FYJC), the official said. "Exam forms for CET for FYJC admissions will be made available on July 19. Students have to indicate if they wish to give CET or not. It is optional for all. Tentatively, the CET will be conducted on August 21, but details regarding that will be declared soon," Patil said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/9995-students-pass-maharashtra-class-10-board-exams-1009295.html
16-07-2021||West||Major fire at IISER in Pune; one student suffers minor injuries||A major fire broke out at one of the laboratories at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) here on Friday, in which one student suffered minor injuries, officials said. The blaze erupted around 12.15 pm, chief of the Pune Municipal Corporation’s fire department, Prashant Ranpise, said. "We have sent water tankers to the institute and the work of dousing the fire is going on," he said. An official of the IISER, which located in Pashan area of the city, said that the fire broke out at one of the labs in the chemistry department of the main building. "The reason behind the fire is yet to be known and the fire department personnel are working to bring it under control," she said. No casualty has been reported and nobody is trapped inside. But one student sustained minor burns in the incident, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/major-fire-at-iiser-in-pune-one-student-suffers-minor-injuries-1009298.html
16-07-2021||West||Frame national policy to avoid crowding: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray to PM Narendra Modi||With the Covid-19 pandemic’s third wave looming large and people lowering their guard, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday underscored the need for a national policy to stop crowing at social, political and religious events. "The Centre should conceptualise and formulate a national policy to prevent crowding of public happening in the name of social, political and religious events,” Thackeray requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the video-conference meeting with CMs of Covid-19 affected states. According to Thackeray, crowding is a big challenge as the country fights the Covid-19 pandemic. During the virtual meeting, Thackeray apprised Modi of the ground situation in the state and the measures undertaken by the state government to combat the third wave. "The cases and deaths have come down, however, the situation needs to improve further," he said, adding that vaccination drive is underway in the state. "We are at the tail of the second wave and the situation has not yet been fully controlled," he said. Thackeray pointed out that not only in Maharashtra, but people across the country are moving out of their houses. "Revenge tourism, revenge shopping is taking place. Political gatherings are also taking place," he said, stressing that in such a situation a national policy framework is needed to counter crowding in public places. Check out DH's latest video:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/frame-national-policy-to-avoid-crowding-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-to-pm-narendra-modi-1009308.html
16-07-2021||West||Heavy rain disrupts traffic in Mumbai and suburbs||Heavy overnight rains lashed Mumbai and the neighbouring North Konkan belt slowing down the suburban road and rail traffic on Friday morning peak hours. The arrival and departures from the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport, was, however, normal. During the last 24 hours ending 0830 hrs, the Santacruz observatory of IMD’s Regional Meteorological Centre recorded 253.3 mm rainfall - indicative of heavy rains in Mumbai’s suburbs and part of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. The Colaba observatory, which accounts for south Mumbai, however, reported just 12.8 mm rainfall. Besides the twin districts of Mumbai City and Mumbai Suburban, heavy rainfall was reported from Palghar, Thane and Raigad districts. Even though there has been rainfall this monsoon at staggered phases, an impending water crisis looms large as the reservoirs and lakes that supply water to the city have 18 to 20 per cent stock. The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation is closely monitoring the situation. On Friday, because of the rainfall, there was waterlogging in chronic spots like Dadar, Sion, Hindmata, King’s Circle and Chembur. The Central Railway (CR) services were affected while Western Railway continued to run. The CR’s Main and Harbour lines were affected because of waterlogging along the tracks in Kurla, Vidyavihar and Chunabhatti. People living along the Mithi and Dahisar rivers were put on alert as water was flowing over the danger mark in some places even though water level had receded. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/heavy-rain-disrupts-traffic-in-mumbai-and-suburbs-1009316.html
16-07-2021||West||Sanitation worker clears Rajasthan Administrative Service exam in a tale of grit, determination||From sweeping streets as a municipal worker to becoming a Rajasthan government official, Asha Kandara, 40, has shown what true grit can achieve. A single mother of two, Kandara cleared the Rajasthan Administrative Service (RAS) examination, 2018, the results of which got delayed and were finally declared on July 13, 2021. “I had to go through a lot from a broken marriage, caste discrimination to gender bias. But I never let myself drown in sorrow and instead decided to fight back,” she said. A few years after separating from her husband, Kandara decided to pursue her education. She completed her graduation in 2016. Living with her father, who also worked at the Jodhpur Municipal Corporation, she always dreamed of becoming financially independent and bringing up her children on her own. “… I appeared for the exam for sweeper for Jodhpur Municipal Corporation in 2018 and passed it,” she said. Kandara began preparing for the RAS exam along with performing her duty as a sweeper. She cleared the preliminary exams in August 2018 and it encouraged her to prepare for the final exams. When she finally made it, felicitations poured in from all corners. She was honoured by mayors and senior officers of the same corporation where she worked as a sweeper. Kandara felt proud when she sat with senior officials like an equal, during her felicitation event. “This is what I struggled for,” she said, giving credit for her success to her parents and her determination to succeed. “I want to work for bringing justice to the society as an administrative officer. My endeavour is not just for my community, but for every victim of injustice,” she asserted. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sanitation-worker-clears-rajasthan-administrative-service-exam-in-a-tale-of-grit-determination-1009327.html
16-07-2021||West||Amid heavy Mumbai rains, 250 people shifted as Mithi river swells, local train services hit||Around 250 residents of a slum-dominated area in Mumbai’s Kurla were evacuated on Friday morning as Mithi river swelled up following heavy rains in the city and its suburbs, which also affected the local train services, officials said. However, as water level of the river later subsided, these people returned to their places, they said. “People residing in Kranti Nagar, a slum-dominated area in Kurla west, located along the bank of Mithi river, were shifted to nearby municipal schools after its water level touched 3.7 metres in the morning with its danger mark being 4 metres,” an official of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. Mithi river originates from Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) in Borivali and meets the Arabian sea at Mahim creek. During the 2005 Mumbai flooding, areas around Mithi river were the most affected and Army had to be called in to rescue and shift locals. Hundreds of people had died in the floods that year. The official said that after the rains took a break following the evacuation of people, Mithi river's water level went down to two metres from 3.7 metres. After that, most of the evacuated people returned to their places. Heavy rain pounded Mumbai, especially its suburbs, since early morning, the BMC officials said, adding that Mumbai island city recorded 55.3 mm rain, while 135 mm and 140.5 mm rain in Eastern and Western suburbs, respectively between 4 am to 9 am. A civic official said that the H-East administrative ward of the BMC, which includes areas like Bandra east and Khar east, recorded the highest rainfall of 186.9 mm, followed by 175.5 mm rain in M-west ward that includes Shivaji Nagar, Govandi and Mankhurd areas during those five hours. Due to the downpour, several low-lying areas in the eastern and western suburbs witnessed water-logging, which led to traffic snarls on the arterial roads. As a result of water-logging, mainly between Sion and Vidya Vihar section on the Central Railway’s main line, and Chunabhatti-Tikal Nagar section on the Harbour line, the suburban train services were badly affected. A Central Railway spokesperson said the suburban services on both these lines were hit due to water-logging and it led to bunching of trains. “Due to this, suburban services ran behind schedule and the operations of some long distance trains were also hit,” he said. Meanwhile, the IMD has predicted moderate rain in the city and suburbs with possibility of heavy rainfall at isolated places, the civic official said , adding that the city will witness hightide of 4.08 metres on Friday at 4.26 metres. Tulsi lake, one of the seven reservoirs that supply drinking water to the metropolis, overflowed due to heavy rains, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/amid-heavy-mumbai-rains-250-people-shifted-as-mithi-river-swells-local-train-services-hit-1009328.html
16-07-2021||West||Pilot from Bengaluru killed in Jalgaon plane crash||A flying instructor from Bengaluru was killed while a trainee lady pilot was injured when a trainer aircraft crashed in Chopda in the Jalgaon district of Maharashtra on Friday. The deceased pilot was identified as Noorul Ameen (28). The injured student Anshika Gurjar (22), who is from Madhya Pradesh, had been admitted to a local hospital. She has suffered fractures and is said to be out of danger. The two-seater aircraft of Italian make - VT-BRP - belonged to the NMIMS Academy of Aviation (NMIMSAA) at Shirpur in Dhule, affiliated with the reputed Shri Vile Parle Kelavani Mandal (SVPKM)’s group of educational institutions in Mumbai. The plane took off from Shirpur and crashed off the Wardhi village in Chopda along the Satpura ranges. “We have lost a pilot and a trainee is injured. We are doing everything possible from our side,” Air Commodore Hitesh Patel, the Director of NMIMS Academy of Aviation, told DH from Dhule over the phone. According to him, Italian-made TECNAM P-2008Jc had been given airworthiness and training certificates barely six months ago.   Villagers have reported that the plane suddenly came crashing down. The plane was badly mangled after the crash. Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia expressed shock over the incident. “An investigation team is being rushed to the site,” he said and confirmed the death of a flight instructor and injuries to the trainee, a lady. "Shocked to hear about the tragic crash of a training aircraft that belonged to the NMIMS Academy of Aviation, Maharashtra. An investigation team is being rushed to the site," Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia tweeted.  Shocked to hear about the tragic crash of a training aircraft that belonged to the NMIMS Academy of Aviation, Maharashtra. An investigation team is being rushed to the site.1/2 "My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family & prayers for the trainee’s quick recovery," he added.  According to Jalgaon’s Superintendent of Police Pravin Munde, the crash took place around 1630 hours. The immediate cause of the crash is not yet known.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pilot-from-bengaluru-killed-in-jalgaon-plane-crash-1009357.html
16-07-2021||West||Elgar Parishad case: Allegations against Teltumbde prima facie true, says court||A special court here has said that there was sufficient material to show that the allegations against activist Anand Teltumbde, arrested in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, were prima facie true. The court has also said it does not find the accusations against Teltumbde to be "inherently improbable" or "wholly unbelievable", and prima facie he was involved in furthering activities of a banned organisation. Special judge D E Kothalikar, presiding over matters probed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), made the observations while rejecting Teltumbde's bail application on July 12, although the detailed order was made available on Friday. "Upon perusal of the documents, including the exchange of e¬-mails and the statements of the witnesses relied upon by the prosecution, and after cross-checking the truthfulness of the allegations made against the applicane, this court does not find that the accusations are inherently improbable or wholly unbelievable,” the court said. "On the contrary, I have no hesitation to conclude that there is sufficient material to enable the court reach to prima facie conclusion that the accusations made against the applicant (Teltumbde) are prima facie true," the judge noted. The court further said there is no hitch to record prima facie satisfaction that there is material against the applicant to show his complicity in the crime. It also noted that evidence and documents submitted by the prosecution prima facie indicate that the applicant was prima facie involved in furthering activities of the banned organisation. The NIA had earlier claimed that Teltumbde was an active member of CPI (Maoist) and propagated its activities. "I hold that there is prima facie ample material on record which would reveal active role and participation of the applicant," the court said. Among other grounds, Teltumbde's lawyer, had urged the court to consider the aspect that the probe in the crime has already been completed and the applicant is a well-qualified person. The court, however, cited a Supreme Court order and noted that the fact that that the chargesheet has been submitted against the applicant cannot be used in favour of the applicant, rather it would go against him. "As stated earlier, the courts considering the bail application are required to maintain a fine balance between the societal interest vis-a-vis personal liberty of the accused, by adhering to the fundamental principle of criminal jurisprudence. "In this background, the contention of the applicant that his educational qualification and social background, needs to be considered while deciding bail application, is liable to be discarded,” the judge observed. Teltumbde, arrested by the NIA in April last year, had in January 2021 filed a bail application stating that the theory of the prosecution that he was "waging a war or attempting to wage a war or abetting others to wage a war or incite the public is humbug." Teltumbde is presently lodged in the Taloja prison in Navi Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/elgar-parishad-case-allegations-against-teltumbde-prima-facie-true-says-court-1009364.html
16-07-2021||West||PM Modi inaugurates revamped Vadnagar railway station where he sold tea||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday inaugurated the revamped Vadnagar railway station where he sold tea during childhood and recalled those days, expressing a desire to visit the new-look facility.  Modi’s father Damodardas had a tea stall inside the Vadnagar station in Gujarat's Mehsana district. During his younger days, Modi used to help his father sell tea at the station. “My numerous memories are connected with this station,” Modi said, after inaugurating the redeveloped Vadnagar railway station in his home town via video link. Vadnagar, around 100 km from the state capital Ahmedabad, has become a part of this expansion (of railway infrastructure), Modi said after inaugurating a slew of railways and other development projects in Gujarat. “The new station looks very attractive. Vadnagar has better railway connectivity now as it is part of the Vadnagar-Modhera-Patan heritage circuit which has been converted to broad gauge and electrified,” Modi said. Modi said he wishes to visit all the places he inaugurated, including the Vadnagar station. He also flaged off the Gandhinagar-Varetha Mainline Electric Multiple Unit (MEMU) train which passes through Vadnagar. As Vadnagar railway station is a part of the heritage circuit, the tourism ministry spent Rs 8.5 crore to give a heritage look to the existing station building and its entry gate, an official said. Varetha is a small village in Mehsana district and is close to the famous Taranga Hill, a popular tourist as well as religious place. Till now, Mehsana station was connected with Taranga Hill through a meter gauge railway line. As it was not technically feasible to lay a broad gauge line till Taranga Hill, the Western Railways converted the gauge till Varetha, located 3 km before the Hill. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pm-modi-inaugurates-revamped-vadnagar-railway-station-where-he-sold-tea-1009437.html
16-07-2021||West||PMLA case: Deshmukh's wife submits documents sought by ED||The wife of former Maharashtra minister Anil Deshmukh on Friday submitted documents sought by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with a money laundering case registered against the NCP leader. Indrapal Singh, the lawyer of the Deshmukhs', said the ED summons had mentioned that the documents demanded of Arti Deshmukh could be submitted by her authorised representative. "Accordingly, we submitted all the related documents in the ED office today (Friday)," Singh said, adding that the allegations against his clients were baseless and devoid of truth. Senior IPS officer and former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh had accused Deshmukh, then state home minister, of getting policemen to collect money from bars and restaurants. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pmla-case-deshmukhs-wife-submits-documents-sought-by-ed-1009440.html
16-07-2021||West||Former minister Anil Deshmukh's aide seeks bail in PMLA case||Former Maharashtra minister Anil Deshmukh's personal assistant Kundan Shinde on Friday moved a bail application in a special PMLA court here in connection with a money laundering case registered against the NCP leader. Shinde, who was held along with Deshmukh's personal secretary Sanjeev Palande on June 26 by the Enforcement Directorate, moved the bail plea through advocate Ejaz Khan before special judge SM Bhosle. The court asked ED, which has claimed that Shinde was instrumental in collecting cash from dismissed policeman Sachin Waze on behalf of Deshmukh, to file a reply on the bail plea. IPS officer and former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh had accused Deshmukh, then state home minister, of setting extortion targets for policemen from bars and restaurants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/former-minister-anil-deshmukhs-aide-seeks-bail-in-pmla-case-1009472.html
16-07-2021||West||Fraudster hacks Goa CM Pramod Sawant's Facebook account, sends requests for money||An online fraudster hacked into Chief Minister Pramod Sawant's Facebook account and sent requests for financial help to social media users to his friends, Sawant confirmed on Friday. The hacking came to the fore after a Facebook user, Pramesh Asolkar took to the social media platform, detailing how a hacker, posing as Sawant, asked Asolkar for a loan of Rs. 30,000 returnable within two hours. "I thought it was the Chief Minister who sent me the friend request. But soon as the person asked me for Rs. 30,000 on loan, I realised something was wrong," Asolkar said.Sawant confirmed the hacking episode. "My old account has been hacked. I have given a complaint," the Chief Minister told reporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fraudster-hacks-goa-cm-pramod-sawants-facebook-account-sends-requests-for-money-1009478.html
16-07-2021||West||Sachin Vaze seeks default bail in Antilia bomb scare-Hiran murder case||Dismissed policeman Sachin Vaze, an accused in the Antilia bomb scare-Mansukh Hiran murder case, has moved a default bail plea in a special court here citing failure on the part of the National Investigation Agency to file a charge sheet within the stipulated time. Vaze, who was arrested in March, had recently moved an application seeking bail claiming the NIA had failed to submit a charge sheet within 60 days. The special court had, on June 9, granted two more months to NIA to file a charge sheet. Vaze has questioned the extension granted to the NIA and the court has kept the matter for hearing on July 22. An explosives-laden SUV was found near the south Mumbai home of industrialist Mukesh Ambani on February 25 and Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiran, who had claimed that he was in possession of the vehicle, was found dead in a creek on March 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sachin-vaze-seeks-default-bail-in-antilia-bomb-scare-hiran-murder-case-1009535.html
