17-07-2021||Comment||Supreme Court as a sentinel||Speaking at the Indo-US Joint Summer Conference recently, Justice D Y Chandrachud reflected on “protecting fundamental rights in challenging times” and said “The right to life comes alive only when conditions are provided by the State for the full enjoyment of this right. The right to life is not merely about surviving, but it is to live with dignity.” His exhortation should serve as the guiding principle for the State as well as the citizen.  Justice Chandrachud’s address holds up a mirror to the polity, and therefore to the society that we live in and the challenges that we need to respond to. It urges us as citizens, and the Executive as policymakers, to examine ways to address inherent flaws in how we practise democracy from the perspective of the principles enshrined in the Constitution, and to explore how we might strengthen it. The people themselves need to determine the ways in which democratic institutions— local self-government above all — should be redesigned. We live in a world largely dominated by populist politics; a world that many believe is witnessing a retreat of liberalism in the face of rising nationalism. Populist politics is not just anti-elite politics, or merely a majoritarian politics; in essence, it is about what kind of political discourse is advanced and how people respond to it. Typically, the discourse is almost always that they — the populist leaders—  and they alone represent the silent majority. It is quite simply a non-inclusionary path and constrains democracy. The risks to democracy are not immediately apparent, but it does have two negative consequences: the first is that it enables populists to claim that all other contenders for power do not have the interests of the people at heart. Populist politics is not a disagreement about policies or even about values, which ought to be completely normal in a democracy, indeed even necessary. But populist politicians almost always make the discourse personal, and they make it entirely moral, and that is the pattern that begins to permeate the body politic; and more importantly, gives a fillip to the rank and file amongst the followers. The second, and less obvious, consequence is that populists will also suggest that anybody who doesn’t agree with their conception of the ‘real’ issues —  often of identity and belonging — and therefore also tends not to support them politically, need to answer the question whether they truly belong to the mainstream in the first place. This often manifests in political engagement that alludes to, through subtle messaging, that already vulnerable communities – migrants, for instance — don’t truly belong here. Increasingly, this is manifesting in various forms — reservation for ‘sons of the soil’, reservations on the basis of ethnicity or caste, domiciliary requirements to access rights-based entitlements, political affiliation or denomination-based policies, and such other walls being raised to divide. A recent example is the 25% reservation of seats for locals in a prestigious law school. This pattern reproduces itself across states. As is expected of the Judiciary, the other two arms of the State— the Legislature and the Executive— must also serve as counter-majoritarian institutions, rather than purveying populist majoritarian policies. Long story short, populism isn’t about anti-elitism. Any of us can criticise the elites, that does not mean we are right, nor is it in and of itself a risk to democracy. What does pose risks to democratic principles is the tendency to exclude others, undermining not just the rule of law but running counter to the basic principles of liberty, equality and fraternity. And it has real consequences on the ground, as elaborated succinctly by Justice Chandrachud. One of the lessons that we should perhaps learn is to recognise the political business model of dividing the people, whenever it is deployed -- situations in which at least some citizens feel the choice is stark, and they have to go with one side. Once the political firmament begins to resemble this, we must recognise that we need to strengthen voice and accountability, if we want our democracy to be true. This isn’t just about individual leaders, it has to do with the architecture of our democracy: the health and state of political parties, and of the media – displaying, by design, an unmistakable lack of democracy and the domination of one or a few individuals that influence outcomes. Look at the most obvious example —  the state of the Congress party: the fact that it has morphed into a kind of personality cult, where no such thing as legitimate internal opposition or anything like critical loyalty seems possible anymore. Look closely at media houses, are they democratic? It is not by default that divisive or exclusionary politics of populism emerges. Nationalism and populist politics are two different phenomena. You can be a nationalist without being anti-pluralist. As citizens, we need to make a distinction between conduct that truly undermines democracy and run-of-the-mill policy or political disagreement. To basically say that anything that a particular government does is, in and of itself, resulting in the retreat of liberalism or shrinking of democracy, only leads to a negative-sum game. The common citizen will likely say: they are damned if they do and damned if they don’t, so I’m not really listening anymore. Instead, we need to strengthen institutions, especially those that are indispensable to making representative democracy work— political parties and the media— and think about how these institutions might be redesigned, look different, and uphold those immutable standards that help fulfill their role in India’s democratic future. This is not easy. Until then, to paraphrase Justice Chandrachud: the Supreme Court has to act as the sentinel on the qui vive and respond to the call of constitutional conscience…to address the challenges of the 21st century, ranging from the pandemic to the rise of intolerance, features that we find across the world. (The writer is Director, Public Affairs Centre)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/supreme-court-as-a-sentinel-1009556.html
17-07-2021||First Edit||Coercion and communal intent||The Uttar Pradesh government’s draft bill on population is a poison pill coated with the sugar of good intent. A check on population growth, especially in a backward state like UP, is a desirable goal, but what the bill tries to do is to sound the communal dog whistle to further polarise the society when the state Assembly elections are in sight. The policy that it reflects is intended more to paint the Muslim as the villain who is responsible for the state’s backwardness than to promote the welfare of the society. It seeks to reiterate the bogey of a Muslim demographic war on Hindus by invoking atavistic fears of being swamped by them. The bill is in line with the Yogi Adityanath government’s policies and actions invoking other bogeys like ‘love jihad’ and forced conversions. Though there is no anti-Muslim label on the bill, the statement that it aims to ‘“ensure there is a population balance among various communities” gives away the real intent. The idea of such a ‘balance’ is itself questionable in a state where citizens belonging to all communities have equal rights. Communities need protection only when they are minorities or face threats to survival. So, the legality and propriety of any law that seeks to effect a ‘balance’ between the numbers of Hindu, Muslim or any other community are in doubt. The bill, in its application, however, treats all communities equally, and rewards or punishes everyone equally, as the case may be. It offers incentives for maintaining the two-child norm and prescribes penalties for violations. Anyone who violates the two-child norm will be barred from contesting local body polls and from applying for or getting promotion in government jobs and receiving government subsidies. There is a bigger accent on penalties than on rewards. It is likely that more Hindus will fall foul of the law than Muslims because the former are much more in number. But none of it makes the law fair and free of communal bias because its real aim is to paint Muslims as a threat to Hindu society, and that is served just by proposing the law. It may, however, proportionately hit more Muslims than Hindus. A law is a wrong and unwise means to check population. Families become smaller, without incentives and disincentives, when the social and economic conditions of people, indicated by incomes, literacy levels, women's status, health facilities and access to contraceptives, improve. Coercion is authoritarian and counterproductive. India’s population has been falling and its fertility rates are near replacement levels. The Muslim population growth has been falling faster than the national average. There is no need for a law to curb and control it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/coercion-and-communal-intent-1009551.html
17-07-2021||In Perspective||It's time to implement a four-day work week in India||More than a century ago, American labour rights activist William Dudley Haywood argued that treating employees as merely a means to achieve the goals of the employer was wrong. He was essentially arguing based on philosopher Immanuel Kant’s ‘Categorical Imperative’ approach to principles of morality, which prohibits ‘rational beings’ from using others as means to achieve a certain end, even if that end is for the larger good of humanity. This meant that one shouldn’t use others as a commodity or an object to solely derive benefit from. This principle was rooted in the idea that everybody is equal, and they have basic rights that are inalienable. There is a moral argument to the idea of a shorter work week with reduced working hours for employees in India. Moral considerations, as opposed to economic considerations, should be the motivation behind this change.    This moral discourse, of treating employees or workers as an end in themselves and not as means to achieve capitalistic goals becomes important in an era when globalisation has intensified competition among economies and failure isn’t an option. The fear of failure among modern-day capitalists and investors has pushed them to acquire an extractive mindset – one that is built on exploiting the vulnerability of their employees. One of the key components of this exploitation is making employees work for ridiculously long hours on almost all seven days of the week. Such a mindset is further strengthened by a cultural inertia that rewards longer work hours and glorifies the idea of slogging like a slave. The normalisation of a toxic work culture just adds to the motivation of the employer. In India, this has become an unfortunate reality.    A report released recently by the International Labour Organisation found that the Indian workforce, which is the world’s most resilient workforce, is also the most overworked and underpaid in the world. The average working hours in India is 48 hours a week. Only four other countries average higher working hours. Our society promotes the idea of hard work to an extent that we don’t value the existence and inherent worth of our people anymore. We believe that long working hours is directly proportional to productivity. Our entire education system preaches this to our students who, in turn, find it perfectly normal to try hard and meet those expectations when they become employees of an organisation. Almost all of them consent to be treated as inferior beings to the point that they even brag about overworking. That is precisely why the ILO report found that the educated and well-paid salaried workers in urban India worked for longer hours as compared to their rural counterparts. Has that improved productivity? Several researchers have argued that it hasn’t.   The 2015 OECD Report states that fewer working hours, in fact, increases productivity and simultaneously also increases employee retention. That is why several countries have now started adopting a four-day workweek, with reduced working hours, and are in fact rolling this out as official economic policy. Iceland has successfully tried a shorter workweek policy. Spain, New Zealand, Finland, Australia and several other countries have done the same. Even Japan has jumped on the bandwagon.    Many researchers have argued that a shorter work week with reduced working hours will benefit the economy as it will allow workers to upskill themselves and, in turn, become more productive. They also believe that such a move, during Covid, will allow workers to spend more time with their families, leading them to spend more money, which will help revive consumption in the economy. All these arguments, however, originate from the same extractive mindset where the motivation to ease working conditions for workers stems from the belief that doing so would benefit the economic goals of a nation. So, if working longer hours were to in fact increase productivity, they wouldn’t mind going that way, either.   We argue that irrespective of the outcome and the consequences, workers must not be exploited and that moral considerations alone should be enough to grant workers their due.  Our socio-legal structures need to be based on the presumption that humans have an inherent value and worth that needs to be respected. That humanity needs to be treated as an end in itself. That we must stop obtaining consent for exploitation from vulnerable employment-seeking youngsters, which is vitiated, motivated by information asymmetry and a lack of bargaining power on their part. This is an idea whose time has truly come.     (Anurag Tiwary is an Impact Fellow at Global Governance Initiative and is from the National Law University, Visakhapatnam; Priyanka Singh is from the National Law University, Visakhapatnam)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/its-time-to-implement-a-four-day-work-week-in-india-1009554.html
17-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Six Mangaluru college students arrested for ragging juniors||Six nursing students accused of ragging their juniors were arrested by Pandeshwar police on Friday. The students are Shreelal (20), Shahid (20), Husain (21), Amzad (21), Juraij (21) and Lims (21) of Indira College of Nursing. They were arrested under different sections of IPS and Karnataka Education Act, 1983. The complainant Manual Babu with his friends Jobin and Shakeer had gone to a hotel for dinner on July 14. His six seniors, who were also present in the hotel, ragged Babu by asking him to show respect to them. The six youths had barged into Babu’s flat and also abused him. When Babu refused to remove all his clothes as instructed, they had allegedly assaulted him and issued death threats. Babu told the police that after availing treatment as an outpatient in Wenlock Hospital, he had returned home and informed his parents. On the advice of his parents, he filed a complaint at Pandeshwara Police Station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/six-mangaluru-college-students-arrested-for-ragging-juniors-1009580.html
17-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||No crack in KRS Dam, but water leaks, says retired tahsildar||Retired tahsildar Badrinath said that although the Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) Dam in Srirangapatna taluk in Mandya district had not developed any crack, there was leakage of water from the dam due to unscientific decisions of the government. Badrinath, responding to Mandya MP A Sumalatha's claim that KRS dam has developed a crack said – "though there is no crack, there is water leakage from the dam and water is flowing towards Tamil Nadu." The government has failed to take measures to control the leakage despite several letter communications. According to him, even after 95 years of the construction of the dam, its purpose is yet to be fulfilled. As per the agreement between then Mysore and Madras state governments, it was aimed to provide irrigation facility to 1.25 lakh acre agricultural land, but presently, only 96,419 acre of agricultural land is getting water from the dam, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-crack-in-krs-dam-but-water-leaks-says-retired-tahsildar-1009581.html
17-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Several Lingayats ready to join Congress: D K Shivakumar||KPCC President D K Shivakumar said several MLAs and the workers belonging to Lingayat community are ready to join the Congress.  Speaking to reporters at Kalaburagi Airport on Saturday, Shivakumar stated that former ministers M B Patil and Eshwar Khandre and others are holding discussions in this regard. The BJP leaders feel that the people of Lingayat community is their asset. The Congress too has a galaxy of leaders belonging to Lingayat community, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/several-lingayats-ready-to-join-congress-d-k-shivakumar-1009663.html
17-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||B C Road-Gundya NH work to commence from September||The four-laning work from B C Road to Periyashanthi and Periyashanthi to Gundya is likely to commence from September. The work which will be undertaken in two packages have already awarded to the contractors. The total estimated cost of the project is around Rs 1450 crore. The clearance from the forest department for a stretch of work between Periyashanthi and Addahole is likely to be received shortly, said NHAI-Mangaluru project director Shishu Mohan, during District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee (Disha) chaired by MP Nalin Kumar Kateel on Saturday. The stretch from Periyashanthi to B C Road covers a distance of 49 km while the stretch from Periyashanthi to Gundya covers 15.3 km. As per the agreement, the contractors have two years time to complete, said the Project Director. In fact, the work on the stretch was initially taken up by Larsen & Toubro (L and T). As they went for the NHAI for amicable foreclosure of the proposal, fresh bids were invited for the work on the four-laning of the stretch on NH 75. Water-logging On water-logging below the flyovers at Pumpwell (Mahaveera Circle), Thokkottu, and Kotta Chowki, the DC directed the MCC Commissioner and Ullal CMC Commissioner to appoint a nodal officer to conduct an inspection and work in coordination with the NHAI officials and ensure that water logging issue is cleared. The NHAI Project director informed the meeting that an earth mover has been pressed to service at Pumpwell along with required men to attend any inconveniences during rain. On four-laning of the stretch from Sanoor-Bikarnakatte, Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said that a meeting with the Assistant Commissioner and NHAI will be convened shortly to discuss on the completion of the land acquisition process. The DC directed the NHAI to shift a temple near Kuloor bridge by August end, to commence the work on six -lane bridge at Kuloor. When MLA Rajesh Naik brought the issue of failing to clear the structures by the side of the service road near flyover at B C Road even after paying compensation to the owners, the DC promised to provide police protection to the NAHI to clear structures, which in turn will ease the traffic on service road. The MP and DC took officials from the National Highway division of the PWD to task for failing to float retender for the work on the stretch from Ayyanakatte to Bengamale. After the contractor died, the tender should have been floated again by bringing the issue to the notice of the elected representative and seeking permission from the government, said the DC. The DC also directed the officials to furnish details on the progress of the ongoing works in the district every week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/b-c-road-gundya-nh-work-to-commence-from-september-1009718.html
17-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Tipu Sultan's birth date is December 1, not November 20: Researcher||Researcher Nidin Olikar claimed that his research has confirmed that the birth date of Tipu Sultan, ruler of Mysore Kingdom, is December 1, 1751. Speaking to media persons, here on Saturday, he said till now, it was believed that Tipu was born on November 20 in 1750. "In order to know the truth, I did research on it for many years. Based on the studies I did on official letters written at the instructions of Tipu which are on display in museum in London, UK, I submitted three major documents to the government stating that Tipu's birth date is December 1. Former vice-chancellor of Mangalore and Goa Universities B Sheikh Ali too have approved it. I have appealed to the government to change the birth date of Tipu Sultan to December 1, 1751." Historian Khandob Rao said Nidin was able to study Persian manuscript 'Fathul Mujahidin', written by Zainul Abedin Shustari at the instruction of Tipu Sultan, in the British library during Nidin's visit to London. As per it, Tipu's birth date is December 1. Tipu had asked citizens of Mysore Kingdom to participate in his birthday celebrations. Some manuscripts have details of his birthday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tipu-sultans-birth-date-is-december-1-not-november-20-researcher-1009755.html
17-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Landslide at Kulashekar tunnel: Train services continued to be affected||As the work on clearing the landslide between Mangaluru Junction and Thokur at Kulashekar tunnel is in progress, the train services are continued to be hit. A few of the trains have been terminated at Surathkal while some of the trains have been diverted. The service of Train No 01133 Mumbai CSMT - Mangaluru Junction Express Special were terminated at Surathkal. Buses were arranged for passengers to reach Mangaluru. The train 01134  Mangaluru Junction - Mumbai CSMT Express started its journey from Surathkal instead of Mangaluru Junction. While the service of the Train No 06083 Thiruvananthapuram - Nizamuddin Express Special from  Thiruvananthapuram, train no.02476 Coimbatore Junction - Hisar Express Special from Coimbatore Junction and train number 06338 Ernakulam Junction - Okha Express Special from Ernakulam Junction is diverted via Erode, Renigunta, Ballarshah, instead of Konkan Railway route. The service of   Thiruvananthapuram - Mumbai  Lokmanya Tilak Netravathi Express Special is diverted via Mangaluru Junction - Padil - Hassan and Madgaon. The service of train no 02617 Ernakulam Junction - Nizamuddin Mangala Lakshadweep Express is diverted via Erode, Renigunta, Gudur, Bhopal, Nagpur, Itarsi and Bina. Help desk||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/landslide-at-kulashekar-tunnel-train-services-continued-to-be-affected-1009757.html
17-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||'Nominal charges for water supply under Jal Jeevan Mission'||Piped water supply for rural households, under the Union Government's Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM), will not be free of cost for consumers in the state. Karnataka Rural Drinking Water Supply & Sanitation Commissioner Vishal R on Saturday stated that all water connections would be metered, and tariff is proposed to be around one paisa per litre of drinking water. It is being planned to charge Rs 5 for 7,000 litres of litre per household per month, in first slab of incremental bulk tariff. The tariff is likely to be notified in two months. Charges for water supply under the JJM being implemented in the state would be nominal, and respective Gram Panchayats would use the charges collected, for the maintenance of the water supply system. More than 20 lakh connections would be given under the JJM in the state this year, and there would also be categories like residential and commercial connections. The objective is to supply 55 litres of pure water to each person per day. The project implementation has to be completed in 2024, he said. Belagavi, Chamarajnagar and Mysuru are among the districts where the project implementation is going on in full speed, Dr Vishal informed. Efforts are also being made in association with other departments to ensure proper waste treatment at religious places like Kollur, Savadatti, Kateel and Ganagapur, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/nominal-charges-for-water-supply-under-jal-jeevan-mission-1009782.html
17-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Kambala racer Srinivas Gowda gets threatening call||Kambala racer Srinivas Gowda, also known as Usain Bolt of Kambala, has received a threatening call. A person called Gowda over the mobile phone number, issued the threat, used abusive words and said he would teach the racer the history of Kambala, which is an annual buffalo race. An audio clip of the purported conversation has gone viral on social media. The caller, introducing himself as Prashanth Bangera belonging to a caste outfit, asked Gowda to meet him at his office in the city. The racer expressed his inability to meet him there and said they can meet at Moodbidri, 34 km away. Then, Bangera says: "I will come. But when you come, shield your back and bring your fans." Following this, Gowda lodged a police complaint. Umanath Kotian, an MLA, and Abhayachandra Jain, former Minister, condemned the incident. The MLA said he would ask the police to take action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kambala-racer-srinivas-gowda-gets-threatening-call-1009805.html
17-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Sumalatha urges Governor to intervene in row over alleged illegal mining near KRS dam||Mandya MP Sumalatha Ambareesh, who has been recently raising concerns over alleged illegal mining around the KRS dam, met Governor Tawarchand Gehlot on Saturday, urging him to look into the issue at the earliest. In her petition to the governor, she stated: "Despite Supreme Court's historical judgment pertaining to KRS reservoir’s safety concern due to hazardous blasts in its vicinity... it appears there is uninterrupted illegal mining and blast occurrences dawn and dusk creating unrest to the denizens of the region." The illegal mining has caused pollution, damaging houses in the vicinity. It has contaminated potable water and has created livestock fodder scarcity, she stated. In her recent visit to the area, she found that many houses had partially collapsed owing to the blasts, she stated, urging the governor to look into the issue. Speaking to reporters after meeting Gehlot, Sumalatha said she had explained the situation of illegal mining to the governor. "He gave me some suggestions. He said he will forward my memorandum to the government," she said. The government has to take the matter seriously as the blasts are happening just about 6.5 km from the KRS dam, Sumalatha added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sumalatha-urges-governor-to-intervene-in-row-over-alleged-illegal-mining-near-krs-dam-1009855.html
17-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||What was in those bags B S Yediyurappa carried to Delhi? H D Kumaraswamy asks||JD(S) leader HD Kumaraswamy on Saturday said Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa’s meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi piqued his curiosity. “According to my information, Yediyurappa had six bags with him. What was in those bags?” Kumaraswamy wondered, amid speculation that Yediyurappa was on his way out. "It piques one's curiosity. Was Yediyurappa carrying six bags full of documents on issues faced by Karnataka? Or, was it something else? Media reports claimed that these were gifts. Did these bags go in with Yediyurappa when he met the PM?" he asked, taking a dig at Yediyurappa's meeting with Modi. The former chief minister was speaking after holding a district-level meeting with the party cadre. The party is conducting district-level meetings for the past three days, he said. "We will fight the Zilla Panchayat and Taluk Panchayat elections fiercely. This is like the semi-finals ahead of the Assembly elections. I have urged all party members to spend time with people at the ground level," he stated. Regional issues will be the party's electoral plank in the next elections, Kumaraswamy said, giving an instance of the Mekedatu and Mahadayi projects that are stuck in disputes. "Yediyurappa recently claimed that Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat was here to discuss Mekedatu and Mahadayi issues, whereas he was here only to review the implementation of Jal Jeevan Mission project. The same Union minister has told the Tamil Nadu minister that Mekedatu still has a long way to go before being approved. This shows that the Centre is not serious about Karnataka's interests," Kumaraswamy alleged, reiterating that Karnataka did not need "high command" administration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/what-was-in-those-bags-b-s-yediyurappa-carried-to-delhi-h-d-kumaraswamy-asks-1009786.html
17-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka govt creates Vokkaliga Development Board||The B S Yediyurappa administration on Saturday ordered the establishment of a Vokkaliga Development Board, which the chief minister had promised in the 2021-22 budget with an outlay of Rs 500 crore. The government order said the Board will be constituted for the welfare of all the sub-sects that are included in the Vokkaliga community: Vokkaliga, Sarpa Vokkaliga, Vakkaliga, Hallikar Vokkaliga, Namdhari Vokkaliga, Gangadkar Vokkaliga, Das Vokkaliga, Reddy Vokkaliga, Marasu Vokkaliga, Gouda, Gowda, Kunchatiga, Kaapu, Heggade, Kamma, Reddy, Goundar, Namadhari Gowda, Uppina Kolaga and Uttama Kolaga. A separate notification will be issued for jobs in the Vokkaliga Development Board, the order stated. Vokkaligas are seen as a politically-dominant community. They are estimated to make up for about 15% of the state's population, pegging their influence at par with the Lingayats. The ruling BJP has been making moves to win over this community whose votes are decisive in the Old Mysuru region. Last year, the government formed the Veerashaiva Lingayat Development Board and Kadu Golla Development Board.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-govt-creates-vokkaliga-development-board-1009837.html
17-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||D K Shivakumar, Siddaramaiah get call from Congress high command, to leave for Delhi on Monday||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah and Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar are scheduled leave for New Delhi on Monday following a call from the high command. According to sources, the high command wants to discuss with Siddaramaiah and Shivakumar their one-upmanship. Both of them have been seen to be at loggerheads, especially after a section of MLAs projected Siddaramaiah as the next chief minister if the Congress comes to power. AICC general secretary Dinesh Gundu Rao is slated to meet Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday. On Friday evening, Siddaramaiah participated in a meeting in Shivakumar’s house along with other leaders to discuss the impending BBMP elections. The meeting itself was seen as an attempt to show unity in the party. Congress leaders discussed the need to be prepared for the BBMP polls. “The BJP is in no mood to hold the election, but their own councillors are in favour of polls. Our PIL is pending before the Supreme Court, so let’s keep at it,” a source said, describing one conversation in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/d-k-shivakumar-siddaramaiah-get-call-from-congress-high-command-to-leave-for-delhi-on-monday-1009858.html
17-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||From Puttur to parliament: Shobha Karandlaje’s inspiring success story||Udupi-Chickmagalur MP Shobha Karandlaje, who recently joined the union council of ministers, summed up her journey thus: “I have reached Dilli from halli (village).”  She is among the 11 women members in the council of ministers. Known as a ‘firebrand’ who has landed herself in several controversies, Shobha, 54, is among the very few women from Karnataka to have been inducted as a union minister. She is now minister of state for agriculture and farmers’ welfare.  Born in Puttur, Shobha has a double masters degree in social work and sociology. It was former MLA A J Kodgi who introduced her to B S Yediyurappa in the 1990s and she was eventually made incharge of the BJP Mahila Morcha. Before this, she was an RSS pracharak in Mangaluru. Senior BJP leader and former MLC Ramachandre Gowda is among those who nurtured her career in the initial years. “Her political journey began with her first ever public speech at an election rally in Koratagere,” he says, recalling he was impressed with her clarity of thought. From thereon, Gowda would take her to public events and training programmes for BJP cadre. Gowda credits her as someone who had an equal role to the late Ananth Kumar in strengthening the BJP in Karnataka. In 2004, Shobha became an MLC for the first time. She contested the 2008 Assembly elections from Yeshwantpur and won. She was made the RDPR minister. She was later made the energy and food and civil supplies minister in the Jagadish Shettar government. With this, Shobha became the only woman to hold the coveted energy portfolio. A Yediyurappa loyalist, Shobha followed him to the Karnataka Janata Party (KJP). In 2014, she was back in BJP with Yediyurappa and contested the Lok Sabha polls from Udupi-Chikkamagaluru constituency and won. In 2019, she was re-elected by a huge margin of 2.4 lakh votes.  However, it is widely believed that she has kept distance from Yediyurappa, of late. But her proximity to Yediyurappa, especially during his regime in 2008, caused several ministers to complain about her “undue interference” in administrative matters. Undeterred, she established herself as his trusted aide. She was chosen to head the flood relief works in 2009 and was even sent to airlift the Mantralaya seer who was stuck in floods. It’s believed she even edited many of Yediyurappa’s public speeches.  She made a mark as the RDPR and later the energy minister. Former Tumkur Rural MLA Suresh Gowda says, “She introduced a pilot scheme assuring one transformer to every irrigation pumpset, to provide relief to farmers. This saw a huge success.”  Her staunch Hindutva leanings have often landed her in controversies.  In 2020, she was booked by the Kerala police for a tweet where she claimed that Hindu families in Malappuram were not given water for supporting the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). In 2017, she was booked by the Karnataka police for an inflammatory post where she accused the then CM Siddaramaiah of supporting “jihadis who tried to rape a girl in Honnavar.”  In an apparent bid to start with a clean slate, she deleted her old tweets ahead of taking oath as a union minister. The BJP seems to have struck at several election vantage points with her appointment. She is now the Vokkaliga face in the union ministry, replacing former minister D V Sadananda Gowda, a move likely to secure Vokkaliga votes for the party. Her supporters, who resented her being “sidelined” in recent years, see her appointment as a vindication. Shobha believes her loyalty to the Sangh was crucial. “RSS is my strength. I believe that has worked in my favour,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/from-puttur-to-parliament-shobha-karandlaje-s-inspiring-success-story-1009859.html
17-07-2021||National||DH Toon | Do-it-yourself Olympic medal ceremony inspired by Indian government?||Athletes at the Tokyo Olympics will put their medals around their own necks to protect against spreading the coronavirus. The “very significant change” to traditional medal ceremonies in the 339 events was revealed Wednesday by International Olympic Committee president Thomas Bach. "The medals will not be given around the neck,” Bach told international media on a conference call from Tokyo.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-do-it-yourself-olympic-medal-ceremony-inspired-by-indian-government-1009553.html
17-07-2021||National||Wide-ranging reforms make India attractive destination for investment, FM tells top US firms||India's continuous wide-ranging reforms make the country an attractive destination for foreign investments, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Friday while addressing executives of top US companies. She also mentioned about stimulus packages announced recently; as well as strong, calibrated relief and reforms during Covid leading to sharp decline in new infections with ramping up of the vaccination programme. Addressing a round-table organised by the US India Business Council (USBIC) — attended by representatives from prominent foreign firms like General Electric, Baxter Healthcare USA, Brambles, Marsh & McLennan, PepsiCo, amongst others, the Finance Minister said India and the US have set an ambitious target of achieving $500 billion in two-way trade. Continued macro-economic stability and resilience in economic recovery in the recent months, focus on infrastructure-led economic growth, and multi-sectoral opportunities for investors are some of key highlights shared by the Finance Minister. India has vibrant and pulsating financial markets, enormous investments opportunity in infrastructure sector and R&D, she added. She also mentioned this year's budget initiative pertaining to International Financial Services Centre (IFSC) at GIFT City, where the government is committed towards developing it into a globally competitive hub for innovation and financial activities to serve the Indian economy and the region as a whole. She appreciated the efforts of CEOs of top-40 American companies for creating a global task force to mobilise resources for India during the second Covid-19 wave. Speaking at the round-table, Economic Affairs Secretary Ajay Seth highlighted India's progress in areas of policy and taxation.  He emphasised upon the e-way bill system which promotes faster and more seamless movement of goods both intra and inter-state. He also spoke about this year's responsive and responsible budget focusing towards resolving investment and tax assessment issues, asset monetisation and privatisation of most of the sectors. The US-India Business Council was formed in 1975 as a business advocacy organisation to enlighten and encourage the private sectors of both India and United States to enhance investment flows. The Council helps in making business between the United States and India easier, more efficient, and more profitable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wide-ranging-reforms-make-india-attractive-destination-for-investment-fm-tells-top-us-firms-1009573.html
17-07-2021||National||ED conducts searches against Videocon group, promoters in money laundering case||The ED conducted searches against the promoters of the Videocon group in Mumbai on Friday as part of a money-laundering probe linked to alleged siphoning of bank loan funds in connection with the financing of the oil and gas assets of the business house in Mozambique, official sources said. They said the searches were being conducted at multiple premises of the group and its promoters. The criminal case of the central investigative agency, filed under sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), is based on a CBI FIR registered last year on a complaint received from the petroleum and oil ministry. The case pertains to alleged diversion of bank loan funds and the agency is probing if the money was laundered, the sources said. The CBI complaint said in 2008, Videocon Hydrocarbons Holding Limited (VHHL), a subsidiary of the Videocon Industries Limited (VIL), acquired 10 per cent "participating interest" in the Oil and Gas Block in the Rovuma Area 1 block, Mozambique from the US-based Anadarko. The asset in the African country was later acquired by ONGC Videsh Limited and Oil India Limited in January, 2014 for $2,519 million, the CBI had said. In April 2012, a consortium of banks, led by the State Bank of India and also comprising the ICICI Bank and the IDBI Bank, sanctioned a Standby Letter of Credit (SBLC) facility of $2,773.60 million to VHHL for an appraisal and development of their overseas oil and gas assets in Mozambique, Brazil and Indonesia, and other funding requirements in relation to the refinancing of the existing facility. The SBLC facility of $1,103 million was re-financed, which included outstanding of $400 million to the Standard Chartered Bank (SCB), London. "The first charge on VIL's oil and gas asset was a part of the SCB's security," the CBI FIR said. The CBI found that VIL allegedly diverted funds of SCB, London, only spending $374 million, $554.82 million and $25.25 million on its assets in Mozambique, Indonesia and Brazil respectively, as against the facility of $1,616 million availed by VHHL. "The facts and circumstances prima facie show that unknown officers of the lender banks led by SBI, in a conspiracy with Venugopal Dhoot, CMD of Videocon Industries Limited, allowed VHHL to continue to avail the facility from SCB, London with a dishonest intention of not creating a charge on the Mozambique asset and thereby, causing wrongful gain to Videocon and wrongful loss to Indian PSU banks," the CBI alleged. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has been investigating Dhoot, former ICICI Bank CEO and MD Chanda Kochhar and her husband Deepak Kochhar under the PMLA for the last few years and has also filed a chargesheet against them. The case against the Kochhars, Dhoot and their business entities is linked to the alleged "illegal sanctioning of loans amounting to Rs 1,875 crore to the Videocon Group of Companies"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-conducts-searches-against-videocon-group-promoters-in-money-laundering-case-1009578.html
17-07-2021||National||US Navy hands over MH-60R helicopters to India||In yet another sign of strengthening the India-US defense relationship, the US Navy has handed over the first two MH-60R Multi Role Helicopters (MRH) to the Indian Navy. The Indian Navy is procuring 24 of these helicopters manufactured by Lockheed Martin under foreign military sales from the US government at an estimated cost of USD2.4 billion. A ceremony was held at the Naval Air Station North Island or NAS North Island, San Diego on Friday that marked the formal transfer of the helicopters from US Navy to Indian Navy. It was attended by India’s Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu. The ceremony also witnessed exchange of documents between Vice Adm Kenneth Whitesell, Commander Naval Air Forces, US Navy and Vice Adm Ravneet Singh, DCNS. Senior leadership of the US Navy and Lockheed Martin Corporation were also present. Sandhu said the induction of the all-weather multi role helicopters is an important milestone in India-US bilateral defense ties. “India US friendship Touching the Skies!” he said in a tweet. He noted that the bilateral defence trade has expanded to over 20 billion dollars in the last couple of years. Going beyond defence trade, India and the US are also working together on co-production and co-development of defense platforms, he said. Sandhu also highlighted reform measures that have been undertaken by India in the defense sector in recent times that have opened up new opportunities for foreign investors. The MH-60R helicopter is an all-weather helicopter designed to support multiple missions with state-of-the-art avionics. The induction of these MRH would enhance Indian Navy’s three-dimensional capabilities. The helicopters would also be modified with several unique equipment and weapons. The first batch of the Indian crew is presently undergoing training in the US. According to the Department of Defense, the proposed sale will provide India the capability to perform anti-surface and anti-submarine warfare missions along with the ability to perform secondary missions including vertical replenishment, search and rescue, and communications relay. India will use the enhanced capability as a deterrent to regional threats and to strengthen its homeland defence. India will have no difficulty absorbing these helicopters into its armed forces, it had said in a communication to the Congress in April 2019. The Indian cabinet had cleared the purchase of the helicopters in February 2020, weeks before the historic visit of the then US President Donald Trump.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-navy-hands-over-mh-60r-helicopters-to-india-1009606.html
17-07-2021||National||India logs 38,079 new Covid-19 cases, 560 deaths||India recorded 38,079 new coronavirus cases, which took the infection tally to 3,10,64,908, while the death toll reached 4,13,091 with 560 more fatalities, according to Union health ministry data updated on Saturday.   The active cases have declined to 4,24,025 and comprise 1.36 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate stands at 97.31 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. It said that active Covid-19 cases have decreased by 6,397 in a span of 24 hours. The ministry said that 19,98,715 tests were conducted on Friday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 44,20,21,954. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.91 per cent and it has been less than three per cent for 26 consecutive days, it said. The weekly positivity rate stands at 2.10 per cent, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recovered from the disease has risen to 3,02,27,792, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.33 per cent, the data stated. The total vaccine doses administered has reached 39.96 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16 last year. It went past  60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19 last year. India crossed two crore cases on May 4 and three crore cases on June 23. The 560 new fatalities included 167 deaths from Maharashtra and 130 from Kerala, the ministry said. In total, 4,13,091 deaths have been reported in the country, including 1,26,727 from Maharashtra, 36,079 from Karnataka, 33,652 from Tamil Nadu, 25,023 from Delhi, 22,711 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,980 from West Bengal and 16,215 from Punjab. The ministry said that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-38079-new-covid-19-cases-560-deaths-1009612.html
17-07-2021||National||Stan Swamy's death will 'remain a stain' on India's human rights record: UN expert||A UN human rights expert has said that she is devastated to hear about the demise of Jesuit priest Stan Swamy in custody, saying there is “no reason” for a human rights defender to be denied his rights and that his death will forever “remain a stain” on India's human rights record. Swamy, 84, who was arrested last year under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in connection with the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, died at a Mumbai hospital on July 5. In a statement issued on Thursday, UN Special Rapporteur Mary Lawlor said Father Swamy’s case should remind all states that human rights defenders and all those detained without sufficient legal basis, should be released. Lawlor said the death in custody of Catholic priest Swamy, “a renowned human rights and social justice advocate for over four decades, will forever remain a stain on India's human rights record.” "There is no excuse, ever, for a human rights defender to be smeared as a terrorist, and no reason they should ever die the way Father Swamy died, accused and detained, and denied his rights,” she said. India has rejected international criticism over the handling of Swamy's case. The Ministry of External Affairs has said the concerned authorities act against violations of law and do not restrain the legitimate exercise of rights. It said India remains committed to the promotion and protection of the human rights of all its citizens and that the country's democratic polity is complemented by an independent judiciary and a range of national and state-level human rights commissions. "Swamy was arrested and detained by the National Investigation Agency following due process under the law. Because of the specific nature of charges against him, his bail applications were rejected by the courts. Authorities in India act against violations of law and not against legitimate exercise of rights. All such actions are strictly in accordance with the law,” the MEA said in a statement in New Delhi soon after Swamy's death. It said Swamy was receiving all possible medical attention at a private hospital where he was admitted since May 28. His health and medical treatment were being closely monitored by the courts. He passed away on July 5 following medical complications. Lawlor said Swamy was jailed last October “on fabricated terrorism charges” and had been subjected to harassment and repeated interrogations. “I was devastated to hear that Father Stan, a Jesuit priest who had dedicated much of his life to defending the rights of indigenous peoples and the Adivasi minority, died in custody on July 5, despite many requests for his release as his health deteriorated in prison,” she said. She added that in early November 2020, UN experts joined her in raising his case with the Indian authorities, reminding them of their international human rights obligations. “I now ask again why he wasn’t released, and why he had to die in custody?” she said. Lawlor added that Swamy had been working for decades to protect the rights of Adivasi minority indigenous peoples and the Dalit minority, in particular violations involving forced displacement and illegal land acquisitions. “We know that defenders working on environmental, land or indigenous people's rights are among the most vulnerable to being targeted,” said Lawlor. Lawlor's call has been endorsed by Special Rapporteur on minority issues Fernand de Varennes, Special Rapporteur on the right to physical and mental health Tlaleng Mofokeng. Lawlor of Ireland is the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders. She is currently an Adjunct Professor of Business and Human Rights in Trinity College Dublin. She was previously Director of the Irish Office of Amnesty International from 1988 to 2000. Special Rapporteurs are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stan-swamys-death-will-remain-a-stain-on-indias-human-rights-record-un-expert-1009613.html
17-07-2021||National||Fact Check: Photo from J&K shot during BJP’s rule shared to target Congress||By Kalim Ahmed, Two pictures are viral on social media. While the first shows a group of girls pelting stones, the other shows children holding the Indian national flag. The photos are being shared together to show the difference in the situation in Kashmir under the Congress vs the BJP regimes respectively. Below is a tweet by BJP UP leader OP Mishra. The photos are massively viral on Twitter and were shared by BJP supporters @ravibhadoria @janakraj13, @Mithu_nda and BJP member Lovepreet Singh (@ldsinghbjp) among others. Both images are from BJP’s time Image 1 The outlet gives credit to Farooq Khan and the European Pressphoto Agency for the photo.  Its description states, “The region is witnessing student’s protest since 15 April 2017, when Indian security forces raided a college in Pulwama during which over four dozen students were injured.” More photos from the same protest are available on the website.  Therefore, it is clear that the viral picture was not taken during Congress rule, but three years after the BJP came to power at the centre. Image 2 Some of the children in the picture are seen wearing masks, this hints that the image could be recent. Upon close observation, we noticed that the building behind the children has some words written on the hoarding. While we could make out “GOODWILL”, a part of another word is legible. It reads “PORA”. Readers are requested to open the image in a new tab and zoom in to see for themselves. Below we have added the photo, highlighting the observations as mentioned above.  Taking all the clues, we tried to gather further information regarding this building. We performed a keyword search on Google which showed us results related to Army Goodwill Schools.  Alt News spoke with one of the employees of the school who wishes to remain anonymous. They positively identified the location in the photo as the Army Goodwill School in Bandipora and confirmed that the photo was taken during the preparation for the 2021 Republic Day celebrations. When asked whether such celebrations were done prior to 2014, they replied that they’ve been “celebrating national days since 2004”. The school was established in 2004. Hence, a set of photos were shared to show the change in the situation in Kashmir during the Congress rule vs the BJP rule respectively. But both photos were taken when the BJP government was at power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-photo-from-jk-shot-during-bjp-s-rule-shared-to-target-congress-1009630.html
17-07-2021||National||India sees greatest increase in number of children not receiving first dose of DTP-1 shot in 2020: UN||India recorded the greatest increase in the world in the number of children not receiving a first dose of diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis combined vaccine in 2020, the UN said, noting with concern that 23 million children globally had missed out on basic vaccines through routine immunisation services last year due to disruptions caused by Covid-19. Data from the World Health Organization (WHO) and the UN children's agency UNICEF showed that it was the highest number since 2009 and 3.7 million more than in 2019. This latest set of comprehensive worldwide childhood immunisation figures, the first official figures to reflect global service disruptions due to Covid-19, show a majority of countries last year experienced drops in childhood vaccination rates. “Concerningly, most of these – up to 17 million children – likely did not receive a single vaccine during the year, widening already immense inequities in vaccine access,” it said, adding that most of these children live in communities affected by conflict, in under-served remote places, or in informal or slum settings where they face multiple deprivations including limited access to basic health and key social services. “Even as countries clamour to get their hands on Covid-19 vaccines, we have gone backwards on other vaccinations, leaving children at risk from devastating but preventable diseases like measles, polio or meningitis,” said Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, WHO Director-General. “Multiple disease outbreaks would be catastrophic for communities and health systems already battling Covid-19, making it more urgent than ever to invest in childhood vaccination and ensure every child is reached,” he said. India recorded the greatest increase in the world in children not receiving a first dose of diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis combined vaccine (DTP-1). In 2019, 1.4 million children in India did not receive the first dose of the DTP-1 vaccine and this number rose to 3 million in 2020, the UN said. “India is experiencing a particularly large drop, with DTP-3 coverage falling from 91 per cent to 85 per cent,” the agencies said. They added that disruptions in immunisation services were widespread in 2020, with the WHO Southeast Asian and Eastern Mediterranean Regions most affected. “As access to health services and immunisation outreach were curtailed, the number of children not receiving even their very first vaccinations increased in all regions,” they said. As compared with 2019, 3.5 million more children missed their first dose of diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis vaccine (DTP-1), while 3 million more children missed their first measles dose. “This evidence should be a clear warning – the Covid-19 pandemic and related disruptions cost us valuable ground we cannot afford to lose – and the consequences will be paid in the lives and well being of the most vulnerable,” said Henrietta Fore, UNICEF Executive Director. “Even before the pandemic, there were worrying signs that we were beginning to lose ground in the fight to immunise children against preventable child illness, including with the widespread measles outbreaks two years ago. The pandemic has made a bad situation worse. With the equitable distribution of Covid-19 vaccines at the forefront of everyone’s minds, we must remember that vaccine distribution has always been inequitable, but it does not have to be,” Fore said. CEO of Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, Seth Berkley said these are alarming numbers, suggesting the pandemic is unravelling years of progress in routine immunisation and exposing millions of children to deadly, preventable diseases. “This is a wake-up call – we cannot allow a legacy of Covid-19 to be the resurgence of measles, polio and other killers. We all need to work together to help countries both defeat Covid-19, by ensuring global, equitable access to vaccines, and get routine immunisation programmes back on track. The future health and wellbeing of millions of children and their communities across the globe depends on it.” The UN agencies said that even prior to the Covid-19 pandemic, global childhood vaccination rates against diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, measles and polio had stalled for several years at around 86 per cent. This rate is well below the 95 per cent recommended by WHO to protect against measles –often the first disease to resurge when children are not reached with vaccines - and insufficient to stop other vaccine-preventable diseases. “With many resources and personnel diverted to support the Covid-19 response, there have been significant disruptions to immunisation service provision in many parts of the world. In some countries, clinics have been closed or hours reduced, while people may have been reluctant to seek healthcare because of fear of transmission or have experienced challenges reaching services due to lockdown measures and transportation disruptions,” they said. As countries work to recover lost ground due to Covid-19 related disruptions, UNICEF, WHO and partners like Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance are supporting efforts to strengthen immunisation systems by restoring services and vaccination campaigns so countries can safely deliver routine immunisation programmes during the Covid-19 pandemic and helping health workers and community leaders communicate actively with caregivers to explain the importance of vaccinations. The agencies are working with countries and partners to deliver the ambitious targets of the global Immunisation Agenda 2030, which aims to achieve 90 per cent coverage for essential childhood vaccines; halve the number of entirely unvaccinated, or ‘zero dose’ children, and increase the uptake of newer lifesaving vaccines such as rotavirus or pneumococcus in low and middle-income countries, they said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-greatest-increase-in-number-of-children-not-receiving-first-dose-of-dtp-1-shot-in-2020-un-1009631.html
17-07-2021||National||Sonia Gandhi to meet Congress MPs on July 18 ahead of Monsoon Session||Congress Lok Sabha MPs to meet on Sunday at 6 pm to strategise on the Monsoon Session of Parliament, which is scheduled to begin on July 19. Congress Parliamentary Party chairperson Sonia Gandhi will be addressing the MPs. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sonia-gandhi-to-meet-congress-mps-on-july-18-ahead-of-monsoon-session-1009657.html
17-07-2021||National||VP Naidu welcomes decision of 14 engineering colleges to offer courses in regional languages||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday welcomed the decision of 14 engineering colleges across eight states to offer courses in regional languages in select branches from the new academic year.  He expressed happiness that the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), in tune with the provisions of the new education policy, has permitted B.Tech programmes in 11 regional languages -- Hindi, Marathi, Tamil, Telugu, Kannada, Gujarati, Malayalam, Bengali, Assamese, Punjabi and Odia, the Vice President Secretariat said in a tweet. To mark the decision, the secretariat posted the tweet in 11 languages.  "The vice president desired more engineering colleges and other technical education institutions to offer courses in regional languages," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vp-naidu-welcomes-decision-of-14-engineering-colleges-to-offer-courses-in-regional-languages-1009669.html
17-07-2021||National||Finish final year exams by August 31, new academic year from October 1, UGC tells colleges||The University Grants Commission (UGC) has asked colleges to complete the final year examinations of the current academic year by August 31 and begin the first year classes of the new academic year from October 1. The UGC released 'Guidelines on Examination and Academic Calender' in view of the Covid-19 pandemic has also granted relaxation to colleges to start the new academic year from October 18, if there is a delay in declaration of the Class 12 results. As per the timetable, all higher education institutions are required to complete the final year/semester exams in either online, offline or blended mode by August 31. Further, the students of intermediate semester/year will be assessed based on internal evaluation and previous semester exams. The decision is in line with the rules followed in 2020. Regarding the new admissions, the UGC has told all institutions to finish admitting first-year undergraduate and postgraduate students by September 30. The last date to fill up the vacant spots has been enlisted as October 31. "Higher education institutions shall ensure that the admission process for undergraduate courses/programmes for the academic session 2021-2022 commences only after the declaration of results by the CBSE, ICSE and state boards. It is expected that all the school boards will declare their results for the class/grade-12 examinations by July 31,” a UGC notification read. The UGC has also stated that universities shall not charge any cancellation fees for withdrawal of admission till October 31 in view of the pandemic-brought financial hardships. After October 31, the universities can deduct a maximum of Rs 1,000 as a processing fee if the student withdraws or cancels admission till December 31. UGC has left the mode of teaching as per the relevant guidelines and protocols in the state at the time. The teaching and learning, it states, would continue in blended mode. “Institutions may plan for classes, breaks, the conduct of examinations, semester break etc. during the period 1 October 2021 to 31 July 2022 following necessary protocols/guidelines/directions/advisories issued by the central/state governments and competent authorities from time to time, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic,” it said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/finish-final-year-exams-by-august-31-new-academic-year-from-october-1-ugc-tells-colleges-1009670.html
17-07-2021||National||FIR against travel agency for 'fake' entry tickets of 'Statue of Unity'||Police have registered an FIR against a Surat-based travel agency for allegedly tampering with the entry tickets of 23 tourists visiting the ‘Statue of Unity’ located at Kevadia in Gujarat's Narmada district in order to overcharge them, officials said on Saturday. The fraud came to light on Friday after the staff deployed at the entry gate of the Statue of Unity, the world's tallest statue that is dedicated to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, thoroughly checked the tickets of the tourists, police said. A Kevadia police station official said that the travel agency had edited the tickets of 19 adult visitors by showing the printed price of each ticket to be higher by Rs 50. Similarly, the prices on the tickets of four children were raised by Rs 20 each. "The ticket of an adult tourist was shown to cost Rs 430 even as the actual price is Rs 380, while that of a child was raised to Rs 250 when its official price is Rs 230. The agency tampered with the original documents and used them for entry to the Statue of Unity premises," he said. The staff at the entry gate found that the prices of as many as 23 tickets -- 19 for adults and four for children -- were edited on computer to show the rates higher than what they actually are, an official of the Statue of Unity Tourism Authority said. "During the scrutiny, it was found that the price of each ticket for an adult was raised by Rs 50 to Rs 430, and that of a child by Rs 20 to Rs 250 through editing," the official said. It was found that this was allegedly done by My Value Trip travel agency, he said. Deputy mamlatdar Satish Prajapati lodged a complaint against the agency, on the basis of which an FIR was registered at Kevadia police station on Friday night, the official said. The case was registered against the travel agency under IPC sections 465 (forgery) and 471 (fraudulently or dishonestly using as genuine any document or electronic record), as well as under section 60-D of the Information Technology Act for cheating by personation using computer resource, the police official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fir-against-travel-agency-for-fake-entry-tickets-of-statue-of-unity-1009675.html
17-07-2021||National||Sidhu meets PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar, says he is elder brother||Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu met Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Sunil Jakhar on Saturday, amid mounting speculation over whether the party will appoint the cricketer-turned-politician as the next head of its state unit. After the meeting, which lasted more than half an hour, Sidhu said Jakhar is his elder brother and a guiding force. Jakhar, in turn, described Sidhu as a capable man. Sidhu left his residence in Patiala and reached Jakhar's residence in Panchkula about 65 km away at around 10:45 am, an aide said. The meeting comes in the backdrop of simmering tensions in the Punjab Congress following differences between Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and Sidhu. On Friday, Sidhu met party chief Sonia Gandhi at her residence in New Delhi in an apparent bid to arrive at a truce formula over the state unit revamp. Also present at the meeting were AICC general secretary in-charge of Punjab Harish Rawat and Rahul Gandhi. Sources said reports of Sidhu's elevation had irked Amarinder Singh and he had written to Sonia Gandhi expressing strong resentment over the developments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sidhu-meets-ppcc-chief-sunil-jakhar-says-he-is-elder-brother-1009677.html
17-07-2021||National||Covid drugs case: Prosecution launched against Gautam Gambhir Foundation, 2 AAP MLAs||Delhi’s drugs control department has told the Delhi High Court that it has launched prosecution against Gautam Gambhir Foundation and AAP MLAs, Imran Hussain and Praveen Kumar, before a court for allegedly illegally stocking and distributing Covid drugs during the infection’s second wave. Based on inquires made by the investigating team, a prosecution in the court of law was launched against Gautam Gambhir Foundation, its trustees and CEO on July 8 for “contravening the provisions of section 18(c) read with section 27(b)(ii) of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940”, the Delhi Drugs Control Department (DDCD) said in a response which wasa in the form of a status report. Cricketer-turned-politician and BJP leader Gautam Gambhir is one of the trustees. Section 18(c) prohibits manufacture, sale distribution of drugs without a licence and Section 27(b)(ii) makes sale, distribution without valid licence punishable with imprisonment for a term, not be less than three years but which may extend to five years and with fine. The prosecution against Kumar is for similar offences under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, according to the response submitted by the DDCD. The prosecution has been filed before the court of Metropolitan Magistrate Pritu Raj, Rohini Courts, against Gautam Gambhir Foundation and Kumar, it said. After giving an opportunity to submit their explanation, the sales licenses of dealers and retailers who sold favipiravir tablets, a COVID-19 drug, and medical oxygen to Gautam Gambhir Foundation for running a medical camp have also been suspended for 10 days for contravening the provisions of the law, it submitted. Hussain, who allegedly stocked and distributed medical oxygen without holding requisite licence under the law, is also facing prosecution for similar offences. The status report was filed in a PIL seeking lodging of an FIR on the allegations that politicians are able to procure and distribute in huge quantities COVID-19 medicines even as patients were running from pillar to post to get them. On June 3, Delhi's drug controller had told the high court that Gambhir Foundation was found guilty of unauthorised stocking, procuring and distributing fabiflu medicine to COVID-19 patients. The high court deprecated the manner in which a huge quantity of the drug was procured and said genuine patients who needed the medicine at that particular time could not get it as the bulk stock was taken away by Gambhir. The drug controller also submitted that action will be taken without delay against the foundation, drug dealers as also in other such cases which would be brought to its notice. AAP MLA Kumar has also been found guilty for similar offences under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act and action will also be taken against him, the court was informed. The counsel for drug controller also said that show cause notices have been issued to licensees under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act as well as those who were found to have breached the law and their responses are awaited. The court had, on an earlier occasion, pulled up the drug controller for not conducting a proper enquiry as to how Gambhir got the huge quantities of Fabiflu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-drugs-case-prosecution-launched-against-gautam-gambhir-foundation-2-aap-mlas-1009679.html
17-07-2021||National||Over 41.69 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses so far provided to states/UTs: Centre||Over 41.69 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have so far been provided to states and Union Territories, and more than 2.74 crore jabs are available with them and private hospitals, the health ministry said on Saturday. In a statement, the ministry said 18,16,140 more doses are in the process of being supplied. It said that 41,69,24,550 vaccine doses have been provided to states and Union Territories (UTs) so far through all sources. Of this, the total consumption, including wastage, is 38,94,87,442 doses, according to data available at 8 am Saturday,  the ministry said. It said that 2,74,37,108 Covid vaccine doses -- balance and unutilised -- are still available with states and UTs, and private hospitals. The new phase of universalisation of Covid-19 vaccination programme commenced from June 21, and under it, the central government made inoculation free of cost for all adults. Vaccines were earlier free for people above 45 years of age. Under the nationwide vaccination drive, the government of India has been supporting states and UTs by providing them the vaccines, the ministry said. In the new phase of the drive, the Union government will procure and supply free of cost 75 per cent of the vaccines being produced by vaccine manufacturers in the country to states and UTs. it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-4169-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-so-far-provided-to-states/uts-centre-1009681.html
17-07-2021||National||Karnataka CM Yediyurappa takes a break, enjoys idlis at restaurant after meeting BJP chief, Rajnath Singh||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa after meeting BJP chief J P Nadda and Union Minister Rajnath Singh enjoyed a plate of idlis and vadas at a restaurant at the Ashoka Hotel in Delhi on Saturday. He had on Friday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Ever since Yediyurappa has come to Delhi, speculation is rife of his possible replacement as chief minister although he has dismissed such rumours saying, "not at all and such a situation has not yet come". His visit to the Sagar Ratna restaurant at the hotel, near the Karnataka Bhavan, was unexpected. Yediyurappa had idlis and vadas along with coffee. He was at the restaurant along with his son B Y Vijayendra and grandson Shashidhar Mardi, and MLC Lehar Singh besides personal secretary Girish Hosur. After separate meetings with Nadda and Singh, the chief minister said that he was told to strengthen the party in the state and ensure it comes to power again.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-takes-a-break-enjoys-idlis-at-restaurant-after-meeting-bjp-chief-rajnath-singh-1009687.html
17-07-2021||National||Punjab Congress crisis deepens: A look at how relation between Captain Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu turned sour||With the differences between Captain Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu rising again, the Congress leadership is struggling to find a clear resolution. The row further escalated with Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh writing an anguished letter to party chief Sonia Gandhi as the countdown to a final decision on the vexed issue began after Navjot Singh Sidhu met Sonia, Rahul Gandhi and the party in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat earlier in the day. In his letter, Singh is learnt to have expressed his reservation over the possible appointment of Sidhu as the state party chief, saying it can adversely impact the party's prospects in the polls. Singh has raised the issue of "ignoring the old guard".  2015 sacrilege incidents Sidhu has been at loggerheads with Amarinder Singh over the alleged delay in justice in the 2015 sacrilege and subsequent police firing incidents. The incidents of desecration of a religious text and subsequent police firing had taken place in Faridkot in 2015 when the SAD-BJP government was in power. A 'bir' (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib was stolen from a Burj Jawahar Singh Wala gurdwara in Faridkot on June 1, 2015. Thereafter, hand-written sacrilegious posters were put up in Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala on September 25 that year and then torn pages of the holy book were found at Bargari on October 12, 2015, in Faridkot. Two persons were killed in police firing at anti-sacrilege protesters at Behbal Kalan in 2015. Sidhu, a former BJP MP who had joined the Congress ahead of the 2017 assembly polls, has been critical of the chief minister after the Punjab and Haryana High Court in April quashed a probe into the 2015 firing case. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had slammed Sidhu for continuously attacking him over the sacrilege issue and described his outbursts as "total indiscipline". Sidhu resigns from Punjab Cabinet Sidhu resigned from the Punjab cabinet after he was divested of the local bodies portfolio in 2019. The chief minister accepted Sidhu's resignation at a time when there was speculation that the Congress high-command intervened to resolve the issue between the leaders. The tension between Singh and Sidhu had been simmering for almost a year and became public after the chief minister disapproved of Sidhu hugging the Pakistani army chief during a visit there in 2018. The chief minister had asked Sidhu to reconsider his decision to visit Pakistan for the inauguration of the Kartarpur corridor. Later, after his portfolio was changed, an upset Sidhu had said his department was being "singled out publicly". The chief minister then blamed Sidhu for "inept handling" of the Local Government Department, saying it resulted in Congress's "poor performance" in urban areas in Lok Sabha polls. Sidhu also did not find support in the cabinet whenever he suggested policy reforms. The tussle between both the leaders for one-upmanship continued. 'Pact with Akalis' Singh had taken umbrage at Sidhu's "friendly match" jibe at him during electioneering in Bathinda on May 17 and that prompted him to say, "Perhaps he (Sidhu) is ambitious and wants to be the chief minister.” Sidhu apparently referred to Singh having a secret pact with the Akalis. Sidhu's wife Navjot Kaur had blamed the chief minister for denial of party ticket to her for Chandigarh seat.  In latest development, AICC general secretary Harish Rawat flew down to meet Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu called on state party chief Sunil Jakhar on Saturday, a morning of hectic activity in the riven-with-internal-strife Punjab Congress. It assumes significance amid reports of likely revamping of the Punjab Congress unit and cabinet reshuffle. There are also media reports that Sidhu is likely to be announced as the Punjab Congress chief by the party high command. There is also talk of appointing two working presidents—a Dalit and a Hindu face. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-congress-crisis-deepens-a-look-at-how-relation-between-captain-amarinder-singh-and-navjot-singh-sidhu-turned-sour-1009696.html
17-07-2021||National||Congress protests against rising inflation, fuel prices in Jaipur||The ruling Congress on Saturday took out a protest march against inflation in Jaipur where they demanded the central government to curb price rise and withdraw the hike in fuel rates. Hundreds of Congress members led by PCC chief Govind Sigh Dotasra took out the march from the party headquarters to Shahid Smarak where a dharna was held. Dotasra said the Congress will continue to mount pressure on the central government if the rising inflation is not controlled. “Congress is in power in Rajasthan, yet we are demonstrating. It is because the (Narendra) Modi government came to power by making false promises on the issue of inflation, foreign policy, etc. but it failed on every front and people are suffering badly,” said Dotasra. He said that inflation is skyrocketing but the Modi government is not bothered. “We will make the Modi government wake up and bow down,” the Tourism Minister said. Transport Minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said people will blacken the faces of BJP leaders if the hike in fuel and LPG gas prices are not withdrawn. “It is shameful that the Modi government continued increasing petrol, diesel and LPG gas prices at a time when people of the country are facing hardship due to corona pandemic,” Khachariyawas said while addressing the dharna. He said all 25 parliamentary seats in Rajasthan were won by the BJP in Lok Sabha elections but all these MPs failed to get the state even one metric tonne of medical oxygen during the peak of Congress party workers should write and send postcards to people about the issue of inflation. Chief whip Mahesh Joshi, MLAs and other leaders and members from frontal organisations were present in the protest march and dharna.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-protests-against-rising-inflation-fuel-prices-in-jaipur-1009703.html
17-07-2021||National||FIR against UP Congress chief Lallu, others in connection with Lucknow protest||A case has been registered against three persons, including UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu, who sat on a silent protest in front of a Mahatma Gandhi statue here along with party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, police said on Saturday. The case has been registered for damaging public property, sitting on protest without permission and without giving prior information, Lucknow Police Commissioner D K Thakur said. Priyanka, on a two-day visit to Lucknow, had protested along with other party members in front of the Mahatma Gandhi statue on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fir-against-up-congress-chief-lallu-others-in-connection-with-lucknow-protest-1009712.html
17-07-2021||National||Karnataka Minister meets student barred from class 10 exam, assures help||Karnataka Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar on Saturday met a class 10 student, who had complained about not being allowed to appear for the board exams by her school due to non-payment of fees, and assured to help her. The girl from Hanumanthapura in Koratagere was studying in a private school in Dakshina Kannada district, but due to the poor financial condition of the family caused by the Covid-19 induced lockdown, she was unable to pay the fees, sources in the education department said. In an email to Suresh Kumar recently, the girl stated that she was denied entry to the school as she did not pay the hostel fees. "Due to the dues of last year's school fees (accommodation and meals), I have been denied admission this year. I don't need any concessions. It's enough to give us time. My parents will pay it (dues). I have scored 96 per cent in 9th standard. Please give me an opportunity to write the 10th standard exam," the girl wrote to the minister. As the matter came to Suresh Kumar's notice, he called the girl over phone and assured her necessary assistance. On Saturday, the minister met the girl and told her that she still has the chance to appear for the supplementary examination. Suresh Kumar also told her that there are many children facing problems like her and there was no need to panic or worry about fees as there was a way out, a source in the minister's office told PTI. The Karnataka government has decided to hold the SSLC exam on July 19 and 22. Unlike the conventional exam, this time the test will be conducted using OMR sheets. The three-hour exam on July 19 will cover the three core subjects namely, Maths, Science and Social Science. The exam on July 22 will be in languages such as English, Kannada, Sanskrit and other subjects. The government, which gave general promotion to the students from one to nine and PUC-1 and PUC-2 students, decided to conduct the SSLC exam saying it is crucial for students to choose their stream.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karnataka-minister-meets-student-barred-from-class-10-exam-assures-help-1009713.html
17-07-2021||National||Mahabharata, early attempt at mediation, a tool of social justice: Chief Justice N V Ramana||Chief Justice N V Ramana on Saturday said mediation, as a concept, is deeply embedded into the Indian ethos and can be described as a tool of social justice in the Indian context. “Mediation…can be described as a tool of social justice in the Indian context. Such a party friendly mechanism ultimately upholds the rule of law, by providing an incentive for parties to utilise their autonomy to the fullest to arrive at a just and equitable outcome,"  Chief Justice of India N V Ramana said. He maintained that mediation is the cheapest and simplest option available to the public at large.  In his keynote address at the India-Singapore mediation summit "Making Mediation mainstream: Reflections from India and Singapore", Justice Ramana said India is home to many identities, religions and cultures which contribute to its unity through diversity, and this is where the rule of law, with an assured sense of justice and fairness, come into play.  He said Mahabharata, is an example of an early attempt at mediation as a conflict resolution tool, where Lord Krishna attempted to mediate the dispute between the Pandavas and Kauravas.  It may be worthwhile to recall that the failure of mediation in Mahabharata led to disastrous consequences, he pointed out. The Chief Justice emphasised mediation, as a concept, is deeply embedded into the Indian ethos; long before the arrival of the British adversarial system in India.  “The establishment of the British courts system, in 1775, marked the erosion of community-based indigenous dispute resolution mechanisms in India. The British judicial system has ultimately become the framework, with appropriate modifications, for the current judicial system in India," the Chief Justice said.  Taking objection to the statistics regarding pendency, he said it is often stated there are 45 million pending cases because courts cannot handle it.  “It is an uncharitable analysis. Cases filed yesterday get added to the list and thus is not a useful indicator to see how well a system is doing. Issue of judicial delays is a complex problem and just not in India," he said. He also stressed the need for training sessions for mediators, as the role has evolved from a passive facilitator to a role involving advisory participation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mahabharata-early-attempt-at-mediation-a-tool-of-social-justice-chief-justice-n-v-ramana-1009719.html
17-07-2021||National||'Punjab Congress crisis to be resolved soon, Sidhu to head state party unit'||The ongoing crisis in the Punjab Congress is going to be resolved soon and an announcement is expected today, according to ANI quoting sources.   Navjot Singh Sidhu will be heading the state unit of the party and four working presidents will be appointed with him, sources close to 10 Janpath told the agency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-congress-crisis-to-be-resolved-soon-sidhu-to-head-state-party-unit-1009721.html
17-07-2021||National||PM Narendra Modi got India its first independent security policy: Amit Shah||India's security policy was either "influenced or was overlapping" with the foreign policy and it was only after Narendra Modi became prime minister that the country got an independent security strategy, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Saturday. Shah was delivering the 'Rustamji memorial lecture' and it was being attended by personnel and officers of the Border Security Force (BSF). He also gave way gallantry medals to serving personnel and for those killed in the line of duty from the country's largest frontier force. "I used to think if there is a security policy of this country or not? Till Narendra Modi became the prime minister we did not have any independent security policy," Shah said. "It was either influenced by foreign policy or it was overlapping with the foreign policy," he said. After Narendra Modi became prime minister, the country got an independent security policy, he added. "Our idea is to have peaceful relations with all but if someone disturbs our borders, if someone challenges our sovereignty, the priority of our security policy is that such an attempt will be replied in the same language," Shah said. He said this security policy was a "big achievement" as the country wanted such a good plan. "I believe without this (security policy) neither the country can progress nor democracy can prosper," the home minister said "Modiji (PM) has done this big job. I do not want to give examples as it is well known," he said adding the policy was made operational on the ground by his government. Shah also declared that his government is working to ensure that there "will be no gap in the fencing" along India's borders by 2022. He said about three per cent of the country's border was unfenced at present and this has left a "big space" for infiltration of terrorists and other border crimes like smuggling of arms, ammunition and narcotics among others. The home minister said India will soon develop indigenous counter-drone technology which is being carried out by technical organisations like the DRDO and some other agencies. His comments come in the backdrop of the first time drone attack on the IAF station in Jammu last month where two unmanned aerial vehicles dropped bombs injuring two airmen and damaging a portion of a building inside. The minister added that the security and technology development establishment was also working on artificial intelligence and robotic technologies as part of a long drawn project. The about 2.65 lakh personnel strong, the BSF guards over 6,300 kms of Indian fronts with Pakistan and Bangladesh. The memorial lecture and investiture ceremony is an annual affair to remember the contribution of its first chief or director general (DG) K F Rustamji. A officer of the 1938 batch of the British time Imperial Police, Rustamji headed the BSF for nine years. He died in 2003.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-got-india-its-first-independent-security-policy-amit-shah-1009723.html
17-07-2021||National||New academic session in universities by Oct 1, admission process to be completed by Sep 30: UGC||The new academic session in universities and colleges across the country will begin from October 1, while the admission process has to be completed by September 30, according to new guidelines of the University Grants Commission (UGC). Universities and higher education institutions (HEIs) have been asked to ensure that the admission process for undergraduate courses begins only after the declaration of results by the CBSE, ICSE and all state boards. "It is expected that all school boards will declare their results for class 12 exams by July 31. If there is any delay in declaration of the result of qualifying exams, the new academic session may begin by October 18," the UGC said in the new guidelines. The commission has clarified that the teaching-learning process must continue in offline, online or blended mode. "The institutions may plan for classes, breaks, conduct of examinations, semester break, etc. during October 1 to July 31, following necessary protocols and advisories issued by central and state governments from time to time in view of the Covid-19 pandemic," the guidelines said. In view of the financial hardships faced by parents during the pandemic, the commission has asked universities and HEIs to ensure the fee is fully refunded in cases of cancellation of admission or migration of students. It has also been made mandatory for universities and colleges to conduct final year or end term exams by August 31. The exams can be conducted in either offline, online or in blended mode. "For intermediate semester students assessment shall be based on internal assessment and previous semester results," it said. The commission said every higher education institution shall ensure that it is prepared in all respects to carry out the academic activities following necessary protocols, guidelines, directions and advisories issued by the central and state government or competent authorities from time to time. "In case of higher education institutions located at places where appropriate government has imposed restrictions or public gatherings, HEIs may plan accordingly. In any case, these recommendations shall not cause any restrictions on the guidelines issued by the authorities," the UGC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-academic-session-in-universities-by-oct-1-admission-process-to-be-completed-by-sep-30-ugc-1009744.html
17-07-2021||National||Dr Shivram Karanth layout: 'Constructions raised after August 3, 2018 judgment liable to be demolished'||The Supreme Court has noted with a concern new constructions coming up in the land meant for the Dr Shivram Karanth layout and directed the Bangalore Development Authority to stop raising of new buildings with immediate effect. A bench of Justices S Abdul Nazeer and Sanjiv Khanna also made it clear that buildings constructed after August 03, 2018, cannot be regularised and are liable to be demolished. On the date, the top court had quashed the dropping of land from acquisition proceedings. "Bangalore Development Authority is directed to stop further constructions in the said layout with immediate effect and this direction shall be implemented strictly by the BDA," the bench said. The court also extended the term of the Justice A V Chandrashekar committee, appointed to identify lawful constructions made in the land meant for the layout in Bengaluru, till March 31, 2022. It directed the state government to depute additionally one Executive Engineer (EE), two Assistant Executive Engineers (AEE) and four Assistant Engineers (AE) to the BDA within a period of 15 days. After going through the status report of June 2, the court said it is clear that BDA has not taken possession of any land so far. "We direct the BDA to speed up the acquisition proceedings. BDA to file latest Status Report within a period of two weeks," the bench ordered. On examining records, the Committee found that as many as 13 layouts have been formed after appropriate permission from the BDA. Thus "the BDA is restrained from acquiring the lands for the formation of Dr Shivaram Karanth layout," the court ordered. The top court had earlier decided to protect the buildings and dwelling houses which have come up on about 650 acres of land meant for the layout proposed initially in 2008. The court had on August 3, 2018, passed a judgement directing the Bangalore Development Authority not to drop the land acquisition from the proposed layout, posing serious repercussions to those who built the houses over there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dr-shivram-karanth-layout-constructions-raised-after-august-3-2018-judgment-liable-to-be-demolished-1009748.html
17-07-2021||National||Vaccinations reduce chance of Covid-19 death in India to 0.4%||By Bibhudatta Pradhan, Vaccines targeting Covid-19 are able to curb deaths and hospitalisation in patients substantially, including those infected by the highly-transmissible Delta variant that drove India’s devastating second wave and is now triggering curbs from Los Angeles to Melbourne. About 0.4 per cent died among those who got infected after inoculation -- called breakthrough infections -- while nearly 10 per cent needed hospitalisation, according to a new study by researchers led by Indian Council of Medical Research’s Nivedita Gupta. The study, which analysed genome sequencing data of 677 Covid patients, found 86 per cent of the fully-vaccinated cases were due to the Delta variant. The findings underscore the crucial role of shots in preventing extreme outcomes among Covid sufferers and allays doubts around vaccine efficacy especially with respect to the Delta variant that has rapidly spread to at least 104 countries. First detected in India last October, this variant has emerged as the dominant strain in the UK, the US and Australia, forcing public health officials to double down on social distancing measures. “This clearly suggests that vaccination reduces severity of disease, hospitalisation and mortality,” said the study. “Therefore, enhancing the vaccination drive and immunising the populations quickly would be the most important strategy to prevent further deadly waves of the Covid-19 and would reduce the burden on the health care system.” Among those analysed in the study, which is still to be peer-reviewed, 592 people had received both the vaccine doses while 85 had only one dose. India has predominantly injected people with AstraZeneca Plc’s Covishield -- a traditional vector-based shot whose efficacy against the Delta variant has been dogged with concerns compared to the highly-effective messenger RNA vaccines from Pfizer Inc. and Moderna Inc. Delta Mutations Possibly the largest and first nationwide study of post-vaccination breakthrough infections from India, the research also detected evidence of two new mutations of Delta -- Delta AY.1 and Delta AY.2 -- in some samples besides older variants, Alpha and Kappa. India saw daily infections breach record 400,000-levels in early May during the Delta-driven second wave which overwhelmed hospitals and crematoriums. Shortages of essential supplies led to citizens’ pleas flooding social media platforms for hospital beds, oxygen cylinders and Covid-related medicines. The country has so far fully vaccinated only 5.7 per cent of its 1.3 billion population, according to Bloomberg’s vaccine tracker. Third Wave Infections are on the rise again in some Indian states including Maharashtra and Kerala, stoking fears of an incoming third wave. India’s Prime Minister Narendra Modi told state chiefs during a briefing Friday that effective steps were urgently needed to curb the outbreak from flaring up again. The study also has policy prescriptions for India as it seeks to avert another of Covid infections. It emphasised the need for constant genome sequencing as well as tracking these breakthrough infections. “Such monitoring will help us to understand the need to adequately tweak the available vaccines and also develop new vaccines with enhanced potential to protect against variant strains of SARS-CoV-2,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaccinations-reduce-chance-of-covid-19-death-in-india-to-04-1009750.html
17-07-2021||National||Rabindra Narain Singh elected as VHP president||Rabindra Narain Singh, an orthopaedic surgeon and a Padma Shri awardee, was elected as the president of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) on Saturday. Singh, who hails from Bihar, was serving as the vice president of the saffron outfit so far. He had received Padma Shri, the fourth highest civilian honour, in 2010 for his contributions to the field of medical science. "Our board of trustees today unanimously elected Padma Shri Ravindra Narain Singh as our president," VHP's joint general secretary Surendra Jain said at a press conference. Singh replaced Vishnu Sadashiv Kokje, who had been serving as the VHP president since his election to the top post in April 2018. "Kokje ji is now 82 years old. He wanted to be relieved of his responsibilities as the VHP president. The election has been conducted as per his wishes and our constitution," Jain said. Singh is a renowned orthopaedic surgeon. He is known for his contributions in social, religious, medical and various other fields, Jain said. "Election of such a person to the post of VHP president is a matter of pride for all of us," Jain said. The newly appointed president of the VHP was present during the press conference and shared the dais with Jain and other VHP leaders. Elections were also held for the post of the general secretary and Milind Parande, the outfit's current general secretary, was unanimously re-elected, Jain said. The polls for the president and general secretary of the VHP were held amid a two-day meeting of the outfit's governing council and board of trustees in Faridabad on Saturday morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rabindra-narain-singh-elected-as-vhp-president-1009772.html
17-07-2021||National||Monsoon-sown crop area in India drops 12% amid delayed rains||By Pratik Parija, Indian farmers have planted monsoon crops such as rice, cotton and soybeans on 6.11 crore hectares of land as of July 16, a decline of 12% from a year earlier, according to the farm ministry. Area under sugarcane has risen almost 1.7% to 53.7 lakh hectares so far this year, while cotton has been planted in 98.4 lakh hectares, down 13% from a year earlier, the ministry said late Friday. India’s June-September monsoon rains were 7% below average in the week ended July 14, according to the India Meteorological Department. Sowing of monsoon-sown crops normally begins in late May and peaks in July while harvesting starts in late September. Following is a table showing area covered under major crops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/monsoon-sown-crop-area-in-india-drops-12-amid-delayed-rains-1009788.html
17-07-2021||National||All gaps in Indian borders will be plugged by this year end: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah Saturday asserted that unfenced gaps along India's over 7,500-km-long land border will be sealed by the end of this year, thus covering areas that lead to infiltration and smuggling of arms and narcotics. He also asserted that India's security policy was either "influenced or was overlapping" with the foreign policy and it was only after Narendra Modi became prime minister that the country got an independent security strategy. Shah was delivering the annual 'Rustamji memorial lecture' instituted by the Border Security Force (BSF) in memory of its first director general (DG) K F Rustamji. An officer of the 1938 batch of the British-era Imperial Police, Rustamji headed the BSF for nine years. He died in 2003. Shah also gave away gallantry medals to the serving personnel and to the family members of those who were killed in the line of duty from the country's largest frontier force. "I assure that there will be no gap in our fencing from 2022," he said. Shah said about three per cent of the unfenced area leaves a "big gap" and makes the border vulnerable for infiltration of terrorists and other border crimes like smuggling of arms, ammunition and narcotics among others. The Modi government has been plugging these gaps after resolving administrative obstacles and even by talking to neighbouring countries, he said. "I believe that (ensuring) border security is (ensuring) national security," Shah said adding they are developing a "new model" of the border fence that cannot be cut or broken. He also spoke about the security policy of the Modi government. "I used to think if there is a security policy of this country or not? Till  Narendra Modi became the prime minister we did not have any independent security policy," Shah said. "It was either influenced by foreign policy or it was overlapping with the foreign policy," he said. After Modi became prime minister, the country got an independent security policy. "Our idea is to have peaceful relations with all but if someone disturbs our borders, if someone challenges our sovereignty, the priority of our security policy is that such an attempt will be replied in the same language," Shah said. He said this security policy was a "big achievement" as the country wanted such a good plan. "I believe without this (security policy) neither the country can progress nor democracy can prosper," the home minister said "Modiji (PM) has done this big job. I do not want to give examples as it is well known," he said adding the policy was made operational on the ground by his government. Shah said India was working to soon develop an indigenous counter-drone technology, which is being carried out by technical organisations like the DRDO and some other agencies. His comments came in the backdrop of the first-ever drone attack on the IAF station in Jammu last month where two unmanned aerial vehicles dropped bombs injuring two airmen and damaging a portion of a building inside. He added that the security establishment of the country is preparing a long-drawn project to thwart artificial intelligence and robotic technology enabled attacks from across the borders. Shah gave out figures to showcase how the Modi government worked to enhance and fortify border security. He said while only 3,600 km of border roads were made between 2008-14, the period between 2014-20 (Modi being the PM) it has seen a jump of 3.5 times with 4,764 km of these roads being constructed. The budget for this job was enhanced from Rs 23,000 crore to 44,000 crore, a total of 14,450 metres of bridges were made during 2014-20 as compared to 7,270 metres made during 2008-14, he said. While one border tunnel for transportation was made earlier, six tunnels have been made by the Modi government in the last one year while 19 such structures are in the pipeline, Shah said. Similarly, a total of 170 km of border roads were resurfaced during 2008-14 and it was enhanced to 380 km after the Modi government came to power. The cutting and formatting of roads along the China border has now been enhanced to 470 km per year as compared to the earlier 230 km per year. Shah said the government has sanctioned 32 more border roads measuring about 683 km for the Sino-India frontier. "The prime minister believes that till border infrastructure is upgraded and strengthened the security forces will not be able to do their job properly." "The PM has said that if border infrastructure is not proper the local population will continue to migrate from these areas and this will make our borders unsafe," he said. The home minister stressed that forces like the BSF should take steps to ensure that border population is provided all basic amenities and that they do not migrate to other area because of these issues. The officers of these forces should execute "out of routine" thinking and plan so that we are two steps ahead of the adversary, he said. He asked them to maintain "regular touch" with their troops, resolve their problems and also take feedback from them. BSF DG Rakesh Asthana said during the event that the force has made 61 drone sightings and unearthed 4 tunnels along the western front in the last one year. The about 2.65 lakh personnel strong BSF guards over 6,300 km of Indian fronts with Pakistan and Bangladesh on the east. Ministers of state for home Nityanand Rai, Ajay Kumar Mishra, home secretary Ajay Bhalla, Intelligence Bureau director Arvind Kumar and RAW chief Samant Goel attended the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-gaps-in-indian-borders-will-be-plugged-by-this-year-end-amit-shah-1009791.html
17-07-2021||National||AICTE has permitted BTech programs in 11 regional languages: Dharmendra Pradhan||The All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) has permitted BTech programs in 11 regional languages, Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan announced on Saturday. These languages are Hindi, Marathi, Tamil, Telugu, Kannada, Gujarati, Malayalam, Bengali, Assamese, Punjabi and Odia. "AICTE has permitted BTech programs in 11 regional languages. PM Shri @narendramodi is committed to promoting regional languages in mainstream education. NEP stresses on this important aspect to empower students coming from diverse regions," Pradhan tweeted. Earlier in the day, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu welcomed the decision of 14 engineering colleges across eight states to offer courses in regional languages in select branches from the new academic year. "Gratitude to Hon. Vice President for welcoming the decision to offer courses in regional language in engineering colleges," Pradhan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aicte-has-permitted-btech-programs-in-11-regional-languages-dharmendra-pradhan-1009796.html
17-07-2021||National||From the Newsroom: UGC asks colleges to complete the final year exams by August 31||In your evening news update, University Grants Commission asks colleges to complete the final year examinations of the current academic year by August 31; Amit Shah says that it was only after Narendra Modi became prime minister that the country got an independent security strategy and Congress crisis in Punjab appears to be turning into a jigsaw puzzle.    The Congress crisis in Punjab appeared to be turning into a jigsaw puzzle with Captain Amarinder Singh reiterating that he would abide by whatever party chief Sonia Gandhi decides even as his detractor Navjot Sidhu was on a meeting spree with state leaders including PPC chief Sunil Jakhar.   Union Home Minister Amit Shah said today, India's security policy was either "influenced or was overlapping" with the foreign policy and it was only after Narendra Modi became prime minister that the country got an independent security strategy. Shah was delivering the 'Rustamji memorial lecture' and it was being attended by personnel and officers of the Border Security Force (BSF). He also gave gallantry medals to serving personnel and for those killed in the line of duty from the country's largest frontier force.   The University Grants Commission has asked colleges to complete the final year examinations of the current academic year by August 31st and begin the first year classes of the new academic year from October 1st. The UGC-released 'Guidelines on Examination and Academic Calender' in view of the Covid-19 pandemic has also granted relaxation to colleges to start the new academic year from October 18th, if there is a delay in the declaration of the Class 12 results.   Source: DHNS/PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-ugc-asks-colleges-to-complete-the-final-year-exams-by-august-31-1009799.html
17-07-2021||National||Delhi Congress releases 'water truth report', attacks AAP govt over supply issue||Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee president Anil Chaudhary released a "water truth report" on Saturday, alleging that people of the national capital were not getting clean water. The Congress leader, in a statement, said potable water has become "a scarce commodity" in the city. "Water crisis has become so acute in the capital that most people, who have been ravaged by the Covid-19 pandemic, are forced to shell out money to buy bottled water for their daily consumption," Chaudhary said. He added that compared to the Congress government's time, complaints regarding "dirty water, water scarcity and sewer blockage have gone up by 209 per cent". "Such complaints in 2013-14 were 55,455, but in 2020-21, they have risen to 1.71 lakh. Similarly, between 2014 and 2021, the number of patients suffering from liver, kidney and gastrointestinal diseases jumped to 4.19 lakh, with 19,238 people succumbing to such diseases," Chaudhary claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-congress-releases-water-truth-report-attacks-aap-govt-over-supply-issue-1009802.html
17-07-2021||National||Covid-19 can increase susceptibility to developing active tuberculosis: Health Ministry||Covid-19 can make a person more susceptible to developing active tuberculosis as it is an "opportunistic" infection like black fungus but currently there is not enough evidence to suggest TB cases have risen due to the viral disease, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. The ministry said notification of tuberculosis cases had decreased by about 25 per cent in 2020 due to Covid-related restrictions and special efforts are being made to mitigate this impact through intensified case findings. In a statement, the Health Ministry said there have been some news reports alleging that a sudden rise in TB cases have been noticed among patients infected with Covid-19 recently, leaving doctors, who have been receiving around a dozen similar cases every day, worried. "It is clarified that tuberculosis screening for all Covid-19 patients and Covid-19 screening for all diagnosed TB patients has been recommended by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare," it said. The ministry said SARS-CoV-2 infection can make an individual more susceptible to developing active TB disease, as it is an "opportunistic infection like black fungus". There is not enough evidence currently to suggest that there has been an increase in TB cases due to Covid-19 or due to increased case finding efforts, it said, adding states and Union Territories have been asked for convergence in efforts for better surveillance and finding of TB and Covid-19 cases as early as August 2020. Also, the health ministry has issued multiple advisories and guidance reiterating the need for bi-directional screening of TB-Covid and TB-ILI/SARI. "Due to the impact of Covid-related restrictions, case notifications for TB had decreased by about 25 per cent in 2020 but special efforts are being made to mitigate this impact through intensified case finding in OPD settings as well as through active case finding campaigns in the community by all states." The dual morbidity of tuberculosis and Covid-19 can be further highlighted through the fact that both diseases are known to be infectious and primarily attack the lungs, presenting similar symptoms of cough, fever and difficulty in breathing. But TB has a longer incubation period and a slower onset of disease, the health ministry said. "Furthermore, TB bacilli can be present in humans in a dormant state and has the potential to start multiplying when the individual's immunity is compromised for any reason. "The same is applicable in a post-Covid scenario when an individual may develop decreased immunity due to the virus itself or due to the treatment, especially immune-suppressants like steroids," the Health Ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-can-increase-susceptibility-to-developing-active-tuberculosis-health-ministry-1009817.html
17-07-2021||National||Shocked over PM Modi’s silence on killing of Danish Siddiqui: Sanjay Singh||AAP leader and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh on Saturday expressed a “deep sense of shock” at Prime Minister Narendra Modi's “silence” on the killing of Pulitzer Prize winner photojournalist Danish Siddiqui. Siddiqui was killed while covering clashes between Afghan troops and the Taliban in Spin Boldak district of Kandahar city. He was injured on Thursday night while accompanying Afghan soldiers and succumbed to injuries on Friday. "I express deep sense of shock and strongly condemn this silence on the martyrdom of an Indian journalist who died while confronting the terrorism of the Taliban forces," Singh said while talking to newspersons here. "It is unfortunate that while the Afghan President and the world media have expressed grief and shock over the incident, our own prime minister seems to be maintaining a discreet silence. It appears that he does not want to annoy the Talibani forces who are spreading terror,” he added. While paying homage to Siddiqui, Singh said we should salute this brave young journalist who laid down his life while attempting to tell the world the truth about the Taliban aggressors. Referring to his recent meeting with Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav, he said, "Speculative reports suggesting that we discussed a proposal for an alliance with the SP are without any substance.” He said if such a proposal comes up in the future it will be “definitely” shared with the media. “The meeting was solely promoted by our wish to share our deep concern with all opposition parties over the organized violence which was unleashed by the Yogi (Adityanath)-led BJP government during the recent local bodies election in the state," the AAP leader said. He alleged that the “state-sponsored” violence during the panchayat polls has confirmed “our worst fears” about the “total breakdown” of law and order in Uttar Pradesh. The BJP had come to power on the slogan of restoring law and order in the state but instead Uttar Pradesh is presently in the “grip of a total gunda raj ", he said. About the possibility of a grand alliance of opposition parties in the forthcoming assembly elections in UP, the AAP leader said, "It is totally premature to talk of any such move.” He said the AAP will fight the UP elections on the plank of offering the state electorate the “Kejriwal model of governance” which will include free electricity, free education, free health services and a fair deal to the farmers. He said his party's ongoing drive to enroll 20,000 members in each assembly constituency in the state "was progressing well and we hope to meet our target within the stipulated period”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shocked-over-pm-modi-s-silence-on-killing-of-danish-siddiqui-sanjay-singh-1009826.html
17-07-2021||National||India gets the first two US MH-60R helicopters from USA||India has received the first two multi-role helicopters from the USA, which last year had signed a $2.13 billion (Rs 15,157 crore) agreement to sell 24 such choppers to the Indian Navy as a replacement for its Sea King fleet. At a ceremony held at the naval air station, San Diego on Friday, Taranjit Singh Sandhu, Indian Ambassador to the USA, accepted the two MH-60R choppers that would be used in anti-submarine warfare. “MH-60R helicopter is an all-weather helicopter designed to support multiple missions with state-of-the-art avionics and sensors. Twenty-four of such helicopters are being procured under the Foreign Military Sales from the US government. The helicopters would also be modified with several unique India-specific equipment and weapons,” said a Navy spokesperson. “The induction of these MRH would further enhance Indian Navy’s three-dimensional capabilities. In order to exploit these potent helicopters, the first batch of Indian crew is presently undergoing training in the USA,” he added. The Navy desperately requires choppers because the blue water force is currently operating nearly 140 ships and submarines without an adequate number of helicopters. The old Sea Kings that operated from the decks of the first aircraft carrier INS Vikrant retired in the early 1990s while a few helicopters from the two subsequent lots are still flying but not in their designated role in anti-submarine warfare as they are too old. Because of such a critical shortage, the Navy was pushing the Defence Ministry for nearly 12 years to buy multi-role helicopters for deck-borne operations. However, multiple previous efforts to purchase such choppers failed before the US deal materialised last year. India will get all 24 helicopters by 2023. However, there is not much progress yet in the Navy's bigger plan of 123 naval multirole helicopters to adequately arm all of its warships.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-gets-the-first-two-us-mh-60r-helicopters-from-usa-1009836.html
17-07-2021||National||Centre notifies Godavari, Krishna river management boards||The Union Ministry of Jal Shakti has notified the Godavari and the Krishna river management boards, giving them more power to administer, regulate, operate and maintain projects listed on these two rivers in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. "The decision of the Union government for notifying the jurisdiction of two boards would go a long way in enabling the river boards to discharge their responsibilities to the fullest as mandated in the APRA (Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act) 2014 and ring about the much-needed neutrality on water resources matters between the two states," the ministry said. The Ministry, expecting the notification issued on July 15, will reduce the friction in the area of water management between the two states, the Ministry said. The APRA contains provisions for the effective management of river water in the states of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. The Act also has provisions for the constitution of the Godavari and the Krishna River Management Boards and an Apex Council to supervise the functioning of these boards. The Centre constituted the two river management boards on June 2, 2014 for administration, regulation, maintenance and operation of such projects on the Godavari and the Krishna rivers. But there were differences between the two states on the issue of notification of the boards by the Centre. However, the issue was resolved in the Apex Council, headed by Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat along with the chief ministers of the two states, held in October 2020. In this meeting, it was decided that the jurisdiction of the GRMB (Godavari River Management Board) and the KRMB (Krishna River Management Board) will be notified by the Centre. Accordingly, the Centre has issued two notifications — one for the GRMB, another for the KRMB — to oversee the projects in the rivers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-notifies-godavari-krishna-river-management-boards-1009848.html
17-07-2021||National||Over 40 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has gone past 40 crore with over 46.38 lakh doses given on Saturday, according to the Union health ministry. A total of 21,18,682 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years received the first dose, while 2,33,019 were administered the second dose of the vaccine on Saturday, the ministry said. "India's cumulative Covid vaccination coverage has surpassed 40 crore (40,44,67,526)," according to a provisional report compiled at 7 pm. More than 46.38 lakh (46,38,106) vaccine doses were administered on Saturday, the report said. Cumulatively, 12,40,07,069 people in the 18-44 age group have received the first dose and 48,50,858 have been administered the second dose across the 37 states and Union territories since the start of the third phase of the nationwide vaccination drive. Eight states -- Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra -- have administered the first dose of the vaccine to more than 50 lakh beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group each. Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have administered the first dose of the vaccine to more than 10 lakh beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group each.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-40-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-1009849.html
17-07-2021||National||ED arrests Indian-origin Dutch national from IGI airport in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate on Saturday said it has arrested an Indian-origin Dutch national from the Indira Gandhi International Airport here in connection with a money-laundering probe initiated against him on the Netherlands government's request. Originally from Phagwara in Punjab, the accused, Shivlal Pabbi, had migrated to the Netherlands in 1981. He was trying to flee to Paris when he was arrested, the central probe agency said. Pabbi was later produced before a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court in Mohali that remanded him to Enforcement Directorate custody till July 23, it said. The ED alleged, "Pabbi, who became a Dutch national in 1984, committed cheating and forgery in the Netherlands through fraudulent documents prepared in connivance with his Indian associates." "He ran a hawala or banking without a permit in the Netherlands under the garb of trading in readymade garments." The proceeds of the crime generated by Pabbi were laundered through Pakistani individuals based in Dubai, who transferred the money to him and his brother's NRE (non-resident external) accounts in Phagwara, it claimed. This money was "invested in the development and construction of Mayfair Resorts and Cabbana Resort and Spa situated in Phagwara on the Jalandhar-Ludhiana highway", the ED said. It stated that Cabbana Resort and Spa, spread over several acres, is a renowned venue known mainly for hosting luxurious weddings and corporate events. "The Enforcement Directorate initiated money laundering investigation against Pabbi and others at the request of the Netherlands government," the official statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-arrests-indian-origin-dutch-national-from-igi-airport-in-money-laundering-case-1009861.html
17-07-2021||National||Constitution is the North Star to judge every State action: Justice Chandrachud||Supreme Court judge Justice D Y Chandrachud on Saturday said that irrespective of the electoral legitimacy of the government, the Constitution is the North Star against which conformity of every State action or inaction would have to be judged. Citing the 71st year of the constitutional republic of the country, he added that many may, on occasions, feel that country’s democracy is no longer new and the need to study constitutional history and engage with its framework isn’t as worthwhile.  “However, it is important to recognise that in times of peace or crisis, irrespective of the electoral legitimacy of the government, the Constitution is the North Star against which the conformity of every state action or inaction would have to be judged,” he said. He also gave an example of Greta Thunberg, one of the strongest voices in civil society against climate change, to assert that “nobody is too young to effectuate big change”. Justice Chandrachud was speaking on the topic “Students as the Constitution’s Vanguards” at a programme organised by Shikshan Prasarak Mandali (SPM), on the 101st birth anniversary of his father Justice Y V Chandrachud, who was the longest-serving Chief Justice of India.  Chandrachud said, “In viewing our Constitution, as a primary spirit to counter majoritarianism, we can equip ourselves with a unique lens to view the world and balance competing interests”.  Speaking on climate change, Justice Chandrachud stressed that the world is in the midst of accelerating climate change crisis and the Covid-19 pandemic has shown that ecological disruptions increase existing inequalities. To combat this crisis a collective global action is required, he said, adding that Greta Thunberg, who is one of the strongest voices in civil society against climate change began her journey as a lone 15-year-old sitting outside the Swedish Parliament demanding governmental action against imminent risks of global warming. "Many others shows us how nobody is too young or insignificant to effectuate big change. My learning for life….at my age, is also that you are never too old to be the change," Justice Chandrachud said. He maintained that majoritarian tendencies must be questioned against the background of "our constitutive promise”.  “Any semblance of authoritarianism, clampdown on civil liberties, sexism, casteism, otherization on account of religion or region is upsetting a sacred promise that was made to our ancestors who accepted India as their constitutional republic,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/constitution-is-the-north-star-to-judge-every-state-action-justice-chandrachud-1009872.html
17-07-2021||National Politics||Amid escalating tension in Punjab Congress, Harish Rawat flies to Chandigarh to meet CM Amarinder Singh||AICC general secretary Harish Rawat flew down to meet Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu called on state party chief Sunil Jakhar on Saturday, a morning of hectic activity in the riven-with-internal-strife Punjab Congress. As speculation mounted over whether Sidhu would be appointed state Congress head despite Amarinder’s misgivings, Rawat reached Chandigarh in a chopper around 12 noon and went straight to the chief minister’s farm house in Mohali. The visit is being seen as an effort to placate Amarinder, who wrote a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday. He is learnt to have said that giving the post to Sidhu, a Jat Sikh, would upset the party's senior leaders representing the Hindu community and harm the party's prospects in the 2022 assembly elections. Earlier in the morning, Sidhu met Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Sunil Jakhar. The cricketer-turned-politician left his residence in Patiala and reached Jakhar's residence in Panchkula about 65 km away around 10:45 am, an aide said. After the meeting, which lasted more than half-an-hour, Sidhu said Jakhar is his elder brother and a guiding force. Jakhar, in turn, described Sidhu as a capable man. Sidhu had met Gandhi at her residence in New Delhi on Friday in an apparent bid to arrive at a truce formula over the state unit revamp. The flurry of meetings comes in the backdrop of simmering tensions in the Punjab Congress following differences between Amarinder and Sidhu. Suspense has been building up over the much-awaited announcement from the party high command on the resolution of the festering feud in the Punjab Congress. In case the party chooses to appoint Sidhu as the PPCC chief, there will be two Jat Sikhs in key posts. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh is also a Jat Sikh. Jakhar, the present state Congress head, is a Hindu. There is also talk of appointing two working presidents—a Dalit and a Hindu face to balance the caste equations. Though there was no official word, Sidhu's supporters were upbeat at reports that he would be given the key post and there were reports that preparations for celebrations were already underway. Party sources said reports of Sidhu's supporters celebrating in advance have irked Amarinder. Rawat has maintained that the central leadership is working out a peace formula where both leaders could work together to help the party win the Punjab Assembly polls next year. Both Amarinder and Sidhu have aired their differences in public and made statements against each other. They have held parallel meetings in Chandigarh with their loyalists, sources said. While the chief minister has met some party MPs, MLAs and ministers, Sidhu is learnt to have met Punjab ministers Sukhjinder Randhawa and Tript Rajinder Bajwa, and some MLAs close to him at Randhawa's residence. Amid reports of Sidhu's elevation, party MP Manish Tewari has batted for a Hindu face for the PCC chief's post while giving details of the composition of the state's population. "Punjab is both progressive and secular but balancing social interest groups is key. Equality is the foundation of social justice!" he said in the tweet, while giving details of Punjab's demography. Sikhs, he said, constitute 57.75 per cent of the population, while Hindus and Dalits constitute 38.49 and 31.94 per cent respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amid-escalating-tension-in-punjab-congress-harish-rawat-flies-to-chandigarh-to-meet-cm-amarinder-singh-1009658.html
17-07-2021||National Politics||Sharad Pawar, PM Modi hold meeting on 'issues of national interest'||NCP supremo Sharad Pawar on Saturday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi to flag concerns over RBI regulation of urban cooperative banks and discuss the emerging Covid-19 situation and the ongoing vaccination drive across the country. Pawar's meeting with Modi lasted for nearly 50 minutes and the former Defence Minister insisted that politics was not on the agenda of the meeting. “Had a discussion on various issues of national interest,” Pawar said referring to his meeting with the Prime Minister. The NCP supremo is also learnt to have flagged concerns over the Reserve Bank of India gaining direct supervision over urban cooperative banks, including superseding board of directors after consultation with the state government. In a memorandum to the Prime Minister, Pawar said the RBI control of urban cooperative banks amounted to “excessive regulation” and overruled various provisions of the state Cooperatives Act. Pawar said the amendments to the Banking Regulation Act, approved by Parliament in September last year, were “well-intentioned” and “many provisions were necessary”.  “Erring Board and Management must definitely be acted upon strictly and the depositors’ interests should be protected, but at the same time it should be ensured that while doing so, the Cooperative Principles laid down in the Constitution are not sacrificed at the altar of overzealous regulation,” Pawar said. Modi and Pawar also discussed ways to step up the vaccination drive against Covid-19. The octogenarian leader has had a slew of meetings since Saturday when the newly appointed Leader of the Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal called on him. Pawar also had a meeting with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh who briefed him about the situation on the border with China. NCP spokesman Nawab Malik, addressing a press conference in Mumbai, dismissed reports that the meeting between Pawar and Modi was linked to the rumblings within the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government in the state. Malik also dismissed reports of a meeting between former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and Pawar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sharad-pawar-pm-modi-hold-meeting-on-issues-of-national-interest-1009660.html
17-07-2021||National Politics||Madhya Pradesh Governor, Union ministers call on Vice President Venkaiah Naidu||Madhya Pradesh Governor Mangubhai Chhaganbhai Patel, Leader of House in the Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal and several Union ministers, including Nirmala Sitharaman, Anurag Thakur and Kiren Rijiju, called on Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday. They met the vice president separately. The Vice-President's Secretariat tweeted photos of their meetings with Naidu. In a recent rejig of the Union Council of Ministers, various new ministers took oath, the portfolios of some were changed and some were elevated as cabinet ministers. Saturday's meetings with Naidu were described as courtesy calls after the cabinet expansion. The meetings also come ahead of the Monsoon Session of Parliament that starts on Monday. Naidu is also the chairperson of the Rajya Sabha. Union minister Goyal was recently named the Leader of the House in the Rajya Sabha in place of Thaawarchand Gehlot, who has been appointed as the governor of Karnataka. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, along with both MoS Finance, Bhagwat Kishanrao Karad and Pankaj Chaudhary, called on Naidu. The others who met the vice-president included Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan, Environment and Labour Minister Bhupeder Yadav, Health, and Chemical and Fertilisers Minister Mansukh Mandaviya. Mandaviya wrote on Twitter that he discussed various issues with Naidu and received his guidance. According to the Vice-President's Secretariat, Railways, Communications, Electronics and Information Technology Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw, Law Minister Kiren Rijiju, Information and Broadcasting and Youth Affairs and Sports Minister Anurag Thakur, Minister for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying Parshottam Rupala, along with L Murugan, MoS, Information and Broadcasting, Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, also called on Naidu. "I called on the Hon'ble Vice President, Shri M Venkaiah Naidu Ji at Upa-Rashtrapati Nivas today. Respected M Venkaiah Naidu Ji is a mentor for all of us and we have been guided by wisdom, experience and knowledge," Rijiju wrote on Twitter. Power, and New and Renewable Energy Minister Raj Kumar Singh, Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia and Minister of Social Justice and Empowerment Virendra Kumar also called on the vice-president, besides Narayan Rane, Minister of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME), and RCP Singh, Minister of Steel. Scindia also tweeted about the courtesy meet and said he received the blessings of Naidu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/madhya-pradesh-governor-union-ministers-call-on-vice-president-venkaiah-naidu-1009667.html
17-07-2021||National Politics||Any decision by Congress president acceptable to all: Amarinder Singh after meeting Rawat||Any decision taken by the Congress president will be acceptable to all, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said on Saturday after meeting AICC general secretary and Punjab in-charge Harish Rawat. The chief minister was later quoted by his media adviser as saying that he had a fruitful meeting with Rawat. "'Had a fruitful meeting with @harishrawatcmuk. Reiterated that any decision of @INCIndia Presìdent will be acceptable to all. Raised certain issues which he said he'll take up with @INCIndia president,' @capt_amarinder," the official tweeted. There is intense speculation that the cricketer-turned politician may be appointed state Congress chief. Rawat reached Chandigarh in a chopper around 12 noon and went straight to the chief minister’s farm house in Mohali. The visit is being seen as an effort to placate Amarinder, who wrote a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday. He is learnt to have said that giving the post of state party chief to Sidhu, a Jat Sikh, would upset the party's senior leaders representing the Hindu community and harm the party's prospects in the 2022 Assembly elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/any-decision-by-congress-president-acceptable-to-all-amarinder-singh-after-meeting-rawat-1009701.html
17-07-2021||National Politics||UP Congress leaders in favour of going solo in Assembly polls||Uttar Pradesh Congress leaders are in favour of going solo in the next Assembly election in the state, which is scheduled to be held in March 2022. The leaders of the grand old party conveyed it to Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra during their meeting with her. Priyanka is currently on a two-day visit to the state. "Congress must not enter into an electoral alliance with any party in the upcoming UP Assembly poll. We will fare better if we contest the polls on our own," said a senior UP Congress leader while speaking DH here on Saturday. The leader said that the state office bearers of the party had conveyed their feelings to Priyanka in this regard. "Now it is up to the Congress high command to take a decision in this connection," he added. The leader said that Priyanka, who was also the in-charge of the state unit of the party, assured them that the feelings of the workers would be kept in mind while taking any decision on alliance. The Congress general secretary told the leaders to start looking for 'winnable' candidates for the next poll. "We will not thrust the candidates from Lucknow or Delhi but will give tickets to those recommended by the district level leaders and workers," she told them. Priyanka, who visited Lakhimpur Kheri district on Saturday, met the Samajwadi Party (SP) woman leader, whose saree had been yanked allegedly by BJP workers during the recently concluded Block Pramukh polls. Congress, which had contested the 2017 Assembly polls in the state in alliance with the SP, could win only seven seats. The SP had managed to win 47 seats. SP president Akhilesh Yadav and BSP supremo Mayawati have already declared that their parties will not have an electoral alliance in the 2022 poll. Akhilesh, however, said that the SP could leave a few seats for the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) and some other smaller outfits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/up-congress-leaders-in-favour-of-going-solo-in-assembly-polls-1009729.html
17-07-2021||National Politics||BJP raising population issue for political motive, to target particular community: Shashi Tharoor||Amid a push for a population control policy by some Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled states, senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Saturday alleged the BJP's motive of raising the issue is political and aimed at targeting a "particular community". The former Union minister said the population debate is "utterly misplaced" and half a century out-of-date as a large majority of Indian states have achieved replacement levels of fertility. In an interview with PTI, Tharoor said the bigger challenge for India in the next 20 years will be to prepare for an ageing population, not a growing population. He alleged the ruling party is raising this issue out of "thinly-concealed motivation" to target a "particular community". "It is no accident that the three states where the government is talking about reducing population are UP (Uttar Pradesh), Assam and Lakshadweep, where everyone knows who their intended audience is," the Lok Sabha MP from Thiruvananthapuram said. "The Hindutva elements in our polity have not really studied the demographic issues. Their motive is purely political and communal," he said when asked about the push for population control in UP and Assam. Tharoor's remarks come days after Uttar Pradesh's draft population control bill was made public and the Assam government proposed formulation of a policy in this regard. Both states are ruled by the BJP. The UP draft bill has provisions to debar people who have more than two children from the benefits of government schemes and proposes perks to those who follow the two-child policy. Also, some BJP MPs are set to introduce private members' bills on population control and uniform civil code in the upcoming Monsoon session of Parliament, according to information from the secretariats of both Houses. The Monsoon session begins on July 19 and would conclude on August 13. Asked about the upcoming Parliament session and the key issues the Congress and the Opposition would raise, Tharoor said the government has been "so colossally inept' that there are multiple issues "we need to raise in the public interest". "The ineptitude of the government in its disastrous mismanagement of COVID, especially the blunder-laden vaccine policy; the continued failure to resolve the farmers' agitation; the cratering economy, with GDP growth at its lowest in three decades," he said listing the issues the Opposition needs to focus in Parliament. He also referred to the "price rise caused by extortionate fuel taxes; the worst unemployment ever recorded", the French investigation into corruption in the Rafale deal" the situation on the Sino-Indian border and the crisis in Afghanistan. "And who knows what else may arise by Monday morning, given the government's many unsavoury sins of omission and commission?" Tharoor said. On disruptions rather than debate becoming the norm in Parliament, the 65-year-old Congress leader said it was well known that he has been opposed to disruptions in principle and prefers to debate the issues. "But if you look at those disruptions in recent years that have been called by the Opposition, they have always been caused by the ruling party's refusal to discuss a specific issue of burning national importance, which leaves the Opposition no choice but to draw attention to the issues the government wishes to avoid through disruption," he said. If debates were allowed, disruptions would be unnecessary, he asserted. Tharoor urged the government to have the courage to debate any issue the Opposition wishes to raise. "That's what Parliament is for. The government prefers to treat it as a notice-board where they can just announce their laws and policies," he said. "If the ruling party treats Parliament with respect, which means agreeing to discuss the issues the Opposition raises and not just using their brute majority to push through the government's agenda, I am sure the Opposition will reciprocate in kind," he argued. Asked whether the Afghanistan situation would also be a key issue to be raised in Parliament, Tharoor said, "Yes, that's why I mentioned it along with China as the two external affairs issues that require discussion."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-raising-population-issue-for-political-motive-to-target-particular-community-shashi-tharoor-1009779.html
17-07-2021||National Politics||UP govt's population control measures an attempt to keep communal agenda alive: Jairam Ramesh||Congress leader Jairam Ramesh on Saturday slammed the Uttar Pradesh government's proposed population control measures, claiming it is nothing but BJP's attempt to polarise society and keep the communal agenda alive during the assembly polls. He alleged that the BJP is best at hiding its failures and raising non-issues ahead of every election. The former union minister also raised concerns on population control measures in the country and said India will have to prepare for an ageing population and not a growing population by 2031. "This is nothing but BJPs attempt to polarise society and keep the communal agenda alive during UP assembly polls. "This is yet another attempt to whip up communal passions and prejudices," Ramesh told PTI. He said the Modi Government's own Economic Survey for the year 2018-19 comprehensively challenges and debunks the assumptions and motivations behind Bills on population control measures. Incidentally, there have been 28 such Bills since 2000, he noted. Several BJP MPs propose to bring private member Bills on population control in the upcoming Monsoon Session of Parliament. The senior Congress leader said India's total fertility rate has fallen very dramatically even without the type of measures being proposed in the Bills. Ramesh also shared a thread on the population control debate on Twitter, raising concerns over India's ageing population. He said some states have already gone below the replacement level of 2.1 fertility rates. "The crucial tipping point in demography is when replacement level of fertility reaches 2.1. Subsequently, after a generation or two, the population will stabilise or begin to decline. Kerala was first in 1988, followed by Tamil Nadu five years later. "By now, a large majority of Indian states have achieved replacement levels of fertility. By 2026, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh will also do so with Bihar being the last by 2030," he said. "I wonder how many in the BJP are aware of the basic facts that Modi Sarkar's own 2018-19 Economic Survey had presented in Parliament in July 2019," he said, sharing the survey in a tweet. "The graph shows India is set to witness a sharp slowdown in population growth in the next two decades," he said sharing the image where total fertility rates of states were falling below the replacement level fertility of 2.1. "By Modi Sarkar's own estimate in the Economic Survey 2018-19, some states in India will have to prepare for an ageing population by 2031, not growing population. "This will be driven by existing policies to empower women, family planning programmes and socio-economic changes," he said. He noted that all this will become clear when one reads Volume 1 Chapter 7 of the 2018-19 Economic Survey and shared a copy of the same on Twitter. The comments came days after Uttar Pradesh, where assembly polls are due next year, made public its draft population control Bill and the Assam government proposed a policy on population control. The Uttar Pradesh draft population Bill contains provisions that seek to debar people having more than two children from the benefits of government schemes and proposes perks to those who follow the two-child policy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/up-govts-population-control-measures-an-attempt-to-keep-communal-agenda-alive-jairam-ramesh-1009828.html
17-07-2021||National Politics||Congress slams Assam Budget as 'fraudulent'||The Congress in Assam on Saturday criticised the state Budget for 2020-21 describing it as "history's most fraudulent Budget" with nothing new for people suffering from the impact of Covid-19, abnormal price rise and unemployment. The pandemic has led to loss of livelihood of the working class in the unorganised sector and these people are suffering but there is no relief for them in the Budget, state Congress president Ripun Bora claimed while addressing a press conference here. Not a single word has been uttered to give relief to these people hard hit by pandemic and price rise in the Rs 566 crore deficit Budget tabled in the state assembly on Friday, he alleged. There is also no mention in the Budget for controlling the abnormal price hike of petrol, diesel, cooking gas and life-saving medicines crippling the common man, Bora claimed. "No mention of price regulation measures in the Budget reflects the state government's callousness towards the existence of the lower and middle income group of the society," he said. The government's promise to provide employment to one lakh people is like a drop of water in the ocean as the state has 38 lakh unemployed youth, Bora said. Bora pointed out that the BJP government had promised that micro-finance loans for women would be waived and there is mention of Rs 12,500 crore that is needed for the purpose but only Rs 7,500 crore has been allocated for the purpose. "From the finance minister's speech, it appears that she is concerned only with payment of Rs 25,000 as a relief. By dividing the micro-finance beneficiaries into three sections and allotting Rs 7,500 crore, it is evident that many women would be deprived of the scheme", he said. This is the "biggest betrayal by the BJP government and the party to the women of Assam who came out in large numbers to vote for them believing in this promise," he said. The chief minister, during his stint as the finance minister in the previous government, had criticised the Congress and its government, by saying that he will not distribute yarn to women but take permanent measures to empower them, Bora said. "In the last five years, however, no permanent women empowerment schemes have been adopted and this Budget also has no mention of it," he said. The Assam Accord Department, a major department considered to be a symbol of protection of the Assamese identity, has been allocated only Rs 2.7 crore and "this reveals the government's farcical responsibility towards the Accord", the Congress leader said. Funds allocated for re-establishment of surrendered cadres of the National Democratic Front of Bodoland (NDFB) is appreciated but the Budget has not provided a paisa for the surrendered cadres of other militant organisations, he said. Bora also slammed the BJP government for borrowing a Rs 47,000 crore in five years. The state government's borrowing till Tarun Gogoi's government in 2016 stood at Rs 35,000 crore which included the terms of chief ministers Hiteswar Saikia and Prafulla Mahanta, he said. "The BJP government's borrowing alone in the last five years is Rs 47,000 crore and now the credit load is Rs 82,000 crore. With interest, the amount payable this year will be Rs 6,500 crore. It remains to be seen with what magic power, the CM will fulfil the promises in the Budget without any earning," Bora said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-slams-assam-budget-as-fraudulent-1009840.html
17-07-2021||National Politics||Sanjay Gandhi's family planning programme led to anger, electoral defeat: Cong MP||Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Vivek Tankha on Saturday said the family planning programme promoted by Sanjay Gandhi during the Emergency led to anger among people, and cost his party an election. He himself was in favour of population control but it should not be politicised, Tankha said, referring to a proposed population control law in the BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh. ''You may remember that Sanjay Gandhi had come up with a population control programme during Emergency. This was a good programme. But the timing and the way it was implemented was not right, because the common people were forced (to undergo sterilisation), which made them angry. ''Subsequently, this was also one of the reasons for the defeat of the Congress in the elections,'' Tankha told reporters during an interaction at the Indore Press Club. The Indira Gandhi-led Congress was defeated comprehensively in the 1977 general elections which followed the Emergency. Talking about the proposed UP law, Tankha said an important issue was being associated with vote-bank politics. "This should not be linked with politics because this issue is related to the entire country," he said. As a patriotic citizen he favours the adoption of population control measures as no political party is bigger than the country, the Congress leader said. ''If we don't control (population growth), then we continue to add population the size of Australia every year. Then the country will remain poor, no matter how much tax is collected and development takes place," he said. On sedition law, Tankha, who is a Supreme Court lawyer, said it was enacted in the British era and its continuous misuse turned it into a travesty. On speculation that former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath could be made Congress president, Tankha said the decision is to be taken by the party's leadership. ''If there is any senior-most and experienced leader in the Congress who has an abundance of resources, it is Kamal Nath," he added. Terming the election commission a ''puppet'' of the Centre, Tankha said undue interference in the functioning of government institutions has increased to such an extent that it seems that agencies such as the Central Vigilance Commission, CBI and Enforcement Directorate are extended wings of the BJP. Describing himself as the ''only MP'' belonging to the Kashmiri Pandit community, Tankha said, ''A lasting solution to the Kashmir problem can be found only when displaced Kashmiri Pandits are resettled in the Valley with the assurance of safety.''||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sanjay-gandhis-family-planning-programme-led-to-anger-electoral-defeat-cong-mp-1009868.html
17-07-2021||National Politics||Some scared Congressmen quit due to fear of Central agencies, says Naseem Khan||Senior Congress leader from Maharashtra Naseem Khan on Saturday said some leaders from the party had jumped the ship under the pressure exerted by the BJP through Central agencies but many workers are ready to work fearlessly for the party. "Some people in Congress are joining other parties out of selfishness. These people are scared and they should leave the Congress party and fearless people join the Congress. Rahul Gandhi is right and we support this stand," the Maharashtra Congress working president said in a statement. Rahul Gandhi on Friday told social media workers of Congress virtually that those who are scared of facing the reality and the BJP are free to leave the Congress whereas fearless leaders from outside the Congress should be brought in the party. "Since the BJP came to power at the Centre, people from the Opposition have been threatened through institutions like the ED and the CBI. Fearing this pressure, some people in the Congress party have jumped the ship. The Congress honoured such people by giving them various posts but when the party needs them they are running away out of fear. Many workers are working fearlessly for the Congress party," Khan said. He said Congress represents the people of all castes and religions. "Rahul Gandhi's fight is with the fascist ideology. Those who fear the ideology of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) will not be able to fight the battle with Rahul Gandhi and Congress," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/some-scared-congressmen-quit-due-to-fear-of-central-agencies-says-naseem-khan-1009871.html
17-07-2021||National Politics||Tax extortion raj prevailing in country, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi hit out at the government over the rising prices of essential commodities on Saturday and alleged that a "tax extortion raj" is prevailing in the country. "People are frustrated as a tax extortion raj is prevailing in the country," he said in a tweet in Hindi and tagged a media report that cited a survey claiming that most of the Indians are worried over the price rise and foresee a decline in their earnings. In another tweet, Gandhi shared pictures from protests organised by the Congress in various parts of the country against the rising prices. महँगाई के ख़िलाफ़ कांग्रेस की आवाज़। He also shared a screen grab of his meeting with the party's social media cell workers at an online event on Friday and tweeted in Hindi: "We will stand by each other -- we are not afraid, will not be afraid." Addressing the party workers, the former Congress chief had said those who were afraid of facing the reality and the BJP were free to leave the party, while fearless leaders from outside the party should be brought in.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tax-extortion-raj-prevailing-in-country-says-rahul-gandhi-1009882.html
17-07-2021||North and Central||Central Vista project: Republic Day parade next year to be held on refurbished Rajpath||The Republic Day parade next year will be held on the refurbished Rajpath as the redevelopment work of the Central Vista Avenue, stretching from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate, is expected to be completed by this November, officials said on Friday. Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri, who reviewed the status of ongoing construction works, said citizens will get an avenue that they will be proud of. "Reviewed the status of ongoing construction works of Central Vista Avenue project with the secretary of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, officials of ministry and CPWD, contractor and architect Bimal Patel. The progress so far is satisfactory and on schedule. Citizens will get an avenue they will be proud of," he tweeted. An official in the ministry said that the Rajpath redevelopment project includes large scale stonework, construction of underpasses, underground amenities blocks and horticulture work and sufficient space for parking. "Twelve bridges on artificial ponds are being built. People visiting Rajpath will have an amazing experience. The redevelopment of the Central Vista Avenue will be completed by November and the Republic Day parade next year will be held on the newly-developed Rajpath," the official said. Infrastructure firm Shapoorji Pallonji and Company Private Limited has been executing the project as part of the government's ambitious Central Vista redevelopment project. The redevelopment project of the Central Vista -- the nation's power corridor -- envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a common central secretariat, revamping of the three-km-long Rajpath, from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate, new prime minister residence and PMO, and new Vice President Enclave.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/central-vista-project-republic-day-parade-next-year-to-be-held-on-refurbished-rajpath-1009545.html
17-07-2021||North and Central||DH Deciphers | What is Kawad Yatra? Why is UP allowing it amid fears of third Covid wave?||Uttar Pradesh's decision to allow the annual Kawad Yatra at a time when the third wave of Covid-19 looks imminent has set alarm bells ringing. While Uttarakhand has cancelled the Kawad Yatra, the UP government's diametrically opposite decision has raised fears that the pilgrimage may become a Covid-19 super-spreader event. The Supreme Court has asked UP to reconsider its decision. Here's what you need to know about the Kawad Yatra:    What is the Kawad Yatra? When and how did it start?  The Kawad Yatra is a centuries-old pilgrimage undertaken during the Hindu month of Shravana. This year, the month starts on July 25 and ends on August 22.  According to Hindu mythology, the beginning of the Kawad Yatra can be traced to the "churning of the ocean of milk", during which poison was released before 'Amrita' (nectar). Hindu deity Shiva consumed the poison to save mankind but it filled him with negative energy. Ravana, the king of demons and a 'shivbhakt', brought the Ganga water in earthen pitchers and poured it on the 'Shivlingam' to help Shiva release the negative energy.  The Kawad Yatra was initially undertaken by seers and ascetics but it became popular with the passage of time. According to an estimate, more than three crore people filled their pitchers with the Ganga water from Haridwar alone in 2019.  What do the pilgrims do during the Kawad Yatra?  The pilgrims, called Kawadias, carry the Kawad, which is a single pole usually made of bamboo with two almost equal loads dangling from the opposite ends. It is slung across the shoulders of Kawadias.  The yatra usually begins from Gaumukh (the glacier where River Ganga originates), Gangotri, Rishikesh and Haridwar — all in Uttarakhand. The Kawadias fill their pitchers with the Ganga water and offer it at Shiva temples in over a dozen districts in western UP.  In eastern UP, Kawadias fill their pitchers with the Ganga water from Prayagraj, Ballia and a few other districts, and offer it at the Kashi Vishwanath Temple in Varanasi.  Does the government organise the Kawad Yatra?  No, the government does not organise the Kawad Yatra. The Kawadias undertake it on their own, although there are Kawad Sanghs which go on the pilgrimage in groups.  Why has the Kawad Yatra acquired a political colour this year?  While the Kawad Yatra is the largest annual religious gathering in UP, it acquired a political colour only after Yogi Adityanath, the 'mahant' (religious head) of Gorakhnath Peeth in Gorakhpur, became the chief minister in 2017.  The Kawadias faced restrictions during the non-BJP governments. Under Adityanath, they suddenly became VIPs, and the government machinery went out of its way to welcome them. The Kawadias were even allowed to use the DJ, which was banned by the previous SP government because the loud music often led to communal clashes when they passed through Muslim neighbourhoods or mosques during Namaz.  The government set up roadside camps where Kawadias could take rest and have meals, and got helicopters to shower flower petals on them.  Why is UP allowing it when the third wave of Covid looks imminent?  Political observers say the BJP does not want to give an impression that it is against the Kawad Yatra lest it receives a backlash from its Hindu vote bank. "The BJP cannot afford such a backlash so close to the assembly elections,'' says a Lucknow-based political analyst. The assembly elections are due early next year.  The Opposition, too, is cautious in its reaction. ''The state government must ensure adherence to the Covid-19 protocol,'' said senior SP leader Anurag Bhadauria.  UP Health Minister Jai Pratap Singh has promised to "strictly implement" the protocol.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dh-deciphers-what-is-kawad-yatra-why-is-up-allowing-it-amid-fears-of-third-covid-wave-1009567.html
17-07-2021||North and Central||AAP government rejects police proposal to appoint special public prosecutors in Delhi riots cases||The AAP government on Friday rejected the Delhi Police's proposal for appointing special public prosecutors to argue cases related to the riots that took place in the national capital last year. According to a government statement, the Cabinet discussed recommendations of Lt Governor Anil Baijal to approve the appointment of police's lawyers in cases related to violence during a tractor rally by farmers on January 26 and last year's riots in northeast Delhi and rejected it. No reaction was immediately available from the LG office over the Delhi Cabinet's decision. "In a big decision today, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's Cabinet refused to allow Centre's lawyers from appearing in northeast Delhi riots Cases," stated the Delhi government statement. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24, 2020, after violence between the Citizenship (Amendment) Act supporters and its protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and over 700 injured. In the northeast Delhi riots issue, the Cabinet asserted that the Delhi High Court and the trial courts had repeatedly raised "serious questions on the investigations" by the Delhi Police in several cases where special public prosecutors were appointed at the request of the force, the government statement said. Sources claimed the Cabinet decision has "little practical implication" because a panel of six special public prosecutors are already appearing in over 600 riots cases for one year. The Delhi government had in July last year also rejected the proposal of the Delhi Police for the appointment of special prosecutors in the riots cases. The LG had overturned the Delhi government's decision and directed the home department to grant approval to the Delhi Police's proposed panel of lawyers. Baijal had rejected the cabinet decision by exercising his special power under Article 239AA(4) of the Constitution by reserving the matter of appointment of public prosecutors, for consideration by the President of India. The Delhi Cabinet, in its meeting chaired by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, observed that the courts have "raised serious questions" on the "fairness" of the investigation carried out by the Delhi Police in the riots cases, the government statement said. "It had also observed that in such a situation, a free-and-fair trial of these cases would not be possible by a panel of lawyers selected by the city police itself," it said, adding that in one case related with the riots, the court had also fined the DCP (North-East) of Delhi Police for "miserably failing in statutory duties". The cabinet noted that the courts had "remarked" that the Delhi Police had conducted "dubious investigations" earlier in the cases where lawyers of their preference were appearing, added the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-government-rejects-police-proposal-to-appoint-special-public-prosecutors-in-delhi-riots-cases-1009579.html
17-07-2021||North and Central||Moderate intensity earthquake hits Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur||A moderate intensity earthquake of magnitude 3.1 shook Himachal Pradesh's tribal district Kinnaur on Friday night, the Meteorological Department said. There was no report of any casualty or damage to property. The quake's epicentre was at a depth of 10 km in Kinnaur district, the department said, adding that tremors were felt in and around the district at 11.32 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/moderate-intensity-earthquake-hits-himachal-pradeshs-kinnaur-1009605.html
17-07-2021||North and Central||4 men held for brandishing swords, attacking local in Manali: Report||It is not common for people to carry swords while on vacation, but for five tourists who visited Manali from Punjab, it did not seem to be the case. In Manali, the five men got into an altercation with a local person after an overtaking of cars ensued. They brandished swords and reportedly attacked the man who suffered minor injuries following that. Four of them have been arrested while one remains at large. They have been charged under relevant sections of the IPC. Manali has been in the news for other reasons too lately. Tourists at the hill stations have been criticised for brazenly flouting Covid norms and not wearing face masks. Prime Minister Narendra Modi too took cognisance of the problem. The locals fear the outbreak of a third Covid wave in the popular tourist destination. "We cannot stop people visiting Manali. Everyone is welcome, but as responsible citizens, they should follow the social distancing norms as the third Covid wave is almost round the corner," Chaman Kapoor, President, Municipal Council Manali was quoted as saying in the report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/4-men-held-for-brandishing-swords-attacking-local-in-manali-report-1009610.html
17-07-2021||North and Central||Clear morning in Delhi; heavy rainfall likely on Sunday||Delhiites woke up to a clear morning on Saturday with the minimum temperature settling at 28.2 degrees Celsius, a notch above season's normal. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has, however, predicted heavy rainfall at isolated places in the city on Sunday. “The minimum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung Observatory, considered the official reading of the city, was 28.2 degrees Celsius, and the relative humidity at 8.30 am was recorded at 75 per cent,” it said. The weather man has predicted partly cloudy sky with light rain or thundershowers later in the day, while the maximum temperature is expected to hover around 37 degrees Celsius. The city had received the first rain of the monsoon season on Tuesday, 16 days after the usual date of June 27. On Friday, the minimum temperature in the national capital was recorded at 27 degrees Celsius, while the maximum settled at 37.8 degrees Celsius, three notches above the season's normal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/clear-morning-in-delhi-heavy-rainfall-likely-on-sunday-1009638.html
17-07-2021||North and Central||Ashok Pradhan gang member arrested in Delhi||A member of the notorious Ashok Pradhan gang was arrested after a brief exchange of fire with police in north west Delhi’s Rohini, officials said on Saturday. The accused, Gaurav alias Monti, was leading the operations of the gang in Delhi. He was also declared a ‘bad character’ of the Bawana Police Station, they said. Gaurav, involved in 13 criminal cases including murder, was arrested Friday night, police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Rohini) Pranav Tayal said, "Information was received on Friday night that the accused would be coming near Rohini Sector 37. Sub-inspector Chetan along with his team laid a trap. They noticed the accused coming on a motorcycle and tried to stop him. “The accused fired three rounds on the police team. In retaliation, our team fired six rounds to control the situation,” he said. During the exchange of fire, the gangster received bullet injuries in both his legs. He was then overpowered and apprehended, police said. The pistol used by Gaurav for firing on the police team along with four live cartridges was seized from his possession, Tayal said. According to police, the accused had initially joined the Rajesh Bawana gang and later associated himself with the Ashok Pradhan gang. He was also the mastermind of an extortion and robbery-cum-murder incident in Qutubgarh village here in June, they said. Gaurav was convicted in a case of murder registered at the Bawana Police Station. He came out on bail in March last year, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ashok-pradhan-gang-member-arrested-in-delhi-1009642.html
17-07-2021||North and Central||MP well collapse: PM announces Rs 2 lakh ex-gratia to kin of each deceased||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each to the families of those killed in the well collapse incident in Madhya Pradesh. President Ram Nath Kovind also expressed grief over the incident. Eleven persons died, while 19 others were brought out alive from the well, in which several people had fallen while trying to rescue a boy in Vidisha district of the state. "Anguished by the tragedy in Vidisha, Madhya Pradesh. My condolences to the bereaved families. An ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each from PMNRF (Prime Minister's National Relief Fund) would be given to the next of kin of those who lost their lives," Modi was quoted as saying in a tweet issued by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) late on Friday night. Rashtrapati Bhavan's tweet quoting Kovind on Saturday morning said, "Deeply saddened by the heartbreaking news of the death of many people in the accident in Vidisha, Madhya Pradesh. I wish success to all the rescue efforts and extend my heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families." On Friday, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had announced that families of the deceased would be given financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh each, while the injured would be provided Rs 50,000 each and free medical treatment. In a 24-hour long operation that ended late on Friday night, 11 bodies were recovered and 19 persons were brought out alive from the well in Lal Patar village in Ganj Basoda area of Vidisha. The incident took place on Thursday night when the parapet wall of the well collapsed. To make things worse, a tractor deployed for the rescue operation skidded into the well with four policemen. According to local people, the well is around 50 feet deep and had about 20 feet of water. Ravi, a teenage boy, fell into the well, after which some people climbed down to rescue him, while others were standing on the surrounding parapet wall to help them. However, they fell into water when that wall caved in, eyewitnesses said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-well-collapse-pm-announces-rs-2-lakh-ex-gratia-to-kin-of-each-deceased-1009659.html
17-07-2021||North and Central||DU to start registration process for UG programmes on August 2||The Delhi University will start the registration process of the 65,000 seats for undergraduate courses at its colleges on August 2 and is likely to announce the first cut-off list between September 7 and 10, acting vice chancellor P C Joshi announced on Saturday. The registration process for 20,000 postgraduate (PG) seats and for the Delhi University Entrance Test (DUET) courses will begin on July 26, he said. The last date for registration of PG programmes is August 21 and for UG programmes is August 31. "To make the admission process hassle-free, a dedicated portal for admissions will be launched soon. This will facilitate students to fill the forms, pay fee and check all details without any problem from the comfort of their home," the VC said. University officials present at the press conference said admission for the sports quota will be done on the basis of certificates like last year. "We have had an intensive meeting of our education committee and have now come up with the dates for admission for this academic session," the VC said.  The admission process will be completely online like last year, he added. Joshi said the registration process for MPhil and PhD will also begin on July 26 and the last date will be August 21. "The admission to undergraduate courses will be merit-based, like previous year. There will be no change in the eligibility criteria for the candidates," he said.  Like last year, the admission process will be completely online this year too and efforts will be made to make it smooth, he said. The varsity has also decided that there will be no change in the registration fees for merit-based and entrance-based admissions. The varsity said the first cut off will be released in the first week of September and academic session will begin latest by the second week of October.  "We are hoping to release first cut-off list between September 7 and 10. Admission process is likely to be completed in September. We are anticipating the start of the new academic session from October 1 but if the process takes more time, then we are planning to start it latest by October 18 this year," Rajiv Gupta, chairperson Admissions, who was also present in the press conference, said.  Last year Delhi University's academic session started on October 18. University's cut-off had been soaring for past few years for UG courses. Last year cut-offs has gone as high as 100 per cent for some colleges. Last year Lady Sri Ram College for Commerce had released its cut off-list at 100 per cent for some honours UG courses. The board exams were cancelled this year due to Covid and the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) had said it will be adopting 30:30:40 formula for evaluation of marks for class 12 students based on results of class 10, 11 and 12 respectively.  "We have faith in the marking system of the CBSE and we will honour it. We are constantly in touch with our colleges regarding modalities of cut-offs. A calendar regarding release of cut-off dates will also be issued soon," Gupta said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/du-to-start-registration-process-for-ug-programmes-on-august-2-1009666.html
17-07-2021||North and Central||Priyanka Gandhi demands that Lakhimpur Kheri panchayat polls be held again||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday demanded that the recent panchayat elections held in Lakhimpur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh be cancelled, and re-polls be held. She was speaking to reporters after reaching Semra village in Pathgava block of the district. On July 9, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav had alleged that BJP workers misbehaved with his party candidate Ritu Singh and her proposer Anita Yadav. He also claimed that the saffron party workers pulled the sarees of Ritu and Anita. Meanwhile, Priyanka Gandhi also met Ritu Singh and Anita Yadav. UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu was also present in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/priyanka-gandhi-demands-that-lakhimpur-kheri-panchayat-polls-be-held-again-1009673.html
17-07-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand High Court questions ban on slaughterhouses in Haridwar district||Questioning the constitutionality of a ban on slaughterhouses in Haridwar district, the Uttarakhand High Court has said a civilisation is judged by the way it treats its minorities. Hearing a petition filed by residents of Manglaur challenging the ban on slaughterhouses in Haridwar district on Friday, a division bench of the High Court comprising Chief Justice R S Chauhan and Justice Alok Kumar Verma said, “Democracy means the protection of minorities. A civilisation is judged only by the way it treats its minorities and a ban like Haridwar's questions the extent to which the state can determine a citizen's options." The petition said the prohibition goes against the right to privacy, the right to life and the right to freely practice religion and discriminated against Muslims in Haridwar where towns like Manglaur have a substantial Muslim population. "Denying hygienic and fresh non-vegetarian food to people of Haridwar district across the limitations of religion and caste amounts to hostile discrimination," the petition said. In March this year, the state had declared all areas of Haridwar “free from slaughterhouses” and cancelled the NOCs issued to slaughterhouses. The petition claimed the ban was "arbitrary and unconstitutional". The petition challenged this for two reasons: a blanket ban on meat of any kind is unconstitutional, as is Section 237A that the Uttarakhand government had inserted into the Uttar Pradesh Municipalities Act, to give itself the power to declare an area under a municipal corporation, council or nagar panchayat as a “slaughter-free” zone. The court said the petition has raised “serious fundamental questions” and would involve a constitutional interpretation. On similar issues, the Supreme Court had earlier raised concerns that “meat ban cannot be forced down the throat of anyone. Tomorrow, you will say nobody should eat meat," the HC said. Keeping this in mind, the High Court observed, “The question is whether a citizen has the right to decide his own diet or whether that will be decided by the state.” However, the court maintained that this is a constitutional issue not restricted by festivals and the case needed proper hearing and deliberations. Hence, it is not possible to conclude it in time for Bakrid which falls on July 21, the court said, adding that the next hearing of the petition will be held on July 23||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-high-court-questions-ban-on-slaughterhouses-in-haridwar-district-1009694.html
17-07-2021||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir government to terminate more 'anti-national' employees||After terminating the services of 18 employees for their alleged involvement in anti-national and terrorist-related activities, Jammu and Kashmir government has zeroed in on nearly two dozen more such officials, who will be shown the door in the coming weeks. Sources told DH that the records of these employees, including two to three senior officers, are being scrutinized by intelligence agencies and a final decision may be taken soon. “Most of the evidence of their anti-national activities has already been procured by the concerned agencies. Even screenshots of their anti-India campaign on their social media accounts have been enclosed with the files,” they revealed. Sources said these employees, whose activities were being monitored by the Intelligence agencies, have suddenly started distancing themselves from the overground workers (OGWs) network of the militants. “Some of them have even deleted their social media accounts and are trying to destroy any further evidence against them,” they added. On July 10, J&K Lt Governor Manoj Sinha ordered the termination of 11 government employees, including the two sons of Hizbul Mujahideen chief Syed Salahuddin, for their alleged involvement in anti-national and terrorist activities. Prior to that, on May 20. tainted deputy superintendent of J&K police, Davinder Singh, who was charge-sheeted by the NIA for providing support to the Hizbul militant outfit, was dismissed from service. Before that, the LG administration also terminated the services of seven government employees, including a Naib tehsildar, an assistant professor and two school teachers after a panel identified them as being involved in ‘anti-national’ activities. These employees were dismissed under Article 311 of the Constitution under which no inquiry is held and dismissed employees can only approach a high court for relief. For future appointments, the J&K government has already made the rules stricter wherein anybody joining the service will be subjected to CID verification which will unravel whether the fresh recruits have links in anti-national and anti-social activities. This is not the first time that the J&K government has decided to act against employees on grounds of involvement in anti-national activities. When President’s rule was imposed in 1990, among the officials dismissed on such grounds was Naeem Akthar, a senior leader of the People’s Democratic Party, who also served as a cabinet minister in the previous PDP-BJP government. Similar action was taken in 1995 and 2016. Both times, however, the officials were reinstated later. After the split of the erstwhile state into two union territories (UTs) last August, the total number of the J&K UT employees is around 4,50,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-government-to-terminate-more-anti-national-employees-1009698.html
17-07-2021||North and Central||Revenue officer among three killed in SUV-truck collision in Chhattisgarh||A revenue officer and two others were killed, while one person was injured when the SUV they were travelling in collided with a truck in Chhattisgarh's Kabirdham district on Saturday, police said. The accident occurred around 7.30 am near Pagwahi village under Chilfi police station limits, said Ramakant Tiwari, station house officer (SHO) Chilfi. "The SUV collided with the truck that was coming from the opposite direction. Some local residents called an ambulance after the accident and the four occupants of the SUV were shifted to a nearby hospital, where three of them were declared dead on arrival," he said. The deceased were identified as Satish Krishan, the nayab tehsildar of Bodla (Kabirdham), and his friends Radhakrishna Badhai and Devashish Mishra, he said. A case has been registered against the truck driver for causing death by negligence and he has been arrested, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/revenue-officer-among-three-killed-in-suv-truck-collision-in-chhattisgarh-1009702.html
17-07-2021||North and Central||1 dead, 20 injured as private bus overturns in MP's Anuppur||One person was killed and 20 others injured when a private bus overturned in Madhya Pradesh's Anuppur district on Saturday, police said. The accident occurred around 9 am when the bus, with 25 people on board, was heading to Shahdol from Amarkantak, Jaithari police station in-charge K K Tripathi said. According to passengers, the driver was driving rashly and speeding, causing the bus to overturn at Baihar Ghat. A 27-year-old man died on the spot, while 20 other passengers sustained injuries and were rushed to the district hospital in Anuppur, he said. The driver and other bus staffers fled the scene, following the accident, Tripathi said, adding that a case has been registered and further probe is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/1-dead-20-injured-as-private-bus-overturns-in-mps-anuppur-1009715.html
17-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi Airport's Terminal 2 to reopen from July 22||Terminal 2 (T2) of the Delhi International Airport will resume operations from July 22, two months after it was shut down due to a significant drop in domestic air traffic owing to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, a statement said on Saturday. The resumption of operations at T2 will be with approximately 200 air traffic movements (100 departures and 100 arrivals) per day and increase progressively up to around 280 movements by August-end, said the statement from airport operator Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL). Currently, only Terminal 3 of Delhi airport is handling flight operations. "T2 will resume operations with IndiGo's 2000-2999 series flights and the entire operations of GoAir," DIAL said. "It is expecting to witness a footfall of around 25,000 passengers in the initial phase," About 27 counters – 11 for GoAir and 16 for IndiGo - will be available to cater to the passengers of respective flights, it said. The decision to resume T2 operations was taken after the Delhi airport started witnessing gradual growth in passenger footfalls post the lockdown relaxation and easing of travel norms by various states since June this year, DIAL noted. T2 had started handling flight operations on Oct. 1 last year. It was shut down on May 18 this year as the number of flights dropped dramatically due to the second wave.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-airports-terminal-2-to-reopen-from-july-22-1009716.html
17-07-2021||North and Central||Zurich airport signs shareholder agreement with NIAL for development of Noida airport||The Zurich Airport International on Saturday signed a shareholder agreement with the Uttar Pradesh government's entity NIAL in Lucknow for the development of the Noida International Airport, a statement said. Arun Vir Singh, CEO, Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL), and Christoph Schnellmann, CEO, Yamuna International Airport Pvt Ltd (YIAPL), signed the agreement in the presence Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and senior officials of the UP government, the Zurich Airport International's statement said. YIAPL is a 100 per cent subsidiary of Zurich Airport International and has been incorporated to develop the Noida International Airport in Jewar, which is around 70 km from the main Delhi region. According to the agreement, NIAL will hold one golden share in YIAPL and the right to nominate two directors to the board.   "The directors to be added to the board will be Arun Vir Singh, CEO NIAL, and Vishak Iyer, Director, Civil Aviation, Government of Uttar Pradesh," it added.  The shareholder agreement also underpins the UP government's support to "establish and continuously improve surface access to the airport, establish and expand utilities required to run the airport (water, electricity, waste water), maintain law and order, including monitoring at the airport, and grant the necessary clearances to build and operate the airport". “The signing of the shareholder agreement is the next step in the direction of progress for the state. The Noida International Airport will be the benchmark for a modern, world-class airport in India,” a statement quoted Adityanath as saying. “It will accelerate the development of industrial infrastructure, boost tourism, promote exports, ease air traffic and lead to creation of more jobs in the state. It will generate multi-dimensional progress, leading to economic development in Uttar Pradesh,” he added. Last month, the YIAPL had announced that it has secured a loan of Rs 3,725 crore from the State Bank of India for the development of Noida international Airport. When it won the bid on November 29, 2019 to build and operate the Noida airport, the Zurich Airport International had said the airport will be able to handle 12 million passengers per year after the first phase of construction. Officials of the Uttar Pradesh government and the Swiss company had signed a concession agreement on October 7, 2020 to begin the construction of the Noida airport, estimated to cost Rs 29,560 crore. In December 2020, it had submitted the master plan for the first phase of construction to the UP government and selected a four-company consortium to design the passenger terminal for the greenfield airport in Jewar. The Zurich Airport International had outbid Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL), Adani Enterprises and Anchorage Infrastructure Investments Holdings Limited to win the 40-year concession for the Noida airport in November 2019. The Zurich Airport International is itself a 100 per cent subsidiary of Flughafen Zurich AG, a listed company that operates the Zurich airport. Zurich Airport International AG (ZAIA) CEO Daniel Bircher said, “We are pleased to sign the shareholder agreement, which strengthens the partnership between ZAIA and NIAL. The Noida International Airport will be an engine of economic growth for India and Uttar Pradesh, stimulating residential and industrial activities in the catchment area as well as the development of cargo and logistics cluster in the NCR region. “This agreement reaffirms UP government's commitment to provide road and rail connectivity along with other various utilities and to ensure safety and security for the upcoming Noida International Airport,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/zurich-airport-signs-shareholder-agreement-with-nial-for-development-of-noida-airport-1009722.html
17-07-2021||North and Central||Congress Punjab puzzle likely to be resolved soon||The Congress crisis in Punjab appeared to be turning into a jigsaw puzzle with Captain Amarinder Singh reiterating that he would abide by whatever party chief Sonia Gandhi decides even as his detractor Navjot Sidhu was on a meeting spree with state leaders including PPC chief Sunil Jakhar. Party sources said the resolution is likely to be as early as today evening. After Amarinder's angry letter addressed to Sonia Gandhi that appointing Sidhu as PPC chief could hurt the party's prospects in the upcoming polls, AICC general secretary in-charge for Punjab Harish Rawat rushed to Chandigarh to mollify him. After meeting Singh, Rawat told reporters that the CM reiterated his earlier stand that he will abide by Gandhi's decision. The Chief Minister's media advisor later put out a tweet quoting the CM saying that he had a fruitful meeting with Rawat. The CM also reportedly raised issues that Rawat said will be taken up with the Congress President. A party MLA in Punjab downplayed the row between the CM and Sidhu, asking to see the letter wherein "the Captain said I do not accept Sidhu, where is the letter that Sidhu has appointed PPCC chief?" Congress spokesperson Javeer Shergil said, "Amarinder Singh is the Captain of the Congress party in Punjab. Any change in the batting and bowling order will be only in consultation with him." He said both Captain and Sidhu are gladiators of the Congress party and they will work together to steer the party to victory. Rawat reached Chandigarh in a chopper around noon and then went straight to the chief minister’s farmhouse in Mohali, where the leaders were closeted for an hour as the central leadership was keen to placate the Captain. Opposing Sidhu's appointment, Captain has advanced the argument of representation to all social groups saying that he and Sidhu both belong to the Jat Sikh community, which may not go down well with other social groups. In a surprise move, Sidhu on Saturday went to meet state party chief Sunil Jakhar in Panchkula and hailed the latter as his "elder brother and a guiding force" while Jakhar called Sidhu a "capable" man. Sidhu is also learnt to have met Punjab ministers Sukhjinder Randhawa and Tript Rajinder Bajwa and some more MLAs while the CM met with a larger contingent of party MPs, MLAs and ministers. Sidhu, who joined Congress in 2017 after a three-year stint with BJP, got close to Rahul Gandhi, whom he hailed as "my Captain". However, he got into multiple rows with him including in 2018 when he visited Pakistan and hugged Pakistan Army Chief Qamar Javed Bajwa, which was strongly denounced by the Chief Minister. The names of minister Vijay Inder Singla and MP Santokh Chaudhary were doing the rounds for the post of working presidents. Singla or Manish Tewari are also Captain's choices for PPCC chief. The speculation about Sidhu being made party chief gained all the more traction after he met Sonia Gandhi in Delhi on Friday hours after Rawat's remarks suggesting that Sidhu is in for a big role in the party. Lok Sabha MP Manish Tewari, close to Captain earlier tweeted that balancing social interest groups is key and equality is the foundation of social justice while giving demographic details of Punjab — Sikhs constitute 57.75 per cent of the population, while Hindus and Dalits constitute 38.49. Of these, Dalits divided into both groups are 31.94 per cent. His tweet was interpreted as making a case for a Hindu President. The party earlier planned two working Presidents, one from an upper-caste Hindu group and one from Dalits. Congress leader and chairman of Punjab Large Industrial Development Board Pawan Dewan tweeted "Punjab Congress president — Jat Sikh (if Sidhu is made state Congress chief). CM — Jat Sikh. Punjab Youth Congress President — Jat Sikh Campaign Committee Chairman — Jat Sikh, Hindu kaha hai (where is the representation of the Hindu community)?" he tweeted. A three-member panel headed by Mallikarjun Kharge, Rawat and senior leader J P Agrawal has already submitted a report to the party chief on the Punjab infighting underlining the need to resolve the dispute and hit the campaign trail soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-punjab-puzzle-likely-to-be-resolved-soon-1009746.html
17-07-2021||North and Central||Allahabad HC denies bail to slain gangster Vikas Dubey's relative||Terming the killing of eight policemen in the Kanpur ambush last year as a "horrendous crime", the Allahabad High Court denied bail to a woman relative of the slain gangster Vikas Dubey. Khushi is the widow of Amar Dubey, an aide and relative of the slain gangster. She had allegedly taken an active part in the ambush at Kanpur’s Bikru village on July 3 last year, according to police. Days after the ambush, Vikas Dubey was shot dead by the UP Police as he allegedly tried to flee from their custody. Khushi had filed the plea against the rejection of bail by a lower court, citing that she had no role in the ambush. In her plea, Khushi said she was declared a juvenile by a board on September 1, 2020. According to her counsel, Khushi’s age was around 16 years 10 months on the date of the incident. It was further pleaded that she was not a member of the gang of Vikas Dubey, rather her husband was a relative of the slain gangster and they had gone to Vikas Dubey’s house on the day of the incident. However, the state government opposed the bail plea on the ground that as per statements of the policemen who survived the ambush, she actively participated in the assault. She was aiding and instigating the men not to spare any policeman, the state government said in the court. Dismissing the bail plea on Friday, Justice J J Munir observed, "An overall look on the circumstances of the case brings to mind the fact that the occurrence, in which the revisionist was involved, was not of an ordinary kind." “Not only the spontaneous elimination of eight policemen in action and six others left injured, is a horrendous crime that shocks the conscience of the society but also an act that strikes at the roots of the state's authority in its territory," the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/allahabad-hc-denies-bail-to-slain-gangster-vikas-dubeys-relative-1009767.html
17-07-2021||North and Central||SC notice to MBBS student on plea by junior to revive rape case||The Supreme Court has sought a response from the Karnataka government and an MBBS student from a Bengaluru college on a plea by a junior medico for the revival of a rape case which was quashed after he had agreed to marry her as part of a settlement. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta issued notices to the state government and the accused and directed them to file their replies to the petition within a month. The petition by the alleged victim claimed that the accused tricked her into believing that he would marry her, while simultaneously practicing deceit in the form of creating circumstances including a demand of Rs 1 crore dowry.  The petition was filed by advocate Siddhartha Jha against an order passed by Karnataka High Court, which had on September 24, last year quashed proceedings in an FIR lodged with Bidadi police station in Ramanagara district for the alleged rape of the MBBS student between 2017-2018 after a compromise was reached between the complainant and the accused. The petition claimed that the settlement between the parties was based on the forcible consent of the woman. It also contended the high court ignored an SC ruling that there can be no quashing on the basis of settlement or compromise in rape cases. The victim claimed in her petition before the top court that the accused, being her senior at Rajarajeshwari Medical College, Bengaluru, took advantage of the dominant position over her. According to the petition, the accused made sexual relations with the victim on the promise of marriage. However, later he refused to marry her and she filed a rape case against him, it said. The case was later quashed as both the parties agreed to a settlement where the accused promised to marry the woman as soon as their course was completed. Immediately after the case was quashed, however, the accused started antagonising and ill-treating the woman and her family, it is alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-notice-to-mbbs-student-on-plea-by-junior-to-revive-rape-case-1009769.html
17-07-2021||North and Central||UP ATS arrests three men in Nagpur under anti-conversion law: Police||The Uttar Pradesh police's Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) has arrested three persons from Nagpur in Maharashtra in connection with a case registered in Lucknow under UP’s anti-conversion law, an official said on Saturday. The trio was arrested from Ganeshpeth area in Nagpur city on Friday night, he said. The accused were identified as Prasad Rameshwar Kavale (from Nagpur), Kausar Alam Shaukat Ali Khan (from Jharkhand) and Bhupriya Bando Devidas Mankar (from Gadchiroli in Maharashtra), the police official in Nagpur said. The three accused were staying at Hansapuri under the jurisdiction of Ganeshpeth police station, he said. The UP police’s ATS had arrested some persons last month and claimed to have busted a nationwide racket of religious conversions. An FIR was lodged with Gomtinagar police station in Lucknow under the state's anti-conversion law. The Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, which was promulgated in November last year, prohibits unlawful religious conversions and nullifies marriages if they are carried out for the sole purpose of religious conversion. The law provides for imprisonment of up to 10 years and a maximum fine of Rs 50,000 under different categories. The UP police had said that they had recovered a register from some of the accused persons arrested earlier. The register carried details of over 1,000 persons from Maharashtra, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, and Delhin with their names and addresses mentioned in it, they had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-ats-arrests-three-men-in-nagpur-under-anti-conversion-law-police-1009771.html
17-07-2021||North and Central||Mayawati slams Amarinder over letter to PM regarding farmers' protest||BSP president Mayawati on Saturday targeted Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh over his letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi regarding the ongoing farmers' agitation. "The letter written by the Congress CM of Punjab to the PM, expressing various apprehensions about the farmers' agitation is a conspiracy to defame the movement of the farmers, who are sacrificing their lives to get the new agricultural laws repealed, and pursue electoral politics under its guise. This is most unfair," she said in a tweet in Hindi. Taking the Centre's cooperation on challenges faced by the government of a border state is not unreasonable, but pursuing selfish electoral politics under its garb and defaming the farmers' movement are something the public understands well, Mayawati added. "The Congress is not going to reap any benefit by doing this," she said. Singh had on Friday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to immediately resume talks with agitating farmers, sending him a letter that cited "cross-border threat" by ISI-backed groups ahead of the state assembly polls. In the letter, the chief minister cited "heightened cross-border threat and increased drone and other terrorist activities by ISI-backed groups, including plans by Khalistani outfits to target certain farmer leaders". He warned that powers across the border "may try to play upon the charged emotions of our proud, sincere, and hardworking farmers" of Punjab.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mayawati-slams-amarinder-over-letter-to-pm-regarding-farmers-protest-1009776.html
17-07-2021||North and Central||Priyanka Gandhi ducks queries on being Congress' CM face for Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday refused to commit on contesting polls in future or be the party’s CM face in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections next year. The Congress leader, who is on a two-day visit here, said her party will continue to raise people's issues. When asked if she will contest elections in future, Priyanka told reporters in Lakhimpur Kheri,"We will see." When asked if she will be the party’s CM face for the UP polls, the Congress leader said, "Should I tell you everything now…" On what would be her party's strategy, Priyanka said wherever there is problem or pain, they will go and stand with people. "In the past year and a half, our party has raised the strongest voice. We have hit the roads, our party workers have courted arrest. Rest of the parties have not spoken so much nor they came out (on streets) as compared to us, and we will continue with this," she said. Priyanka was in Lakhimpur Kheri to meet two women workers of the Samajwadi Party with whom BJP activists had allegedly misbehaved during the recent block panchayat chief elections. She demanded repolling at places where violence took place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/priyanka-gandhi-ducks-queries-on-being-congress-cm-face-for-uttar-pradesh-assembly-polls-1009783.html
17-07-2021||North and Central||Ripun Bora urges PM for probe into Pramanik's 'Bangladeshi' nationality||Senior Congress MP Ripun Bora has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to conduct an enquiry into claims in news reports that newly appointed Union Minister Nisith Pramanik is a Bangladeshi national. In a letter that he posted on Twitter, Bora said that news channels Barak Bangla and Republic TV Tripura and digital media, India Today and Business Standard, have reported that Pramanik is a Bangladeshi national. PTI reported, sources close to Pramanik strongly refuted the allegations, saying the minister was born, brought up and educated in India. The minister is a "patriotic Indian" who was born, brought up and educated in India and asserted that the allegations were baseless, sources said. Pramanik (35) was inducted as a Minister of State in the Modi's Council of Ministers early this month and assigned to the Ministry of Home Affairs and Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports. Quoting the reports, Bora said that Pramanik's birthplace is Harinathpur in Gaibandha district of Bangladesh. "He came to West Bengal for computer study (sic) and after taking computer degree, he first joined Trinamool Congress and later on joined the BJP and was elected as MP from Cooch Behar," Bora said in the letter. The news channels also reported that Pramanik showed his address as Cooch Behar in election papers "by manipulation", Bora said. The channels also highlighted the "jubilant scenario", including a statement of "his elder brother" and some villagers of his native village in Bangladesh expressing their satisfaction on Pramanik being appointed as union minister of state for home, he added. "If it is so, this is a very serious matter for the country, that a foreign national is appointed as a union minister. Therefore, I urge upon you to conduct an inquiry about the actual birthplace and nationality of Nisith Pramanik in a most transparent way and clarify the whole issue as it creates confusion across the country," Bora said in his letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ripun-bora-urges-pm-for-probe-into-pramaniks-bangladeshi-nationality-1009789.html
17-07-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand to be made leading state in tourism by 2027: CM Dhami||Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Saturday said Uttarakhand will be made a leading state in the tourism sector by 2027. Infrastructure in tourism and power sectors will be strengthened while the ongoing road and rail projects will gain a big momentum to make Uttarakhand a leading state in tourism, he said at a programme. Dhami said that during his recent visit to Delhi he had discussed with the Union Railway and IT Minister how to extend Internet connectivity to around 6,000 villages of the state and how to speed up work on the Rishikesh-Karnaprayag rail link project which is already underway. The chief minister said he had also brought up the issue of expediting the survey of the Tanakpur-Bageshwar broad gauge rail line during his meeting with the Union minister. He reiterated that the Kanwar yatra has been suspended in Uttarakhand in view of Covid as saving the lives of people is the state government's top priority. He said 100 per cent vaccination will be done in the state in the next three to four months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-to-be-made-leading-state-in-tourism-by-2027-cm-dhami-1009804.html
17-07-2021||North and Central||Haryana will introduce 'One Block, One Product' scheme: Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala||To encourage and promote small industries in the rural areas, the Haryana government will soon introduce the 'One Block, One Product' scheme, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said on Saturday. Under the scheme, the state government plans to connect every block of the state with some industrial vision and the government is working expeditiously on this scheme, he added. The Deputy Chief Minister informed that in the last one year, Haryana's 'One District, One Product' Scheme which is being implemented under MSME, has come up as a model across the country. "Moreover, it has been adopted by the Central Government in its budget as well," he said in a statement here. While promoting this scheme further, he said that the state government would take it up at the block level in rural areas as well. Chautala informed that the state government is planning to introduce “One Block, One Product” in 137 blocks of the state, wherein arrangements for common services, lab testing, packaging, transportation, accountancy will be set up in the cluster itself. He said that with this, the small entrepreneurs working in rural areas would be able to compete with large industries. The Deputy Chief Minister said that about two weeks ago, the state government had given a target to the team of officers constituted with regard to the implementation of this Scheme. Chautala expressed contentment that the team had started work on the selection of products by segregating 137 blocks. He said that during this process a block of Haryana state also came to fore in which a wide array of (about 300 types) of traditional footwear are manufactured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-will-introduce-one-block-one-product-scheme-deputy-cm-dushyant-chautala-1009834.html
17-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi reports 59 new Covid-19 cases, four more deaths; positivity rate 0.08%||The national capital recorded 59 Covid-19 cases and four deaths on Saturday while the positivity rate dropped to 0.08 per cent, according to data shared by the health department here. The four new fatalities have pushed the death toll in the city to 25,027.  On Friday, the national capital had recorded 66 cases, one fatality and a positivity rate of 0.09 per cent, while on Thursday the city had logged 72 Covid-19 infections and one death with a positivity rate of 0.10 per cent. The city's case positivity rate had reached its highest at 36 per cent in the last week of April. According to the latest health bulletin, 59 fresh cases and four deaths were recorded on Saturday. Delhi had recorded 77 cases and one death on Wednesday, while the daily infection tally was 76 with two deaths the day before. Despite the fall in daily cases in the last several days, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has cautioned that the chance of the third wave of the Covid-19 infections was quite real and asserted that his government was preparing on a "war-footing" to combat it. Last week, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) had passed a colour-coded response action plan under which curbs will be implemented in accordance with the severity of the Covid-19 situation to deal with a possible third wave of the pandemic. Kejriwal had last week had inaugurated a genome-sequencing laboratory at the ILBS hospital here and said these labs will detect the lethality of the coronavirus variants and help the government prepare accordingly. A total of 76,421 tests, including 52,490 RT-PCR and 23,931 rapid antigen tests, were conducted a day ago, according to the health bulletin on Saturday. The number of active cases decreased to 621 on Saturday from 657 a day before. The number of people in home isolation dropped to 212 from 228 on Friday while the number of containment zones slightly rose to 422 from 418 a day before, it said. Delhi had reeled under a brutal second wave of the pandemic that swept the country claiming a massive number of lives daily with the oxygen supply shortage issue at various hospitals adding to the woes. From April 19 onwards daily cases and death count spiralled up with over 28,000 cases and 277 deaths recorded on April 20. On May 3, the city registered a record 448 deaths, as per the official data. However, the number of cases and deaths have shown a downward trend and the positivity rate has been shrinking for over a month now. In view of the improving Covid-19 situation, the Delhi government had announced the reopening of restaurants with 50 per cent capacity and one weekly market per municipal zone from June 14. With a close gathering of shoppers in markets and restaurants resuming business amid phased unlock in the national capital, doctors have cautioned that Delhi could face a "worse than second wave situation" of Covid-19 if people do not adhere to safety norms or lower their guards. On May 15, Kejriwal had said, "The virus is reducing in Delhi slowly and steadily, and I hope it diminishes completely and does not rise again. However, we are not going to become negligent in any way."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-reports-59-new-covid-19-cases-four-more-deaths-positivity-rate-008-1009839.html
17-07-2021||North and Central||Scattered light to moderate rains seen in north India; heavy downpour likely in next few days||It was a hot Saturday across most of the north Indian plains with isolated light to moderate rainfall in parts of Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, but the region is expected to witness heavy downpour in the next couple of days. While Pali was recorded the hottest place in Rajasthan as 42.5 degrees Celsius, the highest temperature of the day in Uttar Pradesh was registered in Jhansi at 41.2 degrees Celsius. The mercury in Delhi, Punjab and Haryana hovered a couple of notches above normal. There was heavy rainfall and thunderstorm accompanied with lightning at isolated places over eastern Uttar Pradesh, and in Himachal Pradesh, the weather office issued a warning of landslides due to heavy rainfall predicted in the next three-four days. Delhi's maximum temperature settled at 38.8 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal, on Saturday, with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicting heavy rainfall at isolated places in the city towards Sunday afternoon and evening. The weatherman said generally cloudy skies with moderate rainfall and thundershowers were likely in most of the city, and the maximum and the minimum temperatures are expected to hover around 35 and 27 degrees Celsius respectively. The Meteorological Centre in Himchal Pradesh’s Shimla said the latest weather conditions and interpretations of different global and regional models indicated that rainfall activity was very likely to increase around Saturday for the next three-four days with moderate to heavy rainfall in lower and middle hills of the state. The expected weather conditions may trigger landslides on national and state highways, inundations in low-lying area, high discharge in stream and nullahs, besides disruption of traffic and other electrical and communication channels, it warned, advising the state government to take adequate safety measures. Rainfall was recorded at isolated places over the state during the day. Shahpur received 35 mm rain, Malan 29 mm, Guler and Barthin 12 mm each, and Pidana, Dalhousie and Tisso 10 mm each, the Met centre said. The highest temperature was recorded in Una at 38.2 degrees Celsius, and the lowest was in Lahaul-Spiti's administrative centre Keylong at 14.8 degrees Celsius. Light to moderate rainfall and thundershower occurred at isolated places in Uttar Pradesh, the weather office in state capital Lucknow said. Rainfall was recorded in Siddharth Nagar, Maharajganj, Bahraich, Sitapur, Gorakhpur, and Shahjahanpur, it added. The weather office said thunderstorm accompanied with lighting is very likely at isolated places over the state on Sunday, and rainfall and thundershowers are expected at most places on July 19 and July 20. In Rajasthan, light to moderate rainfall was recorded in several parts and more are predicted at isolated places in the state during the next two days. While Girwa (Udaipur), Narayana (Jaipur) and Bikaner recorded 2 cm rainfall each, a few more places recorded 1 cm or less since Friday. Tonk, Dholpur, Bikaner and Churu received 7 mm, 5.5 mm, 3.2 mm and 1.7 mm rainfall since Saturday morning, the weather office in Jaipur said. The mercury reached 42.2 degrees Celsius in both Dholpur and Ganganagar during the day. Sultry weather conditions prevailed in most places in Haryana and Punjab, with maximum temperatures hovering above normal limits. Common capital Chandigarh recorded a high of 37.5 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal. According to the weather office in Chandigarh, Bathinda in Punjab and Narnaul in Haryana recorded respective maximums of 41 degrees Celsius and 40.3 degrees Celsius. Ambala in Haryana recorded a maximum temperature of 37.4 degrees Celsius each, up four notches, while Hisar registered a high of 39.8 degrees Celsius, three degrees above normal. The maximum temperature in Rohtak settled at 38 degrees Celsius, two notches above normal, while Gurgaon registered a high of 39.2 degrees Celsius, five degrees above normal. Karnal's maximum settled at 36 degrees Celsius, two notches above normal. In Punjab, Amritsar recorded a maximum temperature of 37.2 degrees Celsius, two degrees above normal. Ludhiana recorded a high of 37.7 degrees Celsius and Patiala 37.6 degrees Celsius, four degrees above normal in both cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/scattered-light-to-moderate-rains-seen-in-north-india-heavy-downpour-likely-in-next-few-days-1009851.html
17-07-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh cancels Kawad Yatra in view of Covid-19||The annual Kanwar Yatra in Uttar Pradesh has been cancelled this year, a senior government official said here on Saturday night. The development came a day after the Supreme Court said it cannot allow the Uttar Pradesh government "to hold 100 per cent physical Kanwar Yatra in view of Covid", stressing that sentiments, including religious, are subservient to the Right to Life. "The Kanwar Yatra has been cancelled by the Kanwar Sanghs on the appeal of the Uttar Pradesh government," Additional Chief Secretary Information Navneet Sehgal said on Sunday. The yatra was scheduled to start on July 25. The Uttarakhand government has already called off the Kanwar Yatra citing fears expressed by experts of a possible third wave of the pandemic and the risk posed by such gatherings. The yatra goes on till the first week of August and sees thousands of Shiva devotees called kanwariyas' travelling mostly on foot from neighbouring states, including Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi to collect water from the Ganges in Haridwar. The Centre had told the top court that the state governments must not permit any kind of Kanwar yatra because of the pandemic and arrangements should be made for water from the Ganges to be available through tankers at designated places. On Friday, the Supreme Court which had taken suo motu cognisance of the matter and asked the Uttar Pradesh government to inform by July 19 whether it would reconsider its decision to hold a "symbolic" Kanwar Yatra. Hours after a nudge from the Supreme Court on Friday, the Uttar Pradesh government had said it is talking with "kanwar sanghs" to take the right decision on the annual yatra and reminded that the organisations themselves decided to cancel it last year. In a statement, the UP government had said that it was preparing itself for every situation for the Kanwar Yatra, scheduled to start from July 25. "Officers have been asked to talk to 'kanwar sanghs' so that a right decision could be taken. The officers are also apprising them of the Covid situation. "The government feels that religious sentiments should not be hurt and also there should be the safety of people. Last year, 'kanwar sanghs' after talks with the government themselves decided to cancel the yatra," it had said. A Supreme Court bench of Justices R F Nariman and B R Gavai had said the Right to Life under Article 21 of the Constitution is paramount and asked the Uttar Pradesh government whether it was willing to reconsider its decision to hold a yatra at all. "We are of the view that this is a matter which concerns every one of us as citizens of India and goes to the very heart of Article 21 of the Constitution of India, which has a pride of place in the fundamental rights chapter of our Constitution. "The health of the citizenry of India and their right to life are paramount. All other sentiments, albeit religious, are subservient to this most basic fundamental right," the bench had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-cancels-kawad-yatra-in-view-of-covid-19-1009854.html
17-07-2021||North and Central||Culprits behind terror, intimidation machinery in Kashmir arrested||In a major breakthrough, police on Saturday said the culprits behind the "terror and intimidation machinery" which led to the killings of a prominent journalist, an advocate and a businessman in Jammu and Kashmir have been arrested by carrying out raids in multiple locations in the union territory. Inspector General of Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said the police discovered the culprits secretly working behind the blog  site "http://kashmirfight.wordpress.com". He said in a J&K wide operation, houses and properties at multiple locations including Sanat Nagar, Rajbagh and Batpora in Srinagar, Hawal in Pulwama and Poonch and Jammu belonging to five persons were searched. Armed with search warrants granted by the competent court of law, police parties carried out searches of the suspect premises and recovered a large number of cell phones, digital storage devices and computing platforms, Kumar said. In one house alone, 32 mobile phones, one tablet, two laptops, four hard disk storage devices, seven memory cards and one dongle were seized, he added. The IGP said five persons were arrested and have been identified as Nazish Yasrab Rehmani and Tabish Akbar Rehmani from Sanat Nagar, Sofi Mohammad Akbar from Rajbagh, Peerzada Raqif Makhdoomi from Batpora Hazratbal and Javed Khalid from Poonch. Kumar said  "http://kashmirfight.wordpress.com” was being run by "a white collar terrorist syndicate whose task was to prepare a strategic hit list of government officers, journalists, social activists, lawyers and political functionaries". "They were assessed by the syndicate to be responsible for harming the overarching objectives of furthering and sustaining the Pakistani supported terrorist programme with the eventual aim of secession of Jammu and Kashmir from the Indian union and its eventual annexation with Pakistan," he said. With the arrest of the kingpins and the discovery of a huge number of digital devices and the analysis of the data therein, it is expected that the ultimate plans behind the murder of journalist Shujat Bukhari, advocate Babar Qadri and businessman Satpal Nischal would come to the fore, the IGP said. He said the blog site "http://kashmirfight.wordpress.com" had designed a modus operandi wherein the name of the victim was first published and then profiled giving detailed justification as to how and why he is a legitimate target for the militants and subsequently his actual execution by the ultras.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/culprits-behind-terror-intimidation-machinery-in-kashmir-arrested-1009874.html
17-07-2021||North and Central||Lovers get married at police station in UP's Bahraich||Two lovers who had reached a police station here to lodge a complaint against each other had their marriage solemnised there with rituals. The incident took place at the Baundi police station and both belonged to Ranipurva village. According to villagers, Shahid Ali was in love with a young woman of the village for the past one year. Both are from the same community but the boy's family was not ready for their marriage and there were frequent disputes between both of them. On Friday, the woman went to the police station to register a complaint against Shahid, who too reached there with his family members. Additional Superintendent of Police (Rural) Ashok Kumar said, "On Friday, both sides came to the police station to lodge a complaint against each other. The SHO (Manoj Kumar Rai) had information that they were having a love affair for the past one year. With the help of the elders of the village, both sides were convinced to go for a mutual understanding." Later, a Qazi was called at the police station and the “nikaah” was performed, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lovers-get-married-at-police-station-in-ups-bahraich-1009878.html
17-07-2021||Opinion||Sorry, no Mastercard? Digital trade needs rules||By Andy Mukherjee, Mastercard Inc. has been told not to issue new cards in India. It’s a move that underscores the urgent need of a US-led digital trade pact to set global standards for what sovereign states can and cannot do to firms that obtain and process data internationally.  The Indian central bank pulled the plug on the US payments network for alleged noncompliance with its controversial local data storage rules introduced three years ago. In April, the monetary authority imposed similar restrictions on American Express Co. and Discover Financial Services’ Diners Club cards. Existing customers are going to be fine in all three cases, but the harsh penalties will still reduce competition in the market. RBL Bank Ltd., whose shares fell Thursday following the regulator’s announcement, said it would take it up to  10 weeks to transition to Visa Inc., possibly affecting its monthly card-issuance target in the interim. Mastercard has a 33% share in India, compared with Visa’s 45%. Some other Indian banks and finance companies will also be hit, according to Nomura Research.  Could this dislocation have been avoided? Globally, e-commerce, content and payment firms are in the crosshairs of regulatory action. While governments advance many reasons for insisting on local storage — from checking money laundering to ensuring national security — the burden of compliance falls disproportionately on international firms. Rivals that serve only one market have no trouble in meeting the requirements. That makes it a trade access issue. To plug this and several other gaps in cross-border exchange of data, President Joe Biden’s team is working on proposals for a digital trade deal with economies in the Asia-Pacific, Bloomberg News reported this week. Decades of globalization have lowered tariffs and harmonized customs procedures in trade of goods. And although selling services like banking and insurance across borders is still messy, regional free-trade deals are at least trying to reduce the friction. When it comes to data capitalism, however, populous nation-states are increasingly aware of the value of the raw material at their disposal — and loathe to share it with others. Localization requirements represent some of the most egregious curbs. From Russia and China to India and Indonesia, many governments are insisting on domestic data storage. Some are going further. China used a 2017 cybersecurity law to crack down on Didi Global Inc. just days after the popular ride-hailing app sold shares in the US From September, things will get tighter still. Under a new data security law, Chinese firms will need the government’s permission to share any information about their mainland operations with law enforcement officials overseas. India offers a more hospitable environment for now, but it, too, is considering legislation for safeguarding of personal data and processing of non-personal information. The compliance costs for businesses will be determined by the guidelines formulated under these new laws. As Amazon.com Inc. and Walmart Inc. are discovering, staying on the right side of idiosyncratic Indian rules can be a costly affair. Facebook Inc.’s WhatsApp messaging service, which wanted a piece of the flourishing Indian card-less payments market, was restricted to an inordinately long beta trial. Even in that case, the showstopper was data localization. WhatsApp said it had met all the requirements, but by the time the National Payments Corporation of India and the central bank were convinced, the service had been delayed by almost three years. The Reserve Bank of India wants data on Indian card payments to reside only on servers locally — with no copies retained elsewhere. As more countries impose such data sovereignty requirements, the economic efficiencies from centralised storage and processing will go out the window. The data centre market has a heavy concentration in five markets: Northern Virginia, Singapore, London, Sydney and Silicon Valley, according to a 2021 Cushman & Wakefield Plc study of projects in active development. Decisions on where to set up shop are taken on the basis of reliable 24x7 power, legal certainty, fiber connectivity and cloud availability from the three main providers — Amazon, Microsoft Corp. and Alphabet Inc.’s Google. But localization requirements are coming in the way. Mastercard even announced a $350 million investment in a data processing centre in Pune, Maharashtra — its first outside the US — to comply with the Indian regulation. Yet the RBI was clearly not impressed.   Data is unlike any other commodity. Everything else, from oil to computer software, gets its value from well-defined property rights protected by legal systems. But as Columbia Law School Professor Katharina Pistor has argued, the tech industry has simply captured data as “wild animals.” Now, if states rush into the legal vacuum, and unilaterally assert rights over individual data, it’ll lead to more chaos. What consumers everywhere want is for their governments to bat for privacy and fair dealing by tech firms. Given the current climate of mutual mistrust, it’s doubtful that China and the US can come to a shared understanding on accessing each other’s bits and bytes. For the rest of the world, a compelling digital trade deal from the Biden administration would help set norms. It would secure US business interests globally and assure trading partners that letting information move freely — under strong rules — is better than trapping it in silos. The volume and granularity of data in a fully functioning 5G network will be much higher than now. Cloud computing resources will need to get more widely distributed to handle complex machines like self-driving cars. Trying to slow things down with localization requirements will be counterproductive. The US president has his work cut out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/sorry-no-mastercard-digital-trade-needs-rules-1009586.html
17-07-2021||Opinion||The GOAT debate: Three kinds of greatness||It was a characteristically elastic summer evening in London as Roger Federer and Andy Roddick did battle to become Wimbledon men's singles champion for 2009. After four unrelenting hours, it is Federer who prevailed, winning the fifth set 16-14. The victory gave the Swiss an unprecedented 15th Grand Slam, taking him past Pete Sampras on the all-time honours board. At the time, Rafael Nadal had six majors to his credit, while Novak Djokovic had one. A little more than 12 years later, on a far more gloomy London evening, Djokovic took on Matteo Berrettini on Wimbledon's Centre Court, and the outcome was far more straightforward. No fifth set was required, as the Serb clinched his sixth Wimbledon trophy and reached the top of the Grand Slam titles list, level with Federer and Nadal on an astounding tally of 20.  Djokovic's triumph created a remarkable three-way tie for the most important record in the game. But, it is also a reflection of three different ways to scale the mountain, three different ways to secure greatness. The numbers' game As for the numbers, it is hard to argue against Djokovic being the greatest of all time. The youngest of the three at 34 (Nadal is 35 while Federer turns 40 in August), Djokovic's distribution of slam victories - 12 on hard court, six on grass, and two on clay - makes him the most complete player in men's tennis history. Federer has also dominated on grass and hard court but only won one Roland Garros final, whereas Nadal's peerless dominance on clay skews his figures - 65 per cent of his Grand Slams have come at the French Open. Djokovic is the only player to complete the career Golden Masters - winning all four Grand Slams, all nine ATP Masters events and the ATP finals. Should he claim the US Open this autumn, he will become the first man since Rod Laver (1969) to have his name etched on all majors in the same calendar year. In terms of the most consistent statistical indicator of excellence- the number of weeks spent as world number one - it is once again Djokovic who leads, having spent a total of 329 weeks (and counting) as the best player in the world. The intangibles Beyond the numbers, however, there is something intangible, something ineffable at play. Something that makes greatness sacred, that stirs the emotional core of the audience in the most intimate ways. It is here that the legacies of Federer and Nadal supposedly surpass that of Djokovic. Federer has redefined what it means to move with grace on a tennis court with his timeless elegance and aesthetic supremacy. The doggedness of Nadal and his indefatigable spirit have served as the perfect foil, providing fans with two compelling styles for close to two decades. Djokovic's problem seems to be that he does not belong to either camp, as he finds himself lodged somewhere between the Federer school of sport as pure art and the Nadal school of sport as pure passion. The mechanical precision of Djokovic's game does not lend itself to endless eulogising. Then there are the off-court personas of Federer and Nadal that always give them a PR edge, especially in today's world of blurring boundaries between achievements and impressions. Federer and Nadal, to their credit, have managed to steer comfortably clear of controversies across their storied careers. No irresponsible comments, no bad blood with peers, no self-sabotaging indulgences. The same cannot be said of Djokovic, whose copybook is blotted by accusations of sexism (for arguing against equal pay in 2016), an anti-vaccination stance, a clumsy mid-pandemic jamboree, and a series of on-court gaffes, ranging from petulant displays of frustration to overstepping the boundaries of appropriate humour. The verdict In all likelihood, Djokovic will end his career as the most decorated player to lace up a pair of boots. Twenty-five Grand Slams is not an impossible target for someone playing the most composed tennis of his life. Whether Djokovic can win over tennis fans with the same unanimous appeal of Federer or Nadal remains to be seen, but nothing can take away from how the Djoker has blazed his trail, carved the third path when it seemed that there were only ever going to be two roads and two kings. The Federer way of combining unteachable talent with a calculative approach for self-preservation had long found a fitting match in the Nadal way of going all guns blazing all day, every day. But Djokovic has shown that a third kind of greatness is possible, one that consists of a tunnel vision focused solely on glory, wherein being liked or loathed does not matter. All that matters is the sheer force of will, the endurance to keep rising to new challenges. (The writer is a freelance journalist writing on politics, culture and sport)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-goat-debate-three-kinds-of-greatness-1009600.html
17-07-2021||Right in the Middle||The joy of dancing in the rain||It started slowly, with a few drops. Then it poured down to sweep away all the dirt. But we were safe from the rain inside the market building. My wife and I had just finished shopping and paid the cashier when the downpour caught us on the wrong foot. Stranded, there was nothing to do but twiddle our thumbs till the rain subsided. People ran helter-skelter to take refuse inside shops, on a veranda or even under a makeshift awning. A pigeon coolly shook off the water on its back, bobbing its beak side to side. A coolie standing quietly under a rickety thatch looked worried. If the rain did not abate, he would have no work and no food that day. All I could do was sympathise with him from my privileged position. It occurred to me that I had not had a shower under the deep grey clouds ever since my boyhood. My shower now was confined to the four walls of the bathroom. In my village, it was not uncommon during the rainy season to get soaked on way to school. How I missed those days and the fun we had dancing in the rain. I parted with that charming life when I moved to the city and its concrete jungle, where rain is a nuisance. Not only does it disrupt daily movement, but it also unleashes all the filth of the city into its gutters. Both of us stared silently at the falling drops. What was my wife thinking? Was it about yesterday’s kitty party or the fiery mood of her boss? I knew that she had made a kill at the kitty and was in a jolly good mood. I sat studying each individual drip as it fell to the ground. “A penny for your thoughts,” I whispered and touched her arm. She jumped up in her seat and turned to me as if to ask: “What?” I smiled and grabbed her arm. "Why not?" If I couldn’t go to the village to get drenched, I could bring the thrill of dancing in the rain to the city. “Are you crazy?” she asked. But before she could protest further, I grabbed her arm and pulled her in the rain. She was terrified when the first drop of water hit her. But she didn’t push me away. On the other hand, she pulled me with both hands and together we went round and round in circles, getting thoroughly drenched. We left a crowd of shocked onlookers behind when we ran to our car. We were still laughing when a sudden shriek from my wife drowned our merrymaking. The resident lizard of our car decided to go undercover and travel up River Nile on my wife’s leg.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-joy-of-dancing-in-the-rain-1009548.html
17-07-2021||Second Edit||A continuing embarrassment||A French court’s order allowing Cairn Energy to seize 20 Indian assets in Paris, including some luxury flats, to enforce an arbitration award of $1.7 billion is yet another embarrassment for India. The court accepted the company’s claim and froze the country’s assets worth $24 million. The company has already secured court orders in New York to freeze the assets of Air India in the same case. It has been pursuing its claim for many years and the government has persistently refused to accept it. Besides Cairn, Devas Multimedia is also trying to get a $1.3 billion award enforced by seizing Air India’s assets abroad. The dispute with Cairn pertains to the restructuring of the corporate group in 2006-7, which the government claims led to a capital gain of Rs 24,503 crore for the company. The government made a tax claim of Rs 10,247 on that retrospectively in 2012.  Cairn went for international arbitration at the Hague challenging the retrospective tax and won an award of $1.2 billion plus costs. A similar award was given by the International Court of Arbitration at the Hague in favour of Vodafone also. The court ruled that India’s retrospective demand of Rs 22,100 crore for the company on a 2007 deal was in breach of fair and equitable treatment guaranteed by investment treaties. Vodafone had won its case in the Supreme Court also. The government has been refusing to honour the judgements and awards. It has contested them and gone in appeal. The UPA government had brought in the provision for retrospective taxation, but the NDA government is also sticking to it. The BJP, which was in the opposition then, had dubbed it “tax terrorism” but made a volte-face later. Retrospective taxation is wrong and against the norms of a rational, rule-based tax system. The government’s refusal to accept judicial verdicts is disappointing and does not help to project an image of a country that respects rule of law. It does not help to create an atmosphere conducive to foreign investment. Even domestic investors are deterred. It should also be noted that Cairn had promised to invest the entire amount of the award in India if the government paid up. It is unwise to stand on prestige on matters like these. There will in fact be a real loss of prestige and reputation if the country’s foreign assets are seized to enforce the arbitration awards. These issues should be settled immediately and Section 9 of the Income Tax Act, which provides for retrospective taxation, scrapped.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/a-continuing-embarrassment-1009552.html
17-07-2021||South||Before college admission students should sign bond against dowry: Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan||Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan on Friday suggested that prior to taking admission in colleges students and their parents should sign a bond that they will not engage in the practice of dowry. Days after a series of dowry deaths rocked Kerala and led to a heated debate against the menace, Khan had on July 14 observed fast to create social awareness against the social evil and end atrocities against women. Interacting with reporters after a meeting with the vice-chancellors of various universities, Khan said, "University degrees cannot become a license to seek dowry." The Governor, who is also the chancellor of the universities in the state, said that many progressive suggestions were given at the meeting. "One was that, when one seeks admission, the person will have to sign the bond that they will not accept or give dowry... Dowry is a punishable crime. So universities will be asking (students) to sign a bond that we shall uphold the law," Khan said. He added that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan was enthusiastic about the suggestion. Khan will be meeting vice-chancellors of other universities in the coming days at the state capital and a final decision on the implementation of such a bond will be taken after that. Last month, the governor had made an emotional appeal to women to say no to dowry when it was demanded during the time of marriages and expressed willingness to be part of any "organised" voluntary movement to create awareness against the menace. The governor had visited the house of Vismaya, an Ayurveda medical student who was recently found dead in her husband's house under mysterious circumstances after she had complained of dowry harassment in the Kollam district. Terming dowry an evil, he had said a social awareness should be created about it and urged NGOs or volunteers to create a special movement against the social evil.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/before-college-admission-students-should-sign-bond-against-dowry-kerala-governor-arif-mohammed-khan-1009572.html
17-07-2021||South||Kerala government amends Dowry Prohibition rules, appoints district officers to end menace||In view of increasing complaints of dowry harassment in the state, the Kerala government has amended its Dowry Prohibition rules to appoint 'dowry prohibition officers' in all 14 districts as part of taking stringent measures against the menace. State Health Minister Veena George said the post of dowry prohibition officers had already existed on a regional basis in three districts-Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam and Kozhikode-and it has now been expanded to all districts. The district women and child development officers would act as dowry prohibition officer in each district, she said here in a statement. As pert of the initiatives, the Director of Women and Child Development has been appointed as the Chief Dowry Prohibition officer. "The appointment of the dowry prohibition officers is part of the government's efforts to crack down on dowry in view of increasing cases now-a-days," George said. Noting that the first phase of the training of district officers has been completed, she said the government had already invited expression of interest from voluntary organisations for assisting women in complaints related to dowry. Besides this, steps have been taken to set up district advisory boards and intensify awareness programmes, she explained. Awareness classes for students on gender and rules for women are being conducted in association with colleges and National Service Schemes, the minister added. The LDF government has come out with the series of measures to curb the decades-old practice of giving and accepting dowry as part of marriages in the wake of a series of dowry related deaths had rocked the state recently. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan recently observed a day-long fast urging people to root out the menace. State police also kicked off a 'Say No to Dowry' campaign against dowry atrocities on women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-government-amends-dowry-prohibition-rules-appoints-district-officers-to-end-menace-1009672.html
17-07-2021||South||Tamil Nadu's Cauvery delta region witnesses protests over Mekedatu||The Cauvery delta region in Tamil Nadu on Saturday witnessed protests by farmers and agricultural workers outfits condemning efforts by Karnataka to build the Mekedatu dam. Protesters raised slogans against the initiative to build a reservoir across the Cauvery river at Mekedatu in Karnataka and they condemned the permission given by the Central government to the neighbouring state to prepare a Detailed Project Report. Demanding that the union government take steps to halt the proposed project, they also wanted the appointment of a permanent chairperson to helm the Cauvery Water Management Authority. The Communist Party of India-Marxist affiliated farmers body, Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam and farm workers organisation, Akila Indiya Vivasaya Thozhilalar Sangam, jointly staged the demonstrations. Vivasayigal Sangam leader P Shanmugam told PTI that the protests were staged in 13 locations including Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Mayilduthurai, Nagapattinam, Tiruchirappalli, and Pudukottai spread across the Cauvery delta districts. On Friday, another farmers body, Tamizhaga Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam led by its leader P R Pandian went on a hunger strike here on the Mekedatu issue. Pandian had said that his organisation would hold a "besiege Raj Bhavan" protest in Chennai on July 26 on the dam row. In several parts of the Cauvery delta region in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, the Cauvery Rights Retrieval Committee had staged protests on July 13 and Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's effigies were burnt.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadus-cauvery-delta-region-witnesses-protests-over-mekedatu-1009751.html
17-07-2021||South||Five more test positive for Zika in Kerala, total reported cases 35: Veena George||Five more people, including a minor, tested positive for Zika virus in the state, taking the total reported cases of the infection to 35, of which 11 are active, Kerala Health Minister Veena George said on Saturday. One of the positive cases was reported from Ernakulam, the minister said and added that the person concerned was a health worker in Thiruvananthapuram. Till now all the cases of Zika have been reported from the state capital. The virus was confirmed in tests conducted at the Virology Lab of the Thiruvananthapuram Medical College, National Institute of Virology (NIV) at Alappuzha and the Microbiology Lab at Coimbatore, the minister said in a release. On Friday, a meeting was held by state Revenue Minister K Rajan and George on working together, alongwith the Local Self Government department, for preventing spread of communicable diseases and to strengthen the sanitation committees at the ward level.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/five-more-test-positive-for-zika-in-kerala-total-reported-cases-35-veena-george-1009818.html
17-07-2021||South||Kerala announces relaxation in inter-state travels, worship centres||Despite the Covid-19 test positivity rate (TPR) in Kerala remaining above 10 per cent, the state government on Saturday announced several relaxations considering the demands and protests from various quarters over the prolonged restrictions. It was decided that those who have taken both doses of Covid-19 vaccines need not carry a Covid negative certificate for inter-state travels. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that up to 40 devotees would be allowed at a time at the worship centres. The maximum number of pilgrims allowed at Sabarimala Ayyappa temple, which opened for monthly pooja on Saturday evening, was also increased from 5,000 to 10,000. More categories of shops like electronic shops would be allowed to function in areas where TPR is below ten per cent. Film shooting would be also allowed in such areas. Only those who have taken at least the first dose of vaccine would be allowed in the shooting spot. Meanwhile, the state recorded 16,148 fresh Covid-19 positive cases on Saturday as the number of tests was increased. The TPR was 10.76 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-announces-relaxation-in-inter-state-travels-worship-centres-1009819.html
17-07-2021||South||Congress in Kerala caught in embarrassment over minority scholarship issue||The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) in Kerala was caught up in an embarrassment with opposition leader V D Satheesan of Congress and its key coalition partner Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) taking contradictory stands over the Left Front government's fresh formula for scholarships to students of minority communities. The Pinarayi Vijayan-led government recently decided to restructure the ratio of scholarship to benefit students of minority communities. The High Court had earlier scrapped a decision of the government to allow the scholarship on an 80:20 ratio for Muslim and Christian communities. A higher proportion to the Muslim community was given considering the backwardness of the community in education. The state government then decided to restructure the ratio based on the 2011 census — 18.38 per cent Christian community and 26.56 per cent for the Muslim community. The state government had maintained that the new ratio would be implemented without affecting the existing benefits for Muslims. Satheesan initially maintained that the Muslim community would not lose its share with the new ratio. He then had to align his stand as the IUML claimed that the Muslims stood to lose with the new structure. Chief Minister Vijayan alleged that certain sections were trying to trigger communal sentiments over the issue. He said discrimination would be addressed by following the ratio based on the census. Vijayan said this is why the opposition leader had welcomed it initially but had to alter his stand due to pressure from other sections. One apprehension being raised over the formula was that at present, only the backward classes among the Christian communities were entitled to the scholarship. However, by following the census ratio, upper caste Christians may also get benefits, which may affect the current proportions. With the Chief Minister evading a direct reply to this apprehension, the issue is likely to come up for more discussion in the coming days. With two influential minority communities on two sides of the issue, the Congress and the CPM would be handling it with utmost care.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-in-kerala-caught-in-embarrassment-over-minority-scholarship-issue-1009824.html
17-07-2021||South||Kerala to launch campaign to pool digital devices for e-learning||With scores of school children in Kerala lacking digital devices for e-learning, Kerala government is launching a campaign to pool digital devices from the public and corporates. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the number of students who were lacking digital devices were being identified and it would be made available on a portal for popularising digital learning. Contributions would be accepted either in form of cash or as devices, he said. Already, the state has government received huge contributions for flood and Covid relief.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-to-launch-campaign-to-pool-digital-devices-for-e-learning-1009825.html
17-07-2021||South||Defence, paramilitary personnel to get first preference in emergency quota tickets||Defence and paramilitary personnel travelling home on leave or returning to duty in Lakshadweep will henceforth get first preference in allocating emergency quota tickets in passenger ships run by the island administration. In Lakshadweep, passenger ships are the most widely and affordable means of transportation other than the regular flight service. An order issued by the administration on Saturday said the decision would ease the difficulties faced by the Defence and Paramilitary personnel, especially those from the islands, in securing timely ship tickets, during their visits. "While acknowledging the unparalleled service and sacrifice of the defence and paramilitary personnel for the great nation, the Lakshadweep administration has taken this decision as a step forward to recognise their contributions and facilitate them for their seamless movement," it said. "This mark of respect will go a long way in motivating the islanders to join the defence/paramilitary forces and serve our great nation with the utmost dedication and sincerity," the order said. The administration also appointed two nodal officers for effective implementation of the order in letter and spirit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/defence-paramilitary-personnel-to-get-first-preference-in-emergency-quota-tickets-1009838.html
17-07-2021||South||Project to safeguard women's rights to be launched in Kerala||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday announced a pink protection project of the State police to safeguard rights of women in public, private and cyber spaces. He said the project would be launched on July 19 to check atrocities against the women that have reportedly increased during the Covid-19 lockdown. "Dowry harassment, cyber attacks, harassment in public spaces are a few among many issues faced by women these days. An increase in such incidents has been recorded during the lockdown period. The pink protection project of the Kerala police will address such issues," Vijayan told reporters. He said the pink 'janamaithri' beat would involve police personnel visiting houses and collecting details of domestic violence. The personnel would speak to panchayat members and locals to collect information on incidents of abuse and report to the police officers before a complaint reaches the station, Vijayan said. "The specially trained pink beat officers will be present in public places and a pink control room will be available in all the 14 districts.  A pink shadow patrol team will identify the anti-social elements at crowded places and take action," he said. He said a woman Bullet patrol team and pink Romeo would also be launched along with the pink protection project.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/project-to-safeguard-womens-rights-to-be-launched-in-kerala-1009877.html
17-07-2021||State||Train services hit due to Mangaluru landslide||Due to the landslide-related obstruction between Mangaluru Junction and Thokur, changes have been made in the train services on Saturday. The work on clearing the landslides is in progress.  According to the railway officials, the service of Train No 01133 Mumbai CSMT - Mangaluru Junction Express Special, which departed from Mumbai CSMT on Friday and is scheduled to arrive at Mangaluru Junction on Saturday, will be terminated at Surathkal. Buses have been arranged for passengers to reach Mangaluru. The service of Train No 01134 Mangaluru Junction - Mumbai CSMT Express Special scheduled to leave Mangaluru Junction will start its journey from Surathkal. Buses have been arranged for the passengers from Mangaluru Junction bound for Surathkal.  Help desk: Special help desks have been set up at Mangalore Central, Kannur, Kozhikode and Shoranur Junction to guide the passengers. Passengers can contact helpline number 0491-2556198.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/train-services-hit-due-to-mangaluru-landslide-1009720.html
17-07-2021||State||Medical students stage protest against assault on interning doctors||Medical students studying at Raichur Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) staged a protest in front of the college here on Saturday condemning the assault on two interning doctors on duty on Friday night by the relatives of a deceased patient and demanded that the accused should be arrested. According to the sources, Narasimhalu (50) was admitted in the orthopaedic ward of the RIMS with a complaint of stomach pain three days ago. After his health check-up by a surgeon, he was shifted to a surgery ward as the patient required surgery. His health condition deteriorated as he was admitted in the orthopaedic ward despite suffering from a stomach ache. As soon as his condition worsened, his relatives rushed to the ward where the patient was being treated. Though the patient breathed his last on Friday night, the interning doctors made a futile bid to restore his heartbeat by pressing his heart. The relatives who were present there tried to assault the doctors alleging that they killed Narasimhalu. A junior doctor said the angry people kicked his friend on night duty on his back and stomach and another doctor escaped the assault. A police officer attached to Market Yard Police Station said the daughter of the deceased alleged that the doctors did not attend to his father even though his condition started worsening. "We will come to know whether the deceased's relatives assaulted the duty doctors or not after examining the CCTV footage of the hospital. After a compromise between the doctor fraternity and the relatives of the patients in the presence of the deputy superintendent of police, the body was taken for last rites," he explained. No complaint was lodged at Market Yard Police Station till the evening. Refuting the allegation of assault on the doctors, RIMS Director Basavaraj Peerapur said a quarrel has taken place between the interning doctors and the relatives of the deceased patient. "We have lodged a complaint at the police station in this connection. Security will be beefed up at the RIMS to avoid such incidents in the future," he told.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/medical-students-stage-protest-against-assault-on-interning-doctors-1009803.html
17-07-2021||State||Cauvery Raita Hitarakshana Samiti president and former MP G Madegowda passes away||Cauvery Raita Hitarakshana Samiti president and former MP G Madegowda (94) passed away at a hospital in Bharatinagar in Mandya on Saturday. Madegowda was undergoing treatment in the hospital for the last few days. Madegowda, also farmers’ leader was active in agitation over the River Cauvery water sharing issue between Karnataka and Tamil Nadu.  Madegowda was elected as MLA six times from the Kirugavalu assembly segment. He also served as Minister for Mines and Geology between 1980 and 83 in Gundu Rao’s cabinet.  Madegowda shifted to Mandya after Kirugavalu merged with the Malavalli Assembly segment and he was elected as MP twice in 1989 and 1995. But, he tendered resignation for his MP position over the River Cauvery water distribution issue in 1996 and actively participated in the protest. However, Madegowda lost to K R Pet Krishna in the bypoll in the same year. He also tasted defeat against M H Ambareesha in 1998. Later, he retired from active politics. In 2003, Madegowda severely criticised the Congress government during the Cauvery protest over the river water sharing issue. Madegowda also established Gandhi Bhavan Trust in Maddur. Madegowda was survived by two sons former MLC Madhu G Madegowda, former director of Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences Dr G M Prakash and two daughters. The dead body will be kept for public view at Gandhi Bhavan in Bharatinagar and the final rites will be held at Hanumantanagar in Bharatinagar on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cauvery-raita-hitarakshana-samiti-president-and-former-mp-g-madegowda-passes-away-1009841.html
17-07-2021||State||Karnataka logs 1,869 Covid-19 cases, 42 deaths||Karnataka on Saturday logged 1,869 Covid-19 cases and 42 deaths, taking the tally to 28.82 lakh and the toll to 36,121. As many as 3,144 patients recovered from the infection, taking the total number of those discharged to 28,16,013, leaving 30,082 active cases in the state, a health department bulletin said. Bengaluru Urban district reported the highest number of 432 cases, followed by Dakshina Kannada with 218, Mysuru 207, 173 in Hassan and 101 in Chikkamagaluru. Mysuru toppped in number of fatalities with seven deaths, followed by Bengaluru Urban district and Belagavi with six each, five in Dakshina Kannada, four in Kolar, while the rest of the numbers were scattered in other districts, it said. There were zero fatalities in 16 districts. A total of 1,42,856 Covid tests were done on Saturday, taking the cumulative so far to 3.67 crore. The day also saw 1,86,432 people being vaccinated, which took the overall numbers to 2.70 crore. The positivity rate was 1.30 per cent and Case Fatality Rate was 2.24 per cent, the department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-logs-1869-covid-19-cases-42-deaths-1009866.html
17-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Medical and dental colleges in Karnataka to reopen with immediate effect||The Karnataka government on Friday decided to reopen all medical and dental colleges with immediate effect. "It has been decided to allow reopening of all Medical, Dental, AYUSH and other allied healthcare educational institutions in the state with immediate effect," Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar tweeted on Friday. It has been decided to allow reopening of all Medical, Dental, AYUSH and other allied healthcare educational institutions in the state with immediate effect. Students, faculty members and non-teaching staff should have vaccinated to attend the college. Students, faculty members and non-teaching staff should have been vaccinated to attend the colleges, he added. In an order issued to this effect, Principal Secretary in the Revenue Department N Manjunatha Prasad said the Chairman, State Executive Committee, has permitted the reopening of academic institutions pertaining to Health and Medical sector with immediate effect. The academic institutions have to strictly adhere to the conditions laid down by the government. The conditions are that only students, teaching and non-teaching and other staff who have taken at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine will be permitted to attend the colleges and institutions. The Colleges and Institutions should ensure strict adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour and standard operating procedure and guidelines issued by the department concerned. Prasad also warned that any person violating these measures will be liable to be proceeded against as per the provisions of Section 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides legal action under Section 188 of the IPC, and other legal provisions as applicable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/medical-and-dental-colleges-in-karnataka-to-reopen-with-immediate-effect-1009547.html
17-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Not at all: Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa dismisses news of his resignation||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday denied rumours that the party top brass asked him to resign. "The party top leaders have not asked me to resign. I will continue as the CM," the CM told reporters here after meeting BJP National president J P Nadda. "We discussed the strengthening of the organisation in the state. Nadda ji asked me to work hard and bring back to the party to power again. I assured them that I will work hard to strengthen the organisation," he said, insisting that we discussed state and national political developments.  Yediyurappa dismissed such claims of his resignation, saying "there is no value of such news". On being asked if he has resigned, Yediyurappa said, "Not at all... Yesterday I met the PM, we discussed the development of the state and I will come back again in August. There is no value of such news." When asked whether Nadda asked him to step down, he said, "Nobody asked me to resign. That situation does not arise now." "I will try to come to Delhi in the first week of next month to meet the party top leaders on state developmental issues," he said. The CM also met Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/not-at-all-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-dismisses-news-of-his-resignation-1009627.html
17-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Co-infections: 19 patients affected with both Covid and Dengue so far in Karnataka||With frequent spells of rainfall in the past few days, one should watch out for co-infections of Covid and Dengue as 19 patients in Karnataka from six districts have gotten infected with both. Fortunately, there have been no deaths owing to co-infections so far and all the co-infected patients have recovered. The six districts include Udupi, Gadag, Ballari, Dharwad, Kolar, and Dakshina Kannada. However, doctors have sounded caution as clinical treatments for Covid-19 and Dengue can be contradictory and hence very tricky for clinicians to prescribe and nurse patients back to health. Both Covid-19 and Dengue share similarities in clinical signs and symptoms. Internal Medicine Consultant at Aster RV Hospital Dr SN Aravinda pointed out that both present with fever, body pain and headache. The differentiating factor is Dengue's rashes.  "The complication in Covid is blood clotting, whereas in Dengue, it is bleeding. Covid patients are treated with anticoagulants which are not to be used in treating Dengue," Dr Aravinda said. About 30 per cent of the patients with Covid-19 pneumonia show blood clots. Patients will require anticoagulation with low molecular weight Heparin(LMWH). If the platelet counts fall below 100,000 or when there is evidence of active bleeding, LMWH needs to be discontinued immediately. "Intravenous fluid therapy during co-infection depends on the hemodynamic status of the patient. It is quite a challenge managing Covid Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome with guarded IV fluids when compared to aggressive fluid management for Dengue hemorrhagic fever. The use of ultrasound-guided fluid administration has become the mainstay of fluid management in ICUs which helps during Covid," Dr. Arjun Alva, HoD, Critical Care Department, Narayana Health City, told DH. Dr Prashant Bhat, District Malaria Officer, Udupi, said, "Udupi district reported around eight or nine co-infections of Covid and Dengue. Fortunately, all have recovered. There were more cases reported in May and June. We had cyclonic rain in mid-May and this was one of the reasons for water stagnation (and breeding of mosquitoes)." In Kolar district, the lone case of co-infection was reported in an entomologist (a person who studies insects). He was infected on May 12 and recovered on May 26. District Surveillance Officer Dr Charini MA, said, "Surveillance for vector-borne diseases is very less since we are concentrating on Covid, this might be a reason for under detection of cases. In co-infections, complications include hampering of BT/CT (Bleeding Time/Clotting Time) and compromised renal functions. Luckily, he didn't have these."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/co-infections-19-patients-affected-with-both-covid-and-dengue-so-far-in-karnataka-1009749.html
17-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Second highest number of tele consultations provided on e-Sanjeevani||Karnataka has given the second-highest number of teleconsultations (13.16 lakh) till July 11, after Andhra Pradesh (17.98 lakh) via the government's e-Sanjeevani app and also accounts for 18 per cent of teleconsultations in India (74.37 lakh) on this app, which was launched at the start of the pandemic in December 2019. The state has given more than 9.19 lakh OPD consultations where patients directly contact an MBBS doctor via the app. Another 3.96 lakh specialist consultations have been given virtually via 38 hospitals including eight super specialty hospitals like Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology, Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health and National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences. The app available for download in Google Play Store only for Android users, requires demographic data of the patient. After an e-token is generated, one can select which specialty to consult with. A dashboard will open with three minutes waiting time, and it will connect to the concerned doctor.  A hub and spoke model, on the other hand, is when a patient who visits a sub-center or a primary health centre or a community health centre (spokes), gets a specialist video consultation facilitated by a doctor working at any of these respective centres. Post assessment, if they feel a specialist is required, they connect to any of the 28 district hospitals (hubs) or ten multi-specialty hospitals in Bengaluru. There are 2,942 spokes in the state. The state is providing around 7,000 OPD consultations every day apart from 4,000 specialist consultations. Institute of Nephrourology, Institute of Diabetology, KC General Hospital, Victoria Hospital, Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital, and CV Raman Hospital also provide specialist consultations on the e-Sanjeevani app. Nodal officers at these hub centres send a monthly duty roster to the health department to ensure doctors are available across specialties like cardiology, psychiatry, neurology, paediatrics, pulmonology, and intensive care. In all, there are 3,129 doctors registered on the e-Sanjeevani in Karnataka. Assistant deputy director of e-hospital initiatives in the state health department, Dr Vasanth Kumar, told DH, "To circumvent network issues, e-Sanjeevani offers three options: video call, audio call or texting. If the bandwidth is not enough for video, one can go for an audio call. If the network is patchy in remote areas, they can at least text the doctor on the app. Our rural area reach is around 50 per cent. The main objectives here are to reduce out-of-pocket expenditure."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-second-highest-number-of-tele-consultations-provided-on-e-sanjeevani-1009752.html
17-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Testing for vector-borne diseases in Karnataka hit due to Covid-19||Burdened and flooded with Covid samples from various parts of the state, the 36 sentinel viral labs in Karnataka have drastically cut down on testing of dengue and other vector-borne diseases at a time when the Zika Virus Disease (ZVD) threat is looming large over the state. In 2019, the number of blood samples collected for Dengue testing was 91,091 which reduced to 21,904 in 2020. Even for Chikungunya, in 2019, 21,340 blood samples were collected for testing which reduced to 6,935 blood samples in 2020. This comes as Zika cases in neighbouring Kerala have reached 28. Despite the decline in testing for vector-borne diseases, the health department maintains that testing for suspected Zika cases won't be hampered in Karnataka. Every district has at least one lab testing Dengue and Chikungunya while testing for Malaria is done even in primary health centres. Dr Ramesh K Kaulgud, Joint Director, National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme (NVBDCP), state health department, said, "Because of Covid all staff from the grassroots level, are engaged in Covid related work. The prevalence of diseases has come down in all programmes, not just NVBDCP because be it smear collection or blood sample collection, it has come down."   While during the last outbreak of Zika, Manipal Centre for Virus Research in Udupi was identified among the 16 labs across the country to test suspected Zika virus samples, this time around health department officials said NIV, Bengaluru, has been chosen as a stop-gap arrangement. "We don't expect a lot of pregnant women to be suspected of Zika. Only if they have suspected microcephaly or travel history, will they be tested. We have only asked for larval surveillance to be ramped up in villages/wards, ports/harbours, and airports, and have not asked to take samples from everyone. The same aedes aegypti mosquito transmits Dengue, Chikungunya and Zika too. So if we kill the mosquitoes, there's no scope of transmission, though this is the season for it. So, NIV won't be burdened much," a health department official said. However, Dr Ramesh Masthi, department of community medicine, Kempegowda Institute of Medical Sciences, said, "Testing for vector-borne diseases has undoubtedly come down. This is also because 70 per cent of the population go to the private sector for tests, and we don't know whether all the private hospitals notified the government of the tests done or not."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/testing-for-vector-borne-diseases-in-karnataka-hit-due-to-covid-19-1009763.html
17-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||B S Yediyurappa denies 'quit' talk, calls legislature party meeting on July 26||Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Saturday denied that he had resigned, a rumour that shrouded New Delhi after the BJP top brass is said to have asked him to step down.  “So far, no one has asked me to resign. If there's any such news, there’s no value to it," Yediyurappa told reporters in New Delhi. However, sources said Yediyurappa “reluctantly” agreed to make way for a new face even as his plea to remain CM for some more time did not find takers. Sources also said that his exit plan involved parleying with the national leaders for his son and BJP vice-president BY Vijayendra to be elevated to a higher position either in the party or government. Speculation over Yediyurappa stepping down came on a day when he met Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and BJP national president JP Nadda.  Adding to this was Yediyurappa’s decision to convene the BJP legislature party meeting on July 26, when he completes two years in office. After his 20-minute meeting with Shah, Yediyurappa said: "[Shah] has given so many instructions to me. He has a good opinion about me. I'll work for the party and bring it back to power again in Karnataka," Yediyurappa said. Karnataka will go to polls in 2023. Yediyurappa said there was no confusion “for now” over his continuation as CM for now. He even said his Delhi visit was “a big success” and that he talked politics and “the work to be done going forward” with Prime Minister Naredra Modi (on Friday), Shah, Nadda and Singh.  “National leaders have said I have to continue as CM and strengthen the party. But, it’s my duty to obey what they say whenever,” he said.  “Their only expectation is that the BJP should return to power with a bigger majority, win more Lok Sabha seats and strengthen the party organization on which we will start focusing right away,” Yediyurappa said. “I've now been tasked to take everyone together and strengthen the party.”  A senior BJP leader wondered why the party would task a CM with party work. "That's the job of the party president and office-bearers." The legislature party meeting will be crucial as a section of MLAs is waiting to air grievances against the administration. Yediyurappa was seen as staving off demands to give MLAs a platform. “I’ve called the meeting with a view to strengthen the party,” Yediyurappa said in Bengaluru. Earlier, Yediyurappa also made time for idli, vada and coffee at a hotel near Karnataka Bhavan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/b-s-yediyurappa-denies-quit-talk-calls-legislature-party-meeting-on-july-26-1009765.html
17-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP high command has asked me to continue as Karnataka CM: Yediyurappa||Terming his visit to Delhi as successful, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday said Central leaders have asked him to continue in his post and that there was no discussion on leadership change. "The central leaders have asked me to continue as Chief Minister and strengthen the party.It is our duty to follow their instructions from time to time.There is no question of leadership change," Yediyurappa told reporters here on his return from New Delhi. Denying any discussion on alternative leadership, he emphasised that there was no dearth of substitute leaders in the BJP. However, he maintained that the party has given him the charge and he will work to strengthen the party by taking everyone along. Yediyurappa had called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and BJP president J P Nadda in the national capital during his two-day visit and held discussions on issues ranging from politics to Mekedatu balancing reservoir across Cauvery river, which is a bone of contention between Karnataka and Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-high-command-has-asked-me-to-continue-as-karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-1009801.html
17-07-2021||West||Sexual assault without penetration is also rape: Bombay HC upholds conviction of 33-year old man||Holding that a sexual assault without penetration also falls within the definition of rape under section 376 of the Indian Penal Code, the Bombay High Court has upheld the conviction of a 33-year-old man for rape. Justice Revati Mohite-Dere also upheld the sentence of 10 years rigorous imprisonment awarded to the man, a city resident, by the trial court in 2019. In a judgment passed last month, the judge dismissed the man's appeal challenging the sessions court's order finding him guilty of raping an intellectually-challenged woman. The appeal argued that there had been no penile intercourse between him and the victim. But the HC noted that forensic evidence proved a case of sexual assault. "The soil found on the clothes of appellant and prosecutrix (victim) matched the earth collected from the spot where the sexual assault took place. The same is evident from the Forensic Science Laboratory report. The said evidence gives credence to the prosecutrix's case that she was sexually assaulted by the appellant," the HC said. "It hardly matters...having regard to the evidence that there was no penile-vaginal intercourse. Fingering of the vagina also constitutes an offense under the law," the high court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sexual-assault-without-penetration-is-also-rape-bombay-hc-upholds-conviction-of-33-year-old-man-1009569.html
17-07-2021||West||VHP holds 'bhajan protest' seeking MVA nod for Pandharpur 'wari'||The Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) on Saturday held a ‘bhajan protest’ here along with the members of the ‘warkari’ community to press for the demand that the state government allow the annual 'wari' processions to Pandharpur. Warkaris are devotees of Lord Vitthala, who take annual 'wari' (pilgrimage) to the temple town of Pandharpur in Solapur district of Maharashtra.  However, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Maharashtra government has cancelled the pilgrimage this year, which is characterised by people walking to Pandharpur with palanquins from various parts of the state. The VHP held the agitation at the Sanvidhan Square in Nagpur city to demand that the warkaris be allowed to undertake the pilgrimage. The protesters sang ‘bhajans ‘(devotional songs) at the site. Talking to PTI, VHP leader Sanathkumar Gupta said, "The VHP, along with the members of the warkari community and other organisations, is staging ' bhajan andolan' across Vidarbha. Thereafter, memorandums of our demand will be handed over to the collectors of the districts in the region." Alleging that the state government was "oppressing the Hindus" by stopping the 700-year-old Wari tradition, he said that 500 warkaris be allowed to accompany each of the prominent 10 'palkhis'' (palanquins) to Pandharpur on foot, he said. The annual pilgrimage culminates on the day of Ashadhi Ekadashi, which falls on July 20 this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/vhp-holds-bhajan-protest-seeking-mva-nod-for-pandharpur-wari-1009676.html
17-07-2021||West||30,000 cards made by Gujarat NCC cadets sent to soldiers to mark upcoming Kargil Vijay Diwas||NCC cadets from Gujarat have prepared 30,000 cards highlighting the sacrifice and valour of armed forces which were dispatched on Saturday to Kargil district in Jammu and Kashmir ahead of the 22nd anniversary of the Kargil Vijay Diwas to be observed on July 26. As part of the Ek Mai Sau Ke Liye campaign observed from July 4 to 15, cadets from Gujarat prepared 30,000 cards and also posted messages on social media highlighting the sacrifices and valour of the Indian Armed Forces, the National Cadet Corps (NCC) said in a release. The event is part of the campaign's fifth phase titled Kargil Ke Veeron Ko Gujarat Ka Aabhaar. "These cards are also a medium for these young cadets to honour the memory of the martyrs and the Armed Forces personnel who are guarding the national borders round-the-clock under adverse conditions," the NCC said. The cards were dispatched in the presence of Chief Minister Vijay Rupani from Gandhinagar. They are expected to be ceremoniously received by the General Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Udhampur-based Northern Command, Lieutenant General YK Joshi, who was then a Lieutenant Colonel in the Kargil war and was awarded Vir Chakra, the NCC said. Between July 21 to 25, these cards will be handed over to the soldiers deployed in the Kargil sector, as a mark of gratitude from the cadets of Gujarat, it said. Kargil war was fought between India and Pakistan between May and July 1999 in the Kargil district of Kashmir and along the Line of Control. During the war, the Indian Army evicted Pakistani intruders and succeeded in capturing Tiger hill and other posts, as part of Operation Vijay.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/30000-cards-made-by-gujarat-ncc-cadets-sent-to-soldiers-to-mark-upcoming-kargil-vijay-diwas-1009710.html
17-07-2021||West||RSS leader Nimbaram will be 'treated' by Rajasthan government: PCC chief Dotasra||Rajasthan Congress chief Govind Singh Dotasra on Saturday said the state government will give “treatment” to RSS leader Nimbaram, who has been named in an FIR lodged by the Anti-Corruption Bureau in a bribery case. Nimbaram, a regional pracharak of RSS, is one of the four accused named in the FIR registered last month in connection with alleged demand for Rs 20 crore as "commission" from BVG, a waste management firm, engaged in door-to-door garbage collection here. “It was our government which did the treatment of (convicted godman) Asaram Bapu. He was arrested. The corrupt leaders of RSS will also get treated by our government,” PCC chief Dotasra told reporters here after a dharna against rising inflation and fuel price hike. The ACB has so far arrested two persons, including the husband of suspended mayor of Jaipur Greater Municipal Corporation Somya Gurjar, in the graft case. Rajaram, husband of Somya Gurjar, and BVG official Omkar Sapre were arrested by the ACB after registering a case on the basis of a video that went viral online. While Rajaram and Sapre are seen engaged in a conversation regarding the commission in lieu of getting the company's dues released from the corporation, Nimbaram is seen sitting with them. Apart from these three persons, the fourth accused named in the FIR is another official of BVG. Dotasra also launched a scathing attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying he has "committed grave sins and he will not be able to get peace even in Himalaya." “He had said he will pick up his 'jholi' and leave but he will not get peace of mind even in the Himalayas now because he has committed many sins through wrong policies that have made people suffer,” he said. Dotasra said people do not like to see Modi on TV because he never talks about the issues faced by the people, be it inflation or unemployment. “He says his 'Mann ki baat' but he has never spoken about inflation, unemployment and issues of farmers. The government is not listening to the voice of the people but our workers will go to villages and campaign against the central government,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rss-leader-nimbaram-will-be-treated-by-rajasthan-government-pcc-chief-dotasra-1009736.html
17-07-2021||West||RDX threat onboard Dubai-Mumbai flight turns out to be hoax||A call about the presence of RDX onboard the Dubai-Mumbai flight was received on Saturday afternoon, following which security was beefed at the international airport in the city. It was later turned out to be a hoax, a Mumbai Police official said. The call that RDX was placed onboard the flight was received by officials at the ATC tower around 3.40 pm, the official said. He said Mumbai Police was immediately informed and security at the airport was beefed up. The flight was checked thoroughly after landing by the police and security agencies but nothing suspicious was found onboard, he said. After investigation, it was found to be a hoax call, he said. Security at the airport remains tightened as one more flight is scheduled to land in Mumbai from Dubai this evening, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rdx-threat-onboard-dubai-mumbai-flight-turns-out-to-be-hoax-1009792.html
17-07-2021||West||Maharashtra reports 8,172 Covid-19 cases, 124 deaths; 8,950 patients recover||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 8,172 new Covid-19 cases and 124 deaths which took the state's infection tally to 62,05,190 and death toll to 1,26,851, the health department said in a release. As many as 8,950 patients were discharged from hospitals, pushing the total of recovered persons to 59,74,594. The state has a recovery rate of 96.28 per cent. The case fatality rate stood at 2.04 per cent, while there are 1,00,429 active cases in the state, the release said. There are 5,77,615 people in home quarantine while 4,156 people are in institutional quarantine. With 2,20,851 samples tested since Friday evening, the tally of coronavirus tests conducted in the state rose to 4,52,60,468. Mumbai city reported 469 Covid-19 cases and 12 deaths, taking its caseload to 7,30,703 and death toll to 15,690. The larger Mumbai division that covers neighbouring satellite towns reported 1,512 cases and 29 deaths. The division's case tally rose to 16,24,459 and death toll to 33,231. Nashik division reported 979 cases and seven deaths, while the Pune division added 2,493 cases and 29 deaths. Out of 29 deaths, 16 were reported from Satara district alone. Kolhapur division added 2,635 new cases and 48 deaths. Aurangabad division reported 170 cases and one death, while Latur division recorded 291 cases and seven deaths. Akola division reported 51 cases and zero deaths, while Nagpur division recorded 41 new cases and three fatalities. Coronavirus figures of Maharashtra are as follows: Total cases 62,05,190; New cases 8,172; Total deaths 1,26,851; Recoveries 59,74,594; Active cases 1,00,429; Total tests 4,52,60,468.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-reports-8172-covid-19-cases-124-deaths-8950-patients-recover-1009833.html
17-07-2021||West||SC keen on live streaming to demystify justice delivery system, says CJI||Live streaming of court proceedings will remove misconceptions about the justice delivery system and the Supreme Court is keen to make the facility available from at least some of its courts, Chief Justice of India N V Ramana said on Saturday. He was speaking after inaugurating the live streaming facility -- which makes it possible to watch court proceedings online -- at the Gujarat High Court through video link. Speaking on the same occasion, Justice D Y Chandrachud, another apex court judge, said though live streaming is being used widely during the Covid-19 pandemic, it is here to stay even after normalcy returns. The CJI, however, cautioned judges to not get deterred from their duty to protect the “right of one against the might of many” in the face of “increased public gaze” which they may face due to live streaming. "Even after 74 years of Independence, multiple incorrect notions still prevail in the minds of the public regarding the justice delivery system. It is high time for demystifying the justice delivery system in the country and furthering access to open courts. "Access to justice will become a true reality when litigants and interested parties get to witness, understand and comprehend justice dispensation first-hand,” Justice Ramana said. Live streaming of court proceedings was a “step in the right direction" but one must tread on this path with caution, he added. “At times live streaming of proceedings may become a double-edged sword.... judges might feel the presence of public scrutiny which may ultimately result in a stressful environment that may not be conducive to justice dispensation,” he said. With increased public gaze, judges might become "a subject of multiple debates", the CJI said. "This should never deter him (a judge) from his duty to protect the right of one against the might of many," he added. The right to know as bestowed under the Constitution also includes the knowledge of the institutions that concern people, and one way to promote it is to allow people access to the proceedings of the courts, Justice Ramana said. "We are keen to start live (streaming of) proceedings in at least some of the courts of the Supreme Court. We are working out the logistics and working on the consensus of the full court. With the aid of modern technologies, I am given to understand that we can introduce the live streaming in a cost-effective manner without imposing much burden on the exchequer,” he said. It will also resolve the issue of “misconceptions” that emerge due to “transmission loss” caused by the media, the CJI said. Such "transmission loss" causes “misinterpretation of questions asked and observations made by the bench due to the absence of context” and “vested interests are eager to amplify this misinterpretation in order to embarrass the institutions", he said. A committee headed by Justice Chandrachud "is playing a wonderful role and bringing all the courts on board to unleash the transparency revolution with the aid of modern technology,” he said. Gujarat High Court became the first court in the country on Saturday to formally launch live streaming of its proceedings. Justice Chandrachud said in his speech that this will soon become a country-wide feature. “As (Gujarat High Court) Chief Justice Vikram Nath said, it will trickle down, and it will trickle horizontally, and will trickle up as well, I hope,” he said. “It (to appear on screen) is not a very easy thing for a judge to do because we are used to being very cloistered in our courtroom. This is truly a new age that the Indian judiciary is moving into,” said Justice Chandrachud. Live streaming became necessary during the pandemic but it will remain equally essential even when the normal functioning of courts resumes, he said. “It adds to transparency," he added. It is easy to target judges for their holidays, but people do not realize "the immensity of work we do even when we have time off, including on the weekends,” Chandrachud said, adding that live streaming will also reduce the cost for litigants. During the pandemic, between March 24, 2020 to July 14, 2021, 1.60 crore cases were registered of which one crore were disposed of, he informed. As per the Electronic Transaction Aggregation and Analysis Layer (E-TAAL) of the Government of India, E-court services have recorded more than 354.1 crore e-transactions during the pandemic, he said. Justice M R Shah of the Supreme Court said one has to move with the times. “I can say with pride and privilege that when Gujarat leads, there is always a success, and Gujarat always takes the lead,” he said. Chief Justice of the High Court Vikram Nath said that live streaming would offer “transparency and accountability” as “sunlight dispels darkness, as knowledge dispels ignorance.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sc-keen-on-live-streaming-to-demystify-justice-delivery-system-says-cji-1009864.html
17-07-2021||West||BJP and NCP like two ends of a river that can never meet: Nawab Malik||Dismissing speculation about the NCP and BJP coming together fuelled by a meeting in Delhi between party chief Sharad Pawar and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Maharashtra minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik on Saturday said the two parties are like two ends of a river that can never unite. During their nearly hourly-long meeting, Pawar and Modi held talks on various issues including the Banking Amendments Act and the cooperative sector. "The NCP can never join hands with the BJP because both the parties are ideologically different. The BJP and NCP are two ends of a river that cannot come together as long as there is water in the river," the NCP spokesperson told reporters. Malik said there is no truth in such rumours. The Sharad Pawar-led party is one of the constituents, along with the Congress, in the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra. Notably, the NCP had offered outside support to the BJP to form a government in Maharashtra after the 2014 assembly elections "in the interest and development of the state". However, the BJP had come to power with the support of the Shiv Sena. The saffron allies fell out after the 2019 Assembly elections after the Uddhav Thackeray-led party staked claim to the post of the chief minister. The Sena then joined hands with the NCP and Congress to form the MVA government in November 2019 with Uddhav Thackeray as chief minister. "The definition of nationalism is different for the NCP and the BJP," Malik said, adding the MVA government is working fine. "Some people are giving dates for toppling the MVA government but their prediction will never come true," he said without taking any names. Hitting out at the BJP, Malik compared the saffron party with a "washing machine". "The BJP is like a washing machine where a dacoit can also become a saint," he said while accusing the BJP of using Central investigating agencies to force leaders of other parties to switch sides. "NCP leaders don't fear notices by ED because they know they have not done anything wrong. Our leaders haven't met PM Modi or (Union home minister Amit) Amit Shah asking them to stop the probe," he said. At present, senior NCP leader and former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh is being investigated by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with a money laundering case in line with a CBI probe into allegations of corruption raised against him by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-and-ncp-like-two-ends-of-a-river-that-can-never-meet-nawab-malik-1009873.html
