18-07-2021||Kalaburagi||Heavy rainfall lashes Kalaburagi||Sedam, Chittapur and Kalagi taluks of Kalaburagi district are receiving heavy rainfall coupled with thunderstorms. Gundagurti, Madaboola of Chittapur taluk and Malkhed, Hooda(B) and Sangavi of Sedam taluk were receiving heavy downpours from the afternoon of Sunday. The water level in Kagina and Kamalavati rivers has increased following the heavy rains for the past week. Floods in the Kagina River has hampered the search operation of a woman who was washed away by the river on Friday. The search operation was under way on Sunday. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/heavy-rainfall-lashes-kalaburagi-1010085.html
18-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Low-lying areas flooded in Udupi||Several houses were flooded in Kaup taluk of Udupi following heavy rain across the district on Sunday. The artificial flood has inundated houses in Majoor, Uliyaru, Karandadi, Mallar residential areas. Measures have been taken to shift affected people to safer locations. A patient was carried in a chair to the safer area in Kaup. On the other hand, the sea continued to remain rough and fishermen have been advised not to venture in for fishing. Several layouts in Udupi town are also affected by floods.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/low-lying-areas-flooded-in-udupi-1010035.html
18-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Fire team rescues KPTCL staff stranded in office||A team of Fire & Emergency Services staff rescued two workers of KPTCL who were stranded in the office at Kaadajji village which was submerged due to heavy rains that lashed the region on Saturday night.  Station operator Santosh Kumar and assistant Krishna Prasad were in the office but they could not come outside due to heavy showers overnight. The firefighting staff rushed to the spot and rescued them as part of the operation that lasted for two hours. When villagers informed firefighting staff around 1:00 am, a team led by District officer Basavaprabhu Sharma headed towards the village. Kaadajji stream near krishi kendra was flowing above the danger level. KPTCL office was at a distance of 100 metre from the stream. Villagers were reluctant to move forward. The team waded through the stream and rescued the staff with the help of a rope and jacket. Ashok Naik, Parashuram, Chandre Gowda and Aanjaneya were part of the team.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fire-team-rescues-kptcl-staff-stranded-in-office-1010041.html
18-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Unrelenting rain keeps coast on edge; flash floods in Bhatkal, Udupi||The state witnessed a widespread rain on Sunday. While it poured in the coastal districts and Malnad region, most places in north and south Karnataka experienced intermittent spells of moderate to heavy showers. The unyielding downpour has triggered flash floods in Bhatkal taluk in Uttara Kannada and several parts of Udupi district on Sunday. Bhatkal taluk on Sunday experienced a horrifying 209 mm (20.9 cm) of rain, sparking floods in many villages. Chowthini village has gone under the floodwaters of Sharabi river. Many rivulets and streams have meandered their way through the villages and the farmlands in the taluk. Relentless showers, coupled with the NH-66 widening works, have left Maruthinagar, Moodbhatkal, Shamsuddin Circle, Shirali and Rangeenkatte in knee-deep water. The coastal security police managed to tow 8 fishing boats to safety after they got stuck in high tide, off Bhatkal port. Relief centres have been opened at the government schools at Puravarga and Moodbhatkal as a precautionary measure. Heavy rain and swollen rivers had created a flood-like situation in Udupi district with Kaup taluk bearing the maximum brunt. The affected residents of the flood-hit Majuru, Uliyaru, Karandadi and Mallaru areas were moved to safer places. Kirimanjaeshwar in Kundapur taluk recorded a massive 271 mm (27.1 cm) of rain in the last 24 hours (ending 8 am on Sunday). Landslide in DK There was no let-up in rain in Dakshina Kannada. The inclement weather has damaged road infrastructure, houses and crops. A massive landslide damaged a portion of a building owned by Adishakthi Industries at Baikampady industrial area on Sunday. The factory is said to have suffered damages worth Rs 15 lakh. Netravathi and Kumaradhara rivers continued to receive copious inflow. The Snanaghatta (bathing ghat) at Kukke Subrahmanya has remained under water.  Rivers, falls come alive After a two-day lull, heavy showers lashed Kodagu, Hassan, Chikkamagaluru and Shivamogga districts. Many rivers and waterfalls, including the famed Jog Falls, in Malnad region have come alive. With Cauvery river receiving good inflow, a low-lying bridge at Balamuri is facing an imminent threat of submergence. The Krishnaraja Sagar and Kabini dams have been clocking good inflows following copious rain in their catchments. North Karnataka districts, including Belagavi Hubballi-Dharwad, Vijayapura, Bagalkot and Gadag, received intermittent showers. Most of the water bodies in Vijayanagara district are full to the brim following spells of sharp showers in the last few days. As much as 57,127 cusec of water flowed into Tungabhadra dam on Sunday. The dam has been receiving 3-4 tmcft of water daily in the last four to five days. Thundershowers lashed Chincholi taluk and Wadi town in Kalaburagi, affecting normal life, on Sunday.  Davangere, Chitradurga, Tumakuru and Chikkaballapur districts also received copious rain on Sunday. More rain forecast Meanwhile, the weather department has predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall over coastal Karnataka till July 22. Active monsoon and formation of low pressure area in the Bay of Bengal will bring rainfall to most parts of the state. A red alert has been sounded for July 19 and 20 in the Malnad and coastal districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/unrelenting-rain-keeps-coast-on-edge-flash-floods-in-bhatkal-udupi-1010165.html
18-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Rains continue to lash districts of Dakshina Kannada, Udupi||Intermittent heavy rains continued across Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts of Karnataka on Sunday. A red alert (extremely heavy rainfall) has been extended till Monday and an orange alert (very heavy rainfall) issued in the districts from Tuesday to Thursday. Both the districts have been receiving copious rains since Saturday night. Roads in various parts of the city were inundated inconveniencing motorists. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicts heavy to very heavy rainfall over coastal parts of the State till July 22. Following the heavy rains, the water-level in rivers and rivulets increased. A landslide was reported in the Baikampady industrial area here today owing to the heavy rains. The mud fell over a building running a concrete industry causing damage, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rains-continue-to-lash-districts-of-dakshina-kannada-udupi-1010200.html
18-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||D K Shivakumar dares government to hold session in Belagavi||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar on Sunday dared the B S Yediyurappa-led BJP government to convene the legislature session at Suvarna Vidhana Soudha in Belagavi. "The BJP government had not conducted a session in Belagavi for the last two years. North Karnataka is lagging behind because of the lackadaisical attitude of the government... They (BJP govt) fear a backlash of the people region... I dare the government to hold a session here," he told reporters on the sidelines of a party workers' meeting. "The Soudha in Belagavi is rusting. Why are the leaders of the region Karjol, Shettar, Nirani and Katti silent? The session in Belagavi will help the north Karnataka's cause," the KPCC president said. He urged the government to get grants for the speedy implementation of Upper Krishna project. "In a bid to revamp the party at grassroots, AICC general secretary in-charge of Karnataka Randeep Singh Surjewala will meet the party workers in Mangaluru, Hubballi-Dharwad and Tumakuru. Surjewala will also talk to the poll losers," Shivakumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/d-k-shivakumar-dares-government-to-hold-session-in-belagavi-1010163.html
18-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||No talks of change in leadership in Karnataka, asserts Ashoka||Revenue Minister R Ashoka on Sunday, ruled out any changes in state government leadership amidst thick rumours that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will resign at the end of July. Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of a BJP Yuva Morcha event, Ashoka said that there was no question of change in leadership as of now. “Our challenge is to win zilla panchayat and city corporation elections. If there is any decision (on changing the CM), our central leadership is capable of taking it. Right now, there is no room for such talks,” he said. To a question on the CM convening a Legislature Party meeting on July 26, Ashoka said that he hadn’t received any communication about it. “It will be a banquet for all party MLAs as the BJP government completes two years. There will be interactions with all MLAs during the meeting,” the minister said, adding that disgruntlement of one or two MLAs will not affect the government. On the “migrant” group of ministers scheduling a visit to Delhi, Ashoka said that he was not aware of such developments. “I spoke to (Co-operation Minister) S T Somashekar, who denied having such plans,” Ashoka said. Earlier, speaking at the state executive meeting of BJP Yuva Morcha, he urged Morcha workers to perform as a team to secure wins in the upcoming BBMP and zilla panchayat polls. Yuva Morcha national president Tejaswi Surya took a dig at the opposition Congress for its inability to find a national party president. There were two Covid waves, and a third one appears to be on the horizon. “Yet, Congress has not been able to find a national president,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/no-talks-of-change-in-leadership-in-karnataka-asserts-ashoka-1010168.html
18-07-2021||National||Surprised, deeply disturbed over changes in pension rules: Ex-civil servants write to PM Modi||A group of 109 former civil servants on Saturday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over changes in pension rules, saying they were surprised and deeply disturbed as the recent amendment "attempts to impose a silence". The amended rules make it mandatory for retired government servants who have worked in select intelligence or security-related organisations to take clearance from the head of the organisation if they wish to make any publication. The permission is needed to write on matters related to the domain of the organisation, including any reference or information about any personnel and their designation, and expertise or knowledge gained by virtue of working in that organisation, among others, they said. In the open letter, the former civil servants said the practice of retired bureaucrats writing their memoirs or articles on different aspects of the work done by them during their working years or commenting on current affairs using their ‘domain’ knowledge is universal and is appreciated the world over. "We were surprised, and deeply disturbed, by the recent amendment to the Central Pension Rules notified by the Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions on 31 May 2021," said the letter written by them under the aegis of the Constitutional Conduct Group. The former civil servants said they were unable to understand why there was a need for such an amendment to the Central Pension Rules, when there already exists an Official Secrets Act, 1923 and the state can, under it, prosecute officials and former officials who reveal information prejudicial to the state. "If writing about certain matters amounts to grave misconduct, the government can certainly take action, as per law, to deprive the former official of his or her pension," the letter said. It is true of India, as of any other country, that the government's version of events, either current or past, is seen as the point of view of the party in power and is not, necessarily, reflective of the whole truth, it said. It is because of this that the views and memoirs of past practitioners, unencumbered by the constraints of office, have value, the letter said. "The recent amendment to the Pension Rules attempts to impose a silence that will seriously affect scholarship and be a permanent impediment to an understanding of the imperatives of our security concerns," it said. Officers who have spent a lifetime in security-related matters are unlikely to be irresponsible and reveal sensitive secrets, the former civil servants wrote. The laudable objective of ensuring that retirees do not divulge any sensitive material to the detriment of the nation's security is best achieved by reiteration of the Official Secrets Act and stern action thereunder in case of infraction, they said. "And if the government is anxious to protect national security in keeping with the times and the Constitution of India, they should also carry out wide ranging consultations with political and civil society as well as the legal fraternity to find a replacement for the Official Secrets Act, which is itself in conflict with Article 19 of the Constitution," the letter said. The former civil servants said they believed that the framers of the new rules have not thought through the consequences of the order. "It would mean that before publishing any article or speaking at any seminar or interview, the retired officers concerned would have to obtain prior permission. The reported assurance from the establishment that the order, in fact, makes it easier for the officers to contact their former employer to seek clarifications before they speak, is too fatuous to even merit comment," the letter said. If strictly enforced, it could also mean, in effect, that no retiree from the specified services can participate in seminars or discussions, let alone engage in Track II dialogues, even if this is, possibly, not the intention, it said. In 2008, the UPA government tried to introduce such an order for officers who had served in the IB and RAW. The order was widely criticised and eventually withdrawn, the letter said. "With this order, India also acquires the dubious distinction of being, possibly, the only major democratic country in the world today which effectively bars its employees from expressing their views after retirement," it said. Curiously, this is being made to apply to all officers who have retired, even those who have retired decades ago, the letter said. "In 2008, the UPA government, perhaps persuaded of the wrongness of the order, did not finally bring the amendment into being. We hope that the present government would display similar sagacity," it said. The signatories to the letter include former Prasar Bharati CEO Jawhar Sircar, former foreign secretary Shyam Saran, former home secretary G K Pillai, and Najeeb Jung, former lieutenant governor of Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/surprised-deeply-disturbed-over-changes-in-pension-rules-ex-civil-servants-write-to-pm-modi-1009926.html
18-07-2021||National||Right to privacy verdict was recognition of Constitution as foundation: DY Chandrachud||Supreme Court judge DY Chandrachud Saturday said his 2017 decision, naming right to privacy as an essential component of "right to life" under Article 21, was a recognition of the Constitution as a foundation which future generations have to build upon. On August 24, 2017, in a landmark verdict, the right to privacy was declared as a fundamental right under the Constitution by a nine-judge bench of which Justice Chandrachud was also a part saying, "privacy is the constitutional core of human dignity". He said Greta Thunberg, who is one of the strongest voices in civil society against climate change, began her journey, as a lone 15-year-old, sitting outside the Swedish Parliament demanding governmental action against the imminent risks of global warming.   "Her example, in addition to that of many others, shows us how nobody is too young or too insignificant to effectuate a big change," he said. Speaking on the occasion of 101st birthday celebration of India's longest Chief Justice of India YV Chandrachud, a programme organised by Maharashtra-based organisation Shikshan Prasarak Mandali (SPM), which works in the field of education, his son Justice Chandrachud said that the Constitution sought to define the contours of democratic institutions, by providing certain operative rules and constraints that were grounded in a commitment to equality, liberty and justice for all, as an enduring vision. "It is the job of succeeding generations to interpret its spirit and apply it to their lived realities”, he said, while addressing students and faculty members of students of education institutions run by SPM in which Justice YV Chandrachud was chairman of the governing council for 28 years. "My conclusion in the Supreme Court decision, recognising a right to privacy as an essential component of the 'right to life' under Article 21 of the Indian Constitution, was a recognition of the constitution as a foundation, which future generations had to build upon- as opposed to a rigid text that would be literally applied, divorced from its historical context," he said. Speaking on the topic "Students as the Constitution's Vanguards", Justice Chandrachud said that irrespective of whether the students wanted to become lawyers, they must read up on the history, the spirit and morality of the constitution as it is not just a lawyer's constitution.   He said that currently, in a globalised and increasingly privatised world, the idea of liberty for some, such as powerful corporations, may not necessarily result in dignity or life for most, especially the marginalised classes and sections of society.   "In viewing our Constitution as the primary spirit of counter-majoritarianism, we can equip ourselves with a unique lens to view the world and balance competing interests, where we undoubtedly make scientific progress, but in a manner that benefits all of humanity, and not just a narrow section," he added. Justice Chandrachud said that each and every citizen, irrespective of the age, profession or socio-economic location unwittingly engages with the constitution every day. "When we lead our lives without obtrusive and unjustified state interference, when everyone- irrespective of their caste identity exerts their right to access public places- be they shops, parks, wells or temples, or when we enjoy the right to speak our mind and profess our trade- we assert our constitutional freedoms," he said. He added that the Constitution marked a breakthrough as it embodied a vision and a pedagogical purpose when it formulated a framework that was aspirational and a work in progress. Justice Chandrachud said that the process of constitutional amendment is relatively easy in India and has been exercised over a 100 times to reflect the march of time, and the evolving needs and values of society but the Supreme Court had also clarified, through the largest bench constituted in its history, that this amendment power cannot be exercised to destroy the fundamental character and ethos that is the basic structure, of the Constitution.   "Preserving this fundamental ethos is the precise role which students can play, as conscientious citizens. Our lives are currently mediated by a technological interface that was unthinkable when the Constitution was framed in 1950. Technology has dramatically altered our social landscape and is now our primary window into the world," he said, adding that the Covid-19 pandemic has accelerated the penetration of technology in our lives.   He said that as the shape and structure of our society is reconfigured by the digital era, citizens must understand that the democratic institutions must adapt to it, in order to retain collective power and decision-making over something that currently constitutes essential infrastructure. Justice Chandrachud said that as a judge at the Supreme Court, he have to interact with the constitution in novel ways, every single day and one such challenge was determining whether Indian citizens have the right to privacy.   "This right to privacy would embody our free ability to make our own decisions, access information and freedom from state or private surveillance. These issues arose as a consequence of our digitally mediated life, which is a novel medium that did not exist before the invention of the World Wide Web in 1989," he stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/right-to-privacy-verdict-was-recognition-of-constitution-as-foundation-dy-chandrachud-1009927.html
18-07-2021||National||Irreplaceable loss to journalism: Editors Guild condoles death of photojournalist Danish Siddiqui||The Editors Guild of India (EGI) on Saturday condoled the death of Pulitzer Prize-winning Indian photojournalist Danish Siddiqui in Afghanistan, saying his demise was "an irreplaceable loss" to journalism. In a joint statement, the Press Association and the Indian Women Press Corps said Siddiqui's death while on duty in a conflict situation has once again highlighted the poor safety conditions of the scribes. They also condemned the "hateful campaign" being run against Siddiqui on social media after his demise. Siddiqui, in his early 40s, was killed in Afghanistan on Friday while covering the fighting between Afghan troops and the Taliban. "We condemn the killing of Danish Siddiqui. His demise on duty in conflict situations has once again highlighted the poor safety conditions of the scribes," read the joint statement. "We pray for the departed soul. We also condemn the hateful campaign running on social media after his death," the journalist bodies added. The Guild, in a statement, said, "EGI condoles the death of Pulitzer Prize-winning photojournalist on July 16 in Afghanistan, while he was covering a clash between Afghan security forces and the Taliban near a border crossing with Pakistan." "Siddiqui's death is an irreplaceable loss to journalism." At the same time, the Guild said it is "deeply disturbed by the vicious and highly regrettable racist campaign" being run against him by some sections of the social media. His death is an occasion to remember him and all the journalists who have died in conflict reporting, it said. Over the past decade, Siddiqui had covered some of the most heart-wrenching stories of conflict and humanitarian crisis from South Asia and the surrounding regions, the EGI noted. It said his work was a living testament to the axiom of photojournalism, "if your pictures aren't good enough, you aren't close enough". "Siddiqui's death is a stern reminder of the great risks journalists take to report from the frontline of conflict," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/irreplaceable-loss-to-journalism-editors-guild-condoles-death-of-photojournalist-danish-siddiqui-1009934.html
18-07-2021||National||Technologists, scientists true architects of New India: Jitendra Singh||Technologists and scientists are the true architects of the 'New India' envisaged by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, said Union Science and Technology Minister Jitendra Singh on Saturday. Addressing scientists and staff members of Central Electronics Ltd (CEL) in Uttar Pradesh's Ghaziabad, Singh termed the PSU under the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research (DSIR) a premier institution for research and development of electronics in the country. He recalled the achievement of the enterprise in developing solar cells indigenously for the first time in India, way back in 1977, when hardly anybody had heard about solar energy. The contribution of CEL by providing varied electronics components and equipment to the armed forces and Indian Railways is indeed praiseworthy, the minister added. "Technologists and scientists are the true architects of the New India envisaged by Prime Minister Narendra Modi," Singh said.  The minister emphasised the need to spread awareness about the applications of work being done in the institute and also engage the stakeholders including industry, start-ups and agencies concerned in the public as well as the private sector. During a brief presentation before the minister, the CMD of CEL Chetan Prakash Jain said the innovative Broken Rail Detection System BRDC, developed by the CEL, is undergoing field trials with DMRC and the outcome is satisfactory. Showing keen interest in the system, the minister said once fully operational, it can be replicated by the Indian railways too. Jain informed the minister that CEL has orders worth Rs 1,057 crore in hand and the production of an automatic weather observation system, to be used by airports, is in the last stage of completion.  "Production of Artificial Intelligence-based security and surveillance system for one of the gates and adjoining areas of Ram Janmabhoomi temple in Ayodhya is nearing completion," a statement said. On his maiden visit to the CEL after assuming charge as the Science and Technology minister, Singh inaugurated the e-office system of CEL as part of Digital India.  The minister visited different production units and monitoring centres in CEL premises by microwave electronics division, laser fence monitoring station, weather monitoring system and the solar photovoltaic unit, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/technologists-scientists-true-architects-of-new-india-jitendra-singh-1009936.html
18-07-2021||National||India sees over 41K Covid-19 cases, 518 deaths||India recorded 41,157 new coronavirus cases, which took the infection tally to 3,11,06,065, while the death toll climbed to 4,13,609 with 518 more fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The active cases have declined to 4,22,660 and comprise 1.36 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate stands at 97.31 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. It said that active Covid-19 cases have decreased by 1,365 in a span of 24 hours. The ministry said that 19,36,709 tests were conducted on Saturday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 44,39,58,663. The number of people who have recovered from the disease has risen to 3,02,69,796, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.33 per cent, the data stated. The total vaccine doses administered has reached 40.49 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16 last year. It went past  60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19 last year.India crossed two crore cases on May 4 and three crore cases on June 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-over-41k-covid-19-cases-518-deaths-1009967.html
18-07-2021||National||Kharge wants discussion on Covid-19, China; Pawar wants one on Afghanistan situation in Rajya Sabha||The demands were put during a meeting of Rajya Sabha floor leaders called by Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday evening ahead of the Monsoon Session of Parliament. "Over 40 leaders from 33 parties attended the all-party meeting and suggested subjects to be discussed. PM Modi said that all suggestions including those from the Opposition are very valuable. At the all-party meeting, PM Modi said that healthy and fruitful debates should take place in Parliament. He added that the govt is ready to hold discussions on any subject if raised as per parliamentary rules and procedures," Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi after all-party meeting ahead of Monsoon Session. NCP chief Sharad Pawar was of the view that a discussion on the situation in Afghanistan further to the withdrawal of US troops and its implications should be discussed while Trinamool Congress' Derek O’Brien called for more scrutiny of Bills by the Parliamentary Committees. Sources said other leaders stressed the need for allotting adequate time allocation for state-specific issues and more time for regional and small parties. Naidu assured regional and small parties of improvement in time allocation while urging all MPs to stand by the people in the light of the situation caused by Covid-19 and discuss all related issues to dispel the gloom caused by it in the country. "A dysfunctional Parliament adds to the prevailing gloom and hence, all sections of the House should ensure a smooth and productive session as it offers an opportunity to address the concerns of the people affected by Covid-19," sources quoted Naidu as saying. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Prahlad Joshi told the leaders that the government has identified 29 Bills, including six replacing ordinances, and two items of financial business for the Session. Responding to suggestions by leaders, Naidu asked Joshi and other senior ministers to reach out to leaders of various parties for better coordination and smooth functioning of the House. Naidu also said that though it is for the Government to take a view on referring the Bills to the Parliamentary Committees, it may be done to the extent possible. “All issues can be discussed in the House but none should seek to force their own positions on others,” Naidu said in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kharge-wants-discussion-on-covid-19-china-pawar-wants-one-on-afghanistan-situation-in-rajya-sabha-1009976.html
18-07-2021||National||Plea in Kerala HC against societies, RWAs decisions barring pets||Many housing societies, apartment associations and RWAs' decision to bar residents from keeping pets in their homes has been challenged in the Kerala High Court by an animal welfare organisation, which has contended that banning pets was "illegal, arbitrary and unfair". The PIL has been moved by People for Animals (PFA), contending that "such associations cannot frame bye laws or amend them in a manner at variance with the law of the country even by obtaining a consensus or by a complete majority". In its petition, filed through advocates K S Hariharaputhran and Bhanu Thilak, PFA said that it has received plenty of complaints from pet owners/pet parents against the ban imposed by various apartment associations, housing societies and residents welfare associations (RWAs) across the state. "Complaints were also received as to the notices and intimations given to pet owners/pet parents from such associations, asking them to abandon their pets," the petition said. PFA further contended that under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, "It is an offense to abandon a pet without any reasonable cause and in any circumstances which render it likely that the pet will suffer pain by reason of starvation or thirst". The petitioner organisation said that the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) in 2015 issued guidelines which advise pet owners to ensure that their pets are not a source of nuisance to others, but it also made clear that no amount of pressure from any source should lead to abandonment of the pets and that doing so is a violation of the law. The plea seeks a direction to all the apartment associations, RWAs and housing societies to comply with the AWBI guidelines of 2015. It also seeks a direction to the local self government bodies to resolve issues regarding ban on keeping pets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-kerala-hc-against-societies-rwas-decisions-barring-pets-1009980.html
18-07-2021||National||PM Modi expresses sadness at loss of lives in Mumbai due to heavy rains||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday expressed anguish at the loss of lives caused by wall collapse incidents in Mumbai due to heavy rains.  His office also announced Rs two lakh each for the next of kin of the deceased from the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund. A sum of Rs 50,000 would be given to the injured.  Fifteen people died in separate incidents of house collapse triggered by landslides as incessant overnight rains pounded Mumbai and nearby areas, with the city witnessing severe water logging, and disruption of local train services and vehicular traffic. "Saddened by the loss of lives due to wall collapses in Chembur and Vikhroli in Mumbai. In this hour of grief, my thoughts are with the bereaved families. Praying that those who are injured have a speedy recovery," Modi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-expresses-sadness-at-loss-of-lives-in-mumbai-due-to-heavy-rains-1009981.html
18-07-2021||National||Meet Sanjal Gavande, Indian woman part of Jeff Bezos's Blue Origin team||Sanjal Gavande, a 30-year-old woman from Maharashtra, is a part of the team who built Blue Origin's suborbital space rocket, New Shepard, that is all set to launch Amazon founder Jeff Bezos to space on July 20. Gavande is a part of Blue Origin as a systems engineer. Before she joined the commercial spaceflight company to pursue her dream of building a spacecraft, Gavande worked in marine and racing car companies. Gavande completed her mechanical engineering degree from the University of Mumbai and she also holds a postgraduate degree in the same field from Michigan Technological University. While studying engineering, she opted for aerospace as a subject in her course. "She even got a commercial pilot's license in the US. She wanted to join Blue Origin. She would look on the website and then apply whenever she saw some openings. After her application was approved, she also cleared the interview and joined Blue Origin. We just supported her and she achieved everything on her own," he added. Gavande is also a licensed commercial pilot. She has also received the Pilot of the Year award in 2021 from Orange County, California chapter of Ninety-Nines which is a local chapter of the International Organization of Women Pilots. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/meet-sanjal-gavande-indian-woman-part-of-jeff-bezoss-blue-origin-team-1009987.html
18-07-2021||National||Covid travel ban leaves Indians enrolled in Italian universities stuck at home||Indian students who had rushed back home from Italy to be with their family members or take part in last rites of the loved ones at the peak of the second wave of Covid-19 are now stranded here as air travel remains banned to the European country. As the students witnessed a flashback similar to the brutal first wave of Covid-19 in Italy last year, many of them had rushed back home earlier in the year. While some managed to come home in time, few were late to meet the last minute rush when Italy closed their international borders to India. Those who returned to India before April 28, when air travel to and from the country was suspended, are now stuck here even though their peers back in Italy have gone back to their normal lives in universities. Zeeshan Ahmed, a cyber security student at Sapienza University of Rome, arrived in India when he got news of his sister being ill due to Covid-19. Ultimately his entire family got infected with the virus, including him. "It was mayhem. In fact, it was a repeat of what I saw in Italy last year that made me scramble even more when I got to know about my sister first. Then, everybody around was infected and news of losing loved ones and family became an everyday thing," Ahmad told PTI. "The second wave may have subsided but the nightmare for me is far from over. Italy has gone back to normal but I am stuck here while universities function completely. I also had a part-time job there which I am continuing from here but that will not be an option in few weeks because ultimately work is getting affected due to my absence," he added. Aligarh's Owais R Khan, who is studying MSc Computer Science at the same university in Rome, says he came back to India in February when the situation in both the countries was better. "Suddenly, all hell broke lose here and a week before my scheduled return, Italy imposed a travel ban which has still not been lifted. The exams are going on at my university both in offline and online mode. We have been reaching out to the Embassy, sending emails to the Ministry to raise the issue with their counterparts in Italy but nothing has worked," Khan said. "It feels like a vicious cycle. Last year, we were stuck in Italy when the families back here were on tenterhooks. An year later, the same series of incidents has happened in India and we are in the same situation again. Its hard to struggle through these issues while dealing with loss of family members and memories of last rites afresh in mind," he added. For Nihal Vikram Singh, an MBBS student at Vita-Salute San Raffaele University, the trouble is not just limited to delayed travel plans but residence permit and Indian vaccines not being permitted there. "As per our residence permit, we cannot stay out of Italy for more than six months. To go through the same processes all over again and secure a permit is going to be troublesome. Also, I am a medical student. Though I am attending my theory classes online, that is far from enough for my course," he said. Italy had on June 26 permitted Italian residents or Italian citizens with Registry of Resident Italians Abroad, to travel to the country from India, Bangladesh and Sri lanka. While there is no official update on the expected timeline of the travel ban being eased, the Indian Ambassador to Italy had on July 9 had a meeting with community representatives where she briefed them about the efforts on seeking relaxations. "Ambassador Dr Neena Malhotra virtually interacted with community representatives and briefed about Mission's efforts in seeking relaxation for stranded Indians and resumption of flights. Several other community issues were discussed," the Indian embassy in Italy had tweeted. India logged 41,157 new coronavirus cases, which took the infection tally to 3.11 crore while the death toll climbed to over 4.13 lakh with 518 more fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-travel-ban-leaves-indians-enrolled-in-italian-universities-stuck-at-home-1009999.html
18-07-2021||National||Over 41.99 crore Covid-19 vaccines so far provided to states/UTs: Centre||Over 41.99 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have so far been provided to states and Union territories, and more than 2.56 crore jabs are available with them and private hospitals, the health ministry said on Sunday. In a statement, the ministry said 15,75,140 more doses are in the process of being supplied. It said 41.99 crore (41,99,68,590) vaccine doses have been provided to states and Union Territories (UTs) so far through all sources. Of this, the total consumption, including wastage, is 39,42,97,344 doses, according to data available at 8 am Sunday, the ministry said. It said 2,56,71,246 Covid vaccine doses -- balance and unutilised -- are still available with states/UTs, and private hospitals. The new phase of universalisation of Covid-19 vaccination programme commenced from June 21. Under the programme, the central government made inoculation free of cost for all adults. Vaccines were earlier free for people above 45 years of age. Under the nationwide vaccination drive, the Government of India has been supporting states/UTs by providing them the vaccines, the ministry said. In the new phase of the drive, the Union government will procure and supply free of cost 75 per cent of the vaccines being produced by vaccine manufacturers in the country to states /UTs, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-4199-crore-covid-19-vaccines-so-far-provided-to-states/uts-centre-1010002.html
18-07-2021||National||CAG pulls up Assam govt on pension scheme for families of deceased staff||The Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) has asked the Assam government to review the Compassionate Family Pension (CFP) scheme as it not only defies legal principles but also has put an estimated additional financial burden of Rs 156.91 crore per annum on the state exchequer. The state government has not asked for separate budget allocation for the CFP scheme and by booking the entire expenditure under 'pension' has violated budget and accounting rules applicable to a new scheme, the CAG said in its report for the year 2019 that was tabled in the ongoing budget session of the assembly. The earlier Compassionate Appointment (CA) scheme, implemented prior to 2017, was not effectively managed due to delays in appointment of eligible heirs of employees who died while in service or compulsorily retired on medical grounds and its documentation was also incomplete and deficient, the report pointed out. "Instead of correcting these deficiencies, the state government introduced the CFP scheme which has 'entitlement features' and hence is not in keeping with the well laid legal principles, regarding compassionate appointments by the state," the report said. The financial outgo under the scheme, introduced in April 2017, has been Rs 171.55 crore so far and audit has estimated an additional financial burden of Rs 156.91 crore per annum on the state exchequer. Besides, the state government has extended the benefits of the CFP scheme to cover officers of the All India Services (AIS), whose pension and family pension is borne by the Centre, without consulting the latter, the CAG said. Moreover, in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and the high rate of positive cases as well as mortality rate, the financial burden on the state exchequer may increase to an unbearable proportion in the years to come, the report pointed out. "Scarce financial resources need to be utilised for welfare schemes of its people and not only for government servants dying in harness who are otherwise taken care of under the existing family pension scheme," it added. The CAG recommended the state government to reconsider the "design of the CFP scheme by limiting the benefits to that of the Normal Family Pension as admissible under Assam Service (Pension) Rules, 1969". Any incremental expenditure beyond the existing family pension needs to be separately budgeted and classified by the state, the report pointed out. The scheme though introduced as a welfare measure for the state employees has imposed an additional financial burden on the state by increasing their revenue expenditure when there is a need to spend more on creation of infrastructure and on capital expenditure, the report added. The CFP scheme is applicable to all employees who die in harness since April 1, 2017 and has completed a minimum of one year of continuous services. The dependent of the deceased employee is entitled to receive family pension equal to 100 per cent of the last pay drawn by the deceased employee, to be paid for a period up to the date of deemed superannuation of the deceased employee. Besides, the dependant will also get the applicable dearness relief under the Normal Family Pension (NFP) as per the Assam Service (Pension) Rules, 1969. On attaining the age of retirement, the CFP will be converted into normal pension fixed at 50 per cent of the CFP till 67 years of age and beyond that, it will be reduced to 30 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cag-pulls-up-assam-govt-on-pension-scheme-for-families-of-deceased-staff-1010005.html
18-07-2021||National||IMD predicts Intense rain over north India from July 18-21 and west coast till July 23||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted intense rainfall activity over north India from July 18-21 and over the west coast till July 23. The IMD said moderate to severe thunderstorms with lightning are very likely at isolated places over Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, and east Rajasthan during the next 24 hours. "They may cause injuries leading to casualties to people and animals staying outdoor," the MeT department cautioned. The IMD said rainfall activity is very likely to increase with widespread rainfall to isolated heavy to very heavy rains very likely over the western Himalayan region (Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan and Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand) and adjoining northwest India  -- Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, UP and north Madhya Pradesh -- from July 18 to 21. There will be decrease in rainfall activity over the same regions thereafter. Isolated, extreme heavy rainfall is also very likely over Uttarakhand on July 18 and 19 and over northwestern parts of UP on July 19. Moderate to heavy rainfall at isolated places are also very likely over Delhi and Chandigarh on July 18 and 19. Western and southern India is also expected to receive heavy rains. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rains are very likely to continue over the western coast and adjoining inland areas during the next 5-6 days. Heavy rains have been battering parts of Maharashtra. The IMD said isolated, extremely heavy falls are also very likely over Konkan region and Goa adjoining the ghat areas of central Maharashtra, coastal and south interior Karnataka during July 18 to 19 and over Gujarat region on July 18. Isolated heavy falls are likely over east and adjoining central India from July 22 onwards.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/imd-predicts-intense-rain-over-north-india-from-july-18-21-and-west-coast-till-july-23-1010006.html
18-07-2021||National||FATF review of India's anti-money laundering, terror financing regime postponed again to 2022||An evaluation by global organisation Financial Action Task Force (FATF) to analyse the effectiveness of India's anti-money laundering and countering terrorist financing regime has been postponed for the second time in view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and is now slated to be initiated next year, officials said. The scheduled assessment for the country by the Paris-headquartered watchdog was originally slated for September-October, 2020. However, these dates were postponed and pushed to February this year by the FATF secretariat in view of the coronavirus outbreak that gripped the world, including India. "The schedule for FATF mutual evaluation has again been postponed from February, 2021 and it is tentatively expected to begin in September, 2022 now," a senior government officer told PTI. As per this re-scheduled assessment calendar, the technical evaluation of Indian anti-money laundering, countering terrorist financing and the role of relevant legal framework and agencies enforcing these measures would begin in September next year followed by an on-site visit of FATF experts to the country in February, 2023, another official privy to the development said. The FATF plenary that is expected to be held in October, 2023 will discuss the Indian assessment and its mutual evaluation report will be published for public consumption after 10 months from the date of the on-site visit (February 2023), he said. The FATF is a global money laundering and terrorist financing watchdog that sets international standards to prevent economic and financial crimes in a country with inter-connected linkages across the world. It conducts "peer reviews of each member on an ongoing basis to assess levels of implementation of the FATF recommendations and provides an in-depth description and analysis of each country's system for preventing criminal abuse of the financial system." The last such review of India's anti-money laundering and terrorist financing regime was held in June, 2010 and it is usually taken up again after a period of 10 years. The FATF, post this review, had said in 2013 that "India had made significant progress in addressing deficiencies identified in its mutual evaluation report and (the FATF) decided that the country should be removed from the regular follow-up process." In 2019, India had set up a joint working group comprising 22 central investigation, intelligence gathering and regulatory agencies to make presentations, hold discussions and brief the FATF experts, drawn from various countries, once the process starts. Some of the prominent agencies in this grouping supervised by the Department of Revenue under the Union Finance Ministry include the Enforcement Directorate, Income Tax Department, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU), CBI, Customs Department, market regulator SEBI, banking regulator RBI and insurance regulator IRDAI. The FATF too made a public declaration saying the dates for mutual evaluation of certain countries including India "will be rescheduled as soon as practicable." "Due to the ongoing coronavirus (Covid-19) emergency, the FATF and FATF-style regional bodies (FSRBs) are implementing precautionary measures that impact scheduled on-site visits and mutual evaluation discussions." "As the situation evolves, this information will be regularly updated but remains subject to further change," it said. It specifically says India's possible on-site period is "tbc (to be confirmed)". During this evaluation, Indian financial regulatory and enforcement agencies are expected to showcase their action taken reports and dossiers for the enforcement, regulatory and investigative work undertaken by them under the anti-money laundering law, criminal tax evasion instance and for strengthening the CFT (combating financing of terrorism) regime. "The guidelines and rules framed under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), their outcomes and strict adherence to Know Your Customer (KYC) procedures are some of the very important aspects that the FATF experts will be informed about," the officer quoted in the later part said. The enactment of the Fugitive Economic Offenders Act in 2018, the anti-black money Act of 2015, amendments brought in the PMLA over the years, curbing tax evasion under indirect taxes by bringing in the GST (Goods and Services Tax), new protocols to better regulate suspect transactions in banks and financial intermediaries and the 2016 demonetisation of two large currencies are part of the Indian presentation, an officer had said last year. The high number of domestic and international attachment of assets and penalties issued under the PMLA, and charge sheets filed by various probe agencies under criminal sections of the law against financial crimes and terror funding will also be part of India's presentation to the FATF review team. The wide spectrum of offences from wildlife smuggling to use of smart electronic tools to generate black money being probed by Indian agencies will be part of the dossier, officials informed. The new compliance regime brought in by the Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) for banks, other financial institutions, casinos and payment gateways to report suspect transactions and counterfeit currency will also be part of the presentation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fatf-review-of-indias-anti-money-laundering-terror-financing-regime-postponed-again-to-2022-1010012.html
18-07-2021||National||Centre plans slew of Bills in Monsoon session; Opposition to corner it over Covid management, fuel prices||The government has readied a big legislative agenda for the Monsoon session of Parliament beginning Monday even as the Opposition seeks to corner the ruling dispensation over its handling of the second wave of Covid-19 and the rise in fuel prices. The government has listed 17 new Bills for introduction in the session. Three of the Bills seek to replace ordinances issued recently. Once a session starts an ordinance has to be passed as a Bill within 42 days or six weeks, else it lapses. One of the ordinances issued on June 30, prohibits any agitation and strike by anyone engaged in the essential defence services. The Essential Defence Services Ordinance 2021 came in the backdrop of the announcement by major federations of the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) to go on an indefinite strike from the later part of July to protest the government's decision to corporatise the OFB. The Essential Defence Service Bill, 2021 has been listed to replace the ordinance, according to a Lok Sabha bulletin issued on July 12. The Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Bill, 2021 is another measure that seeks to replace an ordinance. According to the government, the ordinance was brought to provide a permanent solution and establish a self-regulated, democratically monitored mechanism for tackling air pollution in the NCR and adjoining areas, rather than limited ad-hoc measures. The Opposition on its part wants to corner the government by raising issues like alleged shortcomings in the healthcare system during the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic and the distribution of Covid vaccines to states. It would also seek replies on the rising prices of petrol diesel and cooking gas during the session which would end on August 13. According to the financial business listed in the bulletin, there would be a presentation, discussion and voting on Supplementary Demands for Grants for the year 2021-22. There would also be a presentation, discussion and voting on Excess Demands for Grants for the year 2017-18. On Saturday, Vice President and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu urged members of Parliament to stand by people amid the pandemic and discuss all issues related to it in the House to address the concerns of the citizens. Chairing a meeting of leaders of various parties and groups in Rajya Sabha ahead of the session, he also asked the leaders to ensure a smooth and productive session. "A dysfunctional Parliament adds to the prevailing gloom and hence all sections of the House should ensure a smooth and productive session as it offers an opportunity to address the concerns of the people affected by Covid-19," he told the leaders. Noting that the second wave of Covid-19 infection sprang several surprises and severely tested India's health infrastructure, Naidu said Parliament is the right forum to get updated about various aspects of fighting the disease and benefit from ground-level experiences of members of the House from different states. This is important in the context of a possible third wave of infection which is being talked about a lot, he said. During the session, all Covid-related protocols, which include maintaining social distancing, would be followed. Both the Houses will sit simultaneously. Amid the pandemic, Rajya Sabha used to earlier sit in the first half of the day, and Lok Sabha in the second half. But from part two of the Budget session in March this year, the two Houses had started sitting simultaneously from their usual timing of 11 am onwards. According to latest data, 444 members from Lok Sabha and 218 from Rajya Sabha have been vaccinated with at least one dose. The figures may have gone up, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-plans-slew-of-bills-in-monsoon-session-opposition-to-corner-it-over-covid-management-fuel-prices-1010020.html
18-07-2021||National||South Central Railway to resume unreserved train services||The South Central Railway (SCR) zone will resume unreserved train services for the benefit of intra-state passengers from Monday. This was in line with the gradual and phased resumption of train services in the Covid pandemic, a release from the SCR said. These trains will be operated on par with express trains as unreserved express trains to cut down on travel time. The railway zone undertook major track strengthening works over the past one year, which will now result in raising the maximum permissible speed at which the trains can chug. These trains will be operated as unreserved express train services to pass on the benefit of the track enhancement works to the passenger in terms of reduced travel time, the release said. Initially, 82 trains will resume operations across the entire network of SCR.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south-central-railway-to-resume-unreserved-train-services-1010038.html
18-07-2021||National||News portal Newsclick funded from abroad to attack Modi, alleges Sambit Patra||Seizing on the alleged dubious foreign funding of a news portal, the BJP claimed on Sunday that "anti-india" elements in league with foreign forces are part of a conspiracy to demean the country and target the Modi government.  Addressing a press conference, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra cited media reports about the Enforcement Directorate probe into the portal, Newsclick, and said that it received FDI of Rs 9.59 crore and foreign funding of another Rs 28.46 crore to dubious purposes.    Money was diverted to various people, including activist Gautam Navlakha, an accused in the Bhima Koregaon case, he alleged, saying this was a "price tag" to foment anti-india sentiments, "abuse" Prime Minister Narendra Modi and do propaganda for foreign forces.  "Anti-India forces are doing this conspiracy in league with foreign forces," he said, alleging that the portal wore the mask of a media house to demean India.  Some mainstream politicians of India and foreign forces are also with such portals, and they have been working as a gang in a planned way, he alleged.    Patra claimed that whenever any "good" thing happens in the country, be it the Covid vaccination policy or the Central Vista project, some people targeted it.    He alleged that the incident highlights the role of foreign funding and foreign conspiracy behind such campaigns to demean India.    The Central Vista project received nod from courts but some people still went ahead with their agenda in a "stubborn" manner to demean India, he said.  Since Modi became prime minister, he has been a thorn in the flesh of some leaders not only here but also of foreign forces, Patra claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/news-portal-newsclick-funded-from-abroad-to-attack-modi-alleges-sambit-patra-1010046.html
18-07-2021||National||India comes down to fourth place in weekly Covid-19 count||Showing a steady decrease in daily Covid-19 cases, India has been able to come down to fourth place in the seven-day Covid-19 cases count. Likewise, Brazil has also been able to come down to the third spot after Indonesia, which is currently reporting the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the world, took over its place. In the last seven days, Indonesia showed a 46 per cent rise in its Covid caseload, which accounts to 3,41,749 in total. India has reported an eight per cent decline in its Covid-19 cases from last week. This week, 2,97,330 positive cases were found in the country. According to the Worldometer data, there has been a 15 per cent surge in the global Covid-19 cases. It has raised fear about the possible third wave of the pandemic. For the second time this week, India crossed its 40,000 count with a surge in cases in Kerala and Manipur on Wednesday. While Kerala reported 16,148 cases, which is highest since 38 days, Manipur recorded an all time high of 1,171.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-comes-down-to-fourth-place-in-weekly-covid-19-count-1010049.html
18-07-2021||National||Centre yet to appoint director of inquiry to probe complaints from Lokpal: CVC||More than two years after the Lokpal came into being, the Centre is yet to appoint a director of inquiry for conducting preliminary inquiry into graft complaints sent by the anti-corruption ombudsman, according to an RTI reply. The Lokpal, the apex body to inquire and investigate graft complaints against public functionaries, came into being with the appointment of its chairperson and members in March 2019. According to the Lokpal and Lokayuktas Act, 2013, there shall be a director of inquiry, not below the rank of joint secretary to the government of India, who shall be appointed by the central government for conducting preliminary inquiries referred to the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) by the Lokpal. "Although Director of Inquiry has not been appointed by Govt. of India, cases are being received in the Commission for conducting preliminary inquiries," the CVC said in its reply to an RTI query filed by this journalist. Forty-one cases have been received for preliminary inquiry as of March 2021. Out of these, reports in 36 cases have been sent to the Lokpal of India, the commission said in its reply dated July 5. The CVC was asked to provide details of the director of inquiry and cases referred to it by the Lokpal for conducting preliminary inquiries, among others. According to the latest official data, the Lokpal received 12 complaints of corruption, including eight against senior government officials, between April and June this year. As many as 110 complaints, including four against Members of Parliament (MPs), were received by the Lokpal during 2020-21, a decline of over 92 per cent from 1,427 plaints received in 2019-20. Of the total of 12 complaints received in the first three months of the ongoing fiscal, eight were against Group A or B officials and four were against "chairperson/ member/officer/employee in any body/board/corporation/authority/company/society/trust/autonomous body" wholly or partially financed by the central government or controlled by it, according to the Lokpal data. The data showed that two complaints were closed after a preliminary examination and three complaints seeking preliminary inquiry were pending with the CVC. A status report from the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is pending in one complaint, showed the data for 2021-22 (up to June 2021), without mentioning further details. According to provisions contained under Section 20 (1) (b) of the Lokpal and Lokayuktas Act, 2013, complaints in respect of public servants belonging to groups A, B, C or D are referred by the Lokpal to the CVC for a preliminary inquiry. The CVC forwards such references to the concerned chief vigilance officer for preliminary inquiry and report. President Ram Nath Kovind had on March 23, 2019, administered the oath of office to Justice Pinaki Chandra Ghose as the chairperson of Lokpal. At present, the Lokpal has a vacancy of two judicial members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-yet-to-appoint-director-of-inquiry-to-probe-complaints-from-lokpal-cvc-1010054.html
18-07-2021||National||Panun Kashmir objects to J&K delimitation exercise based on 2011 Census||The Panun Kashmir, an organisation of displaced Kashmiri Pandits, on Sunday objected to the conduct of the delimitation exercise in Jammu and Kashmir on the basis of 2011 Census. Its chairman Ajay Chrungoo claimed that the exercise based on the 2011 data will negate the social and political gains made since the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir's special status under Article 370 and its bifurcation into union territories in August 2019. The Delimitation Commission, tasked with redrawing assembly constituencies and carving out new ones in the Union Territory, had earlier said that the exercise would be done according to the Census of 2011. On the Foundation Day of Panun Kashmir, Chrungoo reiterated its demand for a separate Union Territory for the community.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/panun-kashmir-objects-to-jk-delimitation-exercise-based-on-2011-census-1010062.html
18-07-2021||National||Danish Siddiqui to be buried at Jamia Millia Islamia||Slain photojournalist Danish Siddiqui will be laid to rest at the Jamia Millia Islamia graveyard, according to a statement on Sunday. "Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) Vice-Chancellor accepted the request of the family of late photojournalist Danish Siddiqui to bury his body at the JMI graveyard meant exclusively for university employees, their spouses and minor child," the university said in the statement. Siddiqui had done his masters from the university. His father Akhtar Siddiqui was the Dean of Faculty of Education there. Danish Siddiqui had studied at AJK Mass Communication Research Centre (MCRC) from 2005 -2007. The Jamia Teachers' Association (JTA) expressed condolences at the death of Danish Siddiqui. The Officiating Director of AJK MCRC said, "Danish was one of the brightest stars in our hall of fame and a proactive alumnus who kept returning to his alma mater to share with students his work and experiences. We will miss him deeply but are determined to keep his memory alive." Professor Sabeena Gadihoke said his photographs were hard-hitting but he never compromised on the dignity of those within his frames. "Danish had the unique ability to bestow a journalistic picture with empathy and to give dignity and grace to his subjects," she added. In 2018, Danish Siddiqui was awarded the Distinguished Alumni Award by MCRC. During the ceremony, he described being a photojournalist as both an honour and responsibility to bear witness for those who could not speak for themselves, in the hope that he could make a change for the better, the JTA said in a statement. JTA president Professor Majid Jamil described his death as a big loss to journalism and the Jamia community. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/danish-siddiqui-to-be-buried-at-jamia-millia-islamia-1010069.html
18-07-2021||National||326 sedition cases filed in India between 2014-19; only 6 convictions||A total of 326 cases were registered in the country under the controversial colonial-era penal law on sedition between 2014 and 2019 in which just six persons were convicted. The Supreme Court last week observed that Section 124 (A) of the IPC -- offence of sedition -- has been enormously misused and asked the Centre why it was not repealing the provision used by the British to "silence" people like Mahatma Gandhi to suppress the freedom movement. According to the Union Home Ministry data, a total of 326 cases were registered under the sedition law between 2014 and 2019, with the highest 54 cases in Assam. Out of these cases, charge sheets were filed in 141 cases while just six people were convicted for the offence during the six-year period. The data of 2020 has not been compiled by the home ministry yet, officials said. In Assam, out of the 54 sedition cases registered, charge sheets were filed in 26 cases and trials were completed in 25 cases. However, there has not been a single conviction in the state in any of the cases between 2014 and 2019, the data says. Jharkhand has registered 40 cases under Section 124 (A) of IPC during the six years in which charge sheets were filed in 29 cases and trials were completed in 16 cases in which just one person has been convicted. In Haryana, 31 cases were registered under the sedition law in which charge sheets were filed in 19 cases and trials were completed in six cases in which just one person has been convicted. Bihar, Jammu and Kashmir and Kerala have registered 25 cases each. While Bihar and Kerala could not file a charge sheet in any of the cases, Jammu and Kashmir filed a charge sheet in three cases. However, no one was convicted in any of the three states between 2014 and 2019. As many as 22 sedition cases were filed in Karnataka in which charge sheets were filed in 17 cases, but the trial could be completed in just one case. However, no one was convicted in any case in the period. A total of 17 sedition cases were filed in Uttar Pradesh and eight in West Bengal between 2014 and 2019. While charge sheets were filed in eight cases in UP and five cases in West Bengal, no one was convicted in the two states. In Delhi, four sedition cases were registered between 2014 and 2019 but no charge sheet has been filed in any case. No sedition case was filed in states and UTs of Meghalaya, Mizoram, Tripura, Sikkim, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Lakshadweep, Puducherry, Chandigarh, Daman and Diu, Dadra and Nagar Haveli in the six years One each sedition case was filed in three states -- Maharashtra (in 2015), Punjab (2015) and Uttarakhand (2017). According to the home ministry data, 2019 saw the highest number of 93 sedition cases registered in the country, followed by 70 in 2018, 51 in 2017, 47 in 2014, 35 in 2016 and 30 in 2015. While 40 charge sheets were filed in the country in 2019 under the sedition law, 38 were filed in 2018, 27 in 2017, 16 in 2016, 14 in 2014 and six in 2015. Among the six convicted, two were sentenced in 2018 and one each in 2019, 2017, 2016 and 2014. No one was convicted in 2015. On July 15, a Supreme Court bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana agreed to examine the pleas filed by the Editors Guild of India and a former major general challenging the Constitutionality of Section 124A (sedition) in the IPC. The court said its main concern was the "misuse of law" leading to the rise in the number of cases. The non-bailable provision makes any speech or expression that brings or attempts to bring into hatred or contempt or excites or attempts to excite disaffection towards the government established by law in India a criminal offence punishable with a maximum sentence of life imprisonment. "Mr Attorney (General), we want to ask some questions. This is the colonial-era law and the same law was used by the British to suppress the freedom movement. It was used by the British to silence Mahatma Gandhi, Gokhale and others. "Is it still necessary to keep this in statute even after 75 years of independence?" asked the bench which also comprised justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/326-sedition-cases-filed-in-india-between-2014-19-only-6-convictions-1010071.html
18-07-2021||National||Govt proposes PM meet with leaders on Covid-19, Oppn says do it inside Parliament||Government has proposed a meeting of party leaders on Tuesday when Prime Minister Narendra Modi will brief them on Covid-19 but Opposition parties are not enthused and some found the idea "unacceptable" as the programme came at a time Parliament is in Session. Sources said Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi told leaders of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha that Modi would give a presentation and briefing on Covid-19 and its management at Parliament Annexe. Two experts will also be present during the briefing. However, Opposition leaders were not in agreement with the proposal saying Modi should actually brief the Parliament, which will be in Session from Monday. Sources said parties like Congress, Trinamool Congress, CPI(M), CPI, Samajwadi Party and AAP among others were opposed to the idea, saying the government should brief the entire MPs and not just leaders. It should happen inside Parliament, they said. The government plan is to have a visual presentation by experts following which they could take questions from the leaders. "MPs do not want fancy PowerPoint presentations on Covid-19 from the Prime Minister or this government in some conference room. Parliament is in session. Come to the floor of the House," Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha leader Derek O'Brien said. "This is nothing but event management. It is curious that the Prime Minister will not brief inside Parliament but in Annexe. Any discussion on Covid-19 should happen inside the House," a senior Opposition leader said. The Opposition parties are gearing up to raise "mismanagement" of Covid-19 situation, shortage of vaccines, economic slowdown arising out of the pandemic and unemployment during the Monsoon Session. Parties have also started giving notices on several aspects of Covid-19 management, even as the government said it was willing to discuss all issues of public interest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-proposes-pm-meet-with-leaders-on-covid-19-oppn-says-do-it-inside-parliament-1010086.html
18-07-2021||National||SC notice to ex V-C of KSOU on plea against quashing of FIR for financial irregularities||The Supreme Court has sought a response from former Karnataka State Open University V-C K S Rangappa on a plea filed by the varsity registrar against the High Court's decision to quash a criminal case against him for alleged financial irregularities.  A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and Hrishikesh Roy issued notice to Rangappa and others seeking their reply within six weeks on the petition. The HC passed its order on September 15, 2020, acting on a petition by Prof Rangappa, who was also former V-C of the University of Mysore. It has noted that charges levelled in the FIR were similar to the one filed earlier and the police had also filed a 'B (closure) report'. Senior advocate Basava Prabhu Patil, appearing for the Registrar, KSOU, submitted that the Karnataka Governor, in his capacity as Chancellor of Universities, directed for a special audit into University finances and an institution of criminal proceedings for alleged violations. The first complaint, which was lodged on August 19, 2016, did not cover the entire gamut of allegations adverted to in the communication of the Chancellor. He said subsequently, an interim order was passed by the division bench of the Karnataka High Court on September 24, 2019 directing the Board of Management to indicate what steps were taken to comply with the directions which were issued under Section 8(8) of the Karnataka State Open University Act 1992 by the Chancellor. "Thereafter, a second complaint was filed on November 20, 2019 to cover all the allegations, the content of which was not the same as the first complaint," he said. Thus, since the content of the second complaint related to distinct transactions, the High Court was not justified in exercising its jurisdiction to quash the FIRs, he contended. The court, after recording the counsel's submission, sought a reply from Rangappa and put the matter for consideration after eight weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-ex-v-c-of-ksou-on-plea-against-quashing-of-fir-for-financial-irregularities-1010087.html
18-07-2021||National||Tributes pour in for Kadambini Ganguly, one of India's first woman doctors on her 160th birth anniversary||Tributes poured in for Kadambini Ganguly, one of India's first two women doctors on Sunday, her 160th birth anniversary. Along with Anandi Joshi, Ganguly became the first woman in colonial India to study medicine and earn a degree in 1886. While Joshi studied at Woman's Medical College of Pennsylvania in the US, Ganguly pursued western medicine at Calcutta Medical College (CMC). Born Kadambini Bose in Bhagalpur, she was the daughter of well-known Brahmo Samaj reformer Braja Kishore Basu and was deeply influenced by the ongoing Bengal renaissance. She fought a long battle to be admitted to the Calcutta Medical College before qualifying as a practicing doctor, after becoming along with Chandramukhi Basu, one of Calcutta University's first women graduates. Among others, Google Doodle honoured the country's first woman doctor with a special graphic on her. The doodle, a portrait of Ganguly with the image of the main building of Calcutta Medical College, now officially called the Kolkata Medical College and Hospital in the background, has been designed by Bengaluru-based artist Oddrija, and it was widely shared across the country. Social media saw an outpouring of tributes that hailed Ganguly as a champion of women's rights in India. After her marriage with Brahmo reformer Dwarkanath Ganguly, the couple battled CMCs prohibition on women studying there, and Kadambini joined the medical college on June 23, 1883 despite strong criticism from the colonial society. She was awarded the Graduate of Medical College of Bengal (GMCB) degree in 1886, which even attracted the attention of Florence Nightingale who enquired about Ganguly from a friend in a letter in 1888. Ganguly later studied in Britain. A champion of womens rights, Ganguly was among the six members of the first all-women delegation to the 1889 Indian National Congress. Among other movements, Kadimbini Devi as she was popularly called, worked to better the working conditions of female coal miners in the Eastern India. When Lord Curzon announced the partition of Bengal in 1906, Kadambini Devi organized the Womens Conference in Calcutta to protest the plan. She also supported the Satyagraha movement and worked to support families of imprisoned political workers. Well known as a medical practitioner, she is reputed to have never turned down a call to treat or visit an ailing person while practicing medicine in Kolkata till her death in 1923. Sharing her photograph, Congress tweeted: "Today we honour Kadambini Ganguly for inspiring generations of Indians to aspire for greatness. She was not only one of the first female graduates from India but also among the first women to practice western medicine in all of South Asia." Congress leader Shashi Tharoor recalled her political contributions and tweeted "we honour her." "Remembering #KadambiniGanguly ji on her birth anniversary. In a male-dominated society, Kadambini Ganguly fought all restrictions & prejudices to study medicine. She actively campaigned for the emancipation of women and their admission into academic institutions," National Commission for Women chairperson Rekha Sharma said in a Twitter post. Politicians cutting across party lines paid tributes to Ganguly on the occasion. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted: "Tributes to #KadambiniGanguly, one of the first two female physicians from India on her birth anniversary. She studied medicine in 1883, trained in Scotland & established medical practice in India. Her contribution to women emancipation shall always be remembered." "Pay my humble tribute to #KadambiniGanguly ... Her struggle and fight in true sense, inspires Indian and Bengali women," West Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said in a Twitter post.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tributes-pour-in-for-kadambini-ganguly-one-of-indias-first-woman-doctors-on-her-160th-birth-anniversary-1010089.html
18-07-2021||National||Tamil Nadu CM M K Stalin pays homage to Stan Swamy||Stalin, accompanied by his half-sister Kanimozhi, State Minorities Commission Chairman Peter Alphonse, and party leaders, paid respect to the deceased Jesuit father, who was born in Viragallur village in Tiruchirappalli district in Tamil Nadu. A statement from the DIPR said Stalin paid homages to the “ashes” of Stan Sway at the Loyola College premises here. He also placed a wreath near a portrait of the deceased activist. Stalin had condoled Stan Swamy’s death on July 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-cm-m-k-stalin-pays-homage-to-stan-swamy-1010101.html
18-07-2021||National||SC grants bail to ex-DGM of Manipal group in third case of defalcation of funds||The Supreme Court has granted bail to Sandeep Gururaj, former deputy general manager of Manipal Education group in a third case related to defalcation of company accounts by Rs 1.74 crore. He was also accused in a case related to siphoning off Rs 75 crore from the company in a case lodged with Cubbon Park police station in Bengaluru. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta ordered that the accused should be enlarged on bail as the charge sheet has already been filed and his different accounts stood attached. The court also noted Gururaj had already been granted bail in the case related to defalcation of Rs 75 crore by the order of January 18, 2021. In the second FIR, the Karnataka High Court stayed the proceedings. "This is a third case in which the allegation of the complainant is that Rs 1.74 crores has been obtained from him by cheque for the purchase of a land which turns out to be a government land," the bench said. "We have also taken note of the fact that the different accounts of the appellant are attached and thus, there are no further funds to be attached. As to what ultimately would be the funds available to satisfy different claims cannot be said in the present proceedings," the bench added. In a separate order, the top court also ordered protection from arrest to the wife of Gururaj in a case lodged on February 29, 2020, related to a transaction of 2016-17. The proceedings were initiated against Gururaj and others on a complaint by Vatheswaran S, CEO of the company alleging diversion of huge funds through shell companies created abroad. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-grants-bail-to-ex-dgm-of-manipal-group-in-third-case-of-defalcation-of-funds-1010110.html
18-07-2021||National||AIMIM's official Twitter account hacked, restored||The official Twitter account of All India Majils-e-Ittehadul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) was hacked on Sunday for a few hours and was later restored, party sources said here. The hackers changed the Twitter profile name from AIMIM to 'Elon Musk' and the profile picture of the handle was replaced with that of the Tesla CEO. According to a party statement, the AIMIM Twitter account which was hacked on Sunday afternoon has been restored. The same account was hacked a few days ago but was restored, sources said adding the account was again hacked at around 1 pm on Sunday. "Nine days ago also the Twitter account of AIMIM was hacked but we communicated to Twitter and the account was restored. Now again the account has been hacked," a spokesperson of the Hyderabad-headquartered party, said. A complaint to Hyderabad Police will be lodged on Monday. "No new tweets were posted on the account, he said. AIMIM's Twitter handle has about 6.78 lakh followers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aimims-official-twitter-account-hacked-restored-1010114.html
18-07-2021||National||Illicit drugs business in Assam is worth Rs 5,000 cr annually: Himanta Biswa Sarma||Highlighting that trade in illegal drugs in Assam is worth about Rs 5,000 crore annually, Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma Sunday urged the police to be unrelenting in their war on drugs. He also emphasised the need for proper rehabilitation of reformed drug addicts and directed the Health and the Social Welfare departments to work together in this regard. "Drugs worth Rs 163 crore were seized between May 10 to July 15 this year. If this is, say, 20 per cent of the drugs which are being trafficked through the state every month, the trade in illegal drugs in Assam would be of at least Rs 5,000 crore per year," he said, speaking at a programme for disposal of the seized drugs at Barhampur in Nagaon district. The entire money goes outside Assam, without payment of any tax or anything going to the state exchequer, Sarma said, while stressing that the money used by addicts to procure the drugs comes at the cost of well being of families. "When even one member of a family becomes an addict, the entire family is ruined. The addicts steal from their own homes or even threaten and extract money from the members. And at last, many even take recourse to crimes and anti-social activities," he said. He said the fight against drugs is a three-pronged one first to check the supply chain, then to curb the distribution network, and third to rehabilitate those affected by its abuse. Pointing out that people want the drug peddlers to be shot dead instead of arresting them, Sarma said though the police must act tough against the criminals, they have to do so by following laid-down rules. "I have given permission (to police) for extreme action (against drug peddlers), but within the law," he added. Speaking on similar lines at another programme in Hojai district, Sarma said, "We have adopted a zero-tolerance policy against drugs. I have asked the police to use all legal means, including provision for preventive detentions for up to one year, to check this menace." He further said the burning of seized drugs, with due permission from the court, will be undertaken from time to time. As many as 1,493 drug peddlers have been arrested, 874 cases registered against them, and illegal drugs worth Rs 163 crore seized in the state since Sarma assumed the charge of chief minister on May 10. The seized contraband includes 19 kg heroin, 8,276 kg ganja, 14 kg opium, 67,650 cough syrup bottles, 1,920 kg morphine, Rs one crore in cash and foreign currency worth Rs 13,630, the chief minister said. Altogether 9.733 kg heroin, 253.301 kg cannabis, 977 gm of opium, and 2,71,904 seized tablets were burnt in Nagaon, while 324.732 kg heroin, 1,015.627 kg ganja/ cannabis, and 35,522 seized tables were destroyed in Hojai. This was the second and last day of publicly setting ablaze illegal drugs and psychotropic substances with two similar programmes held at Golaghat and Diphu on Saturday. The chief minister himself took part in the four programmes since Saturday to give out a message of zero- tolerance against illegal drugs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/illicit-drugs-business-in-assam-is-worth-rs-5000-cr-annually-himanta-biswa-sarma-1010115.html
18-07-2021||National||Common test for undergraduate admission in universities will not be implemented from 2021-22 session: UGC||The University Grants Commission on Sunday announced the postponement of the common entrance test for admissions to central universities citing the Covid-19 pandemic. “In view of prevailing Covid-19 pandemic, admission process in Central Universities during Academic Session 2021-22, may continue as per past practice. Central Universities Common Entrance Test (CUCET) may be implemented from Academic Session 2022-23,” UGC said. Last year, the CUCET was only used for admission to 14 new Central Universities and four state universities. The CUCET was proposed in the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020. In December 2020, the Union Ministry of Education constituted a seven-member committee to recommend modalities for the CUCET for admission to undergraduate courses across central universities in accordance with the NEP, 2020. “The National Testing Agency (NTA) will work to offer a high-quality common aptitude test, as well as specialized common subject exams in the sciences, humanities, languages, arts, and vocational subjects, at least twice every year,” the NEP 2020 had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/common-test-for-undergraduate-admission-in-universities-will-not-be-implemented-from-2021-22-session-ugc-1010132.html
18-07-2021||National||More than 33% of India's target population has received first dose of Covid-19 vaccine||After six months of vaccination, more than one third of India’s target population has received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine which would protect them from developing a serious disease when infected, whereas 22 out of 37 states and union territories provided the shots to more than 40% of their target population. While small states with fewer residents did particularly well, eight bigger and more populous states gave the first dose to more than 40% of their target population – Telangana (49%), Gujarat (48%), Karnataka (46%), Rajasthan (45%), Delhi (45%), Haryana (42%), Chhattisgarh (42%) and Kerala (42%). In the south, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh fare poorly compared to other three, but overall the worst vaccination records belong to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, which could manage to give the single dose so far to less than 25% of their target population and both doses to only 4%. A DH analysis of the official data available on CoWin (at 6 pm on Sunday) shows that out of a target of 94.47 crore people for the entire country, nearly 34% has received the first dose whereas 8.66% got both. The government has a target of vaccinating the population by December, 2021. States and UT with small populations did well with Sikkim becoming the first state to cover 100% of its population with the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. The Himalayan state is followed by Ladakh (84%), Lakshadweep (81%), Dadra and Nagar Haveli (80%), Daman and Diu (77%), Tripura (77%), Mizoram (77%), Arunachal Pradesh (64%) and Himachal Pradesh (64%). “It is essential that all regions of India increase vaccination coverage to all adults, with attention to full two dose coverage for all vulnerable persons,” K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India told DH. “For this we need to increase vaccine supply, efficient and equitable distribution, adequate numbers of vaccination centres and teams across the country, buildup of vaccine confidence in people and hassle free registration with assistance as needed to those who are deterred by mandated technology.” On the flip side, there are seven states that could not inoculate even one third of their population so far. They are Uttar Pradesh (22%), Bihar (24%), Andhra Pradesh (26%), West Bengal (26%), Jharkhand (26%), Tamil Nadu (28%) and Punjab (29%). The Union Health Ministry on Sunday said that it had supplied nearly 42 crore vaccines to the states of which 39.42 crore have been consumed and the balance of 2.56 crore doses are with the states. In addition, 15.75 lakh doses are in the pipeline.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-than-33-of-indias-target-population-has-received-first-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-1010153.html
18-07-2021||National||Over 40 Indian journalists, activists on list of potential Pegasus surveillance targets||At least 40 Indian journalists and around a dozen activists, including the Bhima Koregaon case accused, have figured in a leaked list of potential targets for surveillance using hacking software 'Pegasus', sold by the Israeli surveillance company NSO Group. The leaked database contains around 300 verified Indian mobile telephone numbers, including those of ministers, opposition leaders, the legal community, businessmen, government officials, scientists, rights activists and others, The Wire reported on Sunday night. In a statement, the government said allegations regarding surveillance by its agencies on specific people have "no concrete basis or truth associated with it whatsoever". Referring to the report in October 2019 when the names of over a dozen activists and journalists in the country surfaced in a similar list, the government claimed that the latest news report also "appears to be a similar fishing expedition, based on conjectures and exaggerations to malign the Indian democracy and its institutions". The leaked database was accessed by Paris-based media Forbidden Stories and Amnesty International and was shared with The Wire, Le Monde, The Guardian, Washington Post, Die Zeit, Suddeutsche Zeitung and 10 other Mexican, Arabian and European news organisations as part of a collaborative investigation called the ‘Pegasus Project’. Forensic tests, conducted on a small cross-section of phones, showed signs of targeting by Pegasus spyware in 37 phones, of which 10 are Indian, The Wire said adding that it is not possible to conclusively state whether it witnessed an attack attempt or was successfully compromised without subjecting a phone to this technical analysis. The portal also said it will be revealing the names that it has been able to verify under different categories, in a step by step fashion with its partners over the next few days. According to The Wire report, a review of the leaked database showed that at least nine numbers belonged to eight activists, lawyers and academics arrested in the Bhima Koregaon case. These include Anand Teltumbde, Rona Wilson, Vernon Gonsalves, Shoma Sen, Sudha Bharadwaj, Arun Ferreira, Hany Babu and Gautam Navlakha, among others. A dozen more numbers belonging to close relatives, friends, lawyers and colleagues of those arrested also appear in the leaked list. Names of the journalists on the list include Sushant Singh, J Gopikrishnan, Shishir Gupta, Ritika Chopra, Prashant Jha, Prem Shankar Jha, Swati Chaturvedi, Rahul Singh, Muzammil Jalil, Iftikhar Geelani and Sandeep Unnithan. The names of The Wire's founder-editors Siddharth Varadarajan and MK Venu are also is on the list. The Wire report said the presence of a phone number alone in the data does not reveal whether a device was infected with Pegasus or subject to an attempted hack and it could be revealed through digital forensics. A number of phones, including that of Varadarajan, Venu and Sushant Singh were infected using Pegasus, while analysis found evidence of a hacking attempt on journalists Smita Sharma and Vijaita Singh's phones. The report also said digital forensics showed activist SAR Geelani, who was acquitted in the Parliament Attack case and died recently, was also under surveillance. The Wire report said his phone was hacked. The Wire, in collaboration with Amnesty International’s Security Lab, carried out a forensic analysis of Geelani’s phone, an iPhone still preserved by his family, and can confirm that the phone was compromised on and off for over two years, the report said. Pegasus is a spyware developed by NSO Group and the company has said that it sells the spyware only to government agencies. Pegasus had hit the headlines in India in October 2019 when several Indian activists and journalists had confirmed that they were snooped using the spyware.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-40-indian-journalists-activists-on-list-of-potential-pegasus-surveillance-targets-1010155.html
18-07-2021||National||VHP demands central laws to free temples and mutts from government control, curb religious conversions||The Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) on Sunday appealed to the Union government to bring in a law to free temples and religious institutions of Hindus from government control in states, and also pressed for the enactment of a "strong" central law to stop illegal religious conversion in the country. The saffron outfit passed two separate resolutions in this connection as a two-day meeting of its board of trustees and governing council concluded in Faridabad. In view of a possible third wave of coronavirus pandemic hitting the country, the meeting also resolved to roll out a nationwide mass awareness campaign and organise Covid management training programs for volunteers. "The two-day meeting concluded today with resolutions for protection against corona pandemic, prevention of illegal religious conversions and freedom of Mutt-Mandirs from government control," the VHP said in a statement. Addressing the media, the working president of the outfit Alok Kumar said several temples and religious institutions of Hindus are under the control of the government in various states, including Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Kerala and Uttarakhand. "The government can take care of law and order as well as security, but the management of the temples should be left in the hands of the Hindu society. Why should the government decide who would be the pujari of a temple, how should a puja be organised in the temple," he questioned Hence, a resolution was passed at the meeting for freeing Hindu temples and religious institutions from government control, he said. "The VHP appeals to the central government to make a central law to handover Hindu temples and religious institutions to the Hindu society so that saints and devotees could refurbish and do up their religious and administrative systems and their traditions oriented towards ensuring the spirituo-socio-cultural dynamism of Mrityunjayi Bharat," read the resolution. In another resolution passed at the meeting, the VHP appealed to the central government to soon enact "a strong law against religious conversions so that Bharat can be free from this anti-national, anti-Hindu and anti-humanitarian agenda." "The central board of trustees and governing council of the VHP is confident that the Government of Bharat shall definitely complete this long pending work too," read the resolution, which also called upon the Hindu society to remain "ever watchful about the conversion conspiracies and put a stop to it through all constitutional measures."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vhp-demands-central-laws-to-free-temples-and-mutts-from-government-control-curb-religious-conversions-1010170.html
18-07-2021||National||Goa board to announce Class 12 results on Monday||The Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education will announce the results of higher secondary school certificate (Class 12) on July 19, its official said on Sunday. The board had cancelled the Class 12 exams this year due to the coronavirus situation and the students would be allotted marks on the basis of their internal assessment. Board chairman Bhagirath Shetye said that the board will formally declare the HSSC results at 5 pm on Monday. The results would be announced at the Directorate of Education at Porvorim, Shetye said, adding that he would make a presentation on the analysis and other feature of the results. A total of 18,195 students studied in Class 12 of the Goa board this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-board-to-announce-class-12-results-on-monday-1010182.html
18-07-2021||National Politics||AAP seeks to spread its ‘broom’ in states as Assembly polls near||Fifty-one days before the formation of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Arvind Kejriwal walked into the house of a labourer in Delhi's Tigri Colony on October 6, 2012, to restore the snapped electricity connection over non-payment of bills running into Rs 15,000. That was the launch of his 'bijli-pani' protest against "inflated" bills and hiked tariffs, a fortnight after parting ways with Anna Hazare. As the Delhi Chief Minister now ventures out of Delhi once again to grow his party's electoral footprint in Punjab, Goa, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab where Assembly elections will be held early next year, he knows one of the roads to power is 'power bills'. Visiting Punjab, Goa and Uttarakhand in the last month, he has promised 300 units of free electricity if AAP is voted to power. Kejriwal has taken a leaf out of the playbook from the Delhi polls promising free water and electricity. AAP does not want to repeat the 2014 mistake when it attempted to spread its wings without the necessary groundwork. It was decimated in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls when it thought it could create an impact nationally. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, it restricted its big fights to Delhi and Punjab basically. "We learnt our lessons. We are more focused now. The political situation also suits us now," a senior AAP leader said. That is exactly why there is a focused attempt. Kejriwal has visited Punjab twice while he travelled to Uttarakhand and Goa once. He visited Gujarat where AAP made impressive gains in local body polls, upsetting Congress. In all the poll-bound states, AAP sees a chance to usurp some space the Congress is perceived to be leaving. "Congress is on the decline. There is space and people look at AAP as an alternative,” the leader said. AAP has also learnt from past mistakes. The first thing Kejriwal did during his June 21 visit to Amritsar, the first to Punjab with an eye on the election, was to declare that AAP would declare a Sikh as its Chief Ministerial candidate. In 2017, AAP had given an impression that Kejriwal will move to Punjab, depriving a Sikh of the hotseat in the Sikh-dominated state. He visited the state again on June 29 to Chandigarh where he made the second definite poll pitch—the promise of free power up to 300 units. AAP is hopeful this time in Punjab after it lost momentum last time following Congress' Amarinder Singh managed to highlight his opponent's support to certain sections as a threat to peace and stability in the state. From a vantage position, AAP is said to have slumped but emerged second pushing the then-dominant Akali Dal to third. However, in 2019 polls, it had a lacklustre performance as it could retain only one out of four MPs from the state. Now, the discord in ruling Congress where Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and his bete noire Navjot Singh Sidhu are at loggerheads is good news to the AAP. It hopes that the BJP and the newly minted Akali Dal-BSP coalition also could dent the Congress. Political analysts believe AAP has better prospects in Punjab while it may not be a huge gainer in Goa, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh. However, Kejriwal is leaving no stones unturned. He visited Goa on July 13 where he held a series of meetings with party leaders. The visit triggered a buzz about the emergence of a possible coalition after Kejriwal met Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) chief Sudin Dhavalikar and his brother Deepak Dhavalikar at a hotel. AAP is not leaving Uttar Pradesh too. Its in-charge and Rajya Sabha floor leader Sanjay Singh is working overtime in the state. He has recently raked up "questionable" land deals involving the Ram Temple Trust. Earlier, Singh was slapped with a case of sedition after he questioned the Covid-19 handling by the Yogi Adityanath government. AAP leaders are not unrealistic this time. While AAP will contest all seats in both Punjab and Uttarakhand, it is to be seen whether it would enter into alliances in Uttar Pradesh or contest all seats or a limited number. They have set reasonable targets and are eager to cash in on the gains that come their way. Any forward movement in states like Punjab, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Goa would be an add-on to its efforts to increase its political footprint nationally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aap-seeks-to-spread-its-broom-in-states-as-assembly-polls-near-1009925.html
18-07-2021||National Politics||Open-minded on forging alliance with other parties for Uttar Pradesh polls: Priyanka Gandhi||Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said on Sunday that her party was yet to take a decision on forging alliances in the forthcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh due early next year but she said that the party is "open-minded" on the issue.  ''We are open-minded on the issue of alliance but we have not been benefited by the alliances,'' Priyanka, who is also the state unit in-charge, told reporters. ''Our aim is to defeat the BJP....we will take a call on this issue keeping in view the pros and cons of such a decision...we, of course, will not do anything that damages the prospects of our party,'' she said when pressed further on the issue. Priyanka also sought to rubbish the BJP charge that she was a ''political tourist''. ''It is nothing but propaganda by the BJP... it wants to portray me and Rahul Gandhi as non-serious politicians....it's not true...we have always taken up the issues concerning the common man and fought for them,'' she added. During discussions on Saturday, senior leaders told Priyanka that Congress should go solo in the next assembly polls. ''Congress must not enter into an electoral alliance with any party in the upcoming UP assembly poll.....we will fare better if we contest the polls on our own,'' a senior UP Congress leader present at the meeting had told DH.  Congress, which had contested the 2017 assembly polls in the state in alliance with the SP, could win only seven seats. The SP had managed to win 47 seats. SP president Akhilesh Yadav and BSP supremo Mayawati have already declared that their parties will not have an electoral alliance in the 2022 polls. Akhilesh, however, said that SP could leave a few seats for the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) and some other smaller outfits. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/open-minded-on-forging-alliance-with-other-parties-for-uttar-pradesh-polls-priyanka-gandhi-1010017.html
18-07-2021||National Politics||Opposition likely to hold dharna in Parliament on July 22 in solidarity with protesting farmers||Opposition parties are likely to hold a dharna in Parliament House on Thursday, July 22, in solidarity with farmers who will be starting their protest coinciding with the Monsoon Session. Sources said other protest modes like raising it inside Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha will also be discussed and decided soon. Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge chaired the meeting during which it was also decided to highlight price rise and the farmer's issue vociferously in the initial days. It will also be decided on Monday whether price rise or farmer's issue will be raised first in Parliament even as there are some divergent views among the parties. Sources said CPI(M)'s Elamaram Kareem strongly suggested that farmer's issue should be brought up in Parliament on the first day itself. While he received support from CPI, Trinamool Congress, Muslim League and DMK among others, one of the Congress leaders who attended the meeting suggested that price rise should be brought to the table on the first day. Sources said a decision on which notice should be submitted will be taken on Monday morning. Farmers have announced that they will start their protest outside Parliament from Thursday. Kharge has been assigned by Congress chief Sonia Gandhi to coordinate with other Opposition parties for a floor strategy in Parliament to counter the government on a variety of issues. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-likely-to-hold-dharna-in-parliament-on-july-22-in-solidarity-with-protesting-farmers-1010045.html
18-07-2021||National Politics||BSP to begin campaign to woo Brahmins ahead of Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls||Ahead of the 2022 UP Assembly elections, Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati on Sunday said the Brahmins will not vote for the BJP and her party will begin a campaign from Ayodhya next week to "awaken" the community. Speaking to the media here, Mayawati said she is fully assured that the "people of the Brahmin community will not get misled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the upcoming elections". "A campaign, led by BSP general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra, will be started from Ayodhya on July 23 to awaken the Brahmin community once again. The Brahmins will be assured that their interests will remain safe under the BSP regime," she said. On the farmers' issue, Mayawati said all political parties should come together and hold the Centre accountable. "The indifferent attitude of the Centre towards farmers protesting against the three farm laws is extremely sad. It is necessary that pressure of all kinds is put on the Centre in Parliament. Due to the wrong economic policies of the central government, there is rising unemployment and inflation, which is posing hardships to the people," she said. Mayawati said the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MPs, during the Monsoon session of Parliament, will raise issues such as rise in fuel and cooking gas prices and matters related to COVID-19 vaccination. "There are a number of issues on which the public wants accountability of the government," she said. The Monsoon session of Parliament begins on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bsp-to-begin-campaign-to-woo-brahmins-ahead-of-uttar-pradesh-assembly-polls-1010048.html
18-07-2021||National Politics||Eye on 2024, TMC to air Mamata's Martyrs' Day speech in various languages across India||With an eye on the 2024 Lok Sabha elections after its landslide victory in this year's West Bengal assembly polls, the Trinamool Congress is planning to take the opportunity of its biggest annual event, the July 21 Martyrs' Day rally, to reach out to people across the country by telecasting party chief Mamata Banerjee's speech in various languages in different states. Banerjee's speech will be telecast on giant screens across West Bengal, and for the first time, also in other states like Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Punjab, Tripura and poll-bound Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, a senior TMC leader said. The West Bengal chief minister will address people virtually for the second consecutive year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In West Bengal, the speech will be aired in Bengali, in which Banerjee will originally deliver it, while translated versions in local languages will be telecast in different states, he said. In Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah's home turf Gujarat, where assembly elections are due in 2022, the TMC plans to air Banerjee's speech on giant screens in several districts and has already started distributing leaflets in Gujarati informing people about the scheduled programme, the TMC leader said. "Modi and Shah had taken the lead in BJP's campaign during the West Bengal elections. Now, it's our turn to spread Didi's message in Gujarat and other states," he said. The party is also planning similar programmes in Uttar Pradesh, which will also go to the polls next year. The chief minister's nephew and Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee, after taking charge as the party's all- India general secretary, had vowed to spread the TMC's wings in other states to achieve a pan-India presence. Deft organiser Mukul Roy, who has recently returned to the TMC from the BJP, has been given the charge for spreading the party's presence across the country. Graffiti and posters projecting Banerjee as 'Amma', a sobriquet attached to late AIADMK leader Jayalalitha, have come up in Chennai, as the TMC tries to make inroads into the southern states with its first foray being in Tamil Nadu. Plans of a rainbow coalition against the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections are being nurtured in various quarters, with even the CPI(M) expressing its willingness to be a part of the bandwagon at the national level along with the TMC, its bitter rival in West Bengal. Banerjee, a veteran in national politics, has said that she will visit New Delhi for a few days after the July 21 programme to meet "old and new friends". She also plans to go to the Parliament, which will be in session then, and hold parleys with senior leaders. The TMC chief may meet Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi and other top opposition leaders during her visit. Banerjee has said that she may also meet President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi if she gets appointments with them. The TMC observes July 21 as Martyrs' Day in remembrance of the 13 people who were killed in police firing in a rally of Youth Congress, of which Banerjee was then a leader, in Kolkata in 1993 demanding that voter identity cards be made the sole document required for voting to ensure free and fair elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/eye-on-2024-tmc-to-air-mamatas-martyrs-day-speech-in-various-languages-across-india-1010072.html
18-07-2021||National Politics||PM Modi chairs meeting of NDA floor leaders||Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a meeting of NDA floor leaders on Sunday, a day ahead of the Monsoon session of Parliament. Besides Modi, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP president J P Nadda were present in the meeting. Leaders of several NDA constituent parties were in attendance. These included Apna Dal leader Anupriya Patel, JD(U) leader Ram Nath Thakur, AIADMK leader A Navaneethakrishnan, RPI leader Ramdas Athawale and LJP leader Pashupati Paras among others. The meeting was called to finalise the floor strategy for the session. The Monsoon session of Parliament is scheduled to continue till August 13. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-chairs-meeting-of-nda-floor-leaders-1010078.html
18-07-2021||National Politics||Opposition parties to give adjournment notice in Parliament over farmers' issues: RSP leader Premachandran||Several opposition parties will move adjournment notices in both Houses of Parliament on Monday over farmers' issues, RSP leader N K Premachandran said. Opposition parties held a separate meeting after an all-party meet convened by the government on Sunday, a day ahead of the Monsoon session of Parliament. The opposition meeting was attended by leaders of the Congress, TMC, NCP, CPI(M), CPI, IUML, RSP, Shiv Sena and the AAP. The farmers' protest against the three agri laws and the rising prices of petrol and diesel are the most important issues right now, and these will be raised by the opposition during the session, Premachandran said. Many opposition parties will give adjournment notices on the farmers' issue in both Houses of Parliament, he added. Sources said several opposition parties are also planning to give an adjournment notice over alleged phone tapping of their leaders. Earlier in the day, TMC leader Derek O' Brien, responding to a tweet by BJP Rajya Sabha MP Subramanian Swamy, alleged that phones of many opposition leaders were tapped. "Strong rumour that this evening IST, Washington Post & London Guardian are publishing a report exposing the hiring of an Israeli firm Pegasus, for tapping phones of Modi’s Cabinet Ministers, RSS leaders, SC judges, & journalists. If I get this confirmed I will publish the list," Swamy tweeted. Strong rumour that this evening IST, Washington Post & London Guardian are publishing a report exposing the hiring of an Israeli firm Pegasus, for tapping phones of Modi’s Cabinet Ministers, RSS leaders, SC judges, & journalists. If I get this confirmed I will publish the list. The Monsoon session is scheduled to continue till August 13.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-parties-to-give-adjournment-notice-in-parliament-over-farmers-issues-rsp-leader-premachandran-1010080.html
18-07-2021||National Politics||Oppn to target Modi govt on farm laws, Covid-19, fuel prices in Monsoon Session||Price rise, farmers' protest, Covid-19 management and vaccine shortage will find a forceful echo in the Monsoon Session of Parliament starting Monday even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi promised that his government was ready for "healthy and fruitful" discussions on various issues. Modi's remarks came during the customary all-party meeting convened by the government ahead of the Monsoon Session of Parliament as Opposition parties made it clear that they are upset with the way the government is treating Parliament by reducing it to an institution that passes Bills but does not discuss issues concening people. During the session, the issue of an international media consortium report would also be brought up in the two Houses. It claimed that over 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including of two serving ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders and one sitting judge besides scores of business persons and activists, could have been targeted for hacking through an Israeli spyware sold only to government agencies, During the roughy 150-minute-long meeting, over 40 leaders from 33 ruling and Opposition parties spoke on a variety of issues that should be taken up during the Session that will end on August 13. Modi said issues concerning people should be raised in an amicable manner and the government should be given an opportunity to respond while emphasising that it is the responsibility of all to create such a conducive environment.   Expressing hope that the sessions will run smoothly and complete its work, Modi said MPs truly know the ground-level situations and hence, their participation in the discussions enriches the decision-making process. Emphasising that the government is ready for discussion on any topic, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said that the government intends to bring 31 Bills, including 17 new Bills and two finance-related businesses. Leaders from Opposition parties emphasised that Bills should be sent for scrutiny by Parliamentary panels and that they wanted discussions on price rise, fuel price hike, farmers' protest, Covid-19 management, economy and situation on India-China border among others. They were also in unison over demanding that the contentious farm laws should be repealed. Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge and Leader of Congress Adhir Ranjan Chowdhary raised the issue of the post of Deputy Speaker remaining vacant, sources said. The Congress leaders also emphasised that they would also need a discussion on Rafale. Trinamool Congress leaders Sudip Bandyopadhyay and Derek O'Brien raised the issue of fuel price hike, vaccine shortage, "ruining" of federal structure, re-introduction of MPLADs and "motivated" functioning of central agencies. Besides other leaders, CPI(M) Rajya Sabha floor leader Elamaram Kareem was vocal about farmers' issues and demanded a separate discussion on the issue at the earliest. Kareem also demanded re-examination of the Labour Codes and a new Bill to negate the ill-effects of the existing one, for which he got support from several quarters. Samajwadi Party's Rajya Sabha leader Ramgopal Yadav raised the issue of governors overstepping their mandate, referring to issues in West Bengal and Maharashtra. RSP's NK Premachandran, sources said, was critical of the way the government was treating Parliament and said time should be found to discuss issues of national importance. Sources said parties like TRS, Trinamool, YSR Congress and BSP also raised the issue of Schedule 10 of the Constitution that deals with the disqualification of lawmakers who are party-hoppers. Separate petitions by TMC and YSRC against three MPs are pending before the Lok Sabha Speaker and they have demanded a time-bound disposal of such petitions. BJD leaders raised the issue of early approval for their demand for setting up Odisha Legislative Council while DMK took up the issues of GST devolution and NEET exam issue. Leaders of Shiv Sena, JDU, AIADMK, NCP, TDP, Akali Dal, RJD, AAP, Muslim League, AJSU, RLP, MDMK, Tamil Maanila Congress, Kerala Congress, JMM, MNF, RPI, NPF and Apna Dal among others attended the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/oppn-to-target-modi-govt-on-farm-laws-covid-19-fuel-prices-in-monsoon-session-1010098.html
18-07-2021||National Politics||Punjab's Congress suspense continues; decision on Sidhu likely on June 19||While speculations soar about Navjot Singh Sidhu being made PCC chief, power tussle in Congress-ruled Punjab was unabated and symbolism was in full play. After Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh met his one-time detractor and former Punjab Congress president Partap Singh Bajwa, CM's close aide and Lok Sabha MP Manish Tewari hailed Bajwa as an "old dyed in the wool Congressman". The barb was not lost as Sidhu had joined Congress only in 2017 after a three-year stint in BJP since 2014. The current speculation was that Sidhu could go to AAP if not given a major role in the party. Those in attendance at the CM's residence also included Assembly Speaker Rana K P Singh and Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, a meeting which was well publicised. The CM's Media Advisor tweeted, "Punjab Speaker Rana K P Singh, Rajya Sabha MP and former Punjab Congress president Partap Singh Bajwa and cabinet minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi called on Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh at his residence". Manish Tewari, who had earlier tweeted about the demographic statistics of Jat Sikhs, Hindus and Dalits, which indicated his batting for a Hindu state chief on Sunday, tweeted the photo of the Chief Minister's meeting with these leaders saying it was good to see them together. "Partap, who I have known since 1983, and Captain Sahib would make a good team for the times ahead," said Tewari. Team Amarinder's argument was that both Sidhu and the CM being from the same Jat Sikh community, both holding top positions will not send a right signal. Bajwa, the former PCC chief, also belongs to the same community. That Bajwa, who had hogged headlines in 2015 for his strident criticism of the chief minister, was back in the play though he changed the pitch, was clear as he held a meeting with  nine out of 11 Congress MPs in Delhi on Sunday over the evolving political situation in the state. While sources said Bajwa is also keen for the PPCC Chief post, Bajwa insisted there was no factionalism in the Punjab Congress and quoted the leadership's statement saying elections would be fought under the leadership of the chief minister. MPs, however, said they met to discuss the strategy for the Monsoon session beginning Monday. The chief minister is learnt to have insisted on Sidhu tendering any apology for attacks made against him in the past before the party high command names him state unit chief. 10 Congress MLAs in a joint statement issued by party leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira in Chandigarh urged the party high command not to let the Chief Minister down and flagged that Sidhu condemning and criticising his own party and government in public has only created a rift in the cadres and weakened it. The MLAs backed Singh over his decision not to meet Sidhu until he publicly tenders an apology. They felt Sidhu should do this so that the party and government can function in tandem. In the meeting all the MLAs and district presidents would pass a resolution stating that whatever decision the party high command takes regarding Punjab, would be acceptable to the entire state unit. This resolution will then be sent to Congress president Sonia Gandhi. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/punjabs-congress-suspense-continues-decision-on-sidhu-likely-on-june-19-1010104.html
18-07-2021||National Politics||Farmers set for fresh showdown with Centre during Monsoon Session||Agitating farmers and the Modi government are set for a fresh showdown with protesters demanding repeal of the three farm laws planning to take out daily marches to Parliament beginning Thursday till the end of the monsoon session on August 13. Delhi Police officials have denied permission to the march as suggested an alternative venue which was not agreeable to the 40 farmers’ organisations who have been protesting at the borders of the national capital since November 26 last year. Earlier this month, the farmers’ unions had announced that five representatives each from the 40 organisations protesting at the three borders of the national capital will march towards Parliament every day to demand the repeal of the farm laws. “We informed police that every day 200 farmers will go to Parliament from the Singhu border during the Monsoon session. It will be a peaceful protest and protesters will have identification badges also,” Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh national president Shiv Kumar Kakka said. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the umbrella organisation of 40 farmers’ unions, made it clear that the farmers had no plans to lay siege to Parliament or try to forcibly enter the building. It claimed that farmers from various states such as Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh were expected to join the protests for the duration of the Monsoon Session. Delegations of farmers have been meeting MPs from different states to hand over the voters’ whip to them. Meanwhile, Delhi Police has stepped up security at the metro rail network near Parliament. It has also asked the Delhi Metro to maintain extra vigil on its seven metro stations and close them if needed in view of the farmers' protest from July 22. The seven stations are Janpath, Lok Kalyan Marg, Patel Chowk, Rajiv Chowk, Central Secretariat, Mandi House and Udyog Bhawan. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farmers-set-for-fresh-showdown-with-centre-during-monsoon-session-1010157.html
18-07-2021||National Politics||BJP won't comment on Danish Siddiqui's death, inflation as they do not fit into 'false narrative': Chidambaram||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Sunday attacked the BJP and the NDA, saying they will not comment on Indian photojournalist Danish Siddiqui's tragic death and soaring inflation as the two matters do not fit into "their false narrative" of “we have security, development and welfare”. Siddiqui was killed in Afghanistan while covering fighting between Afghan troops and the Taliban. "Danish Siddique’s tragic death and soaring Inflation are two subjects on which the BJP-NDA will not comment. "Because both do not fit into the their false narrative of 'we have security, development and welfare'," Chidambaram tweeted. Danish Siddique’s tragic death and soaring Inflation are two subjects on which the BJP-NDA will not comment Because both do not fit into the their false narrative of “we have security, development and welfare” While Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur has condoled the death of Siddiqui, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla had also said at the UN Security Council that India strongly condemns the killing of Siddiqui in Afghanistan. However, many opposition leaders and BJP's critics alleged that the ruling dispensation did not strongly take note of Siddiqui's death and his contribution. Chidambaram also hit out at the government over rising inflation. "According to the National Statistics Office’s press release dated July 12, 2021, India’s Consumer Price Inflation has breached the upper limit of the range determined by the government and the RBI," he said. The range is 4 plus/minus 2 percent, but the CPI is 6.23 percent, Chidambaram pointed out. "Urban CPI has spurted from 5.91 percent in May to 6.37 percent in June. Core inflation has moved up in a month from 5.5 percent to 5.8 percent," he said. "Food inflation is at 5.58 percent. Pulses inflation is at 10.01 percent. Fruits inflation is at 11.82 percent. "Transport inflation is at 11.56 percent. Fuel & Light inflation is at 12.68 percent. And Oils and Fats inflation is at 34.78 percent," Chidambaram said in a series of tweets and tagged BJP chief J P Nadda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-wont-comment-on-danish-siddiquis-death-inflation-as-they-do-not-fit-into-false-narrative-chidambaram-1010160.html
18-07-2021||National Politics||Accept decision to appoint Navjot Sidhu as new state Congress president: Ashwani Kumar||Senior Congress leader and former law minister Ashwani Kumar on Sunday urged party leaders in Punjab to gracefully accept decision of the Congress high command to appoint Navjot Singh Sidhu as the new state party president and stressed on maintaining unity while fighting the upcoming assembly polls. The former Rajya Sabha member from Punjab said the Congress leadership's decision should now be accepted by all in the interest of party unity. "This is a time to be united. There are no victors or losers. Reconciliation is the way forward. All Congress persons will, hopefully, have a role to play in fighting an ideological battle," he said in a statement. His remarks come amid factionalism in the Punjab unit and a series of meetings by various factions ahead of the party's revamp. The chief minister and the incoming PPCC chief will need to pull together, and for this purpose magnanimity is expected on both sides, Kumar said. "It is necessary to ensure that no one feels diminished. Sometimes, and in a complex political situation, perfect solutions are impossible. We know that in politics a person is as important as the purpose one serves," he said. "The voice of the silent majority that defines the conscience of the party is in favour of unity and should be heeded," the former law minister also said. Sidhu emerged as the frontrunner for the post of PPCC chief but the chief minister was opposed to the move and a flurry of political activity was on to prevent him from becoming the new party chief, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/accept-decision-to-appoint-navjot-sidhu-as-new-state-congress-president-ashwani-kumar-1010176.html
18-07-2021||National Politics||Derek O'Brien claims PM Modi attended all-party meet for less than 10 mins, Pralhad Joshi hits back||TMC MP Derek O'Brien took a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying he was present in the all-party meeting held on Sunday for less than 10 minutes, reacting to which Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said that it was Modi who pioneered attending the meet as PM since 2014. Modi in a Twitter post said that he attended the all-party meeting. "Took part in the all-party meeting before the start of Parliament's Monsoon Session. We look forward to a productive session where all issues can be debated as well as discussed in a constructive manner," the PM said. At the meeting attended by 33 parties, the prime minister said suggestions from public representatives, especially from the opposition, were valuable as they made the discussion rich. The meeting was held a day ahead of the Monsoon Session of Parliament and was attended by floor leaders of various political parties. Besides Modi, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Union minister and Leader of House in Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Joshi were present at the meeting. "Prime Minister, Sir. True. You did TAKE PART. The Parliament meeting lasted for 2 hours and 40 minutes. We had the pleasure of your company for 9 minutes. You listened for 3 minutes. Allowed the photographers/video cams in for 2 minutes. And spoke to us for 4 minutes," tweeted O' Brien. Prime Minister, Sir. True. You did TAKE PART. We had the pleasure of your company for 9 minutes. You listened for 3 minutes. Allowed the photographers/video cams in for 2 minutes. After the meeting, the TMC RS MP had earlier tweeted about the short presence of the PM. "Today's all-party meet before #Parliament session. 11am-1.28 pm: Leaders of Oppn parties speak. Urge GOI not to mock Parliament & discuss issues. 1.29 pm: HE enters. 1.30-1.31 pm: Photo Op. 1.32-1.34 pm: Last Oppn leader speaks. 1.35-1.39 pm: HE speaks. 1.40: Bye (HE was there for 9mins)." In response to O'Brien's tweet, Joshi claimed that it was clear the TMC MP had a problem with Modi chairing the all-party meeting. "Mr. O'Brien should answer whether any PM attended this meeting before 2014? It is Modi ji who has pioneered attendance as PM since 2014," the parliamentary affairs minister tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/derek-obrien-claims-pm-modi-attended-all-party-meet-for-less-than-10-mins-pralhad-joshi-hits-back-1010185.html
18-07-2021||North and Central||Kejriwal, BJP leaders spar over giving Bharat Ratna to late environmentalist Sunderlal Bahaguna||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's demand for giving Bharat Ratna to late environmentalist Sunderlal Bahuguna led to a war of words between him and some BJP leaders on Saturday. Kejriwal hit out at the BJP for allegedly using "demeaning language" for Bahuguna, after a saffron party's spokesperson took a jibe at the senior AAP leader for demanding Bharat Ratna for the Chipko movement leader. Earlier on Saturday, Kejriwal said he has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to bestow Bharat Ratna on Bahuguna as the country celebrates its 75th anniversary year of independence. Responding to that, BJP spokesperson Naveen Kumar Jindal said, "Delhi's  @ArvindKejriwal has mistook 'Bharat Ratna' as a packet of Rewari and distributes it wherever he goes". Reacting to the tweet, Kejriwal said the BJP can abuse him but should not say such demeaning things for Bahuguna "BJP can hurl all abuses they want at me, but it is not right to say such a demeaning thing in the context of Sunderlal Bahuguna ji," he said in a tweet in Hindi. Responding to this, BJP leader Parvesh Singh asked Kejriwal to not do politics on "Bharat Ratna". "Who will make his tongue dirty by abusing you?  Second thing - Those who are talking about giving Bharat Ratna honor only because of Uttarakhand elections, should at leasr put "Shri" in front of their names. Third thing - no one has said anything demeaning and only said that do not do politics on "Bharat Ratna" and give water in Delhi," Singh tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kejriwal-bjp-leaders-spar-over-giving-bharat-ratna-to-late-environmentalist-sunderlal-bahaguna-1009928.html
18-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi Police bust fake 'Tata Salt' factory; arrest one||With the arrest of its 33-year-old owner, police have busted a factory involved in the bulk production of duplicate "Tata salt" in outer Delhi's Barwala, officials said on Saturday. Accused Mahesh alias Tony, a resident of Barwala, used the brand name of "Tata" because of its reliability and as the company's salt is among the most-selling items, they added. Police seized 2,640 kg of duplicate Tata salt and it is estimated that the accused has sold more than 10,000 kg of the fake product in the last year. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer-North) Rajiv Ranjan Singh said, "On Friday, our team raided the factory in Barwala, from where a huge quantity of duplicate Tata salt, besides fake packaging material, electric weighing machines, and electric sealing, packing and sewing machines were seized." During the raid, the police found around 2,000 packets of salt with "Tata salt" written on them, nine plastic bags with loose salt and around 915 printed fake packets. During interrogation, the accused told the police that at the office of a property dealer, he came in contact with one "Masterji", who was in the business of packed food items and who gave him the idea of starting his own business of duplicate salt, the DCP said. A year ago, the accused started his factory on a rented premises in Barwala, where he used to pack low-quality salt in one-kg packets and sell it, he added. "The accused revealed that he used to purchase the duplicate packaging material of Tata salt from his source in Delhi's Naya Bazar at the rate of Rs 2 per pack of one kg," the officer said. The police are now looking for the other absconding associates of the accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-bust-fake-tata-salt-factory-arrest-one-1009938.html
18-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi government doing best to provide water to all: Arvind Kejriwal||As water production by the Delhi Jal Board rose to an "all time high" of 955 million gallon per day on Sunday, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said his government is doing its best to provide water to all in the city. Several parts of the city have been facing water crisis in the past weeks with the opposition BJP and Congress slamming the AAP government and staging protests including at the chief minister's residence. "Govt is doing its best to provide water to all. Our engineers are working 24x7 against all odds," Kejriwal tweeted. AAP MLA and Delhi Jal Board (DJB) vice chairman Raghav Chadha said water production has increased. "I'm pleased to inform that today Delhi's water production by @DelhiJalBoard is at an all time high of 955 MGD against the usual 910 MGD. Due to sufficient availability of raw water in River Yamuna as well engineering solutions, we have managed to push our optimum levels" Chadha said in a tweet. He said on Friday that 16000 Cusec water was released by Haryana three days ago, that had reached Delhi and the water treatment plants in the capital were operating at optimum levels. Water levels of the Yamuna at the Wazirabad Barrage had hit the lowest mark in 56 years on Monday, with Haryana withholding Delhi's share of water, he had said earlier.  The DJB had on last Sunday moved the Supreme Court, seeking directions to Haryana to release the capital's share of water. The utility supplies 935 MGD of water to city residents against the demand of 1,150 MGD.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-government-doing-best-to-provide-water-to-all-arvind-kejriwal-1009995.html
18-07-2021||North and Central||Portable theatres become Covid-19 vaccination centres in Delhi||From entertaining hundreds as a travelling theatre to re-inventing itself as a coronavirus facility amid the intense second wave, the portable cinema hall has now been transformed into vaccination centre for inoculating people against the infection. The travelling theatre was established to take cinema to rural and interior parts of the country in 2015 and has since showcased different films. Even though the cinema business was paralysed by the pandemic, these inflatable theatres on wheels resumed with all Covid-19 protocols. The last film screened in these theatres was “Kaagaz” that was taken to the interiors of Uttar Pradesh this year, but as the pandemic situation worsened in the country, it was decided to convert these 150-seater theatres to Covid facilities. The portable cinema company, Picturetime Digiplex, had converted its portable theatres to coronavirus field facilities in Maharashtra, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Assam and Uttar Pradesh during the second wave of coronavirus. Since then over 5,000 Covid-19 patients have been treated at the facility, said Sushil Chaudhary, founder and CEO of Picturetime Digiplex. And now, as the vaccination drive picked up in the country, one of these mobile theatres in Delhi has been converted to a vaccination centre, he said. Established in collaboration with Apollo hospitals, the vaccination centre since its operation on July 13 has inoculated 400 people till now, he added. "While our field hospitals with oxygen bed facility continue to be put to good use in various states of the country, we thought why not transform our medical unit at Apollo Delhi into a full-fledged vaccination centre. I believe such is the power of portability and these rapid deployed medical enclosures that it could change its form and purpose as per the need of the hour. We are hoping to set up more of such vaccination centres as per requirement,” said Chaudhary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/portable-theatres-become-covid-19-vaccination-centres-in-delhi-1010018.html
18-07-2021||North and Central||Delimitation Commission preparing draft report after J&K visit||Nearly a fortnight after its maiden visit to Jammu and Kashmir, the Delimitation Commission has started working on a draft report on the proposed new shape of assembly constituencies that will be shared with its associate members before being put in the public domain, officials said on Sunday. The commission headed by retired Supreme Court judge Ranjana Desai had visited the union territory from July 6 to 9. The commission also comprises Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra as an ex-officio member and the Jammu and Kashmir electoral officer. The officials said the commission will compile the data received from deputy commissioners and nearly 290 delegations comprising 800 representatives of political parties and people from other walks of life whom its members met during their visit. A draft report will be prepared using these inputs and it will be shared with the associate members, which include three Lok Sabha members from the National Conference -- Farooq Abdullah, Hasnain Masoodi and Akbar Lone -- and the BJP's Jitendra Singh and Jugal Kishore Sharma. The National Conference had boycotted the first meeting of the commission. The officials said that after sharing the draft report, the Delimitation Commission will hold a meeting with the associate members to obtain their views before putting out the final draft for seeking public comments and challenges on redrawing of the boundaries. They said the commission is also looking at some districts where the jurisdictional boundaries can be realigned as the electoral constituency comprises segments from two districts. The delimitation exercise has attained an urgency amid indications that the Centre is keen to hold early assembly elections in Jammu and Kashmir. There is speculation that the polls could be held in the next six to nine months. The commission has time till March 6 next year to redraw the boundaries and create new constituencies. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had last month held a meeting with leaders of mainstream political parties from Jammu and Kashmir where he stressed that the delimitation exercise has to happen quickly so that polls can be held in the UT. Once the delimitation exercise is completed, the number of assembly seats in Jammu and Kashmir will go up from 83 to 90. Twenty-four seats of the assembly continue to remain vacant as they fall under Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delimitation-commission-preparing-draft-report-after-jk-visit-1010028.html
18-07-2021||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir govt allows phased re-opening of colleges, universities after July 31||Jammu and Kashmir government on Sunday announced reopening of higher educational institutions and skill development centers in phased manner after July 31, subject to the vaccination status of the students and staff. In an order by J&K Chief Secretary, educational institutions have been also permitted to seek personal attendance of “limited vaccinated staff for administrative purposes.” The order was issued after a detailed review of the current Covid-19 situation in the Union Territory by the CS with other top government officials on July 16. The higher educational institutions along with schools in J&K were closed in April after second wave of Covid-19 pandemic hit the UT. “It was observed that as compared to the previous weeks, while significant improvement has been made by some districts in respect of the (various) parameters, there is need for further improvement in interest of public health in all districts,” the order reads. While previous orders on Covid-19 containment have been ordered to remain in force till further directions, deputy commissioners have been authorised to allow shops to open at 6 00 am instead of 7.00 am to avoid rush ahead of Eid on 19 and 20 of July as per their assessment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-govt-allows-phased-re-opening-of-colleges-universities-after-july-31-1010029.html
18-07-2021||North and Central||PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar to meet MLAs on July 19||Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Sunil Jakhar will hold a meeting of party legislators and district unit presidents on Monday, ahead of the likely revamp of the state unit. In a statement here on Sunday, Jakhar said in the meeting, all the MLAs and district presidents would pass a resolution stating that whatever decision the party high command takes regarding Punjab, would be acceptable to the entire state unit. This resolution will then be sent to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ppcc-chief-sunil-jakhar-to-meet-mlas-on-july-19-1010033.html
18-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi civic bodies gear up for 3rd Covid wave; medical infra being augmented||From strengthening healthcare infrastructure to mass media campaigns to raise awareness on Covid-appropriate behaviour and vaccination, civic bodies in Delhi are making preparations in anticipation of the third wave of the coronavirus pandemic. Officials of all three municipal corporations said the first and second waves had stretched the system to its limits, from hospitals to crematoriums, and so efforts are being made to ensure the scenario does not repeat. "We are focusing on the vaccination drive and 5.75 lakh people have been vaccinated at our centres till date. We pray that the situation does not worsen again, but we are prepared for the worst," South Delhi Mayor Mukesh Suryan told PTI. He said vaccination is a major shield to protect people from the third wave, but "soon we will run mass media campaigns, including on radio to bring awareness about Covid safety norms, besides vaccination". "Our auto-tippers (garbage-carrying mini-trucks) are already spreading the message on vaccination through public address systems installed on the vehicles. Pamphlets will also be distributed to generate more awareness in market places and office areas on the importance of wearing masks and social distancing," the South Delhi mayor said. Soon, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) will also come up with a thematic radio jingle, which would be played on FM stations to raise awareness, he added. In April-May, Delhi was hit by a brutal second wave of the pandemic, which claimed a number of lives every day, and oxygen supply shortage was reported at various hospitals, adding to woes of people. Both daily cases and single-day death count had started spiralling up from April 19, with over 28,000 cases and 277 deaths recorded on April 20; rising to 306 fatalities on April 22. On May 3, the city registered a record 448 deaths, according to official data. Hospitals saw family members scrambling for beds, while morgues and crematoriums were pushed to their limits due to high number of fatalities. Visuals of mass cremation taking place in east Delhi's Seemapuri were heart-wrenching. Despite a fall in daily cases in the last several days, medical experts have cautioned that the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic was imminent. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had asserted that his government was preparing on a "war-footing" to combat it. Civic bodies have also developed plans to deal with a third wave, if the situation arises. East Delhi Mayor Shyam Sunder Aggarwal said the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) has planned to increase the number of beds at its Swami Dayanand Hospital, which is used as a Covid facility. "Since third wave is likely to hit children more, so we are trying to better equip the paediatric department with ventilators and other medical equipment. Besides, we have planned to reserve more platforms at our crematoriums, in case the situation deteriorates," he said. Major crematoriums in east Delhi are at Seemapuri, Karkardooma and Ghazipur. "During the second wave, we had already augmented the number of platforms at these sites to 164 in total from 35 earlier. Besides, we have four CNG-based furnaces, and plan is to add four more, so that more bodies can be cremated in a day," Aggarwal told PTI. In south Delhi, the major cremation sites are at Punjabi Bagh, Dwarka, Rajghat and Tilak Nagar. "We also plan to create temporary cremation sites so that extra load if any, can be diverted, and non-Covid death cases can be accommodated, while the big sites, like at Punjabi Bagh can be fully dedicated for Covid funerals," South Delhi mayor Suryan said. North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC) too is preparing to meet the impending challenge. North Delhi Mayor Raja Iqbal Singh has said that saving Delhi from the anticipated third wave of the Covid-19, would be among his priorities, besides, sanitation, education and health. All three mayors were elected unopposed mid-June, taking over reins from their predecessors, who led the civic teams during the second wave of the pandemic. Former mayor Jai Prakash, days before the mayoral election in June, had said that the north corporation has begun work on augmenting medical infrastructure at its various health facilities and a new ward equipped with 10 ventilators, has been inaugurated at the Hindu Rao Hospital, the largest civic hospital in Delhi. Prakash had then said that six such wards would be made at the Hindu Rao Hospital where all facilities, including ventilators will be available. The ex-mayor had said that 166 ventilator beds are available at NDMC hospitals, out of which 20 are old ventilators and 146 are new ones. Work of setting up an oxygen plant would be completed in about two months, he had said. Prakash on May 31 had said that a separate 100-bed coronavirus facility, especially for children was coming up at the Mrs Girdhar Lal Maternity Hospital. Over 14 lakh cases and more than 25,000 deaths have been reported in the national capital till date due to Covid, according to official data. With close gathering of shoppers in markets and restaurants resuming business amid phased unlock in the national capital, doctors have cautioned that Delhi could face a "worse than second wave situation" of Covid-19 if people do not adhere to safety norms or if they lower their guards.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-civic-bodies-gear-up-for-3rd-covid-wave-medical-infra-being-augmented-1010082.html
18-07-2021||North and Central||Haryana extends lockdown till July 26, earlier relaxations to continue||The Haryana government on Sunday extended the coronavirus lockdown in the state by another week, till July 26, while allowing restaurants, bars and clubs to open for one more hour, up to 11 pm. According to the an order issued by Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan, "The Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana is extended for another week, that is from July 19 (5 am onwards) to July 26 (till 5 am) in the state of Haryana." Restaurants and bars including in hotels and malls are allowed to open from 10 am to 11 pm now as against from 10 am to 10 pm with 50 per cent seating capacity, according to the order issued by the chief secretary in exercise of powers under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Home delivery from hotels, restaurants and fast food joints is permitted up to 11 pm. Club houses, restaurants and bars of the golf courses are allowed to open with 50 per cent seating capacity from 10 am to 11 pm, the order said. Gyms are allowed to open from 6 am to 9 pm with 50 per cent capacity, it said. Norms related to social distancing, sanitization of premises and other Covid-19 appropriate behavioural norms will have to be strictly followed, the order read. Night curfew will be imposed on all days of the week in the state from 11 pm to 5 am. Earlier, the timings were from 10 pm to 5 am. Meanwhile, the lockdown relaxations with respect to opening of shops, malls, restaurants, religious places, corporate offices, will continue as currently in place. Other relaxations regarding gatherings in weddings, funerals/cremations, open spaces will also continue. "Now, after duly considering the fact that although the Covid positivity rate and the number of new Covid cases have declined, so as to continue the preventive and precautionary measures to contain the Covid pandemic… the  'Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana' is extended for another week..," the order said. The state government has termed the lockdown "Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana (Epidemic Alert-Safe Haryana)". The number of daily Covid-19 cases have now come down to under 50 while the coronavirus-related fatalities have also registered a sharp fall in the state.          The lockdown, imposed by the Haryana government on May 3, has now been extended for the eleventh time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-extends-lockdown-till-july-26-earlier-relaxations-to-continue-1010084.html
18-07-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh minister says those seeking selfies with her must pay Rs 100 for BJP work||Madhya Pradesh minister Usha Thakur has said those wanting to click selfies with her must pay Rs 100 as it is a "time-consuming process" which leads to delays in her programmes and this amount will be deposited in the BJP's coffers for party work. Speaking to reporters on Saturday in Khandwa, some 250 kilometres from here, the state minister for culture also asserted she would accept books instead of bouquets as only the "unblemished" Lord Vishnu can be offered flowers since Goddess Laxmi resides in them. "A lot of time gets wasted in clicking selfies, and often we get late by hours for our programmes. From the (party) organizational point of view, we thought any person clicking a selfie (with her) should deposit Rs 100 in the treasury of the BJP's local mandal unit," she said. "As far as welcoming people with flowers is concerned, we all know Goddess Laxmi resides in them. So none other than Lord Vishnu, who is unblemished, can accept flowers. So, I don't accept flowers. Moreover, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also said one should offer books instead of flower bouquets," the minister further said. Incidentally, in 2015, Thakur's cabinet colleague Kunwar Vijay Shah had also proposed that those seeking selfies with him must donate Rs 10 for a cause. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-minister-says-those-seeking-selfies-with-her-must-pay-rs-100-for-bjp-work-1010093.html
18-07-2021||North and Central||Kawad Yatra cancelled in Delhi due to Covid-19||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Sunday prohibited the annual Kawad Yatra in the city to prevent the spread of Covid-19. "No celebrations, processions, gatherings, etc. shall be allowed during forthcoming Kawad Yatra-2021 starting from July 25 in NCT of Delhi," stated an order issued by the DDMA. The DDMA order came a day after the yatra was cancelled in Uttar Pradesh. The yatra usually goes on till the first week of August and sees thousands of Shiva devotees, called 'kanwariyas', travelling mostly on foot from neighbouring states, including Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi, to collect water from the Ganges in Haridwar in Uttarakhand. Earlier this week, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said that governments should take every step to prevent the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kawad-yatra-cancelled-in-delhi-due-to-covid-19-1010116.html
18-07-2021||North and Central||10 Punjab MLAs issue statement in support of Amarinder||Ahead of a likely revamp of the Congress unit in Punjab, 10 MLAs on Sunday issued a joint statement in support of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and urged the party high command not to let him down. Seven Congress legislators and three AAP MLAs who recently switched over to the ruling party also said Navjot Singh Sidhu was a celebrity and was no doubt an asset to the party but condemning and criticising his own party and government in public has only created a “rift in the cadres and weakened it.” Singh and Sidhu have been at loggerheads over various issues. The statement came amid reports that Navjot Singh Sidhu is likely to be appointed as the state Congress chief. The joint statement was issued by Congress leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira on behalf of the 10 legislators. Among the seven Congress legislators are Kuldeep Singh Vaid, Fatehjang Bajwa and Harminder Singh Gill. Besides Khaira, two rebel AAP legislators who issued the statement are Jagdev Singh Kamalu and Pirmal Singh Khalsa. Three of them had switched over to the Congress in the month of June. In the statement, the legislators urged the party high command not to "let down" Amarinder Singh, saying because of his unrelenting efforts, the party stands well entrenched in Punjab. They said there was no doubt that the appointment of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief was the prerogative of the party high command but at the same time “washing dirty linen” in public has only decreased the party graph during the last couple of months. They said that Singh commanded immense respect across different sections of the society in the state, particularly the farmers for whom he even endangered his chair as CM while passing the 2004 Termination of Waters Agreement Act. Singh stood as a tall leader amongst the Sikhs because of his principled stand during testing times, they said in the statement. They said Singh had to also face “extreme vendetta politics” at the hands of the Badal family, for filing corruption and disproportionate assets cases against them in his first tenure as chief minister. The MLAs said since merely six months were left for the elections, pulling the party into the different directions will only “harm” its prospects in the 2022 polls. They also supported the decision of Singh not to meet Sidhu until he publicly tenders an apology for his “derogatory” tweets against him. They said Sidhu should tender a public apology, so that the party and government can function in tandem. They said they hoped the party high command would take cognizance of their suggestions and would definitely keep in mind the status, contribution and background of Amarinder Singh while making vital decisions for the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/10-punjab-mlas-issue-statement-in-support-of-amarinder-1010121.html
18-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi Covid vaccine stock to last for less than a day||Delhi had less than a day's stock of coronavirus vaccine doses left on Sunday morning, according to the vaccination bulletin issued by the city government. The national capital received 60,000 doses of Covishield on Saturday, taking the total number of doses to 72,240, the bulletin said. The number of Covaxin doses available in the national capital stands at 2,05,630. Only 20 per cent of Covaxin doses are to be used for first dose, since its stocks are limited and have irregular delivery cycles. As many as 93,55,271 vaccine doses have been administered in the national capital till date, including 22,15,357 second doses, according to data on the CoWIN portal. Over 45.31 lakh people in the 18-44 age group have been administered Covid vaccine in the national capital till date and over 29.89 lakh have been inoculated in the 45-60 age group. Among those aged above 60, more than 18.34 lakh people have received at least one vaccine dose. As many as 53,86,412 males have been inoculated while 39,66,823 females have received at least one dose of the vaccine. The government vaccination centres are shut on Sunday. Only 10,767 vaccine doses were administered on Sunday at 75 centres, including one government centre and rest were at private centres, according to the portal. A total of 71,786 vaccine doses were administered on Saturday, including 23,449 second doses, the bulletin stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-covid-vaccine-stock-to-last-for-less-than-a-day-1010136.html
18-07-2021||North and Central||Navjot Singh Sidhu appointed Punjab Congress chief||Ending week-long intense speculation, Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Sunday named Navjot Singh Sidhu as the state president of Punjab Congress, ignoring the pulls and pressures from the camp of Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh. The party's central leadership also appointed four Working Presidents Sangat Singh Gilzian, Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Pawan Goel and Kuljit Singh Nagra, in a bid to placate different communities in the state. Appointing Sidhu as Punjab PCC Chief "with immediate effect", the party put on record its appreciation for the contributions of the outgoing PCC chief Sunil Jakhar. Nagra was made Working President after being relieved from his present responsibility as AICC in-charge of Sikkim, Nagaland and Tripura.     The much-anticipated decision to appoint Sidhu as Punjab Congress chief came on a day of hectic meetings from both camps led by Captain and Sidhu in Chandigarh and Delhi. Apparently realising that it was running late for starting a campaign in the poll-bound state and that delaying a decision further could only lead to more power plays, the central leadership acted swiftly to announce the decision. PCC chief was a promise made to Sidhu by Rahul Gandhi in the past but owing to stiff opposition from the CM's camp, the central leadership delayed an announcement, trying to build consensus. A three-member team of the AICC headed by senior leader Mallikarjun Kharge had submitted a report to Sonia Gandhi on the Punjab infighting and possible options after holding discussions for days with both leaders and their supporters. AICC general secretary for Punjab Harish Rawat had also separately met both leaders to work out a compromise formula. He had rushed to Punjab even on Saturday to pacify the Chief Minister, who was angry over his remarks that suggested Sidhu could be made PCC chief.  However, a consensus could not be made or at least that is what came from different meetings of the rival camps. By appointing Sidhu, the party high command has also asserted its authority, which appeared weakening after two consecutive losses to the Congress in last two general elections and recently there have been incidents when the names for PCC chiefs finalised by the AICC, were booted down by state leaders. Sidhu managed to clinch the PCC chief post even as the Chief Minister got his previous detractor Bajwa on board to neutralise the former. Both Bajwa and Sidhu are Jat Sikhs like the Chief Minister. While the CM's Media Advisor tweeted, "Punjab Speaker Rana K P Singh, Rajya Sabha MP and former Punjab Congress president Partap Singh Bajwa and cabinet minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi called on Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh at his residence", Congress leader Manish Tewari said, "Partap, who I have known since 1983, and Captain Sahib would make a good team for the times ahead". He also hailed Bajwa as an "old dyed in the wool Congressman". The barb was not lost as Sidhu had joined Congress only in 2017 after a three-year stint in BJP since 2014. The current speculation was Sidhu could go to AAP if not given a major role in the party. The Chief Minister is learnt to have insisted on Sidhu tendering any apology for attacks made against him in the past before the party high command names him as state unit chief.  However, nothing of this sort happened.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/navjot-singh-sidhu-appointed-punjab-congress-chief-1010156.html
18-07-2021||North and Central||Search operation turns into encounter in J&K's Shopian district||An encounter broke out between security forces and militants in Jammu and Kashmir's Shopian district on Sunday, police said here. The security forces had launched a cordon-and-search operation in the Check Sadiq Khan area of the south Kashmir district, following information about the presence of militants there, a police official said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter after the militants opened fire towards the security forces' positions. The security forces retaliated, triggering a gunfight that was going on when the last reports came in, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/search-operation-turns-into-encounter-in-jks-shopian-district-1010175.html
18-07-2021||Opinion||'Indian Matchmaking' and some uncomfortable truths||Smriti Mundhra’s Indian Matchmaking, the Netflix series lambasted for its casteist and sexist content, is now a contender for this year’s Emmy Awards meant to honour the best on US primetime television. It has been nominated in the ‘Outstanding Unstructured Reality Program’ category. The announcement has generated a mix of disappointment and anger among viewers of the series who believe that it is undeserving because it celebrates bigotry. Does Indian Matchmaking elicit such strong reactions because it holds up a mirror to our society? Why would one expect a reality show to not focus on reality? Is it easier to attach the ‘problematic’ tag to directors, producers and writers rather than our own families and friend circles? I suspect that the issue is not so much with the series itself but with our unwillingness to confront in our real lives what we are enthusiastic to critique on screen. The conclusion that this series conflates Indian identity with Hindu identity is easy to draw from the profiles of the young singles who appear in the first season. They are eager to find matches with professional help from the seasoned Mumbai-based matchmaker Sima Tiparia. At the very outset, she mentions, “In India, we have to see the caste, we have to see the height, we have to see the age.” Caste is highlighted as a component of compatibility. Sima acknowledges that “marriage is a very big fat industry” and that “families have their reputations and many millions of dollars at stake.” Clearly, this series is about the lives of people who are financially well off. Some of them are Indians living in India, and others are people of Indian heritage living in the US. They can afford to hire a matchmaker who flies down to meet them and find out how fair, tall, outgoing, funny the match must be. The series does not mention the caste or clan of each participant, but markers such as inheritance, education, capacity to spend on foreign vacations, family history, and the interiors of homes, are used to convey that the participants are from affluent backgrounds. They are looking for partners who can match their lifestyle and standard of living. While Sima is often made out to be the villain by critics of the series, I think that she is able to supply only because there is a demand. Her business model is based on allaying the anxieties of her clients. She knows how to build relationships, earn the trust of people, and make them believe that there is someone out there for them and that person can be found. She also tells them that some amount of adjustment and compromise is inevitable. The entertainment quotient of Indian Matchmaking is difficult to deny. It is hilarious because of some of the things people say. Whether these are lightly scripted, completely spontaneous, or smartly edited is difficult to tell. My favourite person in the series is Aparna Shewakramani, a lawyer in Houston, Texas. She says, “Do we have to see our husbands all the time? Is it a thing that people have to do? Because I’d rather not, I think.” The critique of marriage as an institution is built into the series. Even those who resent the idea of being defined by their role as a wife or a husband, seem to long for a match. Why is marriage so appealing? Call it the human search for love or the terrifying fear of loneliness, Indian Matchmaking manages to touch a raw nerve. Marriage might represent being tied down, and giving up one’s freedom, but it also holds for many the hope of a safety net. Is this why parents looking for suitors want to find out about the caste of a prospective match? Do they imagine that caste endogamy will guarantee their son or daughter a lifetime of conjugal bliss? Can marrying into a family with similar customs and traditions provide an illusion of security in a world filled with uncertainty? I think that marital alliances are often social and economic arrangements. They do not necessarily begin with the promise of love. It appears that young people who do not care much about marrying within their own community might eventually end up marrying someone who meets their parents’ requirements. On the one hand, Aparna says, “I am a US citizen. I identify with American culture. For me, it is a lot easier to date people who have similar backgrounds and experiences.” On the other hand, she also says, “We are Sindhi, so I prefer North Indian.” Aparna’s mother, Jotika, tells Sima that all she wants is for her children to be happy. However, that is not true. She later reveals that when she and her children first came to New York, she beseeched them never to let her down. She said, “Don’t let me look bad in our society, in our community.” As an immigrant to the US, Jotika wants to belong. Aparna has travelled to 40 countries, but she still prefers to be with someone who is North Indian. Seeking the approval of parents is important for many young people living in India. Dating apps might give the impression that they have an endless variety of choices but most of these cannot translate into marital alliances. They do not want to alienate their parents, especially if they live under the same roof and depend on them for material resources. To fight for love can take up too much energy, and people often choose to suppress their desires, fall in line, and keep the peace. As Sima would say, some amount of compromise and adjustment is inevitable. How much one is willing to bend is the question. (The author is a Mumbai-based writer)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/indian-matchmaking-and-some-uncomfortable-truths-1009969.html
18-07-2021||Panorama||30 years after liberalisation, businessmen are afraid to talk, let alone try||Thirty years ago, this month, the then Prime Minister Narasimha Rao, who had retained the industry portfolio with himself, dismantled the Licence-Permit Raj, an entangled web of bureaucratic control created by the craze for centralised decision-making, which for long prevented India from realising its true economic potential. This very swift and efficient scissoring of the tangled web is often called liberalisation. Much was achieved with what was done. In 1991, India needed to borrow a $400 million loan by pledging gold, but now we have over $600 billion in reserves. India’s GDP has vaulted 10 times, from $270 billion to over $2.7 trillion, and per capita income is up seven times from $303 to above $2,000. GDP growth averaged 7% in the 25 years from 1992 to 2017, versus an average of 5% in the 10 years before 1992 (and 4% in the preceding 20). As a result, poverty declined. Between 2004-5 and 2011-12, the last year for which official data is available, about 140 million people were pulled above the poverty line. Manufacturing employment grew fastest in the world after China, increasing by 7 million or 14% between 2005/2019. Till 1991, all of India existed in perpetual want -- be it a phone, an LPG connection, a car or even a scooter. But now, these and much more are often taken for granted. But Narasimha Rao had then headed a minority government and the allies had had to be kept pleased. So, he had retained the scaffolding, the paraphernalia of the Licence Raj. This had not caused much concern as income growth indicators were doing well. However, the growth rates have dipped post-2016. Just before Covid, the ‘real’ rate of growth had slumped to 4% and, as inflation was then around 3%, the ‘nominal’ growth was about 7%. During Covid, the ‘real’ growth and the ‘nominal’ growth both slumped into the negative zone, while inflation has increased to over 6%. Growth revival is not happening despite policy intent. This growth collapse has not been witnessed elsewhere. Even Bangladesh has overtaken us on the per capita GDP parameter. A new reform drive is thus the need of the hour. But reform what, why and how? The best way to resolve such existentialist issues is to focus on all, and not on some selected, facts. We are experiencing a more complex reality today than that witnessed in 1990-91. Though growth rates are negative, our tax collection has increased, and stock markets are booming. Assets managed by mutual funds have crossed Rs 33 lakh crore. Corporate profitability, though still below the 4%-plus range witnessed prior to 2011/12, has improved to 2.69%, well above the pre-Covid levels of 2018 and 2019. Exports and balance of payments are doing well. The ‘new’ internet-focused economy is booming, and India is in the happy state of having 100-plus Unicorns (start-ups valued above $1 billion) with new Unicorns emerging every odd month. So, what exactly is going wrong? GDP is usually defined as ‘the sum of Consumption and Investment and Government expenditure plus Exports minus Imports (X-M).’ Currently, the government is firing on all cylinders and is investing massively in expanding roads, railways, renewable energy, etc. So, the G is hugely positive. Similarly, X-M is doing well, turning positive after quite a while. The problems faced are due to fall in the other two variables -- consumption and investment. Consumption has collapsed because of Covid-induced lockdowns. It is stopping people from going out. This is what is creating havoc in a services-oriented economy. It will revive when Covid goes away but till then, it will remain a challenge. The only reform possible here is to accelerate vaccination and to provide cash aid to those who are locked out of jobs. The reason for the collapse of private sector investment is more complex. It has happened despite an increase in profitability, a share market boom, a variety of tax inducements offered by the State, the production linked incentive (PLI) scheme and the lowest interest rate regimes ever seen post-Independence. Outstanding industrial credit, however, has fallen sharply these last few years, instead of rising. While no businessman is talking, people also ‘vote by feet’. Truth is, an aggressive deleveraging of debt is happening in businesses too scared of taking any risks whatsoever, lest they fail, be slandered or prosecuted by multiple authorities. Some 7,000-odd high net-worth individuals (HNIs) now migrate overseas every year. The engine of a capitalistic growth model elsewhere in the world is often called Schumpeter’s “gale of creative destruction” or the “process of industrial mutation that continuously revolutionises the economic structure from within, incessantly destroying the old one, incessantly creating a new one.” Risk-taking there is thus celebrated. A private individual, Richard Branson, could dare to fly to the edge of space. Here, a business failure is often criminalised. The growth engine has thus stalled. So, we are left with a Shakespearean dilemma of what needs to be reformed. Perhaps the starting point could be to dismantle/merge the multiple enforcement agencies created post-Independence to safeguard a shortages-oriented foreign exchange-starved economy. Have they not crossed the ‘use by’ date? We need to re-instil business confidence and boost demand to re-kindle the sense of euphoria.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/30-years-after-liberalisation-businessmen-are-afraid-to-talk-let-alone-try-1009899.html
18-07-2021||Panorama||Karma from the Caribbean?||India’s starkest social binary pertains to common people’s access to and treatment under the law. There are those who will be protected, like a former Aam Aadmi Party-turned BJP politician in Delhi seen on video inciting rioters in early 2020; or those outsiders in Jawaharlal Nehru University who went away scot-free after wreaking mayhem on campus. There are those who were or have been in prison on false charges for long, and there are those abroad with such wherewithal that they seem to toy with Indian law enforcement and diplomacy. There are those for whom a private jet will fly to the other end of the earth and return empty-handed, and there are those in India’s jails for whom even a sipper will be granted only after repeated pleas and agony. There will be no bail for the innocent, or even a trial, while law enforcers struggle to wriggle out alleged wrongdoers abroad. A comedy for the rich, the Indian criminal justice system is a tragedy for commoners, and that was the last straw for the sipper-seeking octogenarian who passed on two weeks ago. If the idea of India is plunging into the abyss, one wonders if the criminal justice system is the millstone around its neck ensuring it stays underwater. To my mind, the current Indian justice system is three-faced. Here’s a ragtag list to vivify that view. Two discrete sets of cases that hit the national consciousness recently — and one set over the years — say much about the rich India, the old India, and the young India, in relation to the law. Individually and collectively, each of them is a bellwether on discrete and yet interrelated phenomena, namely, the economic fraud litigations against those abroad, the still unsolved murders of Narendra Dabholkar, M M Kalburgi, Govind Pansare and Gauri Lankesh, or the cases against the unjustly incarcerated and gradually released Disha Ravi, Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal. The justice system has shown different behaviours with respect to rich India, old India, and young India. It has been ham-fisted with the first, malevolent with the second, and minatory with the third. While it appeared to browbeat India’s idealistic young, it took long to accede to some basic demands of the resilient old. Which is why, this writer took some perverse pleasure in the ways of the fugitive rich which made Indian law-enforcement run around in circles: Institutions that maltreated two categories of vulnerable people caught it from the powerful third. Recent reportage on someone’s resourcefulness in the West Indies made me ponder: How come one individual can bring Indian law-enforcement to its knees? To some degree, that person’s actions find their equal in our other runaways. As citizens, we must cease to underestimate the power of the rich, the intelligence of our alleged charlatans and their outsized clout, for they show the mirror to our pretend democracy. Even with power, money and extremely sensitive information that could probably implicate people in power, it must take spunk, nous, and brio to be several steps ahead of the law. On the other hand, there is old India’s treatment at the hands of the law. Pansare, Dabholkar, Kalburgi and Lankesh exemplified vintage Indian citizenship and constitutionalism. Since their murders in the beginning and the latter half of the 2010s, the law appears to have stuttered more than progressed. Why is justice taking so long? Are these cases bewilderingly complicated to take so many years? Why is the speed of the private jet in administering justice missing here? And to young India, the criminal justice system is abrasive because it can get away with impunity. Oddly, though, the events of the week before only made me think of things that had happened a little earlier. Like, the Qatar Airways plane that flew from India to Dominica with a stopover in Spain. (Why didn’t our national carrier fly? No ‘vocal for local’?) What must our investigators have thought and spoken to and fro on the plane? Did they really expect to catch one person? With the young and old, Indian law-enforcement may have bit the final straw. But to my mind, it has perhaps got some karma earlier from the Caribbean.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/karma-from-the-caribbean-1009900.html
18-07-2021||Panorama||Hiding in the name of national security||Barely two months ago, the central government trimmed the list of security and intelligence organisations partially excluded from the RTI Act, from 26 to 25. Now, the newly created Department of Military Affairs is seeking to add the Army, Navy and the Air Force to this list, to protect national security better. Citing anonymous officials, the media has reported on the hushed consultations taking place within government. The details of the proposal to further weaken this citizen-empowering law remain out of public sight. The credit for expanding the exclusion list from the original 18 to 24, by adding organisations like the CBI, NIA and NATGRID goes to the UPA, which initially championed the RTI. Now, these agencies are in the news often, as willing accomplices in the ruling dispensation’s attempts to intimidate political opponents and curb citizens’ voices of dissent. The gross abuse of fundamental rights resulting from such operations belies the very oath their functionaries took to preserve and protect the law of the land. In all fairness, it must be acknowledged, in 2007, the UPA discussed and discarded a similar proposal to insulate the three defence forces from the RTI Act. The exemptions listed in Section 8 of the law were found adequate for protecting all legitimate public interests that require safeguarding — the foremost being the sovereignty, territorial integrity and the defence interests of the country. Data published by the Central Information Commission (CIC) shows that RTI applications processed by the defence ministry in 2019-20 fell by more than 16% from the previous year’s tally. The three defence forces accounted for just over a third of the nearly 71,000 RTIs the ministry received in 2019-20. Less than 2% of the rejected RTIs were escalated to the CIC through appeals. Many of these are about recruitment, promotions, transfers, disciplinary proceedings and other service-related matters, filed by serving or retired personnel. The exemptions designed to protect national security and defence interests were invoked in only 0.22% of the RTIs processed during this period. In 2016, while entertaining a similar exclusion request from the Strategic Forces Command (SFC), the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT), the nodal agency for implementing the RTI Act, identified three eligibility tests that must be satisfied. These are: a) the number of RTIs in which information was disclosed or denied; b) samples of RTIs having a bearing on national security and/or intelligence gathering; and c) orders passed by the CIC or courts which might be hampering the agency’s functioning. Official records disclosed under the RTI Act relating to SFC’s application show that it was being troubled by a grand total of 10 RTIs received since inception. Four had already been rejected and six were under process when the SFC moved DoPT. Neither the CIC nor the courts had passed any order requiring the disclosure of information that would obstruct SFC’s work. Nevertheless, the proposal was mooted by the then defence minister, discussed and recommended by a committee of secretaries and approved by the Prime Minister. Until this decision was officially notified I, for one, was not even aware that the SFC, which is in charge of our nuclear arsenal, existed. To the best of my knowledge, neither the CIC nor the courts have directed disclosure of any sensitive information held by the military till date. If anything, they have always deferred to the military’s judgement in withholding access to national security-related information. Unfortunately, both the UPA and the NDA have always curbed the scope of the people’s right to know by tinkering with the RTI Act negatively. The promise of ‘maximum governance’ can be achieved if there is greater transparency and accountability in government. An important step in this direction will be to organise a meaningful public consultation on the current exclusion proposal, instead of treating it as a sarkari secret. Meanwhile, the Department of Military Affairs, which does not have a website yet, could work with the defence ministry to give wide publicity to those parts of the Rafale fighter aircraft purchase deal that are fit to be disclosed under the RTI Act, before the investigations launched in France end up throwing egg on India’s face.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/hiding-in-the-name-of-national-security-1009901.html
18-07-2021||Panorama||There’s a certain charm in staying unchanged in a fast-changing world||It was a narrow corridor, right between the restaurant’s kitchen and the dining hall where crisp golden-hued, ghee-laden masala dosas and chutney has been served to generations of Bengalureans. In that corridor where barely two people could stand side by side, stood this old man clad in a white panche folded at his knees, bent over a large wet grinder that roared non-stop with the white dosa batter. His left hand held the wall as if to balance himself – and then, there was me, holding the sound recorder, next to him. I used to host a radio show back in those days, and my producer and I were there as part of a massive ‘Bangalore’s best dosa’ hunt that the radio station had launched to unravel more of this national favourite breakfast. This gentleman’s duty in the hotel for 19 years had been to soak rice and dals in some secret proportion for the dosa batter and grind them to the same consistency that would turn out the same golden-hued dosa with the same texture day after day. Soak, grind, supervise, repeat -- was all the man had done for 19 years, every morning 4.30 onwards, bent over in that same corridor. Back on my show, I spoke about him to my listeners, many of whom were software engineers and IT professionals on whom their HR departments spent a bomb to ‘motivate’ them to do better each day — costly holidays and incentives in the hope that they would not quit the organisation for higher pay or better perks in another. What is the secret to keeping at something for years? How do you bring dedication into the daily grind? Where ‘innovation’ is worshipped, is there merit in staying unchanged? I, for one, feel that we as a generation do not realise the greatness of ‘sameness’. Nor do we understand or practise ‘devotion’ to a craft, the kind that we read of the iconic actor Dilip Kumar, who actually walked around in iron shackles practising to play the wronged prince in Mughal-e-Azam, or worked on his Bhojpuri to perfect it for his role as a village simpleton in another. My father joined, worked at, and retired from the same PSU, a job that took us all over India as kids; I changed three jobs within a decade, three more within the next. A popular homeopath in Bengaluru’s Malleswaram had the same small one-room clinic in white paint and his brown table, sitting at which he used to see dozens of patients who would sit on a brown bench outside, day after day for 40 years, until he passed on. Close your eyes and imagine your mother – in the same attire, same hairstyle for years, only greyer. Or your physics teacher, with the same loose flared pants, checks shirt for class after class. Our food stayed the same; festivals brought in ‘specials’, but even those were predictable. When we grew up, earned more and travelled the world, we were proud of the food we could now taste. But the more pizza and pasta you ate at parties and airport lounges, the more you suddenly craved to run back home to roti-dal or anna-sambhar. Ultimately, the more the variety you can buy, the deeper the longing for same-old-ness. But sameness is not the same as dullness. It is a value in its own right. It takes effort, to maintain the same quality of work for which it was sought for in the first place. There is no slacking off; every day you wake up, get ready, do the same that you did yesterday, with the same devotion. And then again. It is this persistence at sameness that perfects your hands, your skills, sometimes to a six-sigma level of precision, like the world-famous dabbawalas of Mumbai. There is excellence to be had, just by doing more and more of the same. A few years ago, when my grandmother Padmini, then 93, came home, I told my son about all the work I used to watch her do when I was a kid. From making food on firewood to churning huge cauldrons of butter by hand, to serving meals to a minimum of 20 people daily; this, for at least 75 years of her life, daily, without a holiday. The boy’s eyes popped. He vanished into his room momentarily, only to reappear with a sheet of paper. “Ma, I calculated, Padmini paati has made at least 8 lakh 24 thousand chapatis in her life!” His great grandma smiled, taking the fellow into the warm folds of her saree, “What a child…is that such a big thing to talk about?”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/there-s-a-certain-charm-in-staying-unchanged-in-a-fast-changing-world-1009902.html
18-07-2021||Panorama||Beijing too is worried over how to deal with Taliban||The jolt from the blast at the Dasu hydroelectricity dam in north-western Pakistan, in which nine Chinese were killed, has sent Beijing into a tizzy to protect its interests and further its regional ambitions. However, the going is set to get tough. The blast comes amidst the heightened violence in Afghanistan-Pakistan as the Taliban steps up its campaign to take all of Afghanistan under its control following the sudden flight of the last of the American troops from Bagram airbase on July 4. China’s interests are related to protecting its citizens in Afghanistan, stabilising its border areas in the Wakhan corridor in Badakhshan province, which witnessed a resurgence of the Taliban there earlier this month, curbing the drugs and small arms trade from Afghanistan, containing the spill-over of Uighurs trained by the Al-Qaeda or the Islamic State-Khorasan and its effect on stability in Xinjiang province. Of course, there is also the matter of protecting its investments in Afghanistan -- the Aynak copper mine, energy interests in the Amu Darya basin, resources at Bamiyan and ongoing infrastructure projects. China’s ambitions include pursuing the “five connectivities” of the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) projects. China had tied down the Kabul government in the last decade with “comprehensive cooperative relationship” in 2006 that was elevated to “strategic partnership” in 2013. The first memorandum with Afghanistan on China’s BRI was signed in 2016. Two years later, it was decided that a cross-border railway would be built -- from Peshawar to Kabul and Quetta to Kandahar. Beijing had also organised trilaterals with Afghanistan and Pakistan. All of these are now to be passed on to the Taliban for approval and support, if it marches on into Kabul. Although China claims a policy of “non-interference”, it has propped up political groups in other troubled places — Libya, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Myanmar, etc. China is no stranger to the Taliban, either, having provided military training to the Mujahideen in the 1980s against the Soviets, and international protection to the Taliban prior to 9/11. More recently, Beijing supported and hosted the ‘Istanbul Process’ in 2014, invited Taliban officials at Doha to Beijing and Urumqi. The Taliban, too, sent friendly gestures to Beijing, but it has to factor in local commanders’ will, too. China’s immediate response has been to send advisories to its citizens to leave Afghanistan following news of violence spiralling out of control in various parts of the country. It had earlier evacuated its citizens from Kabul. China is also striving for a political solution with “united front” tactics to address the Afghan situation and minimise the damage to its national interests. In May, China brought together the five Central Asian foreign ministers in Xian to strategize on the Afghan situation. Under the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), Beijing is pushing its version of “three evils” (separatism, extremism and splittism) and the Regional Anti-Terror Structure on counter-terror exercises and intelligence sharing. Foreign Minister Wang Yi visited three countries in Central Asia, besides attending the SCO-Afghanistan Contact Group foreign ministers’ meeting at Dushanbe last week. The Dushanbe meeting on July 15 advocated for an “independent, neutral, united, peaceful, democratic and prosperous state” of Afghanistan and condemned the ongoing terror attacks. However, Wang Yi’s comments that the Taliban should “make a clean break with all terrorist forces and return to the mainstream of Afghan politics with a responsible attitude toward the country and people” appears to be wishful thinking, given what’s unfolding in Afghanistan. On May 17, Wang even suggested external effort to “facilitate internal negotiations among various parties in Afghanistan,” but found few takers for the idea. The crux of the problem for Beijing is the possible spread of political violence into Xinjiang, which it claimed had not witnessed a single terror incident since 2016. While the Taliban made certain comments disassociating from the Turkistan Islamic Party (East Turkestan Islamic Movement) and others trained in Afghanistan, Beijing knows that the ground reality is complex. China even tried to infiltrate the Uighur militant groups but its spy ring was busted by Kabul and 10 Chinese were briefly arrested and had to leave Afghanistan in December last. More significantly, if the Islamic State-Khorasan Province provides concrete assistance to the Uighur militants and connects them to the training bases in north-eastern Syria, that would be beyond Beijing’s control as its counter-terrorism cooperation with the Syrian government has not yielded results. China’s Afghanistan policy is then faced with a conundrum, caught as it is between protecting its interests, promoting its regional ambitions and the resurgence of the Taliban. The “united front” with the SCO or those bordering Afghanistan provides only a temporary relief for Beijing as Xinjiang could become restive in the coming days and months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/beijing-too-is-worried-over-how-to-deal-with-taliban-1009903.html
18-07-2021||South||Fully vaccinated individuals can now enter Kerala without negative Covid-19 report||The Kerala government on Saturday said that negative RT-PCR tests were no longer mandatory for inter-state travel and attending exams for persons who have received two doses of Covid vaccine. The decision was taken by the State Disaster Management Authority as the Covid-19 vaccination was "progressing well", a release said. It further said that anyone attending activities for which a negative RT-PCR result is required, like interstate travel, should carry the certificate showing they have received two doses of vaccine. "However, those who have developed symptoms of Covid shall undergo RT-PCR test and carry the negative result," the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/fully-vaccinated-individuals-can-now-enter-kerala-without-negative-covid-19-report-1009948.html
18-07-2021||South||VHP objects to easing of Covid restrictions for Eid-ul-Azha in Kerala||The Vishwa Hindu Parishad has objected to the Kerala government's decision to ease Covid-19 restrictions for Eid festivities, with the body demanding suo motu cognizance by the Supreme Court as it did in the case of the Kawad yatra in Uttar Pradesh. The Indian Medical Association also urged the Kerala government to take back the decision alllowing for public Eid celebrations and cautioned that it will be “constrained to knock the pedestals of the Supreme Court” if it did not withdraw it. Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi also slammed the Kerala government move, terming it “deplorable”. “Deplorable act by Kerala government to provide three days relaxations for Bakri Eid celebrations especially because it is one of the hotbeds for Covid-19 at present. If Kawad Yatra is wrong, so is Bakri Eid public celebrations,” Singhvi, a Rajya Sabha member said. VHP working president Alok Kumar recalled the recent SC observations on the Kawad yatra in Uttar Pradesh and slammed the Pinarayi Vijayan-led government for relaxations despite the state reporting a high number of cases. The IMA said it was “pained” to see Kerala's decision to allow Bakri Eid celebrations at a time when the state was witnessing an increase in the number of cases and seropositivity. “It is unwarranted and inappropriate at this time of medical emergency. When many northern states like J&K, Uttar Pradesh, and Uttaranchal have stopped with a constructive sense of public safety the traditional and popular pilgrimage Yatras, it is unfortunate that the learned state of Kerala had taken these retrograde decisions,” IMA President Dr J A Jayalal, and General Secretary, Dr Jayesh Lele said in a statement. Kerala reported 16,148 new Covid-19 cases and 114 deaths on Saturday, with a test positivity rate of 10.76 per cent. Maharashtra is the other state reporting a high number of cases. The Jammu and Kashmir administration had recently canceled the Amarnath Yatra in view of the Covid-19 situation, while Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh governments suspended the Kawad yatra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vhp-objects-to-easing-of-covid-restrictions-for-eid-ul-azha-in-kerala-1010090.html
18-07-2021||South||How this visually challenged woman from Kerala started a successful business in lockdown||A visually challenged housewife supported her family through the Covid-19 lockdown by selling homemade products, an entrepreneurial feat that has turned her into an inspiration for many. Geetha, 39, is not only getting product orders but also receiving congratulatory calls from other states over her experience and success in overcoming her visual impairment. A resident of Thrissur, Geetha is almost 100 per cent blind. She started her business of products like ghee and pickles after her husband Saeesh's medical representative job was uncertain amid a lockdown last year. With the support of her husband and two children Gazal and Gaya, she started her business, her customers only limited to her neighbours initially. The good quality of her products made them popular and pushed the demand up. Former state finance minister Thomas Isaac and Higher Education Minister R Bindhu, who came across the woman's business visited her and offered support. After they shared her story, support and praise poured in for Geetha. Geetha told DH that she was now getting orders from even Gujarat and Maharashtra. "Many aspiring women entrepreneurs want to hear from me on how I have ventured into entrepreneurship overcoming visual problems. The reason I never felt visual impairment to be a hurdle may be because I am used to it. One should never consider any physical limitations a hurdle in achieving goals in life," she said. Geetha, who used to run a health juice parlour in Thrissur before this, felt this business more suited for her as she could spend more time with her family. She hopes to expand her business with the support of government agencies. Geetha started losing her vision when she was in school, and around the age of 15, her vision was reduced to just shadows. Doctors are now suggesting options for Geetha to recover some of her vision, but she does not see it as a hurdle anymore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/how-this-visually-challenged-woman-from-kerala-started-a-successful-business-in-lockdown-1010112.html
18-07-2021||South||Tamil Nadu to release Class 12 results on July 19||After cancelling board exams due to the Covid-19, Tamil Nadu will on Monday announce the results for Class 12 students under a new evaluation method. School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi will release the results at 11 am on Monday, over 45 days after the government cancelled the exams for the first time in recent history. The government had in June cancelled the Class 12 exams for state-board students after the Centre announced there will be no board exams for Class 12 students under the CBSE stream. Officials said teachers worked for the past one month to evaluate the students and the results will be announced on Monday. Under the new evaluation method, 50 per cent weightage will be given to the marks scored in SSLC, while 20 per cent weightage to the marks scored in Class 11 exams. The remaining 30 per cent marks will be awarded based on practical exams and internal assessment of the student in Class 12. “The results will be announced on Monday. If ant student feels the marks given to him are low and that he would have scored more if there was an exam, he will be allowed to take the test later. The marks scored in the exam will be considered final,” an official said. The state has decided to announce the results of Class 12 exams to ensure admissions to various courses, including engineering, begins in Tamil Nadu. Health Minister Ma Subramanian has asked students from Tamil Nadu to prepare for NEET to get into medical colleges though the DMK government is “working” to do away with the exam in the state. Tamil Nadu has cancelled SSLC exams for the second consecutive year in 2021, but it went ahead with Class 12 exams in 2020. This year, the exam was postponed by the AIADMK government, but the DMK which came to power after the election decided against conducting the exam. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-to-release-class-12-results-on-july-19-1010124.html
18-07-2021||South||Southwest Monsoon rains continue to lash Chennai; City reservoirs half-full||Incessant rains for the past few days under the influence of Southwest Monsoon have brought cheer to residents of this metropolis, even as the reservoirs that supply drinking water to the city are half full due to “decent rainfall” since January this year. Chennai city and Tamil Nadu receive maximum rainfall during the Northeast monsoon between October and January every year, while neighbouring states like Kerala and Karnataka depend on the Southwest Monsoon for rains. On July 16 and 17, most parts of the city experienced heavy rains leading to water-logging in several majors across the metropolis, making it the wettest 48 hours in July in 200 years. The MeT Department has forecast heavy rains for Chennai and other districts for the next five days beginning July 18. The water level in five reservoirs – the lifelines of the city – stood at 7.09 tmcft on July 16 against the maximum capacity of 11.75 tmcft. The current water level is over 75 percent more than what it was around the same time last year – 4.82 tmcft, data made available by the government said. Officials with the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) and independent weather bloggers said there was “nothing unusual” in Tamil Nadu receiving heavy rains during the SWM season. They recalled that the state has received a “decent amount of rainfall” since January which has saved the city from going thirsty for drinking water. Andhra Pradesh releasing Krishna water on time is also said to be one of the reasons for the city staving off a water crisis. “With 7 tmcft of water in July, we are in one of the best years and such is the situation that even if the Northeast monsoon fails, we can manage next year. With very good rains in July, the groundwater in Chennai should see a jump,” Pradeep John, an independent weather blogger, said. Chennai faced one of its worst water crises in decades in June 2019 and the summer seasons in 2020 and 2021 went off smooth due to “good rains” and planning by the administration. Weather blogger Srikanth told DH that monsoon breaks in Tamil Nadu will be more when the SWM is weak in Kerala and Karnataka, which is the case this year. “There is nothing unusual. Chennai has received a good amount of rainfall in January, April, May, June and July, while the rainfall in February and March were average. The rainfall from January and the inflow of Krishna water from Andhra Pradesh are the two reasons for the city not facing any adverse situation vis-à-vis drinking water,” Srikanth said. Srikanth added that since the thunderstorms rain for the leeward side of Tamil Nadu is showing a gradual increase and “becoming more and more bulletproof”, the SWM thunderstorms are becoming a good safety net for places like Chennai. Officials expressed confidence that Chennai will not face any water crisis next summer due to continuous inflow into reservoirs that supply drinking water to the city. After the unprecedented water crisis in 2019, the government renewed the rainwater harvesting programme asking people to conserve rainwater. The Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) has been desilting lakes and ponds that are lying unused for the past few years to use as water storage points and recharge the groundwater level in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/southwest-monsoon-rains-continue-to-lash-chennai-city-reservoirs-half-full-1010130.html
18-07-2021||South||Tamil Nadu CM Stalin to meet President on Monday||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin will on Monday meet President Ram Nath Kovind in New Delhi where he is likely to invite the president to participate in an event to unveil a portrait of his late father M Karunanidhi in the Tamil Nadu Assembly. The Tamil Nadu Chief Minister will also remind the President about his letter on the release of seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. Stalin had written to Kovind in May, days after assuming office as Chief Minister, pointing to a resolution passed by the state Cabinet in 2018 recommending the release of all seven convicts.  While the recommendation was sent to Governor Banwarilal Purohit, he had told the Supreme Court that the President was the competent authority to decide on the issue. Sources said Stalin will request Kovind to unveil a portrait of Karunanidhi, a five-time Chief Minister, in the state assembly. The old assembly hall has 15 portraits of Mahatma Gandhi and others. The erstwhile AIADMK government unveiled a portrait of J Jayalalithaa despite opposition from DMK. The DMK government plans to install a portrait of Karunanidhi in the assembly, possibly on August 7, the DMK patriarch’s third death anniversary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-stalin-to-meet-president-on-monday-1010146.html
18-07-2021||South||Kerala govt in catch-22 situation over new Covid relaxations||The Kerala government is in a catch-22 situation over new relaxations in lockdown announced for the celebration of Eid festival. While the Indian Medical Association (IMA) flayed the move and said it would move the court against the decision, the anti-CPM camps have triggered a social media campaign that the Pinarayi Vijayan-led government was involved in communal appeasement rather than curbing Covid, while Congress has maintained a silence on the matter so far. The Kerala government's decision to give a three-day relaxation came after a section of traders, especially from Muslim-dominated areas of North Kerala, made a call for defying the restrictions. The traders lamented that the prolonging lockdown restrictions were badly affecting their livelihood. Many major commercial streets witnessed a considerable crowd on Sunday. The police banned street sales at many places to avoid crowding. The IMA said in a statement that it was unfortunate that Kerala was allowing relaxations in restrictions citing religious events even when states like Uttar Pradesh had stopped popular pilgrim yatras. Kerala was in the limelight for effectively resisting Covid initially, but is now facing severe criticism as the virus scare remains unabated. The test positivity rate was hovering around 10 per cent over the last few weeks in the state. Kerala health department maintained that the situation was prolonging in the state as part of a strategy to delay the surge and keep the death rate low by ensuring that all get proper treatment. However, the weekend lockdowns and other curbs were inviting widespread criticism as they caused huge rush at shops on weekends. Lack of proper enforcement of Covid protocol was alleged to be a reason for the rise in Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-in-catch-22-situation-over-new-covid-relaxations-1010159.html
18-07-2021||South||YSRCP, TRS to take Krishna waters dispute to Parliament||The Monsoon session of Parliament to commence from Monday could witness some sparring between the MPs from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana over the sharing of the Krishna river waters. Setting their agenda for the session, both the YSRCP and TRS — the ruling parties in the two states have decided to take their ongoing tussle to New Delhi. In a meeting held on Thursday to chalk out the strategy to be adopted in Parliament, Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has asked the MPs to raise the issues pertaining to the Rayalseema Lift Irrigation Scheme (RLIS) and the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB). YSRCP national general secretary and Parliamentary party leader Vijayasai Reddy said that they would raise the issue of “Telangana's illegal usage of water from inter-state irrigation projects”. A day later on Friday Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has “made it clear to the TRS MPs that as far as the irrigation waters are concerned, no injustice should be allowed to be meted out to Telangana under any circumstances”. “The CM has suggested that whenever the situation demands, MPs in both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha should fight for the water allocation rights in the state’s interests,” CMO sources said. Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have been accusing each other of building unauthorised lift irrigation schemes dependent on the Krishna waters. The issue precipitated in June with Telangana using the river waters to generate electricity at Srisailam, Nagarjuna Sagar and Pulichintala projects following CM Rao's orders. Earlier, Telangana had raised major objections to the Reddy government's RLIS intended to draw Srisailam reservoir water to supply to Rayalaseema and Nellore, Prakasam districts. Besides the Krishna waters, AP wants to focus on issues like Polavaram project revised costs and the Narendra Modi government's plans to privatize the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. “We would ask for the clearance of Rs 55,656 crore revised estimated cost of the Polavaram project, which is pending for 29 months. We want the Centre to release the Rs 33,000 crore pertaining to R&R immediately,” Vijayasai Reddy said. Meanwhile, Andhra Pradesh has welcomed the central government's gazette notification last week approving the jurisdiction of the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) and Godavari River Management Board (GRMB). Syamala Rao, principal secretary, AP irrigation department said that KRMB and GRMB will have control over the operations and maintenance of the Krishna and Godavari basin irrigation projects, with effect from October 14. “The notification was due since the state bifurcation in 2014. The water shares will now fall under the boards' jurisdiction.” Syamala Rao said that Telangana was generating electricity at Srisailam, Nagarjunasagar and Pulichintala without KRMB orders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ysrcp-trs-to-take-krishna-waters-dispute-to-parliament-1010179.html
18-07-2021||State||Rains continue to lash Dakshina Kannada, Udupi||Intermittent showers continued to lash across Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts on Sunday. Both the districts have been receiving bountiful rain since Saturday night. Roads in various parts of Mangaluru were waterlogged, inconveniencing motorists. In the meantime, the IMD has predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall over coastal Karnataka till July 22. Following heavy rains, the stormwater drains are overflowing in various parts of the district. The water level in rivers, rivulets has increased considerably. The district had received 1769 mm rainfall from January till July 17. As many as 4,059 electricity poles and 201 transformers had been damaged in the district since April. The Chelyadka bridge connecting Kunjoorupanja-Panaje in Puttur was inundated for the second time in the past five days. As the water continued to remain on the bridge, the movement of vehicles was banned.  A few buses were operating on Mani-Santyaru road. Without transportation facilities, the residents of Gummategadde, Ajjikallu, Kapikadu and Olathadka villages faced many inconveniences.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rains-continue-to-lash-dakshina-kannada-udupi-1010025.html
18-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||90 died of Covid-19 in Karnataka despite vaccination||As many as 71 of the 90 breakthrough Covid deaths reported in the state are from Hassan and Mysuru districts. Hassan alone accounted for more than half of them with 51 between April 4 and July 3. A breakthrough infection is one where a person contracts the disease despite being vaccinated. Out of the around 11,000 breakthrough Covid infections that the health department analysed — with 9,000 vaccinated with one dose and 2,000 with both doses — 87 were hospitalised and as many as 90 patients died. According to these figures, the fatality rate among the breakthrough infections is 0.81%. While experts said investigation is needed to determine the cause of these deaths, they also said such a large number does not appear to be a coincidence. Hassan district officials say among those who died, six had taken both doses and 45 had taken the first dose. A researcher on condition of anonymity said, “We need to test how these vaccines fare against emerging variants, since Delta (B.1.617.2) variant was the dominant variant in breakthrough infections. It’s possibly because it has vaccine-escape mechanisms or due to vaccines predating the new Delta variant.” Of the 51 who died, most were over 60 years with comorbidities. Hassan District Health Officer Dr Sathish Kumar told DH, “A single vaccine dose confers only partial protection. Among those who were fully vaccinated, six have died. Our health worker who had taken both doses is also one of these six.”  Dr H R Rajeshwari Devi, Mysuru District Surgeon, who is the secretary of Mysuru district’s Covid death audit committee told DH, “Out of the 20 dead, only four of them were fully vaccinated. It is worrisome.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/90-died-of-covid-19-in-karnataka-despite-vaccination-1009918.html
18-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 spurs weird wish: Parents in Karnataka don't want kids to be promoted to next class||In the absence of offline classes, children are finding it difficult to learn which has forced many parents to request for “retention”of their wards in the same grade amid the directions by the government to promote all students. Private unaided schools across the state are getting such requests from parents for the last one month, majority of them at the primary level at grade 1, 2, 3 and 4. But the directions issued by the department of public instructions to promote all the students is not allowing schools to consider the parents’ requests. D Shashi Kumar, General Secretary of Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, told DH, “We are getting lots of requests from parents to retain kids in the same class. They are even ready to pay the fee prescribed, but they want their wards to study in the same class for one more year.”  This is because the parents feel that the children have not learnt anything during the previous academic year due to absence of offline classes and lack of access to onlineclasses. “We have started online classes since the 2020-21 academic year and it was difficult for students to catch the lessons. Even lack of practice has affected the learning levels of the children,” Kumar explained. According to Nayana, a parent, her daughter was in grade 1 last year and she did not learn anything in online education. Nayana told DH, “Foundation is very important and my daughter forgets what she learnt in her kindergarten days. We have no other way rather than asking the school to retain her in the same class for one more year.” But, this year the department of public instructions has directed the schools to promote all the students and despite requests from parents, the schools are not in a position to retain students. As explained by the school managements, all these years they were allowed to do so. “The number of requests to retain children was very less all these years, but this year we are getting a lot many requests,” said the principal of a private unaided school in Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-spurs-weird-wish-parents-in-karnataka-dont-want-kids-to-be-promoted-to-next-class-1009945.html
18-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Landslide cleared in Mangaluru, train operations resume||The Southern Railway authorities resumed train services after the restoration of the track affected by a massive landslide near Kulashekar between Mangaluru Junction and Thokur. The track was certified fit for traffic at 7.57 am on Sunday. With the restoration of the track, Train number 02978 Ajmer-Ernakulam Express Special Train arrived in Mangaluru and passed the restored section of the track at 8.55 am, said officials. The train traffic was affected following a massive landslide on the track on July 16. The authorities had deployed machinery at the spot to clear the landslide from the track. Mangaluru Area Manager Shivraj S Managiri said that debris was removed and the collapsed retaining wall was broken to restore the track. Steep hill walls in the surroundings were being tapered down to prevent further landslides. The damaged electricity poles and cables too were also restored, he added. Following the landslide, train services were affected on Konkan route. A few of the trains were terminated at Surathkal. The buses were arranged to ferry passengers travelling in trains to Surathkal. The Railways had to divert some of the long-distance trains between Kerala and the North either via Salem and Jolarpettai or via Padil, Hassan and Madgaon during the last two days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/landslide-cleared-in-mangaluru-train-operations-resume-1009990.html
18-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka relaxes night curfew; colleges to open from July 26||Karnataka government relaxed Covid-19 curbs on Sunday, allowing colleges to open from July 26 and theatres to operate with 50 per cent capacity from Monday. The night curfew hours were also relaxed from the existing 9 pm to 6 am, to 10 pm to 5 am. Only students and teachers who have had at least a single dose of vaccine will be allowed for the offline classes. According to an order issued by Chief Secretary P Ravikumar, "Cinema halls/multiplexes/theatres/rangamandiras/auditoriums and similar places (are) permitted to open with 50% of its seating capacity (by) strictly adhering to Covid appropriate behaviour and SOPs issued by the concerned departments." Colleges and institutions of the Department of Higher Education are permitted to open from July 26. "Only students, teaching, non-teaching and other staff who have taken at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine will be permitted to attend the college/institutions," the order read. Attendance of students, however, will be optional. Along with institutes of higher education, skill development training institutes will also be allowed to operate. Vaccination rules of getting administered with at least one dose of vaccine applied to such institutes also. The order was following a meeting chaired by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa with ministers and senior officials of the government. Revenue minister R Ashoka told reporters that the curbs were being relaxed further to help those affected by the lockdown in the past few months. "This will help people, especially those from theatre and film industry," he said. The government will allow prayers and other rituals to be performed at temples, provided Covid protocols are followed. Other restrictions at temples will also be relaxed, he said. Ashoka said that the CM directed authorities to prepare for the third wave. Measures will be taken to prepare oxygen beds, ensure adequate peadiatric specialists and to assess shortages in all districts, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-relaxes-night-curfew-colleges-to-open-from-july-26-1009996.html
18-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Karnataka logs 1,708 fresh infections, 36 deaths||Karnataka on Sunday registered 1,708 fresh Covid-19 cases taking the total cases to 28,83,947 while 36 deaths pushed the toll to 36,157, the Health department said. There were 29,291 active cases in the state while as many as 2,463 patients recovered in the state taking the total recoveries to 28,18,476. Bengaluru Urban district reported 386 infections, which is the highest among all the districts of the state whereas nine deaths were recorded on Sunday. The city has so far reported 12,22,189 infections and 15,796 deaths. There were 12,167 active cases. Dakshina Kannada district has emerged as a second major Covid-19 hotspot with 241 infections and six deaths. Other districts in the state too reported infections including 210 in Mysuru, 121 in Hassan and 105 each in Chikkamagaluru and Udupi. According to the media bulletin, there were fatalities in 15 districts including nine in Bengaluru, six in Dakshina Kannada, four in Mysuru and three in Kolar. There were zero fatalities in 15 districts in Karnataka on Sunday. The state conducted 1,56,564 Covid tests including 1,26,097 RT-PCR tests and other methods. So far 3.69 crore tests were done cumulatively, the department added. There were 67,583 inoculations done on Sunday comprising first and second doses taking the total vaccinations to 2.73 crore. The positivity rate for the day was 1.09 per cent and Case Fatality Rate was 2.10 per cent, the department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-karnataka-logs-1708-fresh-infections-36-deaths-1010144.html
18-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||8.76 lakh students to write SSLC exams on July 19||About 9 lakh students, including 23 who tested positive for Covid-19, are set to appear for the SSLC examinations scheduled to be held on Monday and Thursday. The director of the Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB), in a statement to the media, said that special arrangements have been made at the taluk level to accommodate Covid +ve candidates to appear for the examinations at the Covid care centres. For the second consecutive year, the department of primary and secondary education is conducting the SSLC examinations in a pandemic situation. Last year, students who tested positive for Covid-19 were not allowed to write the exams. This time, these students have also been provided with ambulance facilities for transportation. Officials said the number of Covid +ve examinees may increase as they have not received complete data from the block level. A total of 8.76 lakh students are set to face the examinations.  The examinations have been reduced from six days to two days for the first time, with students writing one paper for three subjects per day. On day one, students will be writing the exam for core subjects mathematics, science and social science.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/876-lakh-students-to-write-sslc-exams-on-july-19-1010164.html
18-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Education Minister Suresh Kumar visits girl who tried to kill self after being denied SSLC hall ticket||Following the news about a 16-year-old girl from Koratagere in Tumakuru district, who tried to kill herself as she was denied hall ticket to write SSLC examinations, Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar visited her house recently. The minister spoke personally to the girl for more than 15 minutes and promised to provide her an opportunity to appear for the exams in August as her first attempt.  After his visit, in a statement released to media, Kumar said, “As the girl did not register her name for SSLC exams this time, we will allow her to appear for the exams in August by considering it as her first attempt and also ensure she gets a seat in PUC.” Dr G Parameshwara, the Koratagere MLA, also visited the girl following the incident. The girl, who was denied hall ticket to write the exams scheduled to begin on Monday, tried to kill herself in the wee hours on Thursday.  Speaking to DH, the girl’s father Narasimha Murthy said, “It was just a matter of a few minutes. By god’s grace, we managed to rescue her.” The girl, a student of a top private school in Dakshina Kannada district, could not get the admission ticket as the school has not sent her details to the Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board, as her fees was pending.  “Five days ago, the minister called me up and asked me to write the exams in August. He said they cannot give me the hall ticket now. After this, I lost hope and decided to end my life.” The girl had scored 96 per cent in class 9.  “We are into agriculture and could not pay the fees due to the financial crisis in the wake of the pandemic. The school authorities are not ready to process anything unless the fee dues are cleared,” said the parents.  “We are not refusing to pay the fees. But we were asking for some time,” they said.  As per documents available with DH, the girl had brought this to the notice of the minister in the month of February through email. Speaking about it D Shashi Kumar, general secretary of the Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said, “If the child had communicated to the minister in February itself, the department could have helped her. This is negligence by the school as well as the department.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/education-minister-suresh-kumar-visits-girl-who-tried-to-kill-self-after-being-denied-sslc-hall-ticket-1010166.html
18-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Shobha Karandlaje helps woman in Kuwait travel to Mangaluru without Covid test for kid||The intervention of Union Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Shobha Karandlaje helped a woman from Mangaluru to travel from Kuwait to Mangaluru without subjecting her six-month-old baby to Covid-19 test on Saturday.  Air India authorities in Kuwait had insisted that Adithi Sudesh Nayak Karopady, a resident of Kuntikana in Mangaluru, make her child undergo Covid-19 test at the last minute before the departure of the flight to Mangaluru. NRI Mohandas Kamath spoke to Union minister Karandlaje and apprised her of the situation. The minister, in turn, contacted Union Minister for Civil Aviation Jyotiraditya  Scindia. Later, the ministry contacted Air India in Kuwait and Adithi was allowed to travel with her child in the same flight to Mangaluru.  Adithi said she was not allowed to board the flight after completing web check-in. The authorities insisted Covid-19 negative certificate for her child after carrying out the test immediately. When the issue was brought to the notice of Mohandas Kamath, her cousin, he immediately sought Shobha’s help. Finally, Adithi was allowed to board the flight and she landed in Mangaluru at midnight along with her baby.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/shobha-karandlaje-helps-woman-in-kuwait-travel-to-mangaluru-without-covid-test-for-kid-1010169.html
18-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Jal Jeevan Mission: Karnataka, Centre on collision course?||Even as Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat is said to have pulled up the state for its slow pace of works under Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM), officials here lament that the Centre is heavily focused on “numbers” and not on the functionality of the tap water connections under the programme. Under JJM, Karnataka aims to provide tap water connections to 91.12 lakh rural households in the state. Until now, the government has been able to achieve about 30 lakh connections. In a review meeting of the programme, Shekhawat is said to have asked officials to speed up works, expressing unhappiness over the pace. They also said the Centre allocated funds and fixed targets without consulting the state, leading to waste of money. According to data available on the Jal Jeevan Mission portal, Karnataka has spent only Rs 328 crore out of the available fund of Rs 10,000 crore. “There are places where there is no river water source and borewells fail frequently. What is the point in providing taps that cannot be used? We need to first address the issue of water availability,” an official in the department said. Another official pointed out that in districts like Kolar, Chikkaballapur, Bengaluru Urban and Bengaluru Rural, borewells are at a depth of 1,200-1,600 ft. “We need to also think about the cost incurred. Our estimate is that this programme will cost over Rs 45,000 crore in the next three years. This means, we have to utilise about Rs 15,000 crore per year,” the official added. Officials estimate that Karnataka would require a minimum of four years to complete the project, if the government were to ensure water supply before giving the tap connections.  Former Congress minister Eshwar Khandre, who had earlier raised concerns about the project’s implementation in the Legislative Assembly, told DH that the programme lacked planning when it came to identifying water sources in each district. The government should also make use of existing infrastructure, he said. “Pipelines have already been laid across villages as part of previous programmes such as the National Rural Water Development Programme, Jala Nirman Project, among others,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/jal-jeevan-mission-karnataka-centre-on-collision-course-1010172.html
18-07-2021||West||33 killed in rain-related incidents in Mumbai||At least 33 persons were killed and several injured in rain-related incidents as cloudburst triggered heavy downpour in Mumbai and its suburbs on Sunday. The rail, road and air services were affected in Mumbai because of the intense rains. The intense rains resulted in water-logging because of water gushing into the ground floor of several buildings in low-lying areas and slowing down the road traffic. The Western Railway and Central Railway services within the Mumbai Metropolitan Region were affected, however, being Sunday, the impact was not much felt. There was severe water-logging on WR’s Vasai-Nalasopara-Virar stretch while CR’s Main and Harbour line services were affected as water gushed into the tracks at Dadar, Sion, Kurla, Vidyavihar, Tilak Nagar and Chunabhatti. The Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport temporarily suspended flight operations between 0042 hrs and 0524 hrs past midnight because of heavy rains and poor visibility - diverting nine flights. While 19 were reported dead after a retaining wall collapsed in Vashi Naka at Mahul along BARC Complex off Chembur in another incident at Suryanagar in Vikhroli where five to six hutments caved in because of a landslide killing 10 persons. A youth died in a wall collapse in Bhandup. More than half a dozen persons are in the hospital undergoing treatment. The NDRF joined the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation and Mumbai Fire Brigade in the rescue operations that are still continuing. The twin districts of Mumbai City and Mumbai Suburban and neighbouring Palghar, Thane and Raigad districts received 150 to 300 mm plus rainfall in the last 36 hours. The Mumbai-based Regional Meteorological Centre and Pune-based Climate Research and Services have forecast heavy to very heavy rains in the North Konkan belt on Monday. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray held a review meeting with top officials even as his son and state’s Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray, who is the Guardian Minister of Mumbai Suburban, visited the spots. Thackeray Sr announced an ex-gratia of Rs five lakh to the next of kin of the deceased and free treatment to the injured. Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced Rs 2 lakh for the next of kin of the deceased and Rs 50,000 for the injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/33-killed-in-rain-related-incidents-in-mumbai-1009942.html
18-07-2021||West||Mumbai rains: Seven dead after wall collapses in Vashi-Naka area||At least seven persons died and few others are feared trapped after a retaining wall collapsed in the Vashi-Naka area in Mumbai following overnight rains on Sunday. Top officials of BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation, Fire Brigade and Police have rushed to the spot. The injured are being rushed to the Rajawadi Hospital, official sources said. More details awaited...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-rains-seven-dead-after-wall-collapses-in-vashi-naka-area-1009950.html
18-07-2021||West||Heavy rain causes wall collapses in Thane; 1 feared drowned in drain||At least four incidents of wall collapse were reported in Maharashtra's Thane city following heavy overnight rains, but no one was injured, while one person was feared drowned in a swollen drain, a civic official said on Sunday. Four auto-rickshaws were damaged in one of the wall collapse incidents, Thane Municipal Corporation's regional disaster management cell chief Santosh Kadam said. Water-logging was reported at 18 places in Thane city and in some parts of neighbouring Mumbra, Bhiwandi and Kalyan townships after heavy overnight showers, he said. The city received 182.36 mm downpour in the 12-hour period ending at 8.30 am on Sunday, the official said. A 30-year-old man was feared drowned in a swollen drain on the Ambedkar Road in the city, he said, adding that efforts were on to trace him. The compound wall of a housing society at Parsik Nagar in Kalwa and a residential building wall in the city collapsed, he said. In another incident, a 15-20 feet wall of a compound collapsed in Wagle Estate area, crushing four auto-rickshaws. Besides, a drain wall crashed at Anand Nagar in Kalwa, the official said. No one was injured in these incidents, he added. Heavy rains and water-logging were also reported in Vasai and other areas of neighbouring Palghar district, a spokesperson said. The district received 116.39 mm rainfall in the 12-hour period ending at 8.30 am on Sunday, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/heavy-rain-causes-wall-collapses-in-thane-1-feared-drowned-in-drain-1009998.html
18-07-2021||West||Mumbai wall collapse: 2 women stood on wooden ladder for 2 hours over electrocution fear||Two women stood on a wooden ladder in their shanty for over two hours out of the fear of getting electrocuted after a wall near their locality collapsed in Mumbai's Mahul area on Sunday following heavy rains. Fifteen people died after the compound wall came crashing down on some houses located on a hillock after a landslide at Bharatnagar locality in Mahul around 1 am, an official said. Laxmi Jongankar (40) was inside her shanty when people outside started shouting about the wall collapse in the area. She opened the window of her house and saw other shanties were destroyed. But, she did not notice that the debris has entered her house also and damaged it. “As people panicked and start shouting that electric current spread in the locality, I along with another woman relative stood on a wooden ladder in my shanty. After more than two hours, a man came to enquire about us and asked us to come out," she said. The woman said she opened the door and managed to come out of the house with the help of a wooden stick. Local resident Bhaudas Rangarvarpe said the wall collapsed because of the landslide. "Since the wall was too old, it fell on the adjoining shanties," he said. Another local, Rafique, who along with some other people helped the rescue team in pulling out bodies from the debris, said the incident took place because of the heavy rains. "All members of one family are suspected to have died of electrocution in the incident," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-wall-collapse-2-women-stood-on-wooden-ladder-for-2-hours-over-electrocution-fear-1010008.html
18-07-2021||West||9 in Gujarat jailed for stopping dalit groom from riding horse||A sessions court in Gandhinagar sentenced nine men to five years imprisonment for stopping a dalit groom from riding a horse at his wedding procession in Gandhinagar district's Parsa village. The incident had occurred in 2018, when the accused persons, belonging to the Darbar community, had forced the groom to take police protection to complete the procession. The sessions judge S N Solanki held all nine accused guilty of criminal intimidation, wrongful restraint, unlawful assembly and under sections of the atrocity act. The court found accused Natwarsinh J Parmar, Kuldeepsinh D Rathod, Devendrasinh N Chavda, Vijaysinh B Chauhan, Vipul B Chauhan, Jigarsinh B Chauhan, Naresh Chauhan and Virendrasinh R Chauhan, all residents of Parsa village, guilty and sentenced them to five years in jail. The public prosecutor in this case P D Vyas confirmed the development and said that the copy of judgement is awaited. Vyas said that prosecution examined 18 witnesses during the trial and based on other material evidence, the sessions judge found all the accused guilty of offence. Apart from a five years jail term, the court also imposed a fine of Rs 10,000 on each of the accused. Vyas said that all the accused are in judicial custody. On June 17, 2018, Mehsana resident Prashant Solanki was riding a horse in his wedding procession, locally known as "varghodo" in Parsa village in Gandhinagar. On his way to the bride's home, a group of people from the Darbar community stopped the procession, threatening that only people from "courageous" castes like Darbars, can ride a horse." Following the ruckus, police were called at the spot who escorted the procession to the bride's place. Subsequently, an FIR was registered against nine accused. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/9-in-gujarat-jailed-for-stopping-dalit-groom-from-riding-horse-1010010.html
18-07-2021||West||Money laundering probe: ED searches 2 homes of ex-Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh||Continuing its investigations further, the Enforcement Directorate carried out searches at former Maharashtra home minister and senior NCP leader Anil Deshmukh’s ancestral family home at Katol in Nagpur district. The search follows last week’s ED action when it attached his properties in Mumbai and Raigad district totally valued at Rs 4.20 crore. Last month, the ED carried out searches at his residences in Mumbai and Nagpur city - nearly a couple of months after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) launched the probe. Deshmukh is facing a probe by the CBI and ED in the wake of allegations made by former Mumbai Police chief and now commandant general of Home Guards that Deshmukh had fixed a collection target of Rs 100 crore per month for assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze, who has been arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Vaze is the prime accused of planting a gelatin sticks-laden Scorpio near the Mumbai home of Reliance Industries Ltd chairman Mukesh Ambani and the murder of SUV owner Mansukh Hiren. According to reports reaching here, the ED carried out raids at Deshmukh’s home in Wadvihara and Katol town. Deshmukh, his wife Aarti and son Hrishikesh have not appeared before the ED so far. Last month, the ED arrested Deshmukh’s personal secretary Sanjeev Palande and personal assistant Kundan Shinde. Deshmukh (72) is close to NCP supremo Sharad Pawar and general secretary Praful Patel. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/money-laundering-probe-ed-searches-2-homes-of-ex-maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-1010024.html
18-07-2021||West||Heavy rain batters south Gujarat; IMD forecasts more showers||Heavy rains pounded parts of south Gujarat on Sunday, throwing normal live out of gear and causing water-logging at a number of places in Valsad, Vapi and Navsari. ''A cyclonic circulation lies over the south Gujarat region and neighbourhood at 2.1 km above the mean sea level,'' the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said, and predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall in the region till Tuesday morning. It also asked fishermen not to venture into the Arabian Sea till July 21. Low-lying areas in Vapi and Umargam in Valsad district were flooded, with underpasses and roads overflowing, affecting traffic movement. Several markets and residential areas were also inundated in Valsad and Vapi. Besides, Gandevi, Khergam and Chikhli talukas in Navsari district and Kamrej and Bardoli in Surat district in the south Gujarat also received heavy rainfall. According to the State Emergency Operation Centre (SEOC), Vapi taluka in Valsad district received 226 mm rainfall in six hours from 6 am, while Umargam received 232 mm rainfall during the period. The Valsad taluka received 143 mm rainfall and Jalalpor got 146 mm rainfall during the period, officials of the SEOC said. Besides, the Navsari taluka got 120 mm rainfall, Gandevi in Navsari received 119 mm rain, while Kamrej in Surat district got 118 mm rainfall during the period. As per Valsad Additional Collector N A Rajput, the district's Umargam, Valsad and Vapi taluka received very heavy rainfall since morning. ''Our teams are posted in the field in low-lying areas. The rainfall has stopped now and water has started receding in many areas. Fire brigade teams are also deployed at strategic locations to help the affected people as and when required,'' he said. According to the (IMD), Gujarat has so far recorded a rainfall deficit of 36 per cent. Till Saturday the state received 21.69 per cent of annual average rainfall this monsoon, it said. Out of the state's 33 districts, only five have received normal rainfall so far, while 26 have received deficient rainfall and two have recorded 'large deficiency', the IMD said. In a separate release, the IMD asked fishermen not to venture out into the Arabian Sea along the north and south Gujarat coasts till July 21, due to ''active monsoon conditions'' that create squally weather conditions, with wind speed gust likely to reach 60 kmph, even if temporarily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/heavy-rain-batters-south-gujarat-imd-forecasts-more-showers-1010030.html
18-07-2021||West||Uddhav Thackeray announces Rs 5 lakh ex-gratia for kin of deceased in Mumbai rains||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday expressed grief over the loss of lives in house collapses triggered by landslides following heavy overnight rains in Mumbai and announced an ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh for the kin of each of the victims. Twenty five people died in house collapse incidents after heavy showers, which caused severe water-logging and disruption of suburban train services and vehicular traffic in the metropolis on Sunday, officials said. Thackeray spoke to Mumbai civic commissioner I S Chahal and took stock of the rescue and relief operations. He directed the authorities to ensure coordination among the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), municipal workers, fire brigade and police for rescue operations. A statement issued by the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said the kin of each of the victims will get an ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh and the injured will be treated free of cost. Thackeray was in constant touch with the civic disaster control room since heavy rains started pounding the city on Saturday night. The statement said Thackeray has asked the authorities to be alert and keep a watch since the weather forecast has predicted heavy rains on Sunday also. The CM said those living on the Mithi river bank and other places close to the shore should be evacuated early. Thackeray also asked authorities to ensure medical facilities in jumbo Covid-19 centres are not affected because of the heavy rains. "Steps should be taken to drain out rain water from low-lying areas. Roads should be cleared for vehicular traffic movement. Steps should be taken to restore the suburban railway service at the earliest," he said. Meanwhile, former BJP MP Kirit Somaiya visited the Bharatnagar locality in Mahul area of Mumbai where 17 people died after a compound wall collapsed following a landslide in the wee hours of Sunday. "People are scared. So far, 17 deaths and 23 injuries are reported. Mafia contractors of the municipal corporation and slum mafia are playing with the lives of the poor people," he alleged. This is very sad, the BJP leader added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/uddhav-thackeray-announces-rs-5-lakh-ex-gratia-for-kin-of-deceased-in-mumbai-rains-1010036.html
18-07-2021||West||Mumbai Rains: BMC tells citizens to boil drinking water as water complex hit||The water supply in India’s financial capital of Mumbai was badly hit after floodwaters inundated the Bhandup water filtration complex and pumping station. The BrihanMumbai Municipal Complex (BMC) has launched restoration work in war-footing and the full supply is expected to be restored by Monday.  The Bhandup complex is one of Asia’s biggest water treatment plants. Because of heavy overnight rains, water accumulated at the station after which electricity supply had to be stopped. With water receding, the command and control centre was being checked and the water supply would be scaled up gradually. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation on Sunday asked citizens to boil water before drinking. While the pumping mechanism would be restored in a few hours, much more time will be taken to get the filtration process up and running, the official said, adding that boiling water before drinking was the best precaution at the moment. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-rains-bmc-tells-citizens-to-boil-drinking-water-as-water-complex-hit-1010044.html
18-07-2021||West||Mumbai witnesses 200 mm rainfall in just 3 hours because of mini cloudbursts||It literally came like a bolt from the blue as India’s business hub of Mumbai and its suburbs received 200-plus mm rainfall accompanied by heavy thunder and lightning in barely three hours past midnight as most people slept. This was a sort of mini cloudburst - resulting in sudden inundation in several places in Mumbai and the neighbouring Palghar, Thane and Raigad districts. There was heavy rainfall warning for Mumbai and the coastal Konkan belt of Maharashtra, however, the intensity came as a surprise. “Last night, Mumbai faced a weather system of extreme heavy rainfall accompanied by thunder and lightning, some parts crossing 200 mm rainfall in a span of three hours. These were mini cloudbursts in a short span with full fury of nature,” state Tourism, Environment and Protocol Minister Aaditya Thackeray said. During the last 24 hours ending 0830 hrs Sunday, the Mumbai-based Regional Meteorological Centre’s Colaba observatory recorded 196.8 mm rainfall and Santacruz 234.9 mm rainfall. Similarly, high intensity rainfall was reported from suburban areas of the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR). “Belapur in Navi Mumbai recorded 201.2 mm rainfall, Thane 180 mm and Palghar 236.6 mm,” said KS Hosalikar, Head SID, Climate & Research Services, Pune. The Sanjay Gandhi National Park too received heavy rainfall as water gushed out from the Mithi and Dahisar rivers. Several people living along the Mithi river had to be evacuated even though heavy damage was reported inside the park area and a deer swam out on the roads. The Karnala Bird Sanctuary, Tungareshwar Wildlife Sanctuary and Tansa Wildlife Sanctuary too received heavy downpour, reports reaching here said. Several villages in North Konkan areas of Palghar, Thane and Raigad were cut off because of inundation even as power and water supply was hit. The IMD has asked fishermen not to venture into the Arabian Sea as it could be choppy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-witnesses-200-mm-rainfall-in-just-3-hours-because-of-mini-cloudbursts-1010067.html
18-07-2021||West||290 killed in Mumbai landslides over 29 years, over 300 injured||Landslides are a big killer in Mumbai with 290 people losing lives and more than 300 injured in the last 29 years. As many as 22,483 persons live in dangerous places prone to landslides. The loss of life and financial loss due to landslides in Mumbai is not new and the state government is not serious about remedying the landslides for the last 10 years,” said RTI activist Anil Galgali. In 25 out of 36 constituencies in Mumbai, 257 places are classified as dangerous in hilly areas. Galgali said the Mumbai Slum Improvement Board had recommended to the state government to relocate 9,657 huts out of 22,483 huts in the area as a matter of priority. It was proposed to protect the remaining huts by building ramparts around the hills. Galgali had earlier warned the Maharashtra government about 327 places due to landslides during the monsoon. Between 1992 and 2021, 290 people died and more than 300 were injured in landslides. It was recommended by the Mumbai Slum Improvement Board, which conducted a comprehensive survey in 2010, and if it had been acted upon in time, the deaths of people living in hilly areas could have been prevented. Following the Board's report and Galgali's follow-up, on September 1, 2011, the then Chief Minister Prithviraj Chavan had ordered the preparation of an action plan. “However, ten years have passed since then but the Urban Development Department is still implementing it, none of which has drawn up an Action Taking Plan (ATP) as ordered by the Chief Minister,” Galgali said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/290-killed-in-mumbai-landslides-over-29-years-over-300-injured-1010076.html
18-07-2021||West||ICCR launches Kala Vishwa campaign||The Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) has launched a new campaign called ‘Kala Vishwa’, from its Mumbai centre on Sunday. Dr Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, President, ICCR and Chairman of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Education, Women, Children and Youth & Sports inaugurated the first programme under the “Kala Vishwa” campaign. Kala Vishwa is a special campaign under the Horizon Series that will be held for a duration of six months to reach out to traditional folk artists, local artistes / artisans and those coming from rural areas and give them an opportunity and a platform to perform under this campaign, especially during the challenging time of Covid-19. The Kala Vishwa campaign took off from Mumbai today, with a focus on traditional art forms of Maharashtra and Goa. Speaking on the occasion, Dr Sahasrabuddhe said, ICCR has organised the 'Kala Vishwa' event in Mumbai with a view to enable artists who cherish traditional arts of the region, like Waghya Murali, Gondhal, Vasudev or Dashavatar to present their art during the pandemic period. “Two to three programs will be presented virtually per month from the seventeen ICCR centres across the country. The campaign is being launched today through Mumbai, Pune and Goa centres. This will help to present folk arts to foreign students and also be of help to neglected artists”, added Dr Sahasrabuddhe. This series will also help the foreign students associated with ICCR to understand folk culture of India, he further said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/iccr-launches-kala-vishwa-campaign-1010095.html
18-07-2021||West||Raj Thackeray meets Maharashtra BJP president Chandrakant Patil||In a development that raised eyebrows, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena chief Raj Thackeray met state BJP President Chandrakant Patil in Nashik. Both were in Nashik in separate visits to review the preparations for the forthcoming civic polls - and met in the government guest house - while Raj was leaving and Patil was driving in. Video footage showed them in one-on-one conversation for some time near the parking. Patil, however, said that there was nothing political in the visit between him and Raj, the estranged cousin of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. “We both are part of the students’ movement and have known each other for close to 40 years. It was just hello and hi meeting,” he said. Patil said that friendship and politics must be separate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/raj-thackeray-meets-maharashtra-bjp-president-chandrakant-patil-1010111.html
18-07-2021||West||Kalyan loco-pilots rescue senior citizen from jaws of death; earn cash award from Central Railway||A senior citizen virtually escaped the jaws of death when he fell while crossing the tracks near the Kalyan station in Mumbai, as two alert loco-pilots of a running train applied emergency brakes in time.  The incident occurred around 1 pm when the senior citizen was crossing the tracks unaware of the train. Mumbai has been experiencing heavy rainfall and the man possibly slipped. Kalyan station’s Chief Permanent Way Inspector Santosh Kumar raised an alarm, the Loco Pilot S K Pradhan and Assistant Loco Pilot Ravi Shankar G applied the emergency brakes bringing the train to a screeching halt.  However, by that time, the senior citizen had already come under the locomotive. People nearby rushed there and pulled him out to safety.   Central Railway General Manager Ashok Kansal announced a spot cash award of Rs 2,000 each to the three CR railway personnel for showing alertness and saving the man's life. "Trespassing railway tracks is illegal and dangerous. It can be fatal," the CR tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kalyan-loco-pilots-rescue-senior-citizen-from-jaws-of-death-earn-cash-award-from-central-railway-1010148.html
18-07-2021||West||Maharashtra minister performs 'aarti' at temple despite Covid-19 restrictions||At a time when religious places remain closed for common people in Maharashtra in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, state Housing Minister and NCP leader Jitendra Awhad on Sunday visited a temple of Lord Ganesh here and performed aarti, inviting criticism from the BJP. Awhad took darshan of the famous Navshya Ganpati temple located on the Gangapur Road and performed 'aarti', before leaving for Trimbakeshwar en route to Mumbai, sources said. Notably, the Nashik district administration on Saturday decided to ban assembly of people at tourist spots in view of the coronavirus pandemic. Social, political and religious gatherings also remain banned to avoid crowding. Meanwhile, the BJP has criticised the minister and accused the government of adopting "double standards" on the issue of allowing people to visit religious places. The NCP and the Congress are constituents of the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. The Covid-19 tally in Nashik rose by 142 on Sunday to touch 4,01,226, while the day also saw four deaths and 126 recoveries, an official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-minister-performs-aarti-at-temple-despite-covid-19-restrictions-1010151.html
18-07-2021||West||Goa extends coronavirus curfew till July 26||“The State Level Curfew order will be extended up to 7 am, 26 July, with the same restrictions and relaxations,” Chief Minister Pramod Sawant tweeted. During previous relaxations, shops were allowed to remain open from 7 am to 6 pm. Saloon and outdoor sports complex/stadium were also lowed to remain open. The coastal state, a tourist haven in normal times, reported 120 new infections and two deaths on Sunday, leaving the state with 1,562 active cases. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-extends-coronavirus-curfew-till-july-26-1010152.html
18-07-2021||West||Torrential Mumbai rains bring back images of July 2005 deluge||Images of the deluge of July 2005 seemed to return to people of Mumbai as they waded through waist-deep waters with stranded vehicles and cooking gas cylinders floating in floodwaters amid torrential rainfall over the past few days.  A high tide accompanied by rainfall following a cloudburst had created havoc in India’s commercial capital on July 26, 2005 — the memories of which are came back when Mumbai, spread over 600 sq km, experienced nearly 944.2 mm rainfall in 24 hours. What Mumbai received was not even one-third of what was reported 16 years ago, but these disruptions are now frequent during the monsoon. In Vasai-Virar urban conglomeration of Mumbai, which received over 180 mm rainfall, water gushed into the ground floor homes and shops at several places.  “We have not caught up with times to upgrade and improve infrastructure in the suburbs of Mumbai…its the same story every year,’ said social activist and Vasai-Virar AAP leader Susheel Dwivedi.  In the Madhuban area salt-pans of Vasai in Palghar district, the civic body undertook a rescue operation through boats. Along the Western Express Highway, people could be seen walking in knee-deep waters.  “I could see hundreds of people walking on the island of the road as the water level rose,” said Q N Khan, a resident of Kandivli suburbs in Mumbai. "The rainfall this time was on a Sunday and after midnight. This actually reduced the chaos," added AK Joshi, a resident of Badlapur in Thane district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/torrential-mumbai-rains-bring-back-images-of-july-2005-deluge-1010154.html
