19-07-2021||Comment||A look at houses and sessions of the Indian Parliament||After over a year, the monsoon session of the Parliament will on Monday return to normal course of sittings. Having embarked upon a major vaccination drive amid cautious efforts to open up activities after the second wave of the pandemic, the government called for a regular session of both the Houses. The session among all three scheduled sittings of Parliament is the one usually packed with legislative agenda, coming as it does soon after the budget session where the primary focus of the government is to get parliamentary approval for its year-long financial management. The outbreak of the virus last year led to a curtailment of the limited duration of monsoon session, doing away with the winter session, and two truncated budget sessions in a row. Over the 19 sittings till August 13 in the ensuing session, the government intends to move several new Bills while taking forward some introduced earlier. The session begins against the backdrop of the brutal second wave of the pandemic in the country, a major change in the Union Council of Ministers, a new Leader of the Rajya Sabha. Ahead of the session, Speaker Om Birla made some significant observations on the functioning of the House, underscoring that during the rest of his tenure, energies will be directed to strengthen parliamentary oversight. In addition, the Speaker wants the House to adapt to the digital way of working. These steps are welcome. On completion of two years in office, in a series of interviews last month, the Speaker mentioned that during the remaining tenure he wants to make ministries and departments more accountable to Parliament. His articulation included two aspects. One, a mechanism to make sure that governments look into issues members raise under Rule 377, and the second, and more important, is executive action on suggestions parliamentary standing committees offer in its reports. As per established procedure, an issue raised by a member in the Lok Sabha under Rule 377 is sent to the ministry concerned and as per the decision of the Rules Committee; ministers should send their replies regarding matters raised in the House within one month’s time. The Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs that keeps a track on progress on its website shows that at least 130 plus matters raised during this year under this rule remain pending. In terms of response received, the pendency is slightly over 10% and a marked improvement from some 30% pendency in the previous House, the Lok Sabha secretariat noted. Committee meetings Now the other aspect of committee meetings is of immense importance. Examination of demands-for-grants by various ministries projected in the budget is a critical element of such oversight. The work done in the departmental related standing committees is significant since majority of it is transacted on bipartisan lines and through consensus. This is one of the primary reasons why suggestions to throw open the meetings of committees to the public or at least to the media were turned down over the years. The closed-door sitting allows parliamentarians to work across the aisle and contribute, rising above party considerations. The argument against making sittings open is that these can lead to grandstanding, removing the hallmark work pattern of the system maintaining its sanctity and secrecy. It is only when the report is tabled or handed over to the Speaker of the Lok Sabha or the Chairman of the Rajya Sabha that the report becomes a public document. On the committee system and its efficacy, a criticism during the pandemic is that the panels could not meet in virtual format, a practice adopted by some other parliaments in these times of Covid-19. On his part, the Lok Sabha Speaker pointed out there is no provision for such an arrangement in existing rules. Conceding there were members both for and against meetings in digital/virtual format, he said no suggestion was put forward to bring about a change in the rules, which only the House can permit. In a way, Speaker Birla shows the path for members to take forward the suggestion in a concrete manner through established procedures. Considering the uncertainty over the next wave(s) of the virus and resultant protocols, leadership of various political parties can build consensus and weave into rules a provision for virtual and/or hybrid committee meetings as a concrete measure. During the last two years of the current Lok Sabha, over half of which was affected due to the global health pandemic, its website shows that a total of 558 sittings were held by various committees and presented 272 reports. As for acceptance of the recommendations by the committees, the government accepted over 1,700 of the over 2,600 recommendations. Another important and critical element of parliamentary oversight is the scrutiny of Bills to committees of jurisdiction. Over the past few Lok Sabha sessions, the numbers of such referrals have come down. It is perfectly justified for the government of the day to impress upon the Speaker/Chairman to allow the consideration and passage of a Bill without referral. Yet, convention is to get the Bill(s) examined by the committee and based on the report, the government can take a view of accepting suggestions in parts or otherwise. The Lok Sabha website shows that during the current Lok Sabha, 10 Bills were referred to committees while in the previous House, 24 Bills were sent for scrutiny. The number stands at 68 in the 15th Lok Sabha. As the country prepares to celebrate the 70th year of its Parliament in 2022, besides procedures and rules, the House runs on the healthy practices of conventions evolved over the seven-decade voyage and presiding officers often striking a balance to work a way out between processes and policies against the backdrop of politics. (The writer is a New Delhi-based political commentator)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/a-look-at-houses-and-sessions-of-the-indian-parliament-1010228.html
19-07-2021||First Edit||Sedition law outdated, scrap it||While the demand for scrapping the sedition law has been made more frequently and has gained greater momentum in recent past, the Supreme Court’s suggestion to the government to re-examine its scope, and even the need for it, has given the demand a special import and relevance. The court has on a few occasions in the last few months criticised the wrong use of the sedition law by governments and in some cases, given relief to its victims. It has now told the Central government that the law needs a review and if the government does not do it, the court will do it. Chief Justice N V Ramana pointed out that Section 124A which was "used by the British to silence Mahatma Gandhi and Tilak" is now being widely misused by the police. He asked pointedly why it continued in the statute book even after 75 years of Independence, and said: "If the police want to fix somebody, they can invoke Section 124A". The court was making its views known while dealing with a PIL filed by Maj Gen S G Vombatkere (retd),  that sought the scrapping of the law because of its wide misuse. Its response is a signal that it agreed with the submission in the petition that the law caused a "chilling effect" on speech and is an unreasonable restriction on free expression. There are a large number of cases of its misuse, especially in the last few years, to suppress criticism and dissent, harass political opponents and generally to stifle free speech. People from all walks of life including those who opposed the government on matters like the CAA and activists, writers, journalists and students have all been victims. Most do not get bail and spend long years in jail. As the CJI noted, the conviction rate in such cases is low, showing that the charges may have been made up.  Attorney General K K Venugopal told the court that fresh guidelines could be laid down and safeguards built to prevent misuse of the law. But the guidelines given by the court in the 1962 Kedar Nath case, which restricted the application of the law only to speech or writing that incited violence and created public disorder, already exist. They are not adhered to by the government, and more guidelines will not help. There has been an attempt to equate the nation with the government, and the idea of sedition has become a weapon in service of a narrow politics.  Preserving and protecting the rights of citizens becomes important in such an environment. So, the sedition law, which is used to cripple those rights, should be scrapped altogether. The idea of sedition, as expressed by the law, is outdated in a modern democracy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/sedition-law-outdated-scrap-it-1010244.html
19-07-2021||In Perspective||Curriculum development holds key to NEP's success||The implementation of new policies comes with new challenges. Often stakeholders concerned exhibit unwillingness and reluctance. National Education Policy-2020 (NEP-2020) is no exception. Educational reforms require a change in mindset of all stakeholders and readiness to adopt new curriculum and pedagogy. Now the hush-hush talk is that all states are under pressure to implement NEP-2020 and claim the credit of having satisfied the dictum of the Centre and score brownie points. A major thrust of the new policy on higher education is to accomplish the integration of inter- and trans-disciplinary subjects and adoption of a multidisciplinary approach. This is the heart of the matter in making future education suitable for critical and creative thinking and making innovations. Economic stability, prosperity of nations and overcoming job disruptions in the wake of the third wave of the internet (Internet of Everything) largely depend on education, self-reliance, acquisition of entrepreneurial skills and innovation. NEP-2020 provides a huge opportunity to revamp education. Policy recommendations will make a difference to the higher education scenario, provided the right strategies are in place for their implementation. In this context, a major issue hovers around constructing carefully designed curriculum (context-based content) with integration of trans-disciplinary and interdisciplinary subjects; a multidisciplinary approach will follow automatically in the teaching-learning processes. Both are interdependent. Developing curriculum with smooth integration of subjects is the first and foundational step in ensuring the success of the policy. This is not easy. It requires sound domain knowledge and knowledge of trans-disciplinary and interdisciplinary areas on the part of academicians, lest they show reluctance for integration of subjects (often due to ignorance of its importance). However, integration of subjects and designing new curriculum is to pave the way for deeper pursuit of academics, acquisition of 21st-century skills and to facilitate innovations. For example, economics, commerce and business management are integral to each other and need to be integrated as a single course — Business Management or Management of Trade and Economic Affairs. Similarly, anthropology, sociology and social work could go together with an appropriate title such as Management of Human Societies. The integration of biological sciences poses a big challenge. Over two dozen disciplines have emerged out of biology. How do we integrate these? It is mind-boggling, for sure. Yet there is a way out. One is to design curriculum based on the processes/phenomena that are common attributes of all organisms: For example, reproduction, heredity, nutrition, digestion, communication, locomotion, paleontology, biosystematics and so on under Integrated Biology. Similar combinations could be planned for other subjects (eg. physics and chemistry as Material Science). The knowledge of mathematics, statistics and computer application is needed in all streams of higher education; however the curriculum of these subjects have to be tailor-made to suit specific subject domains. One size does not fit all. The second crucial point is the development of curriculum that suit multiple exit options with certificate, diploma or degree after the first, second and third year of graduation respectively. Such qualifications may create problems of equivalence across universities within and outside states. In turn, such certificates/diplomas may lower the credentials of universities. Therefore, making these options truly useful requires great efforts before proposing curriculum for different courses. The new curriculum ought to include exercises in solving problems, project-based learning and making innovations. Self-learning and group learning should become integral to education with a scope to think creatively and critically. Brainstorming debates between experts may be required before curriculum preparation. Involving experts from India and/or abroad will go a long way in meaningful integration of different subject areas in sync with the requirements of 21st century education.  State higher education councils can play a game-changing role in revamping higher education. Unfortunately, these bodies are generally under the control of politicians and politically-connected officials rather than eminent academicians. The vice chancellors who have to implement the policy are neither insulated from such controls nor enjoy academic freedom. Besides, the chair by itself does not confer wisdom on anyone. In the past, several committees/commissions have given reports on reforming education. None of these were implemented in toto. If the same fate befalls on NEP-2020, it will amount to a missed opportunity— a too costly affair to be forgiven. Not implementing the policy may be better than a namesake implementation. Recently, Karnataka Science and Technology Academy, Bengaluru (Department of Science & Technology, GoK), brought out a policy paper on 'Revamping Science Education in Karnataka', which is in sync with NEP-2020. It might come in handy to understand the philosophy and intricacies of framing curriculum. Further, the report highlights the need to revamp science education to achieve global standards, building a new India and earn global citizenship. (The writer is a former Vice Chancellor & Director of Higher Education Academy, Dharwad)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/curriculum-development-holds-key-to-neps-success-1010231.html
19-07-2021||Kalaburagi||Elderly woman raped, murdered by miscreant||A 60-year-old elderly woman has been murdered after being raped at a bus stand in a village of the taluk. The police said the accused forced himself on her when the mentally challenged elderly woman was sleeping at the bus stand. He stabbed her with a knife as she screamed. The accused is absconding, they said. The brother of the deceased, in a police complaint, said the rape survivor was mentally upset after being away from the family and was sleeping at the bus stand and she opted to beg for her livelihood. A complaint has been registered at the Nelogi police station. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/elderly-woman-raped-murdered-by-miscreant-1010476.html
19-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||SSLC exams under way in Kalaburagi, Dakshina Kannada, Belagavi||SSLC exams began for nearly 9 lakh students across Karnataka on Monday The exams were held across 209 centres in Kalaburagi district.   Several parents brought their children to the examination centres by 9 am. Students were allowed into the rooms at 10 am and the examination began at 10:30 am. Body temperature of all students were scanned with thermal guns and hands sanitized. Only students who wore mask were allowed inside. Health department staff who were present at the entrance gates distributed masks to those who came without mask. Some students came wearing face shield . Boys and Girl students were stand in separate queue and boxes created for them. Of 209 examination centres, 20 centres have been identified as sensitive and four centres as hyper sensitive. A total of 45, 357 students have enrolled for the examination. Around 6,000 staff have been deployed for the examination duty. In Dakshina Kannada, the SSLC exam began on a positive note in 179 examination centre. As many as 32,636 students have registered for the exam in the district. Of which, 441 students are from neighbouring Kasargod district, studying in various schools in Dakshina Kannada. The district administration had made arrangements to ferry students from the border areas. Nine Covid-19 positive students who had registered for the exam have been arranged to write exams in Covid Care Centres in the taluk headquarters. As the students entered the school premises, the body temperature was checked and their hands were sanitised. 415 centres were alotted for the SSLC exams in Belagavi and Chikkodi educational districts. A total of 80,857 students from the district are appearing for the examination. Among them, 35,308 are from Belagavi educational district and 45,549 are from Chikkodi educational district. A total of 12,600 staff members have been deputed for the examination and 350 health personnel for ensuring follow-up of Covid-19 protocols. he Department of Public Instructions has made face masks and hand sanitisers available at the examination centres. Philanthropists and elected representatives from the district have also contributed face masks and hand sanitisers for students. The exams are for the core subjects. Language papers have been scheduled for July 22.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sslc-exams-under-way-in-kalaburagi-dakshina-kannada-belagavi-1010339.html
19-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Fire breaks out at SSLC exam centre in Mangaluru||A fire broke out in the laboratory of a school near Ullal in Dakshina Kannada district of Karnataka on Monday while students were taking the SSLC examination in an adjacent room, police sources said. Teachers immediately shifted the students to a nearby building and ensured that the examination was not interrupted, they said. Fire service personnel rushed to the spot and extinguished the fire, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fire-breaks-out-at-sslc-exam-centre-in-mangaluru-1010387.html
19-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Post-Covid CMV infection detected, treated in Hubballi||Cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection in the digestive system, as a post-Covid complication, was detected in a patient with severe symptoms admitted at a private hospital in Hubballi. A 39-year-old woman from Ranebennur in Haveri district, who was on ventilator at KLE Suchirayu Hospital in the city, tested positive for CMV. She was treated with IV Ganciclovir, and was discharged on Monday, after she recovered. "After she had black tarry stools and her hemoglobin was dropping, CMV enteritis was susepected. Endoscopy showed large ulcers in small intestine and stomach. DNA PCR test report turned positive for CMV," said Dr Naveenkumar Hosalli of Shuchirayu Hospital. CMV is dormant in the body of many people, and it can also infect any organ when the immune system is weakened. Many patients usually present with abdominal pain and blood in stools, and this infection can happen after organ transplant also. CMV as a post-Covid complication is for the first time reported in Hubballi, he noted. Admitted on June 1 with Covid-19 symptoms, along with severe hypoxia, majority lung involvement and submissive pulmonary thromboembolism, the patient was under ICU care since then. She was also revived after she sustained cardio pulmonary arrest. She was treated by a multi-disciplinary team. Dr Hosalli said, ulcers in intestine resulting in blood loss might have been caused by stress or steroids which also cause immune suppression. CMV can be fatal without early diagnosis and treatment. Ganciclovir has to be given for three to four weeks, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/post-covid-cmv-infection-detected-treated-in-hubballi-1010419.html
19-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Highway robber dies in police custody||A man accused in highway robbery died in police custody on Sunday afternoon. City Police commissioner Y S Ravikumar said acting on a tip-off, a team of police from M B Nagar police station took Chandru and Prakash who are highway robbers into their custody but Prakash escaped. Chandru was taken to the police station. During the interrogation, he developed giddiness and was immediately admitted to a private hospital. But doctors pronounced him brought death, he explained. M B Nagar police has been directed to file an unnatural death case. Assistant Commissioner of Police (Sub division-A) has been told to investigate the case. Whether it is natural death or not will be known only after postmortem report arrives, the police commissioner said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/highway-robber-dies-in-police-custody-1010554.html
19-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka CM candidates shortlisted? Kateel drops hint in purported audio clip||A purported audio clip of Karnataka BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel talking of a new Karnataka chief minister and big changes in Cabinet has stirred the state's political cauldron. The audio, which went viral on Sunday, has been dubbed as "fake" by Kateel. In the clip, Kateel, speaking in his native Tulu language, is heard saying that the BJP central leadership had shortlisted three candidates for the chief minister's post. The audio comes amid thick speculation that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is on his way out. "There are three candidates shortlisted. There are chances that anyone can become CM... No one from here will become CM. High command will appoint (someone) from Delhi," according to the clip. Further, the voice on the audio clip is heard talking about big changes in the Cabinet: "Eshwarappa, Shettar and team will be out. A team will be formed." KS Eshwarappa is currently the Rural Development & Panchayat Raj (RDPR) Minister whereas Jagadish Shettar, a former chief minister, is the Industries Minister. Soon after the clip went viral, Kateel issued a statement calling it "fake" and urged Yediyurappa to investigate. "This has been done to cause damage to the party," he said. Yediyurappa, 78, was in New Delhi last Friday and Saturday where the BJP top brass is said to have asked him to step down. Yediyurappa has convened the BJP legislature party meeting on July 26, when he completes two years in office.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-cm-candidates-shortlisted-kateel-drops-hint-in-purported-audio-clip-1010303.html
19-07-2021||Mysuru||Sumalatha demands probe into collapse of wall near KRS||Mandya MP Sumalatha on Monday demanded a high-level inquiry as to why the wall near KRS reservoir collapsed. “The government must find out reason for collapse of the wall near KRS. Though there was no threat to KRS reservoir, the government must not ignore the incident,” she told reporters. Sumalatha, who has been alleging that rampant mining in Mandya district has posed threat to the KRS dam, said the government must constitute a high-level committee to probe such incidents. She also said that the government should not be callous about the collapse of the wall. Demanding the immediate ban of all illegal mines, she said that she would raise the issue in Parliament and also meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi to complain about mining activities. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/sumalatha-demands-probe-into-collapse-of-wall-near-krs-1010534.html
19-07-2021||National||Modi congratulates Nepal PM Deuba for winning vote of confidence||In a tweet Modi said, "Congratulations Prime Minister @DeubaSherbdr and best wishes for a successful tenure. I look forward to working with you to further enhance our unique partnership in all sectors, and strengthen our deep-rooted people-to-people ties." Deuba, the 75-year-old chief of the Nepali Congress, secured 165 votes in the 275-member House of Representatives, the Himalayan Times reported. As many as 249 lawmakers participated in the voting process and 83 of them voted against Deuba while one lawmaker remained neutral, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-congratulates-nepal-pm-deuba-for-winning-vote-of-confidence-1010246.html
19-07-2021||National||Low-cost 'made-in-India' speaking valve gives voice to voiceless||Atul Modi, a textile factory worker in Gujarat’s Jamnagar, lost his voice to throat cancer, but not his hope. Atul had to undergo laryngectomy – removal of the voice box or larynx – to get rid of the cancer. However, simple artificial speaking valve developed by a Bengaluru-based start-up Innaumation helped Modi restore his voice and return to regale his friends with jokes and anecdotes with renewed vigour. Developed by Vishal US Rao and Shashank Mahesh, the Aum Voice Prosthesis is a low cost speaking device inserted into the small opening in the throat called stoma. “When pressure is applied on the prosthesis using the thumb, the air from the windpipe passes through the food pipe and starts vibrating to produce voice,” said Rao, the co-founder and Chief Innovation Officer of Innaumation. Rao and Mahesh developed the voice prosthesis device as an Indian alternative to the similar expensive devices sourced from foreign countries. The high costs of the imported prosthesis made restoration of voice for patients undergoing laryngectomy out of reach of those from the economically weaker sections. “The Aum Voice Prosthesis costs Rs 8,000 and comes with a bunch of accessories,” said Mahesh, the co-founder and Director of Innaumation. He said that imported devices were available in the range of Rs 35,000-40,000 without any complementary accessories. Since it was set up in 2016, the Aum Voice Prosthesis has helped restore the voice of more than 700 patients, mostly from economically weaker sections of the society. Mahesh and Rao now plan to take their innovation to foreign shores and aim to create the ‘Aum Voice Chain’. The innovator duo received help to scale up their invention from AssisTech Foundation’s (ATF) Enable Acceleration Programme. “ATF was able to help Innaumation team on operating plan to increase the reach of their product, formulate innovative distribution methods, provide opportunity to partner with Karnataka government and help it get selected in the Tamil Nadu’s Start Up-to-Government initiative,” Prateek Madhav, co-founder and CEO of AssisTech Foundation said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/low-cost-made-in-india-speaking-valve-gives-voice-to-voiceless-1010258.html
19-07-2021||National||India's single-day Covid-19 deaths fall below 500||India saw a single day rise of 38,164 new coronavirus infections, while the death toll climbed to 4,14,108 with 499 fresh fatalities, the lowest in over three months, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The Covid-19 case tally has climbed to 3,11,44,229. The active cases have declined to 4,21,665 and comprise 1.35 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate stands at 97.32 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed.   A decrease of 995 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 14,63,593 tests were conducted on Sunday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 44,54,22,256, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.61 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for 28 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 2.08 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,03,08,456 and the case fatality rate stands at 1.33 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 40.64 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive.    The 499 new fatalities include 180 from Maharashtra and 81 from Kerala. A total of 4,14,108 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,27,031 from Maharashtra, 36,157 from Karnataka, 33,724 from Tamil Nadu, 25,027 from Delhi, 22,719 from Uttar Pradesh, 17,999 from West Bengal and 16,233 from Punjab. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-single-day-covid-19-deaths-fall-below-500-1010285.html
19-07-2021||National||Look forward to working closely with PM Modi to strengthen Nepal-India ties: Deuba||Nepal's new Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba has said that he looks forward to working closely with his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi to strengthen the relations between the two neighbouring countries as well as the people-to-people contacts. Prime Minister Modi immediately congratulated Deuba after he won a vote of confidence in the reinstated House of Representatives on Sunday night. In a tweet Modi said, "Congratulations Prime Minister @DeubaSherbdr and best wishes for a successful tenure. I look forward to working with you to further enhance our unique partnership in all sectors, and strengthen our deep-rooted people-to-people ties." Responding to Prime Minister Modi's tweet, Deuba thanked his Indian counterpart for his congratulatory message and expressed his desire to work closely with him to strengthen the bilateral ties between the two neighbouring countries. "Thank you very much, Prime Minister @narendramodi Ji, for your congratulatory note. I look forward to closely working with you to strengthen the relationship between our two countries and people," Deuba tweeted late Sunday night. Deuba, the 75-year-old President of the Nepali Congress won a trust vote in the reinstated lower House of Representatives and comfortably won it, averting a general election in the Himalayan nation amidst the Covid-19 pandemic. Deuba, who was appointed as the prime minister as per the Article 76(5) of the Constitution on July 12 following Supreme Court's intervention, secured 165 votes in the 275-member House on Sunday. A total of 136 votes were required for Deuba to win Parliament’s confidence. He had to seek a trust vote within one month after being appointed as prime minister. However, in a surprise move, he sought a vote of confidence on the first day of the reinstatement of the House. Deuba’s failure to win the trust vote in the House would have led to dissolution of the House and snap polls within six months in Nepal, which is facing an unprecedented health crisis due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Sunday's outcome of the trust vote paves the way for Prime Minister Deuba to remain in office for next one and half year, until fresh parliamentary election is held, the Nepalese media reported. Previously, Deuba has served as the prime minister on four occasions; first from 1995 to 1997, then from 2001 to 2002, again from 2004 to 2005, and from 2017 to 2018. Nepal plunged into a political crisis on December 20 last year after President Bhandari dissolved the House and announced fresh elections on April 30 and May 10 at the recommendation of Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli, amidst a tussle for power within the ruling Nepal Communist Party (NCP). On February 23, the apex court reinstated the dissolved House of Representatives, in a setback to Oli who was preparing for snap polls. The bilateral ties came under strain under Prime Minister Oil after India opened an 80-km-long strategically crucial road connecting the Lipulekh pass with Dharchula in Uttarakhand on May 8. Nepal protested the inauguration of the road claiming that it passed through its territory. Days later, Nepal came out with a new map showing Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura as its territories. India reacted sharply to the move. In June, Nepal's Parliament approved the new political map of the country featuring areas which India maintains belong to it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/look-forward-to-working-closely-with-pm-modi-to-strengthen-nepal-india-ties-deuba-1010309.html
19-07-2021||National||Four out of every five traffickers in India escape jail due to shoddy probe||The Narendra Modi government is planning to strengthen the anti-trafficking law through a new Bill at the Monsoon Session of Parliament at a time an analysis shows that four in every five persons arrested for trafficking managed to find their way out of jails. Official figures showed that only 324 out of 1,653 people or 19.6% of those arrested on charges of human trafficking were convicted in 2019 while 1,329 people managed acquittal or discharge from cases. Activists attribute the high rate of acquittals to shoddy investigation, lack of proper evidence collection and improper presentation of the case in courts. If one takes the number of cases, it showed that the conviction rate was 21.99% -- only 172 out of a total 782 cases in which trials were completed witnessed acquittal. Maharashtra, which has the highest number of 986 trafficking victims in 2019, saw a dismal 14.3% conviction rate. Only seven cases completed trial, of which only one saw conviction -- one person was jailed while 15 were set free. Not a single case saw completion of trial in Odisha and Rajasthan where there were 876 (in 147 cases) and 664 (in 141 cases) victims respectively. It was also the same case in Karnataka, which had 186 victims in 32 cases, as well as in 12 other states and union territories where cases were reported. Altogether, 2,260 cases of human trafficking cases were reported in 2019 in which 6,616 were victims. The number of cases in 2017 was 2,854 and in 2018, it was 2,278. Among the victims, 6,571 were rescued out of which 228 were from Nepal, 98 from Bangladesh and 63 from Sri Lanka. An analysis of the rescued people showed that the major purpose of human trafficking was for prostitution (2,080 among rescued) followed by forced labour (1,141). One of the prominent legislations that the government intends to pass during the Monsoon Session is the Trafficking of Persons (Prevention, Protection and Rehabilitation) Bill that increases the punishment for human traffickers, including death in extreme cases, assign National Investigation Agency as the prime agency for investigations and provisions for punishing erring public servant, police officer, military or paramilitary personnel, doctor or lawyer who "misuses" the relationship with a trafficked victim. While activists generally welcome the draft of the new Bill, they also raise concerns about the need for strengthening the rights of survivors to reintegration and community-based rehabilitation. They also demand the need for strengthening the role of Anti Human Trafficking Units in different states for better law enforcement. "The Bill has built on the criticisms and feedback that the Ministry of Women and Child Development had received on the 2018 Bill. It also defines human trafficking as an organised crime with international implications and attempts to move away from conflating trafficking with sex work," Pompi Banerjee, a psychologist and activist, associated with Sanjog, said. Roop Sen, a member of  platform for anti-trafficking stakeholders Tafteesh, sought to find fault with the Bill on the count that it does not talk about gathering intelligence and identifying organised trafficking networks and any strategic investigation for identification of traffickers, buyers and users of trafficked persons. Nobel laureate Kailash Satyarthi urged MPs to pass a strong law in the Monsoon Session saying, "as long as children are bought and sold at lesser cost than cattle, no country can call itself civilised. Covid-19 has caused a rise in trafficking, especially of women and children...Our children, their freedom and dignity cannot wait."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/four-out-of-every-five-traffickers-in-india-escape-jail-due-to-shoddy-probe-1010313.html
19-07-2021||National||PM Modi urges MPs, parties to ask sharpest of questions in Parliament but allow govt to respond||As the Monsoon Session of Parliament got under way, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said all MPs and parties must ask the sharpest of questions but also allow the government to respond to them in a cordial environment. Speaking to reporters outside the Parliament, Modi said his government favoured a meaningful debate – both inside the House as well as outside – and asked members to make practical suggestions that can help impart a fresh approach to the fight against Covid-19. “Let this session be effective and dedicated to meaningful discussion. The people of the country want answers and the government is fully prepared to give those answers,” he said. “I will urge all MPs and all the political parties to ask the sharpest of all questions and tough questions, but also allow the government to respond in a cordial environment. Democracy gets strengthened further if truth reaches the people. It bolsters their belief and the nation progresses at a faster pace,” the Prime Minister said. He said the pandemic has the entire world and entire humanity in its grip and hence the Parliament should discuss it in a meaningful manner and on a priority basis. “We want MPs to make all practical suggestions that could impart freshness to the fight against the pandemic and rectify shortcomings if any,” the prime minister said. He urged the floor leaders to take time out on Tuesday evening so that he could share detailed information on the pandemic situation. “I have been talking to the chief ministers from time to time. Discussions are happening on different forums. Since the Parliament is in session, I feel it will be beneficial for the floor leaders to meet and discuss it,” Modi said. Opposition parties have closed ranks to take on the government on a range of issues from the handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, the farmers’ protests against three farm laws and the latest revelations in the Pegasus snooping issue. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-urges-mps-parties-to-ask-sharpest-of-questions-in-parliament-but-allow-govt-to-respond-1010320.html
19-07-2021||National||SC reject Maharashtra plea against order quashing directive capping treatment cost of non-Covid patients||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to interfere with a Bombay High Court order quashing the Maharashtra government notifications regulating the rates chargeable by private hospitals and nursing homes to non-Covid patients. A bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and M R Shah said it is not going to interfere with the high court order as the state government cannot issue such notifications. At the outset, advocate Rahul Chitnis, appearing for the Maharashtra government, said the state has filed an appeal against the October 23, last year order of the high court quashing the notifications relating to capping of price of treatment for non-Covid patients. The bench said that it cannot issue such notifications at the time when the State government itself does not have necessary infrastructure to treat non-Covid patients at government hospitals. “Non-Covid patients are bound to move to private hospitals when you don’t have necessary infrastructure. Sorry, we will not interfere,” the bench said. On October 23, last year, the Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court had said the Maharashtra government does not have powers to frame any law or issue any notification regulating the rates chargeable by private hospitals and nursing homes to non-Covid patients. It had quashed and set aside two notifications issued by the state government in April and May last year to the extent applicable to non-Covid patients in private hospitals and nursing homes. Through the notifications, the government prescribed a rate card for private hospitals and nursing homes while treating non-Covid patients. The notifications said private hospitals and nursing homes are required to keep 80 per cent of their beds reserved to treat Covid-19 patients and the remaining 20 per cent could be used to treat non-Covid patients. The court had further held that the Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act and Covid Regulations do not empower the state government to issue directions in relation to non-Covid patients being treated in private hospitals and nursing homes. The high court passed the order on petitions filed by Hospitals' Association of Nagpur and one Dr Pradeep Arora against the notifications. The petition had said the fundamental right to practice any profession under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution includes the right to charge rates reasonable and proportionate to the nature and quality of medical treatment and allied services rendered to non-Covid patients. The rates prescribed by the state government are unreasonably low and to insist upon providing treatment and services to non-Covid patients at such rates cannot be justified, the petition stated. The state government had opposed the petitions while contending that there was a medical emergency situation prevailing in the country due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The high court had held the government's notifications were "clearly an encroachment over the fundamental rights of the petitioner under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India to practise any profession".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-reject-maharashtra-plea-against-order-quashing-directive-capping-treatment-cost-of-non-covid-patients-1010328.html
19-07-2021||National||Cannot be in jail overnight for this: SC orders immediate bail to Manipur activist for Facebook post on cow dung||The Supreme Court on Monday ordered the immediate release of Manipur activist Erendro Leichombam, detained under the National Security Act, for a Facebook post stating cow dung and cow urine will not cure Covid-19 after the death of state BJP chief Prof Tikendra Singh. "We can't allow detention of this person even for a day," a bench presided over Justice D Y Chandrachud after hearing advocate Shadan Farasat for L Raghumani Singh, father of the activist. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, for his part, requested the court for hearing the matter on Tuesday. The court, however, made it clear that it would pass the order for his release on Monday itself. "He cannot be in jail overnight for this," the bench said. "We are of view that continued detention of the petitioner would amount to violation of rights to life and liberty. We direct his release as an interim order of this court," the bench said in its order. The court directed its Registrar Judicial to communicate the order to Manipur Central Jail for release of the activist before 5 pm on Monday. The counsel for the petitioner submitted that he would press for compensation on the next hearing.  The petitioner contended that his son was detained under the NSA due to malice on May 17, the day he was granted bail for his Facebook post of May 13 wherein he reminded the BJP leaders that the cure for Covid-19 is science and not cow dung or cow urine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cannot-be-in-jail-overnight-for-this-sc-orders-immediate-bail-to-manipur-activist-for-facebook-post-on-cow-dung-1010330.html
19-07-2021||National||Monsoon Session: Opposition creates ruckus in Lok Sabha, prevents PM Modi from introducing new ministers||The Monsoon Session of the Lok Sabha began on a stormy note on Monday with the Opposition creating a ruckus and preventing Prime Minister Narendra Modi from introducing his newly-inducted Union ministers to the House. As the disruptions continued despite Speaker Om Birla's repeated pleas to maintain decorum, the House was adjourned after nearly 40 minutes till 2 pm. The prime minister said he was expecting members of the House to show enthusiasm by thumping their desks as a large number of those from the Dalits, Scheduled Tribes and OBC communities, as well as sons of farmers and those from economically backward and rural backgrounds, have become ministers in the recent rejig. "However, probably, some people did not like that people of such background have become ministers and that is why they are now conducting themselves with such behaviour," the prime minister said. Modi appealed to the Speaker to consider the introduction of the ministers with the submission of their list to the House. Responding to the prime minister's appeal, the Speaker announced that the House has accepted the introduction of the ministers. Criticising the Opposition for not allowing the prime minister to introduce the new ministers, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said such a thing was happening for the first time in his 24 years of parliamentary career. "The strength of Parliament is in maintaining healthy traditions. Both Opposition and Treasury should maintain healthy traditions. Even if one or 50 new ministers are inducted, the whole House listens to their introduction by the prime minister with decorum... This is sad, unfortunate and an unhealthy approach," Singh, who is also the Deputy Leader of Lok Sabha, said. Earlier, four newly elected members --- Maddila Gurumoorthy (YSR Congress), Mangal Suresh Angadi (BJP), M P Abdussamad Samadani (IUML), Vijayakumar (Congress) --- took oath as the House convened after a gap of nearly four months. Following this, the prime minister stood up to introduce the newly inducted ministers who had taken oath on July 7 following a major rejig in the council of ministers. As soon Modi stood up, Opposition MPs started shouted slogans and disrupted the proceedings. The speaker appealed to the Opposition members to not disrupt the proceedings as it is the tradition of the House for the prime minister to introduce new ministers. "You have been in power too. You should not lower the dignity of the House. You are breaking a good tradition. This is the largest democracy and you are setting a bad precedent. I appeal you to maintain the dignity of the House," Birla told the Opposition members. However, they did not relent. The House also paid tributes to 40 former members who passed away in recent months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/monsoon-session-opposition-creates-ruckus-in-lok-sabha-prevents-pm-modi-from-introducing-new-ministers-1010331.html
19-07-2021||National||Telangana Congress chief, other leaders put under 'house arrest'||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) President and Congress MP A Revanth Reddy and several other senior party leaders were on Monday put under "house arrest" at different places here, police said. Revanth Reddy, Congress Lok Sabha member from Malkajgiri, had alleged that there were irregularities to the tune of Rs 1,000 crore in the e-auction of lands in Kokapet conducted by the Telangana government last week. The Telangana Congress had planned a dharna at Kokapet on Monday over the land auctions and ahead of the protest, scores of party leaders including Revanth Reddy, Sanga Reddy MLA and Telangana Congress working president T Jayaprakash Reddy, Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka, Mohammed Ali Shabbir were among several other senior leaders who were placed under "house arrest". "They (Telangana Congress leaders) were placed under house arrest to maintain law and order," a senior police official told PTI. Revanth Reddy, in a letter addressed to the Lok Sabha Speaker, said he was "prevented" from attending Parliament which offends the parliamentary privileges during the progress of the session. According to him, he wanted to raise the issue in Parliament against the selling of government land at "throwaway prices to their relatives and TRS ruling party functionaries by the state government". "Despite knowing the fact, that I have to attend the Parliament session which is scheduled from today and repeated requests, to the officials concerned, The Telangana State Police at the instance of Chief Minister (Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao), chief Secretary, DGP have obstructed my discharge of duties as a Parliamentarian to attend the Parliament and voice out the people's concerns," Revanth Reddy said in the letter. The TPCC chief also tweeted: "Fearing I will take up the Kokapet lands sale scam in the parliament, police at the instance of CM and DGP prevented me from attending the parliament session. This is violation of my parliamentary privileges as an MP No matter what @inctelangana will bring truth to light." However, the ruling TRS had rejected the allegations made by Revanth Reddy and said the process was transparent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/telangana-congress-chief-other-leaders-put-under-house-arrest-1010340.html
19-07-2021||National||'My journey has just begun': Sidhu shares picture of late father, a Congress worker||Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday thanked the party leadership for appointing him the president of the Punjab unit and said he will work further to strengthen the organisation in the state. Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday night appointed the cricketer-turned-politician as the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) chief. Sidhu, who replaced Sunil Jakhar, was elevated to the position despite opposition from Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. "Today, to work further for the same dream and strengthen the invincible fort of the Congress in Punjab. I am grateful to Hon'ble Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi for bestowing their faith in me and giving me this pivotal responsibility," Sidhu tweeted. "Will work along every member of Congress family in Punjab to fulfil the mission of 'JittegaPunjab' as a humble Congress worker to give power of the people back to the people through the Punjab model and the high command's 18-point agenda ... My journey has just begun,” he said in another tweet. The Congress also appointed four working presidents to assist Sidhu in the run-up to the assembly elections. The new working presidents are Sangat Singh Gilzian, Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Pawan Goel and Kuljit Singh Nagra. In another tweet, Sidhu also shared a picture of his father with former prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru. "To share prosperity, privilege and freedom not just among a few but among all, My father a Congress worker left a royal household and joined the freedom struggle, was sentenced to death for his patriotic work reprieved by the King's Amnesty became DCC President, MLA, MLC and advocate general," Sidhu tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/my-journey-has-just-begun-sidhu-shares-picture-of-late-father-a-congress-worker-1010342.html
19-07-2021||National||Due to 'vaccine for all, free vaccine' campaign, in 24 days coverage touched 30-40 crore: Mansukh Mandaviya||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Monday said it took 85 days to inoculate 10 crore people against Covid-19, while due to the "vaccine for all, free vaccine" campaign, it took only 24 days to reach 30-40 crore vaccination coverage. The new phase of universalisation of Covid-19 vaccination started from June 21. The inoculation drive has been ramped up through availability of more vaccines, advance vaccine availability to states and union territories (UTs) for better planning by them and streamlining the supply chain, according to the Union health ministry. In the new phase, the Centre procures and supplies at no cost 75 per cent of the vaccines being produced in the country to states and UTs. India's Covid-19 vaccination coverage has exceeded 40.64 crore, according to health ministry data updated in Monday morning. "The world's largest and fastest vaccination campaign under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi is continuously creating new dimensions," Mandaviya said in a tweet in Hindi. "In the initial days, it took 85 days to vaccinate 10 crore, while due to the 'vaccine for all, free vaccine' campaign, it took India only 24 days to touch the figure of 30 crore to 40 crore," he tweeted. The ministry said 40,64,81,493 vaccine doses have been administered through 50,69,232 sessions, according to the provisional report till 7 am on Monday. It said that 13,63,123 vaccine doses were administered in a span of 24 hours. Out of the people infected since the beginning of the pandemic, 3,03,08,456 people have already recovered from Covid-19 and 38,660 patients have recovered in a span of 24 hours. This constitutes an overall recovery rate of 97.32 per cent, which is showing a sustained increasing trend.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/due-to-vaccine-for-all-free-vaccine-campaign-in-24-days-coverage-touched-30-40-crore-mansukh-mandaviya-1010348.html
19-07-2021||National||SC asks Kerala govt to respond to plea against lockdown relaxation for Bakrid despite high Covid-19 cases||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Kerala government to respond to a plea questioning three-day relaxation in lockdown restrictions for Bakrid festival despite high number of Covid-19 cases in the cases. A bench of Justices R F Nariman and B R Gavai decided to consider the application filed by P K D Nambiar, a Delhi resident, on Tuesday. The application was filed in the suo motu case initiated by the Supreme Court in connection with Uttar Pradesh government's decision on Kawad Yatra.  On Monday, the top court disposed of the matter with regard to Kawad Yatra in Uttar Pradesh following the state government's decision to cancel it. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for Nambiar, pointed towards high number of cases in Kerala. He said positivity rate in Kerala was 10.9 per cent, while in UP, it was 0.42 per cent when the court took suo motu cognisance of Kawad Yatra. Kerala government counsel sought time to file a reply in the matter. The plea contended that despite discontentment shown by the top court over the yatra, the Kerala government was acting in a casual manner by relaxing Covid norms. "To the utter dismay of India's citizens, Kerala government announced a three-day relaxation of lockdown restrictions on July 18, 19 and 20 keeping in view the upcoming Bakrid festival," the plea said.   The plea said it was shocking that in a medical emergency, the government was playing with lives of citizens through such measures. It also claimed the Kerala government’s move was in total contravention with July 16 order by the court. On July 16, the top court had pointed out that fear of a third Covid wave loomed large over all Indians as it asked the Uttar Pradesh government to reconsider its decision on Kawad Yatra.  "We are prima facie view that this is a matter concerning every citizen and all other sentiments, including religious, are subservient to right to life of citizens," the bench had then said. Subsequently, the UP government cancelled the yatra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-kerala-govt-to-respond-to-plea-against-lockdown-relaxation-for-bakrid-despite-high-covid-19-cases-1010356.html
19-07-2021||National||Delta variant accounts for 80% of new Covid cases, says Government expert panel chief||The Delta variant was primarily responsible for the second wave of Covid-19 in the country, accounting for over 80 per cent of new cases, Dr N K Arora, co-chair of Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium said, underlining that the cases may go up if a new, more infectious variant comes. The variant is also around 40-60 percent more transmissible than its predecessor, Alpha variant, and has already spread to more than 80 countries, including the UK, the US and Singapore. The Delta Plus variant—AY.1 and AY.2—has so far been detected in 55-60 cases across 11 states, including Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, and Madhya Pradesh and is still being studied for its transmissibility, virulence, and vaccine escape characteristics, Dr Arora said, according to a Union Health Ministry statement. The Delta variant has mutations in its spike protein, which helps it bind to the ACE2 receptors present on the surface of the cells more firmly, making it more transmissible and capable of evading the body's immunity, Dr Arora said. "The B.1.617.2, a variant of Covid-19 known as the Delta variant, was first identified in October 2020 in India, and was primarily responsible for the second wave in the country, today accounting for over 80 percent of new Covid-19 cases," he said. It emerged in Maharashtra and travelled northwards along the western states of the country before entering the central and the eastern states. On whether it causes more severe disease as compared to other variants, Dr Arora said there are studies that show that there are some mutations in this variant that promote syncytium formation.  "Besides, on invading a human cell, it replicates faster. It leads to a strong inflammatory response in organs like the lungs. However it is difficult to say that disease due to delta variant is more severe. The age profile and the deaths during the second wave in India were quite similar to that seen during first wave," he stated. "The Delta Plus variant—AY.1 and AY.2—has so far been detected in 55-60 cases across 11 states, including Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, and Madhya Pradesh. AY.1 is also found in countries like Nepal, Portugal, Switzerland, Poland, Japan but AY.2 is less prevalent. The variant is still being studied for its transmissibility, virulence, and vaccines escape characteristics," he said. Dr Arora said current vaccines are effective against Delta variant as per the studies undertaken by ICMR on the issue. On some parts of the country still witnessing a spurt in the number of cases, he said, though there is a significant dip in the number of cases in most parts of the country, some regions are witnessing a high-Test Positivity Rate (TPR) particularly in the north-eastern part and several districts in the southern states, most of these cases could be due to the Delta variant. On whether future waves could be prevented, Dr Arora said a virus begins infecting a part of the population, which is most susceptible and also exposed to the infection. It diminishes after it successfully infects a large proportion of the population and strikes back when the immunity developed in the people post-natural infection fades.  "The cases may go up if a new, more infectious variant comes. In other words, next wave will be driven by a virus variant to which significant proportion of population is susceptible," he said. The second wave is still going on. Any future waves will be controlled and delayed if more and more people get vaccinated and most importantly, people follow Covid-Appropriate Behaviour effectively, especially till a substantial part of our population gets vaccinated, he stressed. People need to focus on vaccination and adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour to manage Covid-19, he added.  There is a need to keep a strict vigil on the emergence of variants of concern and outbreaks so that they can be contained before they spread to a larger region. The Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG), established in December 2020, was a consortium of 10 laboratories. Recently 18 more laboratories became part of it, he Dr Arora said. The INSACOG is a consortium of 28 laboratories  for whole genome sequencing in the context of Covid-19 pandemic  and was established on December 26, 2020. The idea is to have a strong network of laboratories to do genomic surveillance of the SARS-CoV-2 and correlate whole genomics sequencing (WGS) data with clinical and epidemiological data to see whether or not a variant is more transmissible, causes more severe disease, escaping immunity or causing breakthrough infections, affecting vaccine efficacy, and diagnosed by current diagnostic tests, he said. The National Center for Disease Control (NCDC) analyses this data. The entire country has been divided into geographical regions and each lab is given the responsibility of one particular region.  "We have formed 180-190 clusters with around four districts in each cluster. Regular random swab samples and samples of patients who develop severe illness, vaccine breakthrough infections, and other atypical clinical presentations, are collected and sent to regional laboratories for sequencing. The current capacity of the country is to sequence over 50,000 samples per month; earlier it was approximately 30,000 samples," he said. The new mutations/variants of concern are cultured and scientific studies are undertaken to see the impact on infectiousness, virulence, vaccine efficacy and immune escape properties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delta-variant-accounts-for-80-of-new-covid-cases-says-government-expert-panel-chief-1010361.html
19-07-2021||National||SC says it can't issue blanket order against FIRs over PM's posters||The Supreme Court Monday asked a petitioner to bring to its notice the cases registered and people arrested for allegedly pasting posters critical of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in connection with the vaccination drive against Covid-19. The apex court said it cannot issue blanket orders to police not to register FIRs over pasting of posters criticising the Centre's vaccination policy. A bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and M R Shah gave petitioner Pradeep Kumar Yadav a week to bring to its notice individual cases registered against people and said that he should have done his homework instead of just relying on newspaper reports. Yadav said cases have been lodged in NCT of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Lakshadweep and police may be directed to give the copy of FIR to him. The bench said, “We also read newspapers. The Lakshadweep controversy was something different. The woman in question was granted anticipatory bail from Kerala High Court. Don’t bring that controversy in this matter. You tell us about the cases registered in Delhi and other places”. The top court refused to issue any direction to the police saying it would amount to issuing notice to them. “You should do your homework. We are not issuing any direction to the police,” the bench said and posted the matter for further hearing next week. Yadav has filed a plea seeking to quash the FIRs registered by Delhi Police for allegedly pasting posters critical of Modi in connection with the vaccination drive against Covid-19. He has sought direction to Delhi Police Commissioner not to register any further cases/FIRs with regard to Covid-19 posters /advertisement/ brochures which have surfaced in context to ongoing vaccination drive. Yadav, who is also a practising advocate, has said that he is seeking indulgence of this court to intervene with the “illegal arrest of innocent general public” for their speech and expression by way of pamphlets affixed on the wall which is now spread in social media. He said the court has held in a catena of cases that freedom of speech and expression with regard to the public cause is a fundamental right of every citizen guaranteed under the Constitution of India. The advocate referred to top court's 2015 verdict in Shreya Singhal case in which section 66A of IT Act was quashed and the recent order in suo motu case on Covid management, in which state authorities were directed not to register any criminal case against the public seeking medical help in the social media. “In contrast to decisions of this court the authorities are registering FIR against the innocent persons over their hate speech against the Prime Minister with regard to his official functions during the second wave of Covid-19 crisis and Government vaccine policies,” the plea has said. The petitioner claimed that at least 25 FIRs have been registered and 25 people have been arrested in connection with posters that have surfaced across the capital. “The petitioner herein is seeking quashing of FIR/ complaint, direction to the Commissioner of Police, DGP, not to register any other case/ FIR in relation to Covid-19 posters /Advertisement/ brochures surfaced in context to vaccination and case as the citizen have questioned about the status of vacations policy”, the plea said. It said that the FIRs have been lodged under IPC Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), and those under the Delhi Prevention of Defacement of Property Act and Epidemic Act. The petition has said that a 19-year-old school dropout youth, a 30-year-old e-rickshaw driver, a 61-year-old maker of wooden frames are among the 25 people arrested by Delhi Police for allegedly pasting posters with comments critical of the Prime Minister regarding the Covid vaccination drive. The plea has also sought directions to Centre and Delhi police commissioner for calling of records about the FIRs registered in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-says-it-cant-issue-blanket-order-against-firs-over-pms-posters-1010365.html
19-07-2021||National||Delhi Police Commissioner inspects security arrangements at Red Fort, border areas||Ahead of the Monsoon Session of Parliament, Independence Day and a proposed farmers' protest outside Parliament, Delhi Police Commissioner Balaji Srivastava visited the borders and Red Fort area in the national capital to check the security arrangements across the city, officials said on Monday. Srivastava conducted a city-wide patrolling on Sunday night visiting the borders, Red Fort and New Delhi areas to oversee the police arrangements and preparedness ahead of Independence Day, a statement said. According to the statement, over 30,000 police personnel were on ground, patrolling and picketing all across the city during Sunday night patrolling. The Commissioner interacted with senior officers along with their staff deployed on duty at the spots, while inspecting the arrangements at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders besides the Red Fort and Parliament vicinities, it stated. Stressing on the need for vigil and alertness on the part of every ground personnel on duty in the national capital, the Commissioner motivated policemen and women to remain prepared 24x7, saying, “Delhi Police has been entrusted with public trust to keep the capital safe and secure. The city never sleeps, neither do we.” He directed the Deputy Commissioners of Police to look after the welfare of the personnel on deployment by making arrangements for timely food, proper shelter and rotation of duties to the best possible extent, as police personnel make a lot of personal sacrifices in the call of duty, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-police-commissioner-inspects-security-arrangements-at-red-fort-border-areas-1010373.html
19-07-2021||National||Illegal surveillance not possible: IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on Pegasus report||Dismissing media reports on the use of Pegasus software to snoop on Indians, IT and Communications Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on Monday said in Lok Sabha that the allegations levelled just ahead of the Monsoon session of Parliament are aimed at maligning Indian democracy. In a suo motu statement in the Lower House, Vaishnaw said that with several checks and balances being in place, "any sort of illegal surveillance" by unauthorised persons is not possible in India. "A highly sensational story was published by a web portal last night. Many over-the-top allegations were made around this story. The press reports appeared a day before the Monsoon Session of Parliament. This can't be a coincidence," Vaishnaw said. "In India, there is a well established procedure through which lawful interception of electronic communication is carried out for the purpose of national security, particularly on the occurrence of any public emergency or in the interest of public safety, by agencies at the Centre and States. The requests for these lawful interceptions of electronic communication are made as per relevant rules under the provisions of section 5(2) of Indian Telegraph Act,1885 and section 69 of the Information technology, 2000," he said. "Each case of interception or monitoring is approved by the competent authority... There is an established oversight mechanism in the form of a review committee headed by the Union Cabinet Secretary. In case of state governments, such cases are reviewed by a committee headed by the Chief Secretary concerned. The law also provides an adjudication process for those adversely affected by any incident," he said. "The procedure therefore ensures that any interception or monitoring of any information is done as per due process of law. The framework and institutions have withstood the test of time," the Minister said. At least 40 journalists and around a dozen activists, including the Bhima Koregaon case accused, have figured in a leaked list of potential targets for surveillance using hacking software 'Pegasus' sold by the Israeli surveillance company NSO Group. The leaked database contains around 300 verified Indian mobile telephone numbers including those of ministers, Opposition leaders, the legal community, businessmen, government officials, scientists, rights activists and others, The Wire reported on Sunday night. The IT minister said that without subjecting the phone to this technical analysis, it's not possible to conclusively state whether it witnessed an attempted hack or successfully compromised. "The allegation is that individuals linked to these phone numbers for being spied upon. However, the report says that the presence of a phone number in the data does not reveal whether a device was infected by Pegasus or subjected to an attempted hack," he added. "We can't fault those who haven't read the news story in detail and I request all members of House to examine issues on facts and logic. The basis of this report is that there is a consortium that has got access to a leaked database of 50,000 phone numbers," he said. Vaishnaw said that in the past, similar claims were made regarding the use of Pegasus on WhatsApp. "Those reports had no factual basis and were denied by all parties. Press reports of 18 July 2021 also appear to be an attempt to malign Indian democracy and its well-established institutions."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/illegal-surveillance-not-possible-it-minister-ashwini-vaishnaw-on-pegasus-report-1010376.html
19-07-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: Positivity rate dips but norms violation a cause of concern||In a positive trend, India has been witnessing a consistent decline in the Covid-19's weekly positivity rate, which has now fallen to 2.61 per cent.  Although the second wave is still not over, the decline in the number of new cases and deaths in most of the states has given the nation a sigh of relief. PM Modi recently said the surge in coronavirus does not happen on its own but due to violation of Covid norms, and hence, any carelessness at this point can nullify all the gains till date.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-positivity-rate-dips-but-norms-violation-a-cause-of-concern-1010377.html
19-07-2021||National||Hospitals have become money-minting machines that fleece patients: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday expressed its annoyance over hospitals having inadequate safety equipment, saying those have become a money minting business, thriving on human distress, and it is better that those were closed.  The court said state governments can provide better hospitals, instead of allowing private hospitals operate from small residential buildings. “Hospitals have become a large industry now, which is based on human distress and we cannot let them prosper at the cost of lives. Let such hospitals be closed," a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said. The court pulled up the Gujarat government for extending the deadline for hospitals till June, 2022 in connection to building-use permissions. The top court told the state government to withdraw the notification that gives relaxation to hospitals.  The bench pointed out that one patient who had recovered from Covid and was to be released the next day, died due to fire, and also two nurses were burnt alive.  “These are human tragedies which have unfolded before our eyes. Then, we go on extending time for these hospitals," the bench said. "Hospitals have become a real estate industry, and instead of providing succour to patients in distress, it is widely felt that they have become money minting machines, which fleece patients," the bench said. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta asked the court to visualise a situation where a 10-story building with four-five bedded hospital, which was required for Covid treatment, did not have building-use permission. If those hospitals were required to be closed, total 30,000 beds could become unavailable, he submitted. The bench, however, said that there was no point in condoning lapses of these nursing homes which were not supposed to be those buildings in the first place.  “Let state provide those facilities and Covid care centres. We can’t have them in these small residential buildings," the bench said, hearing a suo motu matter relating to fire tragedies in Covid-19 hospitals across the country following incidents in Rajkot and Ahmedabad. Referring to a government notification on adherence to the norms till June 2022, the bench said, "Once a mandamus is there, it cannot be overridden by an executive notification like this. You now give a carte blanche and say hospitals don't have to adhere till 2022 and people will continue dying and be burnt..." The court also strongly condemned a report by a commission on the issue of fire safety in hospitals, which was filed in a sealed cover.  "What is this report in sealed cover by commission, etc? It is not a nuclear secret," the bench said. On December 20, 2020, the top court directed all state governments to carry out fire audit of each Covid Hospital in every district at least once in a month and inform the deficiency to the management of the hospital and report for taking follow-up action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hospitals-have-become-money-minting-machines-that-fleece-patients-sc-1010385.html
19-07-2021||National||Deuba says Modi promised early supply of Made-in-India vaccines to Nepal||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday assured his new counterpart in Kathmandu, Sher Bahadur Deuba, of “early supply” of anti-Covid-19 vaccines from India to Nepal, the neighbouring country’s government stated after a phone-call between the two leaders. Modi’s assurance to Deuba of “early supply” of Covid-19 vaccines indicated that his government was planning to restart sending out the “Made-in-India” Covid-19 vaccines to Nepal. New Delhi had suspended supplying vaccines to foreign countries after the brutal second Covid-19 wave swept India and shortage of jabs available for inoculation programme within the country came to the fore. “We shared views on further strengthening bilateral ties. PM Modi assured early supply of Covid Vaccines to Nepal,” Deuba posted on Twitter.  The Modi Government also drew flak from the opposition parties for sending out Made-in-India Covid-19 vaccines to foreign countries instead of first ensuring availability of adequate number of doses for people of the country. India supplied 24.48 lakh Covid-19 vaccines to Nepal between January 21 and March 5 this year – 11 lakh doses as grant, 10 lakh as commercial export and 3.48 lakh through COVAX initiative launched by the World Health Organization for equitable distribution of the antidote against SARS-CoV-2 infection. No vaccine was sent out over the past few months as the government prioritized domestic inoculation programme. Nepal is one of the countries where China has been trying to elbow out India to spread its geopolitical influence. After New Delhi had to suspend its Vaccine-Maitri initiative, Beijing stepped in to fill the void and so far donated to Nepal 1.8 million anti-Covid-19 vaccines developed by Sinopharm of China. During a recent courtesy call with Deuba, Beijing’s envoy to Kathmandu, Hou Yanqi, in fact promised the Nepalese new Prime Minister that China would donate another 1.6 million doses of vaccines to Nepal soon. Beijing has also been supplying vaccines to other countries in the neighbourhood of India, including Bhutan, Maldives, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and of course Pakistan. “In a cordial telephone conversation today, Prime Minister of India @narendramodi congratulated Prime Minister @DeubaSherbdr. The two PMs discussed further strengthening of bilateral relations. PM India assured early supply of COVID Vaccines to Nepal,” the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Government of Nepal posted on Twitter after Modi spoke to Deuba over phone.  The two Prime Ministers “discussed, in particular, ways to strengthen cooperation and coordination in the context of ongoing effort against the Covid-19 pandemic”, the Ministry of External Affairs of the Government of India stated in New Delhi, albeit without any specific reference to the assurance of “early supply” of vaccines to Nepal. Deuba took over the top office in Kathmandu on July 13 – a day after the Supreme Court of Nepal ordered him to be appointed as the Prime Minister of Nepal, replacing K P Sharma Oli as he had violated the constitution by dissolving parliament. Soon after Deuba won the Vote of Confidence in Nepalese Parliament on Sunday, Modi congratulated him on Twitter. He followed it up with the phone-call to his counterpart on Monday. “We will work together to further enhance the wide-ranging cooperation between India and Nepal, including in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic,” he tweeted after speaking to Deuba. The Modi Government sent out 107.15 lakh doses of the Made-in-India vaccines to foreign nations as grant till April 22, in addition to the 357.92 lakh doses exported commercially and 198.628 lakh doses as contribution to the COVAX. It, however, paused its “Vaccine-Maitri” initiative after the shortage of the jabs came to the fore and slowed down the inoculation programme in India. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deuba-says-modi-promised-early-supply-of-made-in-india-vaccines-to-nepal-1010389.html
19-07-2021||National||Regulators probing Adani group companies, MoS Finance tells Parliament||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) and customs authorities are investigating some Adani Group companies for non-compliance of rules, Minister of State for Finance, Pankaj Chaudhary told parliament on Monday. It was not immediately clear when Sebi, or the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) launched the investigation. Chaudhary did not name which companies were involved. Shares of Adani group companies, which operate airports and ports, power generation and transmission, coal and gas trading, closed between 1.1 per cent -4.8 per cent lower on Monday. "Sebi is investigating some Adani Group companies with regard to compliance with SEBI Regulations. Further, the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) is investigating certain entities belonging to the Adani Group," Chaudhary said. Stocks of companies controlled by Gautam Adani last month recorded their biggest-ever declines in the week ending June 18, after Economic Times reported the accounts of three Mauritius-based foreign investors in Adani companies had been frozen. Shares in the six Adani companies have fallen between 12.9 per cent-44.9 per cent in the five weeks after the Economic Times report. The stocks have cumulatively lost over $37.6 billion in just over a month after the report, even after Adani rejected the article as "blatantly erroneous". A spokesman for the Adani group did not immediately respond to an email seeking comment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/regulators-probing-adani-group-companies-mos-finance-tells-parliament-1010391.html
19-07-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi, Ashwini Vaishnaw among Pegasus's potential targets: Report||Pegasus snooping scandal snowballed into a political potboiler on Monday with latest revelations showed that Union Ministers Ashwini Vaishnaw and Prahlad Patel, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, top Trinamool Congress leader Abhishek Banerjee, election strategist Prashant Kishor and former Election Commissioner Ashok Lavasa were either spied or were potential targets. Five friends and at least two aides of Rahul, 18 numbers of family and associates of Vaishnaw and Patel, a former close aide of Union Minister Smriti Irani, an aide of BJP leader Vasundhara Raje, late VHP leader Pravin Togadia and the sexual harassment victim and her husband in the case involving former Chief Justice Ranjan Gogoi were also in the leaked list of targets or potential targets of the snooping using Israeli spyware Pegasus, The Wire reported. The new revelations will rock the Parliament on Tuesday, with the non-NDA parties all set to raise the issue of Opposition leaders being targeted through snooping. Israeli company NSO Group, which owns Pegasus, has maintained that it sells its product only to "vetted" governments. It also came on a day when new Information and Technology Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw, who himself was a possible target of snooping, made a statement in Lok Sabha rubbishing the 'Pegasus Project' reportage while questioning the timing of the report saying it was an attempt aimed at "maligning Indian democracy". Top virologist Gagandeep Kang, who has been critical of the Modi government's Covid-19 handling, was also a potential target for surveillance way back in 2018 at a time she was dealing with the fight against the Nipah virus. The report said Rahul was the potential target for surveillance -- it could not be conclusively proven that he was snooped as his phone was not available for forensic analysis -- ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections while Lavasa's phone was chosen for surveillance weeks after he dissented against other two Election Commissioners who ruled in favour of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah on complaints of poll code violations. Kishor's phone was broken into for surveillance during the recently concluded West Bengal Assembly election while an earlier attempt to break into his phone in the run-up to 2019 Lok Sabha polls was unsuccessful. Banerjee, also the nephew of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and considered her successor, was also a potential target for surveillance. The report said that traces of Pegasus on Kishor's phone were also detected in 14 days last month and 12 days this month, including on July 13 when he met Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi in Delhi. In fact, a hack of Kishor's phone occurred even on the date The Wire met him and artificial intelligence helped conduct forensic analysis on it, it said. "Targeted surveillance of the type you describe whether in regard to me, other leaders of the opposition or indeed any law-abiding citizen of India is illegal and deplorable. If your information is correct, the scale and nature of surveillance you describe goes beyond an attack on the privacy of individuals. It is an attack on the democratic foundations of our country," Rahul was quoted by The Wire as saying. On Sunday, it had reported that the leaked database, which was accessed by Paris-based media nonprofit Forbidden Stories and Amnesty International and shared with select media groups internationally, had at least 40 journalists and around a dozen activists, including the Bhima Koregaon case accused, who were potential targets for surveillance using Pegasus. Vaishnaw's name was revealed in the report less than an hour after he made the statement in Lok Sabha. The 50-year-old bureaucrat-turned-entrepreneur-turned-politician was inducted into Modi's Cabinet only on July 7 and the leaked database showed that he had become the target for possible surveillance in 2017, at least two years before he joined the BJP. Another number, apparently listed in the name of his wife, also appears to have been selected, according to the report. In the case of Patel, who is a bete noire of Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, the report said the leaked database not only had his or his wife's numbers but also that of at least 15 of his close political associates and aides. Even his cook and gardener were potential targets for surveillance, the report said. Lavasa was chosen as a target for potential surveillance weeks after he submitted his dissent on complaints against Modi and Shah 2019. Incidentally in September 2019, he and his family were under the scanner of investigative agencies on charges of tax evasion. Not just Lavasa but Association for Democratic Reforms' Jagdeep Chhokar and Indian Express reporter Ritika Chopra, who covers the Election Commission and reported on Lavasa's dissent notes as well as the differences within the Election Commission were also under the Pegasus scanner. The report also said that three phone numbers belonging to the Supreme Court staffer who accused former Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi, who is presently a Rajya Sabha nominated member, of sexual harassment in April 2019 were selected as potential targets for surveillance. A total of 11 phone numbers associated with the complainant and her family were selected, making them among the largest cluster of associated phone numbers in the India-leg of the Pegasus Project, the report added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-ashwini-vaishnaw-among-pegasuss-potential-targets-report-1010392.html
19-07-2021||National||Projects in Bihar, Kerala sanctioned for development of rural circuits: Tour Min G Kishan Reddy||The Ministry of Tourism has sanctioned projects in Bihar and Kerala for the development of rural circuits in the country, Tourism Minister G Kishan Reddy informed Parliament on Monday. In a reply to a question in Lok Sabha, Reddy in a written statement said that the Swadesh Darshan Scheme is planned for the integrated development of theme-based tourist circuits for the development of tourism infrastructure in the country. "Recognising the potential of rural tourism in the country, the ministry has identified rural circuit as one of the thematic circuits for development under this scheme and is aimed at leveraging tourism as a force multiplier for revitalising the rural economy and for giving both domestic and international tourist glimpse of the rural aspects of the country," he said. Reddy also said that the projects for development of tourism-related infrastructure, including rural tourism projects or proposals, are identified for development under the circuit in consultation with the state governments/Union Territory administrations and are sanctioned subject to availability of funds, submission of suitable detailed project reports, adherence to scheme guidelines and utilisation of funds released earlier. "Based on the above criteria, the ministry has sanctioned projects for development of rural circuits in the country under the Swadesh Darshan Scheme in Bihar and Kerala," he said. In Bihar, the Rs 44.65 crore project of developing the Gandhi Circuit: Bhitiharwa Chandrahia-Turkaulia was sanctioned in 2017-18. In Kerala, the development of Malanad Malabar Cruise Tourism project at a cost of Rs 80.37 crore was sanctioned in 2018-2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/projects-in-bihar-kerala-sanctioned-for-development-of-rural-circuits-tour-min-g-kishan-reddy-1010394.html
19-07-2021||National||Covid curfew extended for another week in Uttarakhand with more relaxations||Covid curfew in Uttarakhand has been extended for another week from Tuesday with more relaxations.          Announcing this on Monday, Cabinet Minister Subodh Uniyal said people travelling from one place to another within Uttarakhand will no longer be required to carry a negative RT-PCR or Rapid Antigen test report.         Earlier, it was mandatory for people going from plain areas of the state to the hill districts to carry negative RT-PCR or Rapid Antigen test reports.   Shops and business establishments in the state can now open from 8 am to 9 pm six days a week, Uniyal said.  The earlier opening time for them in Uttarakhand was 8 am to 7 pm.          Water parks have also been permitted to open with 50 per cent capacity from Tuesday, he said. Rest of the conditions will remain the same during the extended curfew that begins on Tuesday, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-curfew-extended-for-another-week-in-uttarakhand-with-more-relaxations-1010398.html
19-07-2021||National||Pegasus spyware issue: Opposition slams govt over alleged phone-tapping, seeks probe||Opposition parties Monday hit out at the government over the alleged phone-tapping of prominent personalities in the country using Israeli Pegasus spyware and demanded an independent judicial or parliamentary committee probe. An international media consortium reported Sunday that more than 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including of two serving ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders, and one sitting judge besides scores of businesspersons and activists in India could have been targeted for hacking through an Israeli spyware sold only to government agencies. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took a swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the matter using the hashtag "Pegasus". "We know what he's been reading- everything on your phone," Gandhi wrote Monday as a tweet-reply to his own post two days ago in which he had asked people, "I'm wondering what you guys are reading these days." The government has, however, dismissed allegations of any kind of surveillance on its part, saying the accusation has no concrete basis or truth associated with it whatsoever. IT and Communications Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw told Lok Sabha that with several checks and balances being in place, "any sort of illegal surveillance" by unauthorised persons is not possible in India. Terming it a very serious issue concerning national security, Congress leader Shashi Tharoor demanded an independent judicial or parliamentary committee probe. Since the government has said that it has not done any snooping, this should be probed, he said. "I feel that there should be a thorough independent judicial inquiry or a joint parliamentary committee. We cannot just brush it under the carpet," he told reporters. He raised the issue through social media too. "GoI has denied resorting to unauthorised surveillance. The question this raises is, if #Pegasus is only sold to governments, which other govts (China/Pak?) are using it to snoop on prominent Indian citizens? Shouldn't the authorities call for an independent investigation," he tweeted referring to the Government of India. The CPIM said that two years ago, the party had raised in Parliament that this "dangerous spyware" was being used in India as revealed by WhatsApp. "The Modi government’s response had not categorically denied that it engaged the services of NSO (the Israeli tech firm that created the spyware) but claimed that there is no "unauthorized surveillance". With these revelations, it is clear that this government has engaged NSO for such surveillance against its own citizens," the party said in a statement Monday. "The Central government must come clean on what is its engagement with NSO, what are the terms and how much our public funds have been paid for this,” the party demanded. Under Indian laws, the use of cyber spy software to hack smartphones even by the government is prohibited, the party said, asking under what law the government has undertaken such "surveillance activities" over citizens. "The right to privacy is a fundamental right as laid down by the Supreme Court, but this BJP government is prevaricating on legislating the privacy law," the party said. The CPIM also said there have been earlier instances of hacking smartphones and computers of human rights activists and they have been exposed. It alleged that the spying toll is digitally planted on their devices. "It is then used for their arrests under draconian laws. The `snoop, plant, arrest’ formula employed by this BJP government is a violation of the fundamental rights of Indian citizens,” the CPIM said. The TMC said it will raise the issue in parliament. "It is a serious issue and the minister in his statement in the House does not deny that the government was using the software. We will raise this issue in Parliament," said TMC Rajya Sabha MP Derek O' Brien.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pegasus-spyware-issue-opposition-slams-govt-over-alleged-phone-tapping-seeks-probe-1010432.html
19-07-2021||National||Look forward to working closely with PM Modi to strengthen Nepal-India ties: Deuba||Nepal's new Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba has said that he looks forward to working closely with his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi to strengthen the relations between the two neighbouring countries as well as the people-to-people contacts. Prime Minister Modi immediately congratulated Deuba after he won a vote of confidence in the reinstated House of Representatives on Sunday night. In a tweet Modi said, "Congratulations Prime Minister @DeubaSherbdr and best wishes for a successful tenure. I look forward to working with you to further enhance our unique partnership in all sectors, and strengthen our deep-rooted people-to-people ties." Responding to Prime Minister Modi's tweet, Deuba thanked his Indian counterpart for his congratulatory message and expressed his desire to work closely with him to strengthen the bilateral ties between the two neighbouring countries. "Thank you very much, Prime Minister @narendramodi Ji, for your congratulatory note. I look forward to closely working with you to strengthen the relationship between our two countries and people," Deuba tweeted late Sunday night. Deuba, the 75-year-old President of the Nepali Congress won a trust vote in the reinstated lower House of Representatives and comfortably won it, averting a general election in the Himalayan nation amidst the Covid-19 pandemic. Deuba, who was appointed as the prime minister as per the Article 76(5) of the Constitution on July 12 following Supreme Court's intervention, secured 165 votes in the 275-member House on Sunday. A total of 136 votes were required for Deuba to win Parliament’s confidence. He had to seek a trust vote within one month after being appointed as prime minister. However, in a surprise move, he sought a vote of confidence on the first day of the reinstatement of the House. Deuba’s failure to win the trust vote in the House would have led to dissolution of the House and snap polls within six months in Nepal, which is facing an unprecedented health crisis due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Sunday's outcome of the trust vote paves the way for Prime Minister Deuba to remain in office for next one and half year, until fresh parliamentary election is held, the Nepalese media reported. Previously, Deuba has served as the prime minister on four occasions; first from 1995 to 1997, then from 2001 to 2002, again from 2004 to 2005, and from 2017 to 2018. Nepal plunged into a political crisis on December 20 last year after President Bhandari dissolved the House and announced fresh elections on April 30 and May 10 at the recommendation of Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli, amidst a tussle for power within the ruling Nepal Communist Party (NCP). On February 23, the apex court reinstated the dissolved House of Representatives, in a setback to Oli who was preparing for snap polls. The bilateral ties came under strain under Prime Minister Oli after India opened an 80-km-long strategically crucial road connecting the Lipulekh pass with Dharchula in Uttarakhand on May 8. Nepal protested the inauguration of the road claiming that it passed through its territory. Days later, Nepal came out with a new map showing Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura as its territories. India reacted sharply to the move. In June, Nepal's Parliament approved the new political map of the country featuring areas which India maintains belong to it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/look-forward-to-working-closely-with-pm-modi-to-strengthen-nepal-india-ties-deuba-1010433.html
19-07-2021||National||39 posts of chairman, directors vacant at IITs, NITs: Dharmendra Pradhan||Thirty-nine posts of chairman and directors are vacant at the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) and the National Institutes of Technology (NITs), Lok Sabha was informed on Monday. Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan gave the information in response to a written question in the House. "At present, eight posts of chairman at IITs and 21 posts of chairman at NITs are vacant. Further, five posts of directors in IITs and five posts in NITs are vacant. The nomination and selection of chairman and other posts is a continuous process," Pradhan said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/39-posts-of-chairman-directors-vacant-at-iits-nits-dharmendra-pradhan-1010445.html
19-07-2021||National||SC reserves order on Telecoms' plea for recalculation of AGR||The Supreme Court on Monday reserved its order on a plea by Telecom majors Bharti Airtel, Vodafone-Idea and Tata Tele Services Ltd for recalculation of adjusted gross revenue (AGR) in view of their claim for error. A bench presided over by Justice L Nageswara Rao, however, reminded the companies of its earlier judgement, stating reassessment and reevaluation can't be done. The top court September last year had given the telecom service providers ten years' time to pay Rs 93,520 crores of AGR-related dues to clear their outstanding amount to the government. The companies, for their part, contended that arithmetical errors can be rectified and there are cases of duplication of entries. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Vodafone Idea, said they were not blaming the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) for it as there are arithmetical entries. He said they want to place the entries before the department so that they can re-consider it. The figures are “not cast in stone” and several tribunals don't have the power of review but they do have the power to correct arithmetical errors, he said. "Allow me to place these entries before DoT and let them take a call on this,” he said, making it clear that they were not seeking any extension of time. Senior advocate A M Singhvi, appearing for Airtel, said there are cases of duplication and also of payments made but not accounted for. He said these issues should be considered by the DoT. "I don't want to pay thousands of crores on account of these errors,” Singhvi said. Senior advocate Arvind Datar, appearing for Tata Tele Services Ltd, said rectification of errors in calculation can be done. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who was appearing for the DoT, sought time for taking instructions. The bench said it would pass an order on the issue. The top court said some other applications, including those raising the question of whether airwaves or spectrum can be transferred or sold by telecoms as part of their assets, would be heard after two weeks. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-reserves-order-on-telecoms-plea-for-recalculation-of-agr-1010450.html
19-07-2021||National||Yoga training included in govt's flagship programme 'Study in India': Pradhan||Yoga training has been included in the "Study in India" programme to encourage people from abroad seeking to learn it get authentic training in the country, Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said on Monday. Pradhan gave the information in response to a written question in Lok Sabha. "Study in India" is a flagship project of the Government of India, launched in collaboration with the Ministry of Education, Ministry of External Affairs, Ministry of Home Affairs and and the Medical Council of India in April 2018. "The government has included Yoga training in the 'Study in India' programme to encourage Yoga seekers from abroad to obtain authentic Yoga training in India," he said. "The UGC has approved the establishment of an Inter-University Centre-Yogic Science at Bengaluru and introduced Yoga as a new National Eligibility Test (NET) subject from January 2017 UGC-NET onwards. Yoga Departments have been established in nine central universities," Pradhan added. According to the Unified District Information System for Education (UDISE) 2019-20 report, the total number of Physical Education Teacher (PET) appointed are 72,375. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yoga-training-included-in-govts-flagship-programme-study-in-india-pradhan-1010454.html
19-07-2021||National||People understand this chronology well: Amit Shah on Pegasus row||BJP on Monday launched an all out attack on the Congress and unnamed global organisations for "trying to derail" India's development trajectory through their "conspiracies" as the Pegasus revelations rocked Parliament. Home Minister Amit Shah saw the Pegasus revelations as an attempt to humiliate India at the world stage, while former IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad claimed there was not a “shred of evidence” to link the alleged snooping of journalists, politicians and activists to either the BJP or the Modi government. “This is a report by the disrupters for the obstructers. Disrupters are global organisations which do not like India to progress. Obstructers are political players in India who do not want India to progress. People of India are very good at understanding this chronology and connection,” Shah said in a statement. Shah said the only aim of the report was to humiliate India at the world stage, and peddle the same old narratives about the nation and derail its development trajectory. Addressing a press conference, Prasad laughed off claims that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi was a possible target of the Pegasus snooping. “Rahul keeps doling out advice on Twitter. After that do you need to know anything more about him?” the former Information Technology Minister said. Prasad hit out at Amnesty International, which had initial access to a list of 50,000 phone numbers that were identified as people of interest by the clients of Pegasus’ parent company NSO. “Amnesty International has always had a declared anti-India agenda. It had to withdraw from India when it was asked to furnish details of its foreign funding for activities in India,” Prasad said. He also brushed aside a question on the Congress’ demands for Home Minister Amit Shah’s resignation and probe against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. With the Congress “shrinking and losing”, the entire row is timed to disrupt Parliament and build a baseless agenda, Prasad said. He said senior lawyer Kapil Sibal, appearing for WhatsApp in the Supreme Court, had even told the court that the popular messaging platform cannot be hacked by software such as Pegasus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/people-understand-this-chronology-well-amit-shah-on-pegasus-row-1010470.html
19-07-2021||National||Over 80% Ahmedabad population has Covid-19 antibodies: Survey||A serological survey of around 5,000 people from different parts of Ahmedabad city in Gujarat has revealed that 81.63 per cent of the sampled population had developed antibodies against Covid-19, officials said on Monday. People who have taken both doses of coronavirus vaccines had high levels of seropositivity as compared to those who were yet to be inoculated, they said, citing findings of the recent survey. The survey to detect seropositivity for antibodies against SARS-CoV2, which causes Covid-19, was conducted by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) between May 28 and June 3, when the second wave of the pandemic was subsiding. Seropositivity essentially means the presence of antibodies in the blood serum. "We carry out serosurveillance studies at regular intervals to detect antibodies. Overall, 80 per cent seropositivity has been detected in the general population of Ahmedabad. Those who took both the doses had high levels of seropositivity as compared to those who took none," said AMC Medical Officer of Health Dr Bhavin Solanki. A total of 5,001 samples were collected as part of the study, out of which 32 samples were rejected for various reasons and results were available for 4,969 samples - 2,354 males and 2,615 females, he said. Out of these, 4,056 samples tested positive for antibodies against SARS-CoV-2, giving a positivity of 81.63 per cent, said an AMC report. "A total of 1,938 males demonstrated the presence of antibodies, giving the positivity of 82.33 per cent, while 2,118 females, which comes to 80.99 per cent, had antibodies. Thus, the seropositivity is higher among males as compared to females," the report stated. The report said more than 80 per cent of the population had antibodies against Covid-19 on account of their past infection, vaccination or both. Of the total 2,887 persons in the sample size who did not have a history of coronavirus infection and who were not vaccinated yet, antibodies were found in 2,216 persons, which comes to 76.76 per cent, the lowest in the entire sample. On the other side, out of 158 persons who had both Covid-19 in the past and took two doses of vaccines, 154 persons, which comes to 97.47 per cent, had antibodies, the report said. Moreover, antibodies were found in 164 out of a total 173 persons (94.80 per cent), who had Covid-19 in the past but took only one vaccine dose (when the survey was underway), it said. Among the non-vaccinated, those who were infected with Covid-19 had higher seropositivity (81.93 per cent) than those without any history of the viral disease (76.76 pc), the report stated. Among the vaccinated persons also, those with Covid-19 infection had higher seropositivity as compared to those without any history of the respiratory illness, it said. Even for both these groups, individuals with two doses of vaccine had higher seropositivity than those with a single dose, it said. "A majority of the vaccinated population in our sample were vaccinated with Covishield vaccine. Although there are very few who were vaccinated with Covaxin in our sample, people with Covaxin have slightly higher seropositivity as compared to Covishield," said the survey. "Considering the dose of vaccine received, those without any dose of vaccine have seropositivity of 77.04 per cent, those with one dose have seropositivity of 86.06 per cent, whereas those with 2 doses of vaccine have seropositivity of 94.22 per cent. Thus, the seropositivity increases as the Covid-19 vaccine dose increases" said the report. As of May 2021, the study estimates 81.63 per cent seropositivity for antibodies against SARS-CoV2 in general population of Ahmedabad, it said. The available data is insufficient "to comment on the status of herd immunity for the entire city", the report said. "Looking at higher seropositivity among vaccinated and higher seropositivity with completion of both the doses, further large-scale Covid-19 vaccination for the remaining and incompletely vaccinated population is strongly recommended for complete control over the pandemic situation," the report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-80-ahmedabad-population-has-covid-19-antibodies-survey-1010473.html
19-07-2021||National||Over 34 lakh tonnes of plastic waste generated in FY 2019-20||Over 34 lakh tonnes of plastic waste was generated in the financial year 2019-2020, an increase of more than 10 lakh tonnes compared to 2017-18, the Ministry of Environment informed Rajya Sabha on Monday. Responding to a question raised in the Upper House of Parliament on the policy to phase out single-use plastic and annual plastic waste generation, Union Minister of State for Environment Ashwini Kumar Choubey said in the year 2019-20, India generated an annual waste of 34,69,780 tonnes of plastic waste while in 2018-19 it was 33,60,043 tonnes and in 2017-18 it was 23.83.469 tonnes. He said that a multi-pronged strategy has been adopted to phase out identified single-use plastic items in the country, which comprises awareness generation and behavioural change, regulatory regime for phasing out of plastic items having low utility and high littering potential, engagement with stakeholders, and strengthening of institutional mechanism for collection, segregation, recycling and environmentally sustainable end of life disposal of plastic waste, as envisaged in Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016. Already, the Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016, prohibit manufacture, import, stocking, distribution, sale and use of carry bags and plastic sheets less than fifty microns in thickness in the country, the minister said. “There is a complete ban on sachets using plastic material used for storing, packing or selling gutkha, tobacco and pan masala. Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change had also issued a draft notification in the Gazette of India on March 11, 2021 for amending Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016, inter alia prohibiting the use of identified single use plastic items by 2022, for public consultation,” Choubey said in his written response. Replying to the query on steps taken to reduce the use of identified single use plastic, the minister said that the states and union territories have been requested to constitute a Special Task Force under Chairpersonship of Chief Secretary/Administrator for elimination of single use plastics and effective implementation of Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016. “Already, 13 States/UTs have constituted the Special Task Force till date. A National Level Taskforce has also been constituted by the Ministry for taking coordinated efforts to eliminate identified single use plastic items and effective implementation of Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016. “The State /UT Governments and concerned Central Ministries/Departments have also been requested for the development of a comprehensive action plan for elimination of single use plastics and effective implementation of Plastic Waste Management Rules (PWM), 2016, and its implementation in a time bound manner,” he told Parliament. According to the ministry, directions under Section 5 of Environment (Protection) Act have been issued to all States/UTs for setting up an institutional mechanism for strengthening enforcement of PWM Rules. Guidelines for assessment of Environmental Compensation for violation of PWM Rules 2016 have also been issued, it said, adding that the Ministry has also issued “Standard Guidelines for Single-Use Plastic” in January 2019 to all States/UTs and Ministries. “A two month long Awareness Campaign of Single Use Plastic 2021 has been organized. The Ministry has also organized pan India essay writing competition on the theme for spreading awareness amongst school students in the country. To encourage innovation in development of alternatives to identified single use plastic items and digital solutions to plastic waste management, the India Plastic Challenge – Hackathon 2021, has been organized for students of Higher Educational Institutions and start-ups recognized under Start up India Initiative,” the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-34-lakh-tonnes-of-plastic-waste-generated-in-fy-2019-20-1010477.html
19-07-2021||National||HC directs UP govt to reinstate employee dismissed over being involved in live-in relationship||The Allahabad High Court has set aside an order of dismissal of a government employee who was in a live-in relationship with another woman despite being married and granted an opportunity to state authorities to impose any minor penalty on him. The order of dismissal was passed against petitioner Gore Lal Verma solely on the ground that despite being married to Laxmi Devi, he maintained an illegal relationship with Hemlata Verma. He also has three children from his live-in relationship with Hemlata Verma. Passing the impugned order of dismissal, the state authorities noted that the said conduct is against the provisions of UP Government Servant Conduct Rules, 1956 and Hindu Marriage Act. Citing a similar case, Justice Pankaj Bhatia had set aside the dismissal order last week. However, an opportunity was granted to the respondents to award any minor penalty to the petitioner. The writ petition was allowed and respondent authority was directed to reinstate the petitioner. "However, the petitioner shall not be paid the back wages from the date of dismissal till today. It is open to the respondents to pass fresh orders for imposition of any minor penalty in accordance with the law if so advised." the court added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-directs-up-govt-to-reinstate-employee-dismissed-over-being-involved-in-live-in-relationship-1010478.html
19-07-2021||National||'Mann Ki Baat' radio programme generated over Rs 30.80 crore revenue since 2014: Govt||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's monthly radio programme 'Mann Ki Baat' has fetched over Rs 30.80 crore as revenue since it began in 2014, with the highest of over Rs 10.64 crore earned in 2017-18, Rajya Sabha was informed Monday. The 'Mann Ki Baat' programme is broadcast at 11 am on the last Sunday of each month through various channels of the All India Radio and Doordarshan. "Prasar Bharati has broadcast 78 episodes of the 'Mann Ki Baat' programme till date on its All India Radio and Doordarshan network and also on social media platform," Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur told Rajya Sabha in a written reply to a question. This programme is also broadcast by approximately 91 private satellite TV channels on Cable and DTH platforms across the country, he said. According to data shared by the ministry in its reply, the programme fetched Rs 1.16 crore as revenue in 2014-15, Rs 2.81 crore in 2015-16, over Rs 5.14 crore in 2016-17 and over Rs 10.64 crore in 2017-18. It generated Rs 7.47 crore revenue in 2018-19, Rs 2.56 crore in 2019-20 and Rs 1.02 crore in 2020-21. "As India's most popular televised radio programme, 'Mann Ki Baat' has substantial audience following," the minister said. As per the audience data measured by the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) of Television Channels, the cumulative reach of viewership of the programme has been estimated to range from approximately 6 crore to 14.35 crore during 2018 to 2020, he added. "The main objective of 'Mann Ki Baat' programme of the prime minister is to reach to the masses across the country through the radio,” the minister said. The programme also provides every citizen the opportunity to connect, suggest, and become part of participatory governance through the prime minister's radio address, he added. The minister said Prasar Bharati produces 'Mann ki Baat' leveraging existing in-house resources with no additional expenditure. "In-house staff is leveraged for production and existing translators engaged on assignment basis for language versions," he noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mann-ki-baat-radio-programme-generated-over-rs-3080-crore-revenue-since-2014-govt-1010481.html
19-07-2021||National||Pegasus spyware issue: Cong demands sacking of HM Amit Shah, probe against PM||Accusing the government of "treason" and compromising on national security over the Pegasus spyware issue, the Congress Monday demanded the sacking of Home Minister Amit Shah and a probe into the "role of Prime Minister" Narendra Modi in the matter. Addressing a press conference here, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala held Shah responsible for the Pegasus spying issue and said his party's first demand is his dismissal from the post he occupies. He said the Congress will take all Opposition parties on-board over the issue and decided whether to ask for a judicial or parliamentary probes in the matter. "Our first demand is the immediate sacking of Minister of Home and Internal security Amit Shah and a probe into the role of the prime minister in the matter," he told reporters. Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge said Shah should immediately resign as he "does not deserve" to occupy the position he is holding. Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said "Modiji promotes digital India, but what we are seeing is Surveillance India". Accusing the Modi government of murdering the Constitution, law and dismantling national security, Surjewala said it is guilty of "treason". "The Modi government is the deployer and executor of this illegal and unconstitutional snooping and spying racket through Israeli surveillance software Pegasus," he said. The government has denied any role in it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pegasus-spyware-issue-cong-demands-sacking-of-hm-amit-shah-probe-against-pm-1010488.html
19-07-2021||National||SC to pronounce verdict on July 20 on Centre's plea against Gujarat HC order on 97th amendment||The Supreme Court is scheduled to pronounce its verdict on Tuesday on Centre’s plea challenging the Gujarat High Court's 2013 decision striking down certain provisions of the 97th constitutional amendment while holding that Parliament cannot enact laws with regard to cooperative societies as it is a state subject. A bench of Justices R F Nariman, K M Joseph and B R Gavai which reserved its verdict on July 8 will pronounce the verdict. Several intervention applications were also filed in favour of and against the High Court verdict. The 97th constitutional amendment, which dealt with issues related to effective management of the co-operative societies in the country was passed by Parliament in December 2011 and had come into effect from February 15, 2012. The change in the constitution has amended Article 19(1)(c) to give protection to the cooperatives and inserted Article 43 B and Part IX B, relating to them. The Centre has contended that the provision does not denudes the States of its power to enact laws with regard to cooperatives. During the hearing, the top court also examined a question whether the provision denuded states of their exclusive power to enact laws to deal with management of cooperative societies. Attorney General KK Venugopal, appearing for Centre, has said that the 97th Constitution amendment is not direct or substantial attack on the States power to enact law with regard to cooperatives. Intervenors have contended that the constitutional amendment made a direct in-road into the exclusive domain of States to enact laws with regard to cooperatives. The Centre has stated that the amendment was enacted to bring in uniformity in the management of cooperative societies and it does not take away the powers of the State to enact laws with regard to them. The top court had said if the Centre wanted to achieve uniformity then the only way available was to take the recourse under Article 252 of the Constitution which deals with power of Parliament to legislate for two or more States by consent. It has said that in effect what the government has done is that the power of States to enact laws with respect to cooperative society has been made no longer exclusive. On April 22, 2013, the High Court, while striking down certain provisions of the 97th constitutional amendment, held that the Parliament cannot enact laws or issue notification with regard to cooperative societies as it is a state subject. The High Court verdict came on a PIL challenging the legality of the 97th constitutional amendment on the ground that Centre had no legislative competence to enact law for cooperative societies which is exclusively a state subject under the scheme of the Constitution. The High Court had held that certain provisions of the amendment pertaining to cooperative societies violated the basic structure of federalism. The PIL petitioner have contended that as per the provisions of Article 368 of the Constitution, if Parliament intends to amend or delete any of the lists in the seventh schedule, such Amendment shall require to be ratified by the legislature of not less than one half of the states by resolution to the effect passed by those legislatures before the bill making provisions for such amendment is presented to the President for Assent. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-pronounce-verdict-on-july-20-on-centres-plea-against-gujarat-hc-order-on-97th-amendment-1010496.html
19-07-2021||National||India's Covid-19 vaccine doses administered surpasses 41 crore||The ministry said that according to the 7 pm provisional report, 47,77,697 vaccine doses have been administered on Monday. It said that 22,38,900 vaccine doses were administered as first dose and 1,48,075 vaccine doses were given as second dose in the age group 18-44 years on Monday. Cumulatively, 12,73,70,809 persons in the age group 18-44 years across the country have received their first dose and 50,58,284 their second dose since the start of phase-3 of the vaccination drive.   Three states -- Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh -- have administered more than 1 crore cumulative doses of Covid-19 vaccine in the age group 18-44 years. Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 10 lakh beneficiaries of the age group 18-44 years for the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, the ministry said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-surpasses-41-crore-1010498.html
19-07-2021||National||Pregnant women need to get vaccinated at earliest: Minister||Kerala Minister Veena George on Monday again stressed the need for vaccinating pregnant women against Covid-19 as early as possible as, she said, they were at the highest risk of contracting the infection. The Health Minister, in a press release, said many such women in the state have succumbed to the virus and that the decision to get them vaccinated was taken by the Union Health Ministry after several studies. She further said expectant mothers were at risk of getting infected the most as they have to go to hospitals for treatment and care often. "It is in this critical situation that the Department of Health has launched a campaign called 'matra kavacham' to provide vaccines to pregnant women across the State and the response from the districts has been positive," she said. "So far 39,822 pregnant women in the state have been vaccinated," the Minister pointed out. Some expectant mothers were reluctant to take the vaccine and they should get the shot for their safety and their baby's, she said. She said gynaecologists working in government and private healthcare institutions held a meeting and decided to create awareness on the benefits of vaccination among those pregnant. She said the Covid-19 infection would be less harmful once immunized. "The objective of the 'matra kavacham' is to vaccinate all those pregnant by registering them for vaccination with the help of Asha activists at the ward-level. Those who can register on their own will be encouraged to do so," she said in the release. The Minister said thedisease can be serious in people over the age of 35, those obese and those with diabetes and high blood pressure. The virus can affect the health of the foetus too, so it is important to get vaccinated during pregnancy, she said. According to the Central government, the Minister said, there was no bar to get vaccinated even when mothers are breastfeeding. Therefore, those pregnant can take the first dose even close to the delivery date, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pregnant-women-need-to-get-vaccinated-at-earliest-minister-1010517.html
19-07-2021||National||Plea in SC to decide disqualification of Mukul Roy as MLA||A plea was filed in the Supreme Court Monday seeking directions to the Speaker to decide the issue of disqualification of former BJP leader Mukul Roy as a Member of the Legislative Assembly of West Bengal. The plea filed by advocate Bijan Ghosh contended that Roy, who defected to Trinamool Congress, has been nominated as Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee of the state Assembly during the pendency of the petition before Speaker by leader of the opposition Suvendu Adhikari seeking his disqualification under the anti-defection law, Tenth Schedule of the Constitution. The plea said that the question of disqualification was brought to notice to the Speaker as far as back on June 18, 2021 by the leader of the opposition as per para 6 of the Schedule but the Speaker till date has not taken any decision. “An illegal advantage is being taken of the silence in the Constitution by a constitutional body to act unconstitutionally,” the plea alleged. “Defection is a serious offence against democracy, a clear breach against voters and stamping political morality. If defection is not prevented – Democracy would be reduced to an unreliable institution and seriously prejudices political stability. "It goes to the very root of democratic faith and values. Thus when one defects his political party and joins another political party – he is disqualified to remain a member of the House,” the plea said. Roy, who has switched over to the ruling Trinamool Congress after winning the West Bengal Assembly election on a BJP ticket, on July 16 took charge as the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) chairman of the House. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-sc-to-decide-disqualification-of-mukul-roy-as-mla-1010520.html
19-07-2021||National||39 fully-vaccinated students test positive for Covid-19 in Kerala||At least 39 fully vaccinated medical students of the Government Medical Hospital in Kerala have tested positive for Covid-19, hospital authorities said on Monday. The medical college, closed due to Covid-19 induced lockdown, was reopened on June 1 and the first batch of the students reported back to the campus on June 5. The second batch of 175 students arrived on June 6, among whom the first case of Covid-19 was confirmed the same day, the authorities said. When the cases started rising, the authorities conducted Covid tests for all students of that batch on July 17. They were allowed to go home after 20 of them tested positive for the virus. Three batches of the students are staying back in the campus as their examination is now underway, they said. Nineteen students in these batches have tested positive for Covid-19. "A total of 39 medical students have tested positive for Covid-19 since June 6. All of them had taken two doses of the vaccine," a hospital authority told PTI. The students who tested positive have been admitted to the hospital. They have been allowed to appear for the theory examination in specially arranged rooms. Besides them, 17 students of the Dental college in the Medical College campus have also tested positive for coronavirus, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/39-fully-vaccinated-students-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-kerala-1010522.html
19-07-2021||National||Curfew imposed in Puri ahead of Lord Jagannath's Bahuda Jatra||The district administration of Puri shutdown the temple town by ordering a curfew from Monday evening, ahead of Lord Jagannaths `Bahuda Jatra or the return car festival on Tuesday. The administration also deployed special teams to keep track of offenders of the prohibitory order, officials said. A "curfew is hereby imposed under section 144 of CrPC in the jurisdiction Puri town with effect from 8 pm of July 19 to 8 PM of July 21, to prohibit mass public congregation on the Grand Road/ rooftop and balconies of buildings adjoining Grand Road," Puri district magistrate cum collector Samarth Verma said. Puri SP Kanwar Vishal Singh, who along with the district collector attended a meeting chaired by Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) chief administrator Krishan Kumar, said: "We have deployed teams to undertake random checking of persons on Grand Road to nab those who violate curfew orders." The SP said several measures are being taken to prevent entry of unwanted persons in the holy town. Only servitors, selected officials will be allowed to participate in the festival and there is strict prohibition of public participation in the event. He said the police have already initiated legal actions against certain persons who have been identified to have violated the curfew order on the Ratha Jatra day on July 12. Meanwhile, the police have sealed all entry points to Puri town and only local residents are allowed to move after verification. All hotels, lodges and guest houses on both sides of the Grand Road have been shut after it was noticed that some people assembled on roof tops to witness the festival, an official said. Kumar said all arrangements are in place for smooth conduct of the Bahuda Jatra adhering to Covid-19 protocols. A detailed blueprint to conduct Lords Bahuda Jatra (July 20), Suna besha or golden attire (July 21) and Niladri Bije or return to the temple (July 23) rituals was prepared in the meeting. Kumar said like the Ratha Jatra, the Bahuda Jatra will also be held without participation of devotees. He said RT-PCR tests of all participants including servitors, police, temple officials and district administration officials have been completed by Monday evening. Keeping in view the high humidity rate and abnormally high temperature during the daytime on Tuesday, he said more heat wave beds and ORS powders are being kept in readiness. The fire department and public health department personnel will spray water on participants. This apart, Kumar said Tata Power run CESU authorities have been instructed to ensure uninterrupted power supply to the area during the festival while the Commerce and Transport Department has promised to provide vehicles to ferry the servitors. As no devotee will be allowed to participate in the festival, necessary arrangements have been made for live telecast of the rituals through state-run Doordarshan and a common feed will be provided so that all media houses can telecast the Bahuda and Suna Besha rituals. Officials said flower decorations have been organised and servitors have been allowed to organize Bhajan programs. We have appealed to all stakeholders to ensure no outsider participates in the Bahuda Jatra , Kumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/curfew-imposed-in-puri-ahead-of-lord-jagannaths-bahuda-jatra-1010528.html
19-07-2021||National||Buoyed by victory, TMC goes full blast against BJP as first Parliament session after Bengal polls begins||Buoyed by its landslide victory in West Bengal assembly polls, the Trinamool Congress went on the offensive against the Bharatiya Janata Party’s government on the first day of the monsoon session of Parliament. The Trinamool Congress MPs on Monday not only rode bicycles to Parliament to protest rising prices of fuel, but also joined the members of other parties in stalling proceedings of the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha — not allowing Prime Minister Narendra Modi to introduce his new Council of Ministers. Mamata Banerjee’s party later protested when the Prime Minister was introducing his new ministers, as they included Nishith Pramanik whose nationality had of late come into question. Pramanik, who was with the Trinamool Congress till March 2019, is now a BJP MP from West Bengal. He was among the new ministers inducted into Modi’s Council of Ministers on July 7. He was appointed as a Minister of State of Home Affairs. A Congress MP from Assam, Ripun Bora, however, demanded a probe into his nationality, citing media reports that the new minister was actually a citizen of Bangladesh. Sukhendu Sekhar Roy of the TMC sought to raise a Point of Order in the Rajya Sabha over the same issue along with Mallikarjun Kharge of Congress. The Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman, Harivansh Narayan Singh, however, did not allow the Point of Order despite protests by the Opposition. Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal accused opposition parties of insulting the community to which the new minister belonged. The newly appointed leader of the House demanded that the comments of Roy and Kharge on the nationality of Pramanik should be expunged from the record of the proceedings. The TMC, which stalled the BJP’s foray into West Bengal, is now planning to expand its footprints beyond the state and set to observe its annual Martyrs’ Day virtually across the country on Wednesday. CM Banerjee and Abhishek Banerjee, the newly-appointed national general secretary of the party, are expected to step up attacks on the Modi government. Derek O’Brien, a TMC MP in the Rajya Sabha, said that leaders of some of the like-minded political parties might also join in the event, which would be held virtually in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The party MPs on Monday served notices in both the Houses of Parliament to raise a host of issues, ranging from rising prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas, alleged failure of the Modi government in dealing with the second wave of the Covid-19 effectively and shortage of vaccines, decline in economic growth and the continuing protest by the farmers against the new agricultural laws. O’Brien said that the party MPs would continue to raise the issues in both Houses of Parliament all through the monsoon session. He said that the party had no objection to the PM introducing his new Cabinet and would have allowed him to do so if the new ministers did not include a citizen of Bangladesh. O’Brien, however, did not clarify if the party MPs would protest when the new minister would respond to questions or make statements on behalf of the government in the Lok Sabha or Rajya Sabha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/buoyed-by-victory-tmc-goes-full-blast-against-bjp-as-first-parliament-session-after-bengal-polls-begins-1010541.html
19-07-2021||National||New variant to drive next Covid-19 wave: Govt health advisor||Over 80 per cent of the new cases of Covid-19 in India have been caused due to the Delta variant which has now spread to 80 countries and the next wave will be driven by a variant to which a significant proportion of the population is susceptible, one of the government’s top health advisors has said. “The B.1.617.2, a variant of Covid-19 known as the Delta variant, was first identified in October 2020 in India, and was primarily responsible for the second wave in the country, today accounting for over 80 per cent of new Covid-19 cases,” N K Arora, co-chair of the India Sars-Cov-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) said. On whether future waves could be prevented, he said a virus begins infecting a part of the population, which is most susceptible and also exposed to the infection. “It diminishes after it successfully infects a large proportion of the population and strikes back when the immunity developed in the people post-natural infection fades,” he said. “The cases may go up if a new, more infectious variant comes. In other words, the next wave will be driven by a virus variant to which a significant proportion of the population is susceptible,” Arora was quoted as saying in a health ministry statement. He said the second wave was still going on and any future waves will be controlled and delayed if more and more people get vaccinated and most importantly, people follow Covid-appropriate behaviour effectively, especially till a substantial part of our population gets vaccinated. According to Arora, 55-60 cases of the Delta Plus variant – AY.1 and AY.2 – have been detected so far across 11 states, including Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh. “AY.1 is also found in countries like Nepal, Portugal, Switzerland, Poland, Japan but AY.2 is less prevalent. The variant is still being studied for its transmissibility, virulence, and vaccine escape characteristics,” Arora said. He said the Delta variant was also around 40-60 per cent more transmissible than its predecessor, Alpha variant, and has already spread to more than 80 countries, including the UK, the US and Singapore. Arora said current vaccines were effective against the Delta variant as per the studies undertaken by ICMR on the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-variant-to-drive-next-covid-19-wave-govt-health-advisor-1010546.html
19-07-2021||National||Kalyan Singh's condition unstable, put on non-invasive ventilation||The condition of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh is unstable, and doctors are closely monitoring him, the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) said on Monday. Singh's clinical parameters are being closely monitored by expert consultants at the hospital, it added. "The condition of Singh is unstable. After breathing problem, he has been kept on non-invasive ventilation," the hospital said in a bulletin issued this evening. Earlier in the day, the hospital issued a statement saying, "After he (Kalyan Singh) complained of respiratory discomfort on Saturday evening, oxygen therapy was started. He was put on non-invasive ventilation on Sunday evening due to respiratory worsening." The senior faculty of Critical Care Medicine (CCM), cardiology, nephrology, neurology and endocrinology are keeping a close watch on all the aspects related to his health, it said. SGPGIMS director professor R K Dhiman is supervising Singh's treatment on a daily basis, the statement read. The 89-year-old, who is also a former governor of Rajasthan, was admitted to the ICU of the hospital on the evening of July 4 due to an infection and reduced consciousness level. Earlier, he was undergoing treatment at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kalyan-singhs-condition-unstable-put-on-non-invasive-ventilation-1010569.html
19-07-2021||National||SC quashes criminal case against DMK MP R S Bharathi under SC/ST Act||The Supreme Court Monday quashed the criminal proceedings initiated against DMK Rajya Sabha lawmaker R S Bharathi under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act for a speech he made in 2020. A bench comprising justices L Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose closed the criminal case against the lawmaker after holding that his speech did not fulfil the ingredients to attract the offenses for which he has been charged. The top court took note of the submissions of senior lawyer Kapil Sibal and advocate Amit Anand Tiwari that no offence under the harsh Act was made out against the lawmaker. Entire reading of the speech showed that it was not derogatory to late Justice Varadrajan (a former Madras High Court judge) or intended to promote hatred against members of schedule castes, the bench said while allowing the appeal of the DMK leader. A case under Section 3 (1) (u) & (v) of the Act was instituted against the MP and they say a person cannot “promote or attempt to promote feelings of enmity, hatred or ill-will against members”. A person will be liable for prosecution under the Act if he, by words either written or spoken or by any other means, disrespects any late person held in high esteem by members of the SC/ST, reads one of the provision invoked against the leader. The proceedings were initiated against Bharathi for the March 2020 speech in which he had said, "I am openly telling you not even one Harijan has become a High Court Judge in Northern states specially in Madhya Pradesh. But in Tamil Nadu when Kalaignar came to power, he got Varadharajan appointed as a High Court Judge. “Afterwards, if 7-8 people belonging to Adi Dravida Community became judges, it was because of the alms of the Dravidian movement..."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-quashes-criminal-case-against-dmk-mp-r-s-bharathi-under-sc/st-act-1010572.html
19-07-2021||National Politics||Your hunger for power has left lakhs craving for food: Rahul slams Modi government||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday attacked the Modi government, saying "your hunger for power" has left lakhs craving for foodgrains. His attack came over a media report which claimed that during the coronavirus period, even the middle-class Indians were forced to line up for rations. "Your hunger for power has left lakhs craving for food grains — You did nothing, but gave 'jumlas' everyday," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi using the hashtag 'JumlaJeevi'. PM Modi had coined 'aandolan jeevi' to target those who thrive on protests. The Congress uses the term to hit back at the Modi government. "Here is one I absolutely love," Gandhi said and shared the cover of the book 'The Unfettered Mind' by Takuan Soho, translated from Japanese into English by William Scott Wilson. The Unfettered Mind is a three-part treatise on Buddhist philosophy and martial arts written in the 17th century by Soho, a Japanese monk. Gandhi on Friday signalled a shift in his social media outreach, going from mostly commentative to conversational with this simple poser: "I'm wondering what you guys are reading these days?" Gandhi's communication on Twitter and maybe other social media platforms is set for a makeover and will get more interactive in the days to come, party insiders had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/your-hunger-for-power-has-left-lakhs-craving-for-food-rahul-slams-modi-government-1010249.html
19-07-2021||National Politics||Raise price rise, Covid-19 management issues in Parliament, Sonia Gandhi tells Congress MPs||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday chaired a meeting of party MPs from Lok Sabha where it was decided to vociferously raise issues of farmers' protest, price rise including of petrol and diesel and "mismanagement" of Covid-19 in the House. Party MPs would be moving adjournment motions in Lok Sabha to demand a discussion on these issues, party leaders said ahead of the commencement of the Monsoon session from Monday. The issue of alleged corruption in the Rafale deal and the economic situation in the wake of rising unemployment would also be raised in both the Houses in the next few days, they said. Chairing a virtual meeting of party MPs in Lok Sabha, the Congress chief urged the members to raise these issues strongly and take on the government in Parliament. She said these issues were connected to the common man who was suffering due to the government's policies. The Monsoon session of Parliament starts from Monday. Leaders of various opposition parties would be meeting in the morning in Parliament to decide on a joint strategy to take on the government and highlight its "failures"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/raise-price-rise-covid-19-management-issues-in-parliament-sonia-gandhi-tells-congress-mps-1010256.html
19-07-2021||National Politics||Pegasus row: From Rahul Gandhi to Asaduddin Owaisi, who said what||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Monday targeted the government over the Pegasus issue, saying that people now know that "he reads everything on your phone" while senior BJP Subramanian Swamy asked Home Minister Amit Shah to come clean on whether or not snooping happened. Taking on to Twitter, Rahul said, "We know what he's been reading- everything on your phone! #Pegasus." He tagged his earlier post where he asked people what they were reading. Swamy tweeted, "It will be sensible if the Home Minister tells Parliament that Modi government has nor had any involvement with the Israeli company which tapped and taped our telephones. Otherwise like Watergate truth will trickle out and hurt BJP by halal route." It will be sensible if the Home Minister tells Parliament that Modi Government has nor had any involvement with the Israeli company which tapped and taped our telephones. Otherwise like Watergate truth will trickle out and hurt BJP by halal route. The CPI(M) was also critical of the government saying the "criminal illegal snooping (has been) exposed". "Use of surveillance and spyware against a range of citizens in India exposed. NSO the Israeli company supplier of Pegasus spyware states that its clients are only governments and their agencies. Modi government has to answer who is responsible for this illegal criminal snooping," the CPI(M) tweeted. AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi tweeted, "#Pegasus use is hacking, not “authorised interception” or tapping. Hacking is a crime, whether it’s done by individuals or govt. Govt has to expressly disclose or deny only 2 things: 1 Did you use NSO spyware or not? 2 Did you target specific people named in news reports?" Govt has to expressly disclose or deny only 2 things:1 Did you use NSO spyware or not?2 Did you target specific people named in news reports? 1/2 He added, "NSO, which owns #Pegasus has repeatedly clarified that it sells its services to “vetted governments” alone. This is why, GOI has to disclose if it availed these services & the people who were targeted." Congress leader Milind Deora said, " Exactly 8 years ago, I launched India’s first National Cyber Security Policy. The policy envisaged a strong privacy law to protect Indians from unlawful hackers — state, non-state, foreign & domestic. With zero safeguards in place, we are more vulnerable than we think.  Several MPs, including AAP's Sanjay Singh,  Revolutionary Socialist Party's NK Premachandran and CPI's Binoy Viswam, also submitted notices in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha seeking suspension of day's business to discuss the Pegasus issue." Exactly 8 years ago, I launched India’s first National Cyber Security Policy. The policy envisaged a strong privacy law to protect Indians from unlawful hackers — state, non-state, foreign & domestic. At least 40 journalists and around a dozen activists, including the Bhima Koregaon case accused, have figured in a leaked list of potential targets for surveillance using hacking software 'Pegasus' sold by the Israeli surveillance company NSO Group. The leaked database contains around 300 verified Indian mobile telephone numbers including those of ministers, Opposition leaders, the legal community, businessmen, government officials, scientists, rights activists and others, The Wire reported on Sunday night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pegasus-row-from-rahul-gandhi-to-asaduddin-owaisi-who-said-what-1010295.html
19-07-2021||National Politics||Trinamool Congress MPs to cycle to Parliament to protest fuel price hike||Several Trinamool Congress MPs will cycle to Parliament on Monday to protest against the rise in prices of fuel and other commodities, the party said.  The party MPs from the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha will hold the protest at 10:15 am. They will also hold a dharna at Vijay Chowk. The All India Trinamool Congress has given multiple notices under various Rules in both Houses of Parliament on the opening day of the Monsoon Session, the party said.  The issues on which notices have been given include price hike of diesel, petrol, LPG and other commodities, demand to repeal farm laws, decline in economic growth, restoration of MPLAD funds and the alleged weakening of the federal structure by the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/trinamool-congress-mps-to-cycle-to-parliament-to-protest-fuel-price-hike-1010298.html
19-07-2021||National Politics||Those vaccinated against Covid-19 are 'Baahubali': PM Modi||“This vaccine is given in ‘Baahu’ (arms), those who take it become ‘Baahubali’. Over 40 crore people have become ‘Baahubali’ in the fight against Covid-19,” the Prime Minister said. He said the only way to fight the Covid-19 pandemic was by becoming ‘Baahubali’ by getting vaccinated in the arm. India’s cumulative vaccination coverage has crossed the 40 crore mark since the drive was launched on January 16. According to Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, the vaccination drive has been picking up speed with every 10 crore mark. He said it took 85 days to administer 10 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines. The next 10 crore doses were administered within 45 days, while the country crossed the 30-crore mark in the next 29 days. It took 24 days to administer another 10 crore doses which took the cumulative doses administered to 40-crore mark. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/those-vaccinated-against-covid-19-are-baahubali-pm-modi-1010299.html
19-07-2021||National Politics||PM Modi, Amit Shah should clarify on Pegasus spying issue: Shiv Sena||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Monday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah should clarify on the issue of alleged snooping of several people, including journalists, through the Israeli spyware Pegasus. This shows the country's "government and administration is weak", Raut told reporters in New Delhi. "There is an atmosphere of fear among people. The PM and Home Minister should address the issue and clarify," the Rajya Sabha member said. An international media consortium on Sunday reported that more than 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including of two serving ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders and one sitting judge besides scores of business persons and activists in India could have been targeted for hacking through the Israeli spyware sold only to government agencies. The government, however, dismissed allegations of any kind of surveillance on its part on specific people, saying it "has no concrete basis or truth associated with it whatsoever". Raut said he had spoken to Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge and the issue will figure in the House, among other issues, during the Monsoon session of Parliament. "There was a phone tapping issue in Maharashtra which was raised by state Congress chief Nana Patole. Senior police officials were involved and a probe into it is underway. But in this case, a foreign company is listening to phone calls of our people, especially journalists. This is a serious matter," the Sena's chief spokesperson said. "I will not be surprised if Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's phone is also being tapped," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-amit-shah-should-clarify-on-pegasus-spying-issue-shiv-sena-1010333.html
19-07-2021||National Politics||Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi appointed Dy Leader in Rajya Sabha||Union Minorities Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi will be the new Deputy Leader of the House in Rajya Sabha. Naqvi succeeds Piyush Goyal, who has been appointed as the Leader of the House in Rajya Sabha after Thaawarchand Gehlot was appointed Karnataka Governor. The 64-year-old Minister is the only second member from A B Vajpayee Ministry after Rajnath Singh, who has managed to be in Narendra Modi's team after the recent reshuffle. He had also served as the Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs during the first term of the Modi government. Naqvi, the Muslim face of the BJP, is also known to have cordial relations with leaders of parties across the political spectrum and this will come in handy for the government which will face an Opposition onslaught during the ongoing Monsoon Session of Parliament. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mukhtar-abbas-naqvi-appointed-dy-leader-in-rajya-sabha-1010364.html
19-07-2021||National Politics||Did Pegasus 'scandal' happen in Maharashtra? Congress asks; demands probe||The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state should conduct a probe into it, he said in a statement. An international media consortium on Sunday reported that more than 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including of two serving ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders and one sitting judge besides scores of business persons and activists in India could have been targeted for hacking through the Israeli spyware sold only to government agencies. The central government, however, dismissed allegations of any kind of surveillance on its part on specific people, saying it "has no concrete basis or truth associated with it whatsoever". Sawant said in Maharashtra, a case of alleged "unauthorised phone-tapping" by (senior IPS officer) Rashmi Shukla during the previous Devendra Fadnavis-led government has already come to light. "But, there were also reports of the use of Pegasus software," he claimed. The Congress leader asked if any IPS officer in the state headquarters 'Mantralaya' (secretariat) was working on this. "With whose permission did officers of the DGIPR (Directorate General of Information and Public Relations) go to Israel? What training did they receive? Did they come back and report? Is it related to Pegasus?" he asked. Sawant said it is "surprising and suspicious" that such tours took place during the election period (in 2019). He said the issue of phone tapping at the national level through Pegasus software and the "probable role of the Modi government in it is a very serious matter" in the country. All BJP-ruled states may have been instructed to work on this procedure, he claimed. "Phone tapping during the Fadnavis government in Maharashtra had the same intentions," he alleged. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/did-pegasus-scandal-happen-in-maharashtra-congress-asks-demands-probe-1010381.html
19-07-2021||National Politics||Modi slams Opposition for stalling introduction of OBC, SC ministers to Parliament||Opposition members raised slogans and stormed the well in both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha as Modi rose to introduce his new council of ministers as per the parliamentary convention. “Perhaps some people are not happy if country's women, OBCs, sons of farmers become Ministers. That is why they don’t even allow their introduction,” the prime minister said in the Lok Sabha. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Parliament Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi urged the opposition members to allow Modi, who is also the leader of the Lok Sabha, to follow the convention of introduction of ministers to the House, but to no avail. “Please consider the newly appointed ministers as introduced to the Lok Sabha,” Modi said. Similar scenes were witnessed in the Rajya Sabha and the Prime Minister had to lay the list of new ministers on the table of the House. ‘Such a negative mindset has never been seen in Parliament,” Modi said. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh slammed the Congress in the Lok Sabha for not allowing the prime minister to introduce his council of ministers to the Parliament. “The strength of Parliament is in maintaining healthy traditions. Both Opposition and Treasury should maintain healthy traditions. Even if one or 50 new ministers are inducted, the whole House listens to their introduction by the prime minister with decorum. This is sad, unfortunate and an unhealthy approach,” Singh said, contending that he had witnessed such an incident for the first time in his 24 years as a parliamentarian. Earlier this month, the Prime Minister added 36 new ministers to his council of ministers, with seven from Uttar Pradesh where assembly elections are due early next year. The Cabinet expansion exercise appeared mainly to reach out to the various caste groups in Uttar Pradesh by giving them representation in the union government. The seven ministers from Uttar Pradesh belong to Rohilkhand, Bundelkhand, Awadh and Purvanchal regions of the state with representation to scheduled castes, non-Yadav OBCs – castes groups the BJP has been trying to wean away from rival political outfits in the state. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-slams-opposition-for-stalling-introduction-of-obc-sc-ministers-to-parliament-1010403.html
19-07-2021||National Politics||Lok Sabha adjourned amid continuous protests by Opposition||The House met at 3.30 pm after repeated adjournments with Electronics and Information Technology Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw making a statement amid the din on the Pegasus affair and terming media reports about snooping on a number of people as an attempt to malign the Indian democracy. There is no substance to such sensationalism, he said. Speaker Om Birla adjourned the House till Tuesday soon after the minister ended his statement. Opposition members in the House had been protesting over issues like price rise and three contentious farm laws. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lok-sabha-adjourned-amid-continuous-protests-by-opposition-1010414.html
19-07-2021||National Politics||RSS victory mantra for BJP in UP include 'Rashtravad, hindutva, conversion', cautions party on population policy||BJP would be making 'Rashtravad, hindutva and conversion' its major planks, besides the Ram Temple and cow protection, in the forthcoming assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, which are scheduled to be held early next year. The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), which held a day-long ''strategy session'' with senior BJP leaders, including chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday, has 'suggested' to the saffron party that it should continue to follow the 'hindutva' ideology but has cautioned it on the newly formulated population policy. According to the sources, the Sangh also asked the BJP leaders and workers to reach out to the masses and popularise the achievements of the state government on different fronts. Sources said that it has been decided at the meeting that 'Rashtravad' should be among the major planks in the forthcoming assembly, besides 'Love Jihad' (Musim youths marrying Hindu girls on false pretences) and 'conversion'. Sources said that the Sangh wants the BJP to take the agenda of 'development' and 'hindutva' together to the electorate in the state. ''We must send the message that for us politics is a means of service and the country is above everything,'' a senior UP BJP leader, who was privy to the discussions, told DH on Monday. Sources also said that the Sangh has cautioned the BJP on the new population policy and suggested some amendments in the same. The Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) had also earlier asked the UP government to scrap the new policy or introduce a new one with amendments saying that it was against the Hindus. The saffron party would, in an apparent bid to sharpen its 'hindutva' plank, be felicitating seers, saints and priests on the occasion of 'Guru Purnima' on July 24. ''The party will be organising functions at every booth to felicitate them,'' said the BJP leader. Earlier at the two-day long state BJP executive committee meeting held a couple of days ago, Adityanath had said that the "jihadi elements" had targeted ''deaf and dumb'' children to convert them as part of a "conspiracy" and added that they ''posed a serous threat to the national security''.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rss-victory-mantra-for-bjp-in-up-include-rashtravad-hindutva-conversion-cautions-party-on-population-policy-1010415.html
19-07-2021||National Politics||Uproar in RS as Opposition asks govt to clarify on nationality of newly-inducted minister||Opposition members in Rajya Sabha on Monday sought to raise the issue of the nationality of a newly inducted Minister of State for Home, alleging he was a Bangladeshi national, but the government dismissed the charge as "baseless" and slammed them for casting such aspersions on a leader from a tribal community. Opposition members led by TMC MP Sukhendu Sekhar and Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge asked the government to clear its stand over the nationality of the minister. Without naming the minister, Sekhar said:”The prime minister has been allowed to lay a list of the ministers after the reshuffle. Go through Wikipedia, then you will find that the name of the gentleman… A Minister of State for Home Affairs is a reportedly a Bangladeshi.” Sekhar was also supported by Kharge and other opposition members. “He has raised a relevant point. It's a point of order,” said Kharge adding, “I have every right to know whether he is a Bangladeshi or not." Last week, Rajya Sabha member and Assam Pradesh Congress Committee President Ripun Bora had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to conduct an inquiry into allegations that newly appointed minister Nisith Pramanik is a Bangladeshi national. Objecting to the remarks of opposition members, Union Minister and Leader of the House Piyush Goyal termed the allegation as “baseless”, asserting there is no truth in it. “This should be expunged. It's an insult of a big leader and a large society to which he belongs,” he said, adding such remarks against a leader from the tribal community were condemnable. As the issue sparked an uproar, Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman  Harivansh Narayan Singh tried to pacify the members but failed. Amid the commotion, Union Minister of Ports, Shipping and Waterways Sarbananda Sonowal introduced The Marine Aids to Navigation Bill, 2021. Lok Sabha has already passed the bills that will replace an over nine-decade-old law governing lighthouses and seeks to provide for a fresh framework to establish and manage vessel traffic services, besides changing the use of the term marine aids to navigation. The Deputy Chairman asked the agitating member to discuss only the bills listed in the business of the house. However, the members did not relent, after which the Singh adjourned the house till 3 PM. Earlier, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was prevented from introducing his newly-inducted union ministers to Rajya Sabha as several slogan-shouting opposition members trooped into the Well of the House to protest over various issues, including farm laws and fuel price hike. The House proceedings were adjourned till 2 PM as the protesting opposition members did not relent to Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu''s repeated appeal for order in the House. When the House assembled on day one of the Monsoon Session, the proceedings were adjourned for an hour as a mark of respect to departed sitting MPs Raghunath Mohapatra and Rajeev Satav. No sooner did the House meet again at around 12.25 PM, opposition members started raising slogans as the Chairman was making his opening remarks about the expectations from the current session amid the Covid-19 pandemic. When the prime minister rose to introduce the newly inducted members in his Council of Ministers, opposition members created an uproar by raising slogans. Questioning the opposition's conduct, Modi wondered "what kind of mindset is this" that prevents them from giving respect to the new ministers who are women, Dalits and come from Scheduled Tribes and OBC communities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/uproar-in-rs-as-opposition-asks-govt-to-clarify-on-nationality-of-newly-inducted-minister-1010444.html
19-07-2021||National Politics||Not a shred of evidence to link BJP or Modi govt with Pegasus: Ravi Shankar Prasad||The BJP on Monday hit out at the Congress over its attack on the central government over the Pegasus snooping row, and claimed that there is not a "shred of evidence" to link either the ruling party or the Modi dispensation with the matter. Addressing a press conference, senior BJP leader Ravi Shankar Prasad also questioned the credentials of those behind the story, alleging that The Wire, the news portal which broke it in India, had been earlier associated with stories that have been found to be "incorrect" while Amnesty International has a declared "anti-India" agenda in many ways. Those who broke the story themselves said that the presence of a particular number in the database does not confirm that it is infected with Pegasus, he said while questioning the timing of the story coming as it did a day before Parliament's Monsoon session began on Monday. He also brushed aside a question on the Congress's demands for Home Minister Amit Shah's resignation and probe against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and accused the opposition party of hitting a "new low" in making baseless allegations in a manner that was bereft of any political propriety. With the Congress "shrinking and losing", the entire row is timed to disrupt Parliament and build a baseless agenda, he said. Prasad said, "The BJP strongly refutes and condemns the baseless and bereft of political propriety comments levelled by Congress against the BJP. This is a new low in the political discourse of a party that has ruled India for over 50 years." He added, "Our IT Minister confirmed today that for lawful interceptions of electronic communication can only be made as per relevant rules under provisions of Sec 5(2) of Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 & Sec 69 of Information Technology Act 2000. Any form of illegal surveillance isn't possible with checks & balances in our laws & robust institutions," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/not-a-shred-of-evidence-to-link-bjp-or-modi-govt-with-pegasus-ravi-shankar-prasad-1010453.html
19-07-2021||National Politics||Pegasus snooping row: Youth Congress members stage protest||Members of the Indian Youth Congress on Monday staged a protest against the Centre following media reports on the use of Pegasus software to snoop on prominent personalities in the country. More than 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including of two serving ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders and one sitting judge besides scores of business persons and activists in India could have been targeted for hacking through an Israeli spyware sold only to government agencies, an international media consortium reported on Sunday. The government, however, has dismissed allegations of any kind of surveillance on its part on specific people, saying it "has no concrete basis or truth associated with it whatsoever". It has said the allegations just ahead of the Monsoon session of Parliament are aimed at maligning Indian democracy. Led by IYC national president Srinivas BV, the protestors marched towards Parliament House despite the rain. Many protesters were detained by the Delhi Police, an IYC statement claimed. Criticising the alleged snooping, the statement quoting Srinivas alleged that spying was a tactic prevalent during India's "British days". "During the British days, their business was 'spying', even today when they have gone, the business of 'spying' continues. When will they improve?," the statement quoting Srinivas alleged. Srinivas demanded a JPC and Supreme Court-monitored investigation into the spying case, saying the IYC would continue its protests unless "the people involved in the spying case are punished." "After seven years, we got to know that through Pegasus he (PM Modi) was listening to 'Mann Ki Baat' while sitting in WhatsApp," the statement quoting Srinivas alleged. Among those who participated in the protest include, national general secretary of youth Congress and Delhi In-charge Bhaiya Pawar, Delhi Youth Congress State President Rannvijay Lochav, Chhattisgarh Youth Congress President Coco Padhi among others, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pegasus-snooping-row-youth-congress-members-stage-protest-1010489.html
19-07-2021||National Politics||Pegasus political storm mars first day of Monsoon Session||NDA ally JDU, voiced its strong disapproval of the alleged snooping calling it "dirty" and "worthless". "It is not good to disturb anyone like this. All this new technology that has come...and its misuse...the effect it has...people are troubled...their work gets hindered,"the Chief Minister told media persons in Patna after his Janata Darbar. Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said that the party will raise the Pegasus Project report along with all Opposition parties in the Parliament on Tuesday. "Rule of Law’, Fundamental Right to Privacy & Constitutional Duties have been murdered in broad daylight by the Modi Government." Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and AICC communication department chief Randeep Surjewala said addressing a joint press conference. "If the Modi Government Isn't Snooping on Us, Who Else Unleashed Pegasus? NSO only sells Pegasus to governments & Modi govt denies deploying it. Let's find out who is snooping on us," said Shashi Tharoor calling it a "serious issue of national security." Derek O'Brien of Trinamool Congress also said that his party will discuss the issue in Parliament and alleged the Gujarat model of 2002 is becoming the 2021 India model. Congress, Shiv Sena and RJD sought a JPC probe. "The 'snoop, plant, arrest’ formula employed by this BJP government is a violation of the fundamental rights of Indian citizens,” the CPI(M) said. "Rahul Gandhi tweeted, "we know what he’s been reading- everything on your phone!", while Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said, "the Pegasus revelations are abhorrent. If true, the Modi government seems to have launched a grave and sinister attack on the Right to Privacy - constitutionally guaranteed to Indian citizens as a Fundamental Right. This is an affront to democracy and has ominous implications for our freedoms." Alleging that both the Prime Minister and the Home Minister are "involved in the snooping" on Opposition leaders including Rahul Gandhi, journalists and even Union ministers, Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Kharge said that Amit Shah should resign even before a probe and the role of the Prime Minister should be investigated. The Congress party, which has often been at the receiving end of BJP's "anti-national" rhetoric, accused the government of "treason" on the Pegasus issue alleging "Modi government's spyware has dismantled national security" and defined the BJP as "Bhartiya Jasoos Party". Youth Congress President B V Srinivas said, "so Rahul Gandhi was the potential #Pegasus Target in run up to 2019 Polls and After. Also five of his friends and two aides who work closely with him on party matters were attacked by PM Modi right before elections. Shame on you ......Modi." Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pegasus-political-storm-mars-first-day-of-monsoon-session-1010491.html
19-07-2021||National Politics||IT Minister should answer if govt acquired Pegasus spyware: Chidambaram||In a series of tweets, Chidambaram said the minister should answer if the government acquired the Pegasus software/spyware. "NSO Group, the owner of Pegasus, has said that 'NSO sells its technologies solely to law enforcement and intelligence agencies of vetted governments.' It is unfortunate that Minister Vaishnaw has started his innings on the wrong foot," he tweeted. In his statement the Minister has omitted to quote the crucial part of Pegasus’ statement. The services that are “openly available to anyone, anywhere, and anytime” refer to HLR Lookup services, not to Pegasus. "The Minister should answer a simple question: Did the government acquire the Pegasus software/spyware?" he added. The Minister should answer a simple question:Did the government acquire the Pegasus software/spyware? Vaishnaw, in a suo motu statement in Lok Sabha, categorically rejected the allegations of snooping on politicians, journalists and others using Pegasus software, and asserted that illegal surveillance was not possible with checks and balances in the country's laws. He said the media reports on alleged snooping published a day before the start of the Monsoon Session of Parliament "cannot be a coincidence" and stressed that there is "no substance" behind the sensationalism. "The press reports of 18th July 2021 also appear to be an attempt to malign the Indian democracy and its well-established institutions," Vaishnaw said in his first statement in Parliament as a minister. The minister, however, did not specify whether the Indian government was using Pegasus spyware developed by Israeli company NSO. Chidambaram said, "In his statement the Minister has omitted to quote the crucial part of Pegasus’ statement. The services that are 'openly available to anyone, anywhere, and anytime' refer to HLR Lookup services, not to Pegasus." The former Union minister was referring to the statement given by the Israeli company to a group of media organisations that broke the story across the globe. The Congress has demanded a thorough, independent probe into the matter and immediate sacking of Home Minister Amit Shah. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/it-minister-should-answer-if-govt-acquired-pegasus-spyware-chidambaram-1010502.html
19-07-2021||National Politics||Telangana CM KCR wants to spend Rs 2,000 cr for 'Dalit empowerment' in an assembly constituency going to by-polls||An ambitious scheme envisaged by Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to “empower Dalits” in Telangana would be launched from Huzurabad soon, where a by-election is imminent. Chief minister Rao is facing a major challenge in the assembly constituency from his former confidant Eatala Rajender who has joined the BJP after exiting the TRS and resigning from the seat. While it was earlier decided to earmark Rs 1,200 crore under the programme for the entire state, Rao has now announced that an additional Rs 1,500 cr to Rs 2,000 crore could be expended in Huzurabad alone, where the pilot project would be implemented. The CM said that about 21,000 SC families would be scrutinised for selection as beneficiaries from the five mandals of the constituency, and that the scheme would be carried out in “a saturation mode” there. The Telangana Dalita Bandhu scheme, as named by Rao on Sunday, was originally intended to provide a financial assistance of Rs 10 lakh each to 11,900 Scheduled Caste beneficiaries in the state, with 100 families selected from each of the 119 assembly constituencies. Analysts attribute the CM's largesse for one constituency to the ruling party's necessity to retain the seat in its account. By the time Huzurabad by-poll is completed, Telangana assembly elections would be only two years away. TRS leaders are worried that a BJP victory, though largely due to the four time MLA Eatala's influence, would help the saffron party spread its sway in the state. The BJP had shocked the TRS last year with its back to back electoral victories in Dubbaka assembly and Hyderabad civic body polls. While the TRS managed to regain its electoral hold in Telangana by the wins in the Nagarjuna Sagar assembly, MLC and urban body elections later, the combination of Eatala and BJP has apparently become formidable for the ruling party. The CMO sources, however, stated that Huzurabad was selected because of the CM's sentimental attachment to the place in erstwhile Karimnagar district since the statehood agitation time. “Even Rythu Bandhu (an investment support scheme for farmers) was launched from Huzurabad. So, it was decided to continue the tradition,” an official said. Eatala was sacked in May over the charges of land grabbing, which he described as a planned conspiracy by the TRS bigwigs to oust him. The Backward Community leader, who served as the finance minister in Rao's first term, even alleged that the TRS leaders toiled for his defeat in the 2018 assembly polls. On Monday, Eatala set out on a three week padayatra to cover the entire constituency in preparation of the by-polls. “Scared of their defeat, the TRS leaders are threatening the voters and creating hurdles to my tour. Nevertheless, Huzurabad would mark the beginning of the end of KCR's dictatorship,” warned Eatala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/telangana-cm-kcr-wants-to-spend-rs-2000-cr-for-dalit-empowerment-in-an-assembly-constituency-going-to-by-polls-1010532.html
19-07-2021||National Politics||Sasikala cannot control AIADMK: Palaniswami||Launching an attack on his former boss, Tamil Nadu’s Leader of Opposition Edappadi K Palaniswami on Monday accused V K Sasikala of “spreading lies” on the party’s defeat in the April 6 assembly elections with an “ulterior motive.” Palaniswami said Sasikala will not be able to control the AIADMK and that the party cadres were not in a mood to trust her. He was responding to Sasikala’s suggestions that the party could have retained power in the assembly election if it was united. “The party lost in 1996. She (Sasikala) was in the party. The party again lost in 2006, and she was in the party then as well. She is spreading lies with an ulterior motive. None in the party is ready to trust her,” Palaniswami told reporters in his native Salem district. He also taunted Sasikala saying she had advised late M G Ramachandran and J Jayalalithaa on politics. Palaniswami, who was handpicked by Sasikala as the chief minister before she proceeded to Bengaluru to serve her prison term in a disproportionate assets (DA) case, is opposed to his former boss making a comeback to the party. Palaniswami has been maintaining that Sasikala was not “even a member” of the AIADMK and, therefore, she cannot assume the leadership of the party. Sasikala, who decided to “step aside” from politics before the elections, has now announced that she will take control of the AIADMK and “set things right” in the party. Though Sasikala’s team is releasing audio clips of her conversation with AIADMK cadres, there has not been much of a talk within the party on her return.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sasikala-cannot-control-aiadmk-palaniswami-1010543.html
19-07-2021||North and Central||Danish Siddiqui laid to rest at Jamia Millia Islamia graveyard||Slain photojournalist Danish Siddiqui, who was killed in Afghanistan, was on Sunday laid to rest at the Jamia Millia Islamia graveyard where a sea of mourners gathered to pay their last respects. His body arrived at the Delhi airport in the evening and was later brought to his residence in Jamia Nagar where a huge crowd, including his family and friends, had gathered. Police was deployed in the area and its personnel kept urging the gathering to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. Siddiqui's body was taken to the graveyard where it was buried around 10.15 pm. There was a sea of mourners at the burial site to pay their respects. His friends recalled their last conversations with him and his promise of meeting them once he returned from his assignment. Some people remembered him as their childhood friend, some as their mentor but what was common in their memories of him was that he was a simple person who was passionate about photography. Bilal Zaidi (37), a friend of Siddiqui, said, "I met him before Covid as he was always on field and then met him last month when he was here. We exchanged a hellos." "He was a very reserved and shy person and that's why when he started his career as a TV journalist, we felt there was a mismatch. He was somebody who always carried a camera with him whenever he was on field. He enjoyed taking photos and had a passion for still photography. He won Pulitzer for this," Zaidi said. Shahdab Alam (37), his childhood friend, said Siddiqui's death was not only a loss for his family but for the entire nation. "He was passionate about photography and loved playing cricket. I met him last month for a couple of minutes and had a word with him when he was leaving for the assignment," he recalled. Mohammad Meharban, a freelance photojournalist, had last messaged Siddiqui asking whether he would be coming home on Eid-ul-Zuha, and he had replied,''Inshaallah, I will come and will eat with you." Remembering his mentor, Meharban broke down. "He was my mentor and I was with him since 2017. He sent me a link of his work. When I opened it and found that he was in Afghanistan, I immediately called him and said it's not safe there. He said it's okay, my work has been done and I will be back soon," he recalled. Imran Kasim, another childhood friend, remembered meeting him at a friend's wedding almost four years ago. "We grew up together. He had a passion for photography and became a photojournalist. We were in touch through WhatsApp and other mediums," he said. Siddiqui is an alumnus of Jamia Millia Islamia. He won a Pulitzer Prize in 2018 and worked for Reuters news agency. The photojournalist was killed on Friday in the town of Spin Boldak, near the border with Pakistan. He was embedded with Afghanistan special forces at the time of his death. Earlier in the day, the university said in a statement, "Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) Vice Chancellor accepted the request of the family of late photojournalist Danish Siddiqui to bury his body at the JMI graveyard meant exclusively for university employees, their spouses and minor child." Siddiqui's father Akhtar Siddiqui was the Dean of Faculty of Education there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/danish-siddiqui-laid-to-rest-at-jamia-millia-islamia-graveyard-1010247.html
19-07-2021||North and Central||One killed, six workers feared trapped in building collapse in Gurgaon||A worker died and six others were feared trapped after a three-storey building collapsed in Haryana's Gurgaon district on Sunday evening, officials said. Deputy Commissioner (DC) Yash Garg said the rescue operation is likely to continue for 18-20 hours. "One person has died in the building collapse incident at the Pataudi road in Farrukhnagar while another has been pulled out of the rubble and rescued safely,” Garg told PTI over phone. Asked if the number of those who are still trapped under the debris could be more than six, he said giving an exact number at this stage is not possible as the rescue operation is going on. "The preliminary figure we had earlier of those who could be trapped was about six. However, the exact number will be known once the entire rubble is removed. Entire operation is likely to take 18-20 hours," Garg said. When asked if rains could have caused the collapse, he said, "I don't think rain is the cause of the collapse of the building. There were structural defects in the building… prima facie that seems to be the cause. But it is too early to say anything conclusively as our main focus right now is the rescue operation." Ambulances with doctors and paramedical staff have also deployed at the spot to immediately attend to those who are brought out alive, the officials said. "According to preliminary reports, a warehouse company had built the premises to house its labourers," Manesar Deputy Commissioner of Police Varun Singla had earlier said. Quoting the preliminary reports, he had said that 18-19 workers used to live in the building and many of them were not present at the time of the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-killed-six-workers-feared-trapped-in-building-collapse-in-gurgaon-1010248.html
19-07-2021||North and Central||Opposition raises ‘failed’ CM charge at Amarinder after Sidhu appointment||The appointment of Navjot Singh Sidhu as Punjab Congress chief despite a simmering tension between him and Chief Minister Amarinder Singh came in handy to the Opposition to raise a "failed" Chief Minister charge on Amarinder even as Congress sought to give an "all is well" message, calling for unity in the party. While it remains to be seen how the party unit divided into camps in the state reacts to the development in the coming days, the CM has been maintaining that he will abide by "any decision taken by Sonia Gandhi". Senior party leader from the state and former Union law minister Ashwani Kumar said, "the decision of the Congress High Command to appoint Sidhu as the new party chief in Punjab should now be gracefully accepted by all in the interest of party unity. This is a time to be united." "There are no victors or losers. Reconciliation is the way forward. This is a time to be united. All Congresspersons will, hopefully, have a role to play in fighting an ideological battle," he said in a statement that appeared aimed at soothing the frayed tempers in the CM's camp over the decision. He said all congresspersons will, "hopefully" have a role to play in fighting an ideological battle and underlined that Singh and Sidhu will need to pull together and called for "magnanimity on both sides". "Or is necessary to ensure that no one feels diminished. Sometimes, and in a complex political situation, perfect solutions are impossible. We know that in politics a person is as important as the purpose one serves. The voice of the silent majority that defines the conscience of the party is in favour of unity and should be heeded," he said. Youth Congress President B V Srinivas hoped Sidhu's leadership will continue to spearhead the state and nation to achieve greater heights. Opposition parties in Punjab Shiromani Akali Dal and AAP sought to fish in the troubled waters of Congress. AAP state chief Bhagwant Mann said the only agenda for all the Congress leaders was to occupy the seat. "Someone is fighting to save the chair and another one is trying to grab that chair. People of Punjab have made up their minds to teach a lesson to Congress in the 2022 assembly polls." SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal slammed the move as another "drama" of Congress by replacing its “failed” CM as he mocked Sidhu saying he is known more for “theatrics” rather than administrative roles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/opposition-raises-failed-cm-charge-at-amarinder-after-sidhu-appointment-1010259.html
19-07-2021||North and Central||7 dead, 8 injured in bus accident in UP’s Sambhal||Atleast seven people were killed and eight others injured in a collision between two buses on the Agra-Chandausi Highway under Bahjoi Police Station area, an official said on Monday. The accident occurred near Laharavan village late Sunday night when a bus carrying a marriage party was parked on the roadside due to a punctured tyre and it was hit by another, Superintendent of Police Chakresh Mishra said. Those killed have been identified as Virpal (60), Happy (35), Chhote (40), Rakesh (30), Abhay (18), Vineet (30) and Bhure (25), police said, adding they were returning from a wedding, the SP said. The injured were admitted to a hospital while the bodies have been sent for post-mortem examination, the SP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/7-dead-8-injured-in-bus-accident-in-up-s-sambhal-1010287.html
19-07-2021||North and Central||Top LeT commander among 2 killed in encounter with security forces in J&K's Shopian||A commander of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), who had deserted the ranks of Jammu and Kashmir Police four years ago, was among two militants killed in an overnight encounter in south Kashmir’s Shopian district on Monday. Reports said the gunfight erupted after a joint team of army, J&K police and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) launched a cordon-and-search operation in Check Sadiq Khan area of Shopian on Sunday night. Police said the search operation turned into an encounter after militants opened fire on security forces, who retaliated. In the ensuing firefight, two militants affiliated with the LeT were killed. Police identified the slain militants as Ishfaq Dar alias Abu Akram, a top commander of the LeT, who was active since 2017 and Majid Iqbal, both locals. Ishfaq had joined the LeT in 2017 after working as a constable in J&K police from 2010. Police said that incriminating material including arms and ammunition has been recovered from the slain militants' possession. There has been a spurt in gun battles between militants and security forces in Kashmir since the beginning of this month after witnessing a decline in May and June apparently due to the Covid-19 lockdown. While 16 ultras were killed in May and June, in the first 19-days of this month 22 ultras, mostly from the LeT, have been gunned down by security forces in nine encounters. Pertinently 80 militants and 18 security forces and J&K police personnel have been killed in Kashmir since the beginning of this year. Out of 80 militants killed this year, 41 belonged to the LeT followed by Hizbul Mujahideen, Al-Badr, Jash-e-Mohammad and Ansar Ghazwat-ul-Hind. Over 200 militants were killed in Kashmir in 2020 while the number of 157 in 2019. In 2018, the number of militants killed stood at 257– which was the highest in a decade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/top-let-commander-among-2-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces-in-jks-shopian-1010291.html
19-07-2021||North and Central||Incessant overnight rains drench Delhi; IMD issues advisory||The national capital woke up to incessant overnight rains on Monday morning that caused waterlogging and traffic snarls on several road stretches including ITO and Pul Prahladpur. Some of the stretches where waterlogging was reported were Ring Road, Pragati Maidan, Palam, Kirari and Rohtak road. Waterlogged streets also led to traffic snarls at several stretches in the city and traffic was diverted at the Pul Prahladpur underpass. “Waterlogging reported at Pulpehladpur under railway bridge. Traffic is diverted from MB (Mehrauli-Badarpur) road towards Mathura road,” the Delhi traffic police said in a tweet. Traffic snarls were witnessed on Ring Road near Millennium Park, Sarai Kale Khan, Kilokri, near IP Flyover, Dhaula Kuan, Vikas Marg, Azadpur, among others. Officials of the Public Works Department (PWD) said waterlogging complaints were being dealt with on a priority basis.  “Our field staff along with senior engineers is on the ground. Water is being removed from streets,” a PWD official said. The city registered 70 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast "light to moderate intensity rain" over Delhi and NCR during the day. According to the IMD, a below 15 mm rainfall is considered "light", between 15 and 64.5 mm is "moderate", between 64.5 mm and 115.5 mm is "heavy" and between 115.6 mm and 204.4 mm is "very heavy", and above 204.4 mm is considered as "extremely heavy". The weather department issued advisory suggesting "slippery roads and traffic disruption" due to thunderstorms and rain. It also warned against "partial damage to plantation, horticulture, standing crops, vulnerable structures, kutcha houses and huts" due to rains and strong winds. It added that moderate to heavy spells of rain may cause "occasional reduction in visibility" and waterlogging may occur in the low lying areas. The IMD also advised to "stay indoors, close windows and doors and avoid travel if possible" and not to take shelter under trees. "Do not lie on concrete floors and do not lean against concrete walls. Unplug electrical/electronic appliances. Immediately get out of water bodies. Keep away from all the objects that conduct electricity," the MeT Department advised. The city recorded minimum temperature of 24.2 degrees Celsius, three points below the normal for the season. The relative humidity was recorded at 100 per cent at 8.30 am. The maximum temperature is expected to hover around 32 degrees Celsius. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed that the air quality index (AQI) at 9 am in Delhi stood at 89. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/incessant-overnight-rains-drench-delhi-imd-issues-advisory-1010297.html
19-07-2021||North and Central||Three of family killed in cloudburst in Uttarakhand's Uttarkashi||Three members of a family, including a mother-daughter duo, were killed while one person was reportedly missing after a cloudburst hit two adjacent villages in Uttarakhand's Uttarkashi district, officials said on Monday. Those killed in the incident that took place on Sunday night in Mandav village were identified as Madhuri Devi (36), Ritu Devi (32) and her three-year-old daughter Trishvi, Uttarakashi's Disaster Management Officer Devendra Patwal said, adding that all the bodies have been recovered. One person is reported to be missing after the cloudburst in the neighbouring Kankrari village. A search operation is underway to find him, he said. Police and State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) personnel launched rescue operations in the affected areas immediately after being informed and succeeded in rescuing most of the people trapped in slush. Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami expressed grief over the loss of lives in the incident and asked the Uttarkashi District Magistrate to carry out relief and rescue operations in the affected areas on priority.  Meanwhile, two labourers who got stranded in a tunnel of the Chibro hydel project in Vikasnagar area of Dehradun district on Sunday evening are still trapped there. Efforts are underway to rescue them, Kalsi police station incharge Rituraj Singh said.     They had fainted inside the tunnel due to lack of oxygen, he said. Most of the rivers in Uttarakhand, including Ganga, Yamuna, Bhagirathi, Alaknanda, Mandakini, Pindar, Nandakini, Tons, Saryu, Gori,  Kali and Ramganga, are in spate following intermittent rains over the last three days, the State Emergency Operation Centre here informed. A constant vigil on them is being maintained, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-of-family-killed-in-cloudburst-in-uttarakhands-uttarkashi-1010310.html
19-07-2021||North and Central||BSP's love for Brahmins only election stunt, says suspended MLA||Suspended BSP MLA Aslam Raini has termed the Bahujan Samaj Party as a "sinking ship", and claimed that the party's love for Brahmins is only an "election stunt". "People from backward class, upper castes and minorities are no longer with the BSP. There was a time when prominent Brahmin leaders like Brajesh Pathak were there in the party. Today, the Brahmins will not board the sinking ship of the BSP in the name of Satish Chandra Misra," he told reporters here on Sunday night. Raini claimed that he had spoken to Brahmins in Lakhimpur Kheri, Sitapur, Gorakhpur, Balrampur, Bahraich, Gonda and Shravasti and has been told that the Brahmin community will vote for the Samajwadi Party. "Apart from this, the members of the minority community will also vote for the SP, and Akhilesh Yadav will become the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh," he said. In October 2020, seven BSP MLAs including Raini were suspended by party president Mayawati. They had opposed the nomination of party's official candidate Ramji Gautam for the elections to the Rajya Sabha. On June 15, some of the suspended BSP MLAs including Raini had met Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav in Lucknow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bsps-love-for-brahmins-only-election-stunt-says-suspended-mla-1010323.html
19-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi's iconic All American Diner comes back as 'The Habitat Hub'||After decades of serving an extravagant menu of American meals, Delhi's oldest all-day breakfast diner, the All American Diner at the India Habitat Center reopened as the Habitat Hub on Sunday. The company also managed members-only eateries like Delhi ‘O’ Delhi and Oriental Octopus and open-to-all facilities like Eatopia (the food court). Delhi 'O' Delhi will be next in line for reopening, but it is not clear if it will reopen with a different name. The revamp and the new opening was announced in a Facebook post by India Habitat Center. "The all-day dining resto-bar at the ground floor at India Habitat Centre, New Delhi opens its doors with a new look and name — HABITAT HUB. Imagine a chic, contemporary space with minimalistic interiors for your daily hangouts," the post read. While the menu and staff of the iconic restaurant are likely to remain the same, it still invokes a sense of nostalgia for regulars. For nearly two decades now, the All American diner has offered a classic American meal experience from waffles to burgers and shakes. It is yet to be seen if the 1950s theme of the American diner will be retained in its replacement. The eatery was an uncanny replica of the famously depicted American diners in pop culture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-iconic-all-american-diner-comes-back-as-the-habitat-hub-1010345.html
19-07-2021||North and Central||15-year-old girl raped, forced to change religion in UP's Baghpat; 3 arrested||A 15-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a man, his brothers and friends here in Uttar Pradesh and she was forced to change her religion, police said on Monday. The man, Shahzad, and his parents have been arrested, they said. The girl belonged to the scheduled caste community and she has alleged that Shahzad (26) promised to marry her, police said, adding that on this pretext, he along with others forcibly changed her religion a year ago. Kotwali police station in-charge N S Sirohi said a case has been registered against seven persons and the main accused Shahzad, his mother Gulfshan and father Haroon were arrested on Sunday morning. A search is on for the others, he said. Shahzad was already married and it has been alleged that he raped the girl several times, police said, adding that the girl also said she was pregnant, but forced to go in for an abortion by his family members. The minor said that she had protested, but was threatened with dire consequences, according to police His friends had also raped her, they said, quoting the complaint lodged by the girl's family. According to the complaint, she was called by Shahzad to his house on July 6 and was taken captive, police said. On July 8, she was raped by his brothers Bilal and Farman, they said quoting the complaint. The girl's family claimed that she reached home on July 10 in a very scared state. When her health deteriorated and they insisted on taking her to a doctor on July 17, she informed them about the incident, police said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/15-year-old-girl-raped-forced-to-change-religion-in-ups-baghpat-3-arrested-1010375.html
19-07-2021||North and Central||After Srinagar, evening flights to operate from Jammu airport soon||After Srinagar International Airport, the night operation of commercial flights is all set to begin at Jammu airport from July 23 much to the delight of frequent flyers. An airport official said the private airliner Go Air will depart from Jammu for Delhi on Friday evening. “The commencement of night flights has made the airport abuzz with activity and it will be beneficial for both locals as well as tourists,” he said. “The start of the night operations from both Srinagar and Jammu airports is the dawn of a new era as it will improve air connectivity to the union territory. This will also boost the tourism sector of J&K as it will increase the tourist footfall in the region,” the official added. Union Minister Jitendra Singh on Sunday through a tweet said: “News that should bring Cheer to all. After our constant persuasion for the last 5 years, it has been decided to operate a late evening Air Flight between JAMMU and DELHI, most likely from Friday, 23rd July. Go Air has agreed for it. Thanks PM Narendra Modi ji, you have always been generous to J&K (sic).”   Starting post-sunset flight operations is, mainly, the coming together of two factors - technical feasibility and permissions from authorities. Presently around 17 flights operate at Jammu airport which shall increase with the night flying facility. The work on the expansion of Jammu airport is also underway. Jammu airport is a civil airport with the runway and the ATC (Air Traffic Control) under the Indian Air Force (AIF). On June 27, two explosives-laden drones, believed to be operated by the militants from across the border, crashed into the IAF station at Jammu airport damaging the roof of a building and injuring two personnel. Earlier in March, regular evening flight operations started at the Srinagar airport which brought a lot of relief for frequent flyers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-srinagar-evening-flights-to-operate-from-jammu-airport-soon-1010378.html
19-07-2021||North and Central||Parts of Uttar Pradesh receive monsoon rains||Light to moderate monsoon rains occurred at many places over eastern Uttar Pradesh and over most parts of the western region of the state Monday, the meteorological department said. Thunderstorm accompanied by lightning occurred at isolated places over the state, it said. Officials said rainfall was recorded in Lakhimpur Kheri, Bijnor, Etawah, Kanpur Dehat, Shahjahanpur, Rampur, Moradabad, Balrampur, Banda, Pilibhit, Sitapur, Bahraich, Deoria, Mirzapur, Bareilly, Shravasti, Sambhal, Hamirpur, Gorakhpur, Kannauj, Auraiya, Mathura, Baghpat, Basti, Agra and Budaun. Lakhimpur Kheri and Agra were the hottest places in the state with mercury touching 35.6 degrees Celsius. Heavy rain is very likely at isolated places over the state on July 20, they said. Rain or thundershowers are also very likely at most places over eastern UP and at many places over western UP on July 21.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/parts-of-uttar-pradesh-receive-monsoon-rains-1010404.html
19-07-2021||North and Central||Indian Bank posts multifold jump in Q1 net profit to Rs 1,182 cr||State-owned Indian Bank on Monday reported a multifold jump in its net profit to Rs 1,182 crore for the first quarter ended June 30, 2021. The bank had reported a net profit of Rs 369 crore in the corresponding quarter a year ago. Total income during April-June 2021 inched higher to Rs 11,500.20 crore, from Rs 11,446.71 crore in the year-ago period, Indian Bank said in a regulatory filing. Its interest income was down five per cent to Rs 9,624 crore in the first quarter of the current financial year, against Rs 10,120 crore a year ago. On the asset quality front, the lender's gross non-performing assets (NPAs) fell to 9.69 per cent of the gross advances as of June 30, 2021, from 10.90 per cent by the end of June 2020. Net NPA or bad loans also softened to 3.47 per cent from 3.76 per cent. Shares of Indian Bank on Monday rose 0.80 per cent to close at Rs 139.25 apiece on the BSE.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indian-bank-posts-multifold-jump-in-q1-net-profit-to-rs-1182-cr-1010406.html
19-07-2021||North and Central||Azam Khan admitted to Lucknow hospital again; condition stable||Senior Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Azam Khan, lodged in the Sitapur jail, was admitted to a hospital here after he complained of breathlessness on Monday, prison officials said. His oxygen level was found low in the primary check-up and was advised better treatment at the Medanta Hospital in Lucknow, said R S Yadav, Jailer, Sitapur District Jail. "He was admitted to the hospital again at about 3.30 pm on Monday due to breathing problem and weakness. A team of critical care medicine and other doctors are treating him. He is stable now," Medanta Lucknow Medical Director Rakesh Kapoor said. Earlier, Khan complained of breathing difficulty in the morning and was promptly checked by a team of doctors from the district hospital, said jailer Yadav. The 72-year-old SP leader was sent to Lucknow around 2 pm in an ambulance escorted by police, he added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/azam-khan-admitted-to-lucknow-hospital-again-condition-stable-1010452.html
19-07-2021||North and Central||World class drainage system to be developed in Delhi: CM Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said a "world class drainage system" will be developed across the national capital. He said drainage systems like the one at Minto Road here will be replicated across Delhi and drains and sewers will be desilted regularly. The chief minister made the announcement after taking part in a review meeting on city's drainage system with officials from Public Works Department (PWD), civic bodies, Delhi Jal Board (DJB) and Irrigation and Flood Control (I&FC). The meeting was chaired by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal.  "Considering the monsoon, a review meeting with PWD, MCD, DJB, I&FC under the chairmanship of Lieutenant Governor was conducted on Delhi's drainage system.  "Minto Road type system will be developed at other (vulnerable) points in Delhi. Regular cleaning of drains and sewers will be ensured. We will develop a world class drainage system in Delhi," Kejriwal said in a tweet in Hindi after the meeting.  Minto Road rail under bridge is city's most vulnerable point for waterlogging. This underpass is a crucial connection between the upmarket area of Connaught Place and other parts of central Delhi such as New Delhi railway station, Ramlila Ground etc.  In July 2020, a 56-year-old man allegedly died of drowning when his mini-truck was submerged in water under the Minto Bridge in central Delhi. However, unlike last year, this year so far, there was no waterlogging reported from underneath the Minto Bridge.  PWD officials said nearly nine pumps have been installed to flush out water from Minto bridge apart from setting up sound alarm along with blinkers and CCTVs cameras for swift action and real time monitoring. "Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal convened a review meeting with PWD, MCD, DJB, I&FC departments on Delhi's drainage system. Elaborate discussions were done on the issue of better discharge of water during monsoon in Delhi.  "Drainage systems like the one in Minto Road will be replicated across Delhi. Drains and sewers will be desilted regularly. World class drainage system will be developed in Delhi,” the Chief Minister's Office tweeted after the meeting.  Later in the day, the government released a statement where PWD Minister Satyendar Jain asked the agencies to be fully prepared and be on alert round the clock to combat any problem. "In the next three days we are going to have excess rainfall, so we need to be fully prepared to handle the situation. We not only have to be alert during the day but extra alert during the night. We have over 1,500 pump sets. We should deploy them all.”  "Our officers and engineers across departments need to be available and alert 24x7 because the next few days are going to need more attention," he added. PWD officials said there was no waterlogging underneath the Minto Road underpass so far because of elaborate arrangements made there to avoid water accumulation.  "Nearly nine pumps have been installed to flush out water from Minto bridge. Sound alarm along with blinkers and CCTVs have also been set up near Minto bridge for swift action and real time monitoring," a senior PWD official said. The official said other than increasing monitoring, case specific solutions were also adopted in the Minto bridge waterlogging case. "Usually storm water from Minto Bridge used to get mixed with a sewer line of DJB on DDU marg, which used to cause back flow of water.  "To discourage this, we made a new drain along the Minto Road so that storm water doesn't merge with DJB sewer on DDU marg. Now there is no waterlogging underneath the Minto Bridge," the official explained. In a government statement, the CM said earlier people would declare onset of monsoon after waterlogging at the Minto Bridge but this time monsoon came but the Minto Bridge did not get waterlogged.  "We have the capacity to curb water-logging and if departments work together, we can handle it. If solutions for all vulnerable points are planned and worked towards like the Minto Bridge, then we can bring Delhi freedom from water-logging," the statement quoting Kejriwal said. He said there were a lot of places in Delhi where drains of the DJB and the MCD converge and there is no coordination between them. "I would like to suggest that PWD acts as the nodal authority and undertakes an exercise to redesign Delhi's drainage system. If an excellent design is in place and all the agencies can work together on it, then we can implement it. "Once such a system is in place, we would only require de-silting it once a year and the drainage system will be free of liability," Kejriwal said in the statement. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the Southwest Monsoon had reached the capital on July 13, 16 days behind the usual date of its onset.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/world-class-drainage-system-to-be-developed-in-delhi-cm-kejriwal-1010464.html
19-07-2021||North and Central||Waterlogging, traffic jams across Delhi after rains; man drowns in flooded underpass||The 27-year-old victim, Ravi Chautala, had gone in the flooded underpass apparently to film it and click selfies when he drowned, local people told police. Traffic police officials said the vehicular movement on the Pul Prahladpur stretch in southeast Delhi was shut due to the waterlogging in the underpass. "Waterlogging reported at Pul Prahladpur under railway bridge. Traffic is diverted from MB (Mehrauli-Badarpur) Road towards Mathura Road,” Delhi Traffic Police said in a tweet. Some of the prominent road stretches where waterlogging was seen include ITO, Narela-Lampur underpass in outer Delhi, Ring Road, areas near Pragati Maidan, Palam, Kirari, Rohtak Road, Dhaula Kuan, Kishanganj rail under bridge, Kapashera underpass, Azadpur underpass, Kanjhawala-Jaunti Road, Vikas Marg, Geeta Colony and Ramdev Chowk Narela among others. According to municipal data, waterlogging was seen at around 37 locations in the SDMC area, including Lajpat Nagar-2, Darya Ganj, RK Puram, Hauz Khas, Saket, Janakpuri, Tilak Nagar etc. Nineteen incidents of tree uprooting and six cases of wall collapse were reported in the area under SDMC jurisdiction. As per data from the North MCD, only seven complaints of waterlogging were recorded till Monday afternoon. Not just road stretches, many low-lying areas, including colonies and markets, were inundated as well on Monday. These include the Najafgarh main market, Narela DSIIDC market, Mundka industrial area, Dwarka, some parts of Sadar Bazar and Kamla Nagar markets, Sangam Vihar and Som Vihar among others. People took to social media to upload videos of waterlogged streets, markets and colonies. In some of those videos, people can be seen wading through knee-deep water in Najafgarh and Narela markets. The waterlogging led to heavy traffic snarls at many stretches in the city. Traffic congestions were witnessed on Ring Road near Millennium Park, ITO, Sarai Kale Khan, Kilokri, near IP Flyover, Dhaula Kuan, Vikas Marg, Azadpur, Tikri Road, Rohtak Road, Mukarba Chowk, Apsara Border, Geeta Colony and the Yamuna bridge among others. Commuters faced difficulties on their way to work due to these traffic snarls. Mohit Tomar, who works in the income tax department, said it took him over one and a half hours to cross ITO. "I reached ITO around 10.15 am from my home in Dilshad Colony and got stuck there for almost one and a half hours. Generally, the stretch takes around 10 minutes, but today, the traffic was heavy. I somehow managed to reach my office around 12.20 pm," he said. Another commuter, Sunil Yadav, a legal officer at a private bank, said his commute to office usually takes 45 minutes but on Monday it took nearly one and a half hours. "The major traffic was at Apsara border, Welcome and Seelampur flyovers," he added. Taking to Twitter, the Delhi Traffic Police posted updates about waterlogged spots and traffic diversions. "Water logging has been reported at Lampur underpass. Please avoid Lampur underpass & take alternate route via Narela Bawana flyover," it said in one such tweet. Another tweet from the official handle of Delhi Traffic Police said, "Waterlogging has been reported at Ramdev chowk in Narela. Pl avoid Ramdev chowk." Public Works Department (PWD) officials said waterlogging complaints were being dealt with on priority basis. "Our field staff along with senior engineers are on the ground. Water is being removed from streets," an official said. The city registered 70 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast "light to moderate intensity rain" over Delhi and NCR during the day. According to the IMD, rainfall below 15 mm is considered "light", between 15 and 64.5 mm "moderate", between 64.5 mm and 115.5 mm "heavy", between 115.6 mm and 204.4 mm "very heavy", and above 204.4 mm is considered as "extremely heavy". The weather department issued an advisory suggesting "slippery roads and traffic disruption" due to thunderstorms and rain. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/waterlogging-traffic-jams-across-delhi-after-rains-man-drowns-in-flooded-underpass-1010471.html
19-07-2021||North and Central||Heavy rains lash most places in Haryana, normal life affected||Normal life was hit as heavy rains lashed most places in Haryana on Monday leaving roads and streets flooded with rainwater at some places. Rains lashed many places, including Gurgaon, Jhajjar, Bahadurgarh, Kaithal, Faridabad, Rewari, Sonipat, Ambala, Bhiwani, Palwal, Fatehabad, Rohtak and Panchkula. Normal life was hit at many places after the heavy downpour, with rains also slowing down the movement of vehicular traffic. In Gurgaon, some roads including the one outside the Civil Hospital and some underpasses were flooded with rainwater for some time. At other places, including Kaithal, Sonipat, Bhiwani and Palwal too heavy downpour affected normal life. Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja took a dig at the BJP-led government in the state after the monsoon season's first heavy showers, claiming the downpour had exposed the tall claims about the preparations made by authorities. “The first monsoon rains of the season have exposed the tall claims of the government about the preparations and arrangements as on several roads and areas across the state today water accumulated on roads, streets, underpasses and long traffic jams were witnessed showing there is no adequate drainage arrangements anywhere,” Selja said in a statement. She alleged that the BJP-JJP coalition government only makes tall claims without doing actual work on the ground. “No work is visible on drains and sewers in any city or town. For the past three months, the government had claimed these were cleaned. The question is where was the money spent? A high level inquiry should be ordered to find out where the money was spent,” she said. Meanwhile, the maximum temperatures dropped after the rains, the Meteorological Department here said. The Union Territory of Chandigarh, which also received rains, recorded a high of 27.7 degrees Celsius, down six notches against normal limits. In Haryana, Gurgaon, which received 185 mm rain during the past 24 hours (ending 5.30 pm Monday), recorded a high of 26.7 deg C, down eight notches against normal range. Bhiwani recorded a maximum of 27.3 deg C while Ambala's maximum settled at 26.8 deg C, down seven notches. Karnal and Hisar, which also received rains, registered respective below normal maximums of 27 deg C, seven below normal and 29.1 deg C, eight below normal. In Punjab, Ludhiana and Patiala, which received rains, recorded respective maximums of 27.9 deg C and 27.3 deg C, respectively. Amritsar recorded a high of 31.6 deg C, three notches below normal limits while Bathinda's maximum settled at 34 deg C. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/heavy-rains-lash-most-places-in-haryana-normal-life-affected-1010486.html
19-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi's PWD cancels leaves of engineering staff, orders recall to ensure no waterlogging||Delhi's Public Works Department (PWD) has cancelled the leaves of its engineering staff till September 30 to ensure there is no waterlogging in the city during the monsoon season, officials said Monday. The department has also asked officials to recall the engineering staff already on leave and cancel sanctioned leaves, except in case of health issues or an "unprecedented situation". According to a circular issued by the PWD, engineering staff in the jurisdiction of chief engineers of all divisions (North, East, South, Flyover divisions) shall be on "continuous duty" during the ongoing rainy season. "No leave of engineering staff should be sanctioned by their controlling officers during the above period (till September 30). The leave, if sanctioned already, may be cancelled and the staff may be called on duty with immediate effect until and unless there is health issue or unprecedented situation," a circular issued by the PWD on Friday stated. Every year, people in Delhi face waterlogging during monsoon season. On Monday too, waterlogging was witnessed at many places following incessant rains overnight. Officials privy to the development said the move was aimed at ensuring no waterlogging in the national capital during this monsoon season. "This order has been issued so that drains could be kept clean and waterlogging complaints are dealt with more effectively. Field staff has already been asked to conduct close vigil even during night to ensure that water does not accumulate of streets," the PWD official said. The PWD manages 2,050 km length of drains along 1,260 km of road across 17 divisions in the city. The agency has claimed that it has completed desilting of all its drains before the monsoon||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-pwd-cancels-leaves-of-engineering-staff-orders-recall-to-ensure-no-waterlogging-1010511.html
19-07-2021||North and Central||Kashmir has been pushed to economic, democratic disconnect with rest of India: NC||The National Conference (NC) on Monday claimed that Kashmir has been pushed to an economic and democratic disconnect with the rest of the country and that the "discomfiture" has equally been felt by the Kashmiri Pandit community. NC general secretary Ali Muhammad Sagar made these comments while welcoming Ashok Kumar Bharti, the vice chairman of Shopian Municipal Committee, into the party fold. Bharti, who was affiliated with the BJP, joined the NC along with scores of his supporters. Among others who joined the NC are Shushma Bali, Chander Kumar Bali, Rajinder Koul and Manoj Koul. According to an NC statement, Sagar said, "Kashmir has been pushed to economic and democratic disconnect with the rest of the country and that discomfiture has equally been felt by Kashmiri Pandit community." Addressing the event, NC provincial president Nasir Aslam Wani said Kashmiri Pandits are part of the pluralistic culture of Kashmir. Meanwhile, NC president Farooq Abdullah called for expediting the pace of the party's membership drive and asked all provincial, zonal and district functionaries to lend all support to strengthen the organisation at all levels. In order to stand up for the people of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh, it is important for the party functionaries to work for strengthening the organisation, Abdullah said. Abdullah asked the party functionaries to prepare for organisational polls to be held after the conclusion of the membership drive. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmir-has-been-pushed-to-economic-democratic-disconnect-with-rest-of-india-nc-1010539.html
19-07-2021||Opinion||Oil or liquor, little else to tax even 30 years after reforms||When the retail price of petrol and diesel plays a game of scoring centuries with the citizen’s purse, something seems to be giving way in the state of the economy. Amazing that this should be happening in July 2021, the month that marks the 30th anniversary of India’s pivot to liberalisation. How can a citizen believe the economy has benefited from the seminal events of July 1991, when the Centre’s third-largest source of revenue today comes from taxation of the petroleum sector. For states, the second-largest source of tax is the sale of liquor. If oil and alcohol pay for our upkeep, what did the fabled reforms team of the 90s achieve in diversifying the Indian economy? These issues are even more germane when there is a massive demand to rebuild the economy. If not oil, which other sectors can provide the money to finance the infrastructure of railways, ports, renewable energy, hospitals, and schools? The only other option is to massively raise taxes on companies and block all routes of escaping capital gains. In the past two years, there have been reports of massive numbers of high net worth entities relocating from India to abroad. Possibly they have already sensed the temperature of the fiscal pool. What makes us think that a punitive level of tax on corporations will not make even more of them jump out from the pool?  Since 1991, the total number of income taxpayers has reached only 5.63 crore (FY19), or just 6 per cent of India’s adult population (it was about 3 per cent in the early 90s). But even now, less than half of the total direct tax receipts come from those with a declared annual income of above Rs 50 lakh. This category shall presumably pay the higher rates and possibly duck to avoid the levy. This straitjacket of revenue makes one wonder what were the benefits of the tax reform since 1991. Even if one assumes that the Narendra Modi years were a washout, the tax reforms from earlier do not give much reason to cheer. It might seem dreadful that the direct tax to GDP ratio in FY21 is at 5.1 per cent, lower than even FY07, but even in the intervening decade and a half, it has tottered at 5.5 per cent. It will take more data to figure out if the corporation tax cut in September 2019 has deepened the problem, but anecdotally it does not seem so. Instead, the accepted theology of reducing the indirect tax rates progressively over the years by each government, allied with a more drastic cut in customs duty, has deepened the stress on the fisc. Also, the thirty years of effort has not produced even one Indian company fit and agile to take on global competition. That they have now begun to pillory the government to give sops like those on e-commerce shows that the malaise is not recent, but a deep one.  The fiscal rejig over these decades were, therefore, excellent academic concepts but were disastrous practical policies. They could have been useful only if those making the tax rules could push concomitant reforms in labour, land and capital policies. A great example of how supporting policies crashed was the uproar against the Special Economic Zones. If some of those Zones had got going, India would not have been looking enviously at Vietnam and Bangladesh today.  In this context, where does one place the GST reforms? The tax receipts have begun to increase since the introduction of the e-way bills mechanism and greater oversight. But the fundamental weakness of not pushing factor reforms that the class of 1991 overlooked is hurting here too. Without those reforms to help the industry grow, the harsh tax rejigs instead cut the support of domestic industry, made the states more dependent on liquor duties and reduced room for the Centre to finance support programmes for most sectors. That the Centre today is desperately raising oil taxes to fund hospitals now and schools thereafter speak eloquently of how narrow the vision of tax reforms was in the basket of liberalisation policies.  Possibly the worst impact of these tax changes were the cuts forced on the protection that used to be offered to the small and micro-enterprises. How badly the cuts without the concomitant reforms in power and labour laws hurt the 64 lakh enterprises in the sector was made brutally evident in the two rounds of Covid. Is it possible that the Rs 3 trillion of emergency support the Centre is handing out to them would have been lower had the support for these units continued?  Liberalisation fired on all cylinders is excellent, but fired on a few engines means the growth rocket is condemned to circle in low orbit. It never takes off. When castigating the state and central governments for keeping taxes on petroleum or liquor products high, some introspection since the summer of 1991 is necessary. (The writer is a business journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oil-or-liquor-little-else-to-tax-even-30-years-after-reforms-1010350.html
19-07-2021||Panorama||GST Council walks a tightrope as it looks to jack up revenues||Ever since the Goods and Services Tax (GST) made its 'arangetram' in July 2017, a number of issues that have cropped up in its implementation have been resolved in some manner or the other. But one issue that has not been resolved is the compensation to the state governments. This is something that has been troubling the central government for the past four years. In hindsight, maybe the 14% growth that was promised to the state governments was overly optimistic. Optimistic because in the first year of GST, everyone was trying to grapple with the law and a moody portal, the second year went in a lot of concessions being given and during the third year, the menace of fake invoices surfaced, forcing the GST Council to impose artificial restrictions on input tax credit. In the fourth year, Covid-19 took over. The growth of 14% was promised for five years — this would end just before the 5th anniversary of GST in June 2022. On their part, the state governments have been putting in their requests not only for the payment of past dues but also for extension of the compensation cess for another five years. The Centre has an unenviable task before it due to the fact that its cash flow statement is going to be skewed with the outflows far exceeding the inflows. One also needs to keep in mind the fact that large amounts of Covid-19 relief measures are still being announced. The GST Council is scheduled to meet in August 2021 to brainstorm on this issue. Pundits are using terms that are used mostly in corporate boardrooms — such as "out-of-the-box thinking”. There are three options before the GST Council —  replace the present compensation structure with a more prudent one, take measures to increase GST revenues drastically, and borrow more based on the strength of the balance sheet of the government till the situation eases. We could have a fourth option as well which looks like a workable solution —  a combination of the three options. Solely relying on borrowing to fix the issue is a clear no-no. GST revenues are not the only issue that the government has, so borrowing only for this purpose will only fix a part of the problem leaving deficits in other areas. There can be no arguments against the fact that the present compensation structure needs to be changed. The 14% growth rate should probably be recalculated retrospectively and the revised compensation paid out over a period of, say, 10 years. State governments will object that 10 years will be too long but they should realise that Covid-19 has effectively taken away three years of normality. It is also important for states to realise that the compensation is not only a mathematical issue — it is also an economic one since the promise was made based on some parameters which changed the next day after the promise was made. Projecting GST revenues Expecting a meteoric rise in GST revenues will remain an expectation. An average of around Rs 100,000 crore is what could be expected over the next few years with a few spikes and falls from this number. The government has made it clear that the possibility of fuel coming under GST is ruled out for the next decade due to the good old reason which has now been discussed to death — the impact it will have on the revenues of state governments. The present tax structure for fuel borders on extortion. The central and state governments levy around 55% and 117% taxes respectively on fuel. Due to this, fuel with a base price of around Rs 36 will retail at around Rs 105. Even if fuel tax is at the highest rate of 28% and a compensation cess added to it, the tax rates may not come to the combined 172% it is today. Initially, it was thought that GST could be levied on Aviation Turbine Fuel (ATF) but this may also remain a thought, considering the present condition of the industry. State governments will not permit alcohol to come under GST because they won't want to sacrifice their cash cow. Rolling out the e-invoicing scheme to everyone could see a small uptick in revenues since the menace of fake invoices will then be minimised. A Group of Ministers (GoM) is examining the feasibility of levying GST on products such as pan masala and gutka on the basis of the installed manufacturing capacity, rather than actual production/sales to check tax evasion. GST rates are in a sweet spot right now and can at best be tinkered with. Yet another development that should concern the GST Council is the rising clout of regional powers that are not a part of the ruling party at the Centre. These members have been extremely vocal in the recent meetings of the GST Council. If a viable and amicable solution is not worked out for the compensation issue, some of these state governments may be tempted to levy some sort of local taxes to make up for what the Centre is not giving them. Critics may object to this, stating that this goes against the spirit and structure of GST. Critics of these critics will respond that there are many other things that are against the spirit and structure of GST such as the artificial restrictions on availing input tax credit so one more will not matter much. Whatever the GST Council has to do will have to be done between this year and the next. GST policies and decisions in 2023 will be largely influenced by the elections in 2024 and not by exigencies of the members of the Council. The next few years are going to be a tightrope walk for the GST Council as far as GST revenues are concerned. Everyone concerned will be hoping that the Persian adage "this too shall pass" comes true here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/gst-council-walks-a-tightrope-as-it-looks-to-jack-up-revenues-1010232.html
19-07-2021||Panorama||Key to renunciation||History has dubbed those men mere escapists who jettisoned the baggage of their family and kids and wore the saffron robes of a saint. I am not up in arms against the philosophy of conventional renunciation. It is believed to be a method of attaining salvation with hard monastic discipline under the guidance of a spiritually elevated master. But a stubbornly insular approach to spirituality does not yield the desired fruit. It ends up as an entirely vain pursuit. Many of the great religious sages and seers have always advocated the concept of divine eulogisation while fulfilling the obligatory duties of the house and hearth. No philosophy of any religion has ever imposed the belief on humankind that in order to unite with God one must first abandon this world. Contrary to that, we are made to understand that this world is a real hermitage. The key to renunciation is to be with the world but not in the world. Like a lotus, a truly enlightened individual lives here among all others but keeps his head high by not absorbing himself into the filth and murk. Therefore, one need not forsake his family life in the pursuit of salvation. Emancipation, which is the ultimate objective of human life, can be fully accomplished while performing one’s familial and filial duties. True renunciation does lie in turning indifferent or apathetic to the surroundings. It lays emphasis on detachment within the attachment. But man has deformed the nature of attachment. Being in love with our fellow human beings does not in any manner impede one’s spiritual elevation, no family member is an obstacle in one’s path to Nirvana. Like us, they are also the pure divine manifestations sent on this earthly realm to settle their own karmic accounts. Therefore, it is useless to hate humanity and prefer to stay put in caves and mountains. A dedicated seeker must renounce all the evils of the world and teach others also to rise above worldly temptations. By doing so one can become a true yogi and the perfect claimant of salvation with one’s mingling with the divine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/key-to-renunciation-1010235.html
19-07-2021||Panorama||Off The Record: July 19, 2021||Amruta Fadnavis targets BMC Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis’s banker-wife Amruta Fadnavis misses no chance to target the Shiv Sena. Last week’s heavy rain gave her a chance to lash out at the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), which has been controlled by the Shiv Sena for a quarter of a century now. Amruta posted a photo of her standing in an inundated area with thumbs down and posted a couplet: “Iss shehar me mil hi jayange, har mod par ghadde talaab, par dhundoge to mujrim ek na mileaga janab.” (In this town, you will find potholes and ponds on every street but when we one seeks those responsible for them no one is found). Known for her sense of humour, Amruta often takes charge in hitting out at Uddhav Thackeray-led Shiv Sena, the BJP’s political friend-turned-rival. Mrityunjay Bose, Mumbai Congress’ strategy of silence Kerala would witness the Opposition Congress leaders swiftly reacting to any major decisions of the CPM government. But no leader expect Leader of Opposition V D Satheesan has reacted to the governmnet’s Thursday decision to restructure the ratio for scholarship for students from minority communities (Muslims and Christians) after the High Court pointed out discrimination to one community. Satheesan had also embarassed himself by contradicting his stands— initially, he welcomed the new formula and later found fault with it. Since the issue pertains to Muslim and Christian communities on either sides, most senior leaders seems to prefer silence as the two communities form a decisive vote banks in Kerala. Arjun Raghunath, Thiruvananthapuram BSY hints at his political successor Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s younger son B Y Vijayendra accompanied him to Delhi last week, when the CM held meeting with national leaders. Except the meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Vijayendra went along with his father to meet Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and BJP National president J P Nadda. Though Yediyurappa had exclusive talks with central leaders, at the end of meeting, he introduced his son to them and sought their blessing to him. By introducing his son to central leaders, Yediyurappa has sent a message that Vijayendra will be his successor in politics. Interestingly, Yediyurappa elder son B Y Raghvendra, who is Shivamogga Lok Sabha member, did not came to Delhi along with the CM. Though, Raghvendra’s name was in the passenger list of special flight in which the entourage came to national capital, his absence was conspicuous. Ajith Athrady, New Delhi Motive behind Mamata’s Delhi visit Trinamool Congress supremo and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is likely to fly down next Sunday to the national capital where she may be staying for 4-5 days. This will be her first visit to the capital after her spectacular victory in the Bengal elections, in which the BJP had put much stake. As usual, she will visit Parliament besides meeting other political leaders. Her visit also comes at a time when the Trinamool Congress is now attempting to spread its wings in Parliament by virtue of it being the second biggest party in the Opposition ranks. It believes parties like AAP, Akali Dal and Samajwadi Party may not be comfortable to be seen with the Congress due to Assembly elections in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. This could have an impact on floor management in Parliament during Monsoon Session and Trinamool now plans to rope them in as these parties have a working relationship. Shemin Joy, New Delhi From farm land to political arena Political ambitions of some farmer leaders, demanding repeal of the farm laws, have taken wing much to the chagrin of leaders of the group of organisations spearheading the protests at Delhi’s borders since November last year. A Bhartiya Kisan Union leader from Haryana Gurnam Singh Chaduni declared ‘Misson Punjab’ to contest the elections in the border state early next year. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) suspended Chaduni for a week. Now, reports emerged that Rakesh Tikait, the face of the agitation, is also nursing political ambitions in Uttar Pradesh, where elections are scheduled next year. However, the SKM was quick to issue denials and even threatened to boycott the publication that carried the news report. Sagar Kulkarni, New Delhi||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/off-the-record-july-19-2021-1010241.html
19-07-2021||Right in the Middle||Danish Siddiqui: A people's photographer||The Swiss photographer and filmmaker Robert Frank once said, “there is one thing the photograph must contain, the humanity of the moment.” That quote, to me, sums up Danish Siddiqui’s work. The only thing common between Danish and myself is that we both worked for Reuters, he in India and I in the UAE. We were colleagues but not friends, not even on Facebook. Yet, in the last decade, I knew his work more than him. His captivating photographs gripped me, telling me more than words could say. I first took note of Danish’s work when he was in our neck of the woods a few years ago, covering the fighting in the Iraqi city of Mosul. His dramatic action shots that accompanied the stories blew me away. All through his coverage of the Mosul fighting, we, in office, spoke about Danish’s photographs. Since then I eagerly looked out for his photographs. His coverage of the Rohingya crisis was outstanding, the pictures so poignant and telling that one didn’t need to read the text. I still vividly remember a picture of an exhausted Rohingya refugee woman touching the shore after crossing the Bangladesh-Myanmar border by boat. Seeing the pictures, a colleague in our office yelled, “Man, these are award-winning pictures.” Rightly enough, Danish won the prestigious Pulitzer Prize for his coverage. How delighted and proud were we. I screen topped him with a congratulatory message on our work system which he acknowledged a day later. My admiration for Danish continued to grow as I drank in his stunningly eloquent pictures when he covered Kashmir after India revoked Article 370, followed by the anti-Muslim violence in Delhi. But what has remained evergreen in my memory are his searing yet extraordinary photographs of Covid-19 in India over the last year. When I heard he was killed in a crossfire covering the war in the Afghanistan city of Kandahar, my heart sank. An extremely gifted, self-taught photographer snatched away. How cruel can life get.  Even two days before he fell to those bullets, he had tweeted pictures of live exchange of fire between the special forces and the Taliban. Perhaps, those were his last pictures. I couldn’t help wondering if Danish ever thought that the Afghanistan assignment would be his last. As one who has covered wars, riots, conflicts, violence and human suffering, the intrepid photo-journalist he was, I would like to think not. Danish once said that what he enjoys most is capturing the human face of a breaking story. Indeed, it was this human angle that he gave to his work that made his photographs so uniquely brilliant and compelling; photos that have touched and continue to move thousands across the world. That is enough of a legacy to leave behind in one’s short lifetime of 38 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/danish-siddiqui-a-peoples-photographer-1010236.html
19-07-2021||Second Edit||Safe harbour for turtle nests||The Karnataka High Court’s order directing the state government to appoint the Chennai-based National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management to conduct a study on whether any part of the Honnavar port development project falls under the turtle-nesting ground, is welcome. The court, which had earlier stayed construction on 0.8 hectare of forest land, has also directed the Uttara Kannada deputy commissioner to study if the port location has been shifted from the original site for which environmental and other clearances were granted in 2012. Honnavar coast is one of the breeding grounds for the endangered Olive Ridley sea turtle which is listed on the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s red list. The forest department has been doing a stellar job since 1984 in protecting eggs from predators, hatching them in captivity and releasing them into the sea. Over the years, the local population, particularly fishermen, have been actively involved in conservation activities. Honnavar is among the six ports, including Manki, Mavinkurve, Belekeri, Tadadi and Malpe, which were identified to be developed on public-private partnership (PPP) model. An Andhra Pradesh-based company was allotted 93 acres of land by the government for developing the Rs 600-crore project at Kasarkodu village in Honnavar. Besides the sea turtle issue, another major controversy pertains to the alleged encroachment of about 250 acres of land by fishermen within which a part of the project land falls. Recently, when the company tried to clear the encroachments, over 200 villagers threatened mass suicide by jumping into the sea. Besides, some time ago, the Survey of India had pointed out that revenue maps of the area were tampered with as a result of which some survey numbers were missing. Changing the coastal border in violation of the coastal zone management plan as approved in 2018 is not permitted as it amounts to wrong depiction of the Indian coastline as accepted internationally. Tremendous efforts have gone into the conservation of turtles in the past few years and the government should ensure that the nesting grounds are not disturbed at any cost. If indeed the fishermen have encroached upon the project land, then the government should take steps to accommodate them elsewhere. Similarly, altering maps is a serious issue and it needs to be investigated why and to favour whom it was changed. At the same time, the port project too is required as Karnataka’s long coastline continues to be underexploited. The need of the hour is, thus, to strike a fine balance between ecology and development.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/safe-harbour-for-turtle-nests-1010240.html
19-07-2021||South||No scope for talks with Karnataka on Mekedatu: Tamil Nadu CM M K Stalin||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Monday ruled out any talks with the Karnataka government over the proposed construction of a reservoir in Mekedatu across River Cauvery. Stalin said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Minister for Jal Shakti have assured Tamil Nadu that Karnataka will not be allowed to proceed on the project.  “No scope for talks (with Karnataka). Our Water Resources Minister (Durai Murugan) has made clear our stand (on talks),” Stalin told reporters at the Delhi airport. He was asked whether Tamil Nadu will participate in any discussion or talks on Mekedatu initiated by Karnataka.  Stalin’s comments come weeks after his Karnataka counterpart B S Yediyurappa wrote to him proposing a meeting to “clear any doubts” on the project.  While replying to Yediyurappa’s letter, Stalin neither accepted nor rejected the offer for talks, but made it unequivocally clear that another reservoir across River Cauvery just before the water enters Tamil Nadu will interrupt the natural flow of water.  “There is no necessity,” was all Stalin said when asked the possibility of Chief Ministers of Tamil Nadu, Kerala, and Puducherry sitting across the table to chalk out a joint strategy to oppose Karnataka’s plan to construct the reservoir in Mekedatu. Tamil Nadu, a lower riparian state, has stepped up its efforts to nudge the Centre not to accord sanction for the project to Karnataka. After passing a resolution at an all-party meeting demanding that the Union government reject permission for the project, Durai Murugan led a delegation to Shekhawat last week to reiterate the state’s stand vis-à-vis Mekedatu.  Tamil Nadu has been opposing the project contending that the construction of a new reservoir across Cauvery is against the final award by the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal (CWDT) and the 2018 verdict by the Supreme Court. The state government argues that water flows from Karnataka into Tamil Nadu will get disrupted if a new reservoir is built in the neighbouring state. While Karnataka says it does not need any permission for constructing the reservoir in Mekedatu, Tamil Nadu feels otherwise. The issue assumed centerstage after Yediyurappa announced that the state will go ahead with the project come what may.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-scope-for-talks-with-karnataka-on-mekedatu-tamil-nadu-cm-m-k-stalin-1010353.html
19-07-2021||South||3 killed as ceiling of building collapses in Tamil Nadu||Three people were killed on the spot and three others sustained serious injuries when the ceiling of a building collapsed in Anthiyur in this district early on Monday. According to police, a group of six farmers from Bargur came to Anthiyur and unloaded their produce in front of an electricals shop when the concrete ceiling came crashing down with a huge noise at around 1 am. The farmers were trapped under the debris. The local people and people who were alerted removed the debris and found three farmers dead and three others injured. The injured were rushed to Anthiyur Government Hospital, police said, adding their condition was critical. Anthiyur police registered a case of accidental death and injuries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/3-killed-as-ceiling-of-building-collapses-in-tamil-nadu-1010407.html
19-07-2021||South||President to participate in centenary celebrations of Tamil Nadu assembly||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday invited President Ram Nath Kovind to commemorate the centenary year of the Madras Legislative Council established in 1921 under British rule. Chief Minister M K Stalin met Kovind in New Delhi and invited him to participate in the celebrations which will also include the unveiling of late DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi’s portrait in the Assembly hall. Kovind has also been invited to lay the foundation stone for the construction of a world-class library in Madurai, a super speciality hospital in Chennai in memory of Karunanidhi and a memorial tower to mark 75 years of Independence on Marina Beach. “The president has agreed to participate in the events. He has promised to give us a date in the next couple of days,” Chief Minister M K Stalin told reporters. To a question on whether he broached the topic of the release of seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case with the President, Stalin replied in the negative. The Madras Legislative Council was established in 1921 and inaugurated by the Duke of Connaught after the first elections to the council were held in November 1920. The Justice Party, which is a precursor to the now ruling Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), rode to power in the first, second, and fourth elections held to the council. The last and the fifth council saw the Justice Party running a minority government. The library and hospital are part of announcements that Stalin made on the birth anniversary of his father Karunanidhi on June 3. A multi-speciality hospital with 500 beds will be established at the King Institute campus in Guindy in south Chennai. The hospital will be built for Rs 250 crore.  Stalin had also said Kalaignar Memorial Library with modern amenities will be set up in Madurai at Rs 70 crore in an area of 2.5 lakh square feet to help students, scholars, and researchers in enriching their knowledge. The institution will be set up on the lines of the Anna Centenary Library built by Karunanidhi in memory of Dravidian warhorse and DMK founder C N Annadurai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/president-to-participate-in-centenary-celebrations-of-tamil-nadu-assembly-1010422.html
19-07-2021||South||Two more test positive for Zika in Kerala, total reported cases 37: state Health Minister||Two more people have tested positive for Zika virus in the state taking the total reported cases of the infection to 37, of which 7 are active, Kerala Health Minister Veena George said on Monday. A 41-year-old woman from Kattaikonam, Thiruvananthapuram and a doctor (31) from Kumarapuram were diagnosed with the virus, she said in a release. The virus was confirmed in tests conducted at the Virology Lab of the Thiruvananthapuram Medical College, the minister said and added that the health of all the infected persons was satisfactory presently. On July 16, a meeting was held by state Revenue Minister K Rajan and George on working together, alongwith the Local Self Government department, for preventingspread of communicable diseases and to strengthen thesanitation committees at the ward level.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-more-test-positive-for-zika-in-kerala-total-reported-cases-37-state-health-minister-1010475.html
19-07-2021||South||Brothers, cousins and the grandfather: The story of a YouTube channel||Five youngsters of a family in Chinnaveeramangalam in Pudukkottai district had almost packed their bags to fly out of the country in search of greener pastures. But then an idea struck Subramani, 32, that prompted everyone to abandon their plans and launch a YouTube channel to take village cooking to a different level altogether.  The youngsters roped in their grandfather, 75-year-old Periyathambi, who had been cooking for marriages and other events in the district for about five decades, for their channel. Never in their dreams, the youngsters and Periyathambi thought their channel will turn into a sensation on the internet – all credit goes to the way they cook authentic Chettinad dishes in a serene atmosphere – near a river, or inside agricultural fields or farms. In early July, Village Cooking Channel crossed the 10 million subscribers mark on YouTube -- a rare feat for a cookery channel, that too in a regional language. In the next fortnight, the channel attracted 1 million more subscribers – at last count, the channel had 11.6 million subscribers. “We launched the channel due to struggles that we faced in our lives. All of us had decided to leave the village and work in foreign countries to earn good money like many others from our area. But something stopped us, and that has brought us all the name and fame. When we launched, all we aimed was to reach the one million mark,” V Subramanian, the man behind the channel, told DH. And when the channel got the Diamond button from YouTube, they celebrated their success by donating Rs 10 lakh to the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund (CMPRF), from their earnings.  From struggling to meet ends to donating now -- the youngsters' life turned upside down for the good as their channel’s subscriber base grew each passing day. And ever since they began cooking, the group has been sending the food to orphanages and old age homes in Pudukkottai.  But what made the videos uploaded by the Village Cooking Channel go viral? From fish found in lakes and ponds to crabs, lobsters, mutton, chicken and winged termites – Periyathambi and his grandchildren became famous on the internet for their non-vegetarian dishes.  The group’s authentic way of cooking by using hand-ground spices, their simple way of dressing – the team comes clad in shirts and lungi -- and excellent post-production work that they learnt on the go added to the result. Periyathambi, who could not hide his excitement and emotions over the achievement, said never in his 50 years of cooking he had earned so much praise.  “I had cooked for countless marriages, betrothals, and other events in my life. No one would come and tell me about the taste. But the response I have got in the past three years is amazing and unforgettable,” Periyathambi said.   Three brothers V Subramanian, V Murugesan, and V Ayyanaar, and their cousins Tamilselvan and Muthumanickam got together to launch the channel in 2018. They have invested hugely on procuring some of the best equipment to shoot and edit the videos that enabled them to shine. The first video of cooking winged termites was uploaded on October 6, 2018 – in the three years, the group has uploaded 173 videos, including the episode in which Congress MP Rahul Gandhi was the guest. Ever since the channel featured Gandhi in January this year, their subscribers have increased manifold.  “Before January, we used to get 10,000 subscribers a day but it to rose to 30,000 after Rahul anna joined us in an episode. We had seven million subscribers in January and have come to 11 million in just a few months. He (Rahul) had a major role to play,” Subramanian said. The unimaginable success has also brought them “good earnings” which was also a pleasant surprise for the youngsters. “The first earning was about Rs 37,000, and we split the amount among ourselves. What we expected was around Rs 10,000 a month for each of us, but we never thought we would earn in lakhs. We earmark a certain amount of money for cooking so that more people can taste our food,” Subramanian said. Having cooked in almost all serene localities in the district, the Village Cooking Channel is now scouting for exotic locations in other districts in Tamil Nadu and states in the country. Already, Gandhi has promised to take them to the US for cooking, a tour which the group plans to undertake after the pandemic is over.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/brothers-cousins-and-the-grandfather-the-story-of-a-youtube-channel-1010490.html
19-07-2021||South||How Kerala Police are giving 'Hope' to vulnerable students||Kerala Police is celebrating the success of its Hope initiative as it helped rescue 365 of the 4.19 lakh students who passed Kerala SSLC exams this year, from the clutches of unlawful and rogue activities. Hope — Helping Others Promote Education — is a special project of the state police, initiated in 2017, to help school dropouts or students who land in police custody due to unlawful acts. It began after an analysis of the background of juveniles in police custody found that social conditions were the main reason why students take wrong turns. The achievement of this project assumes significance as Kerala witnessed a campaign to identify the reasons why 0.53 per cent of the students failed the SSLC examination despite the much liberal conduct and valuation due to the Covid-19 situations. Many teachers point out that most students who failed were in the throes of social issues or learning disabilities. Under the project, vulnerable students are identified with the help of community policing officials working at the grass root levels, NGOs and school authorities. They then receive counselling and training from experts. It was observed that some of these students were even suffering from tendencies to end their life. General of Police P Vijayan, who is also the nodal officer of Hope, said that apart from helping the students to clear SSLC, students also get vocational training to lead a normal life. The success of the project was a motivation to strengthen it further and bring more vulnerable children back to the mainstream. Retired teachers, volunteers and even police officials with teaching experience take on these students. During the last academic year, special audio-visual materials were also provided to the students during the lockdown. Classes are conducted at designated learning centres, some of which are even at police stations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/how-kerala-police-are-giving-hope-to-vulnerable-students-1010495.html
19-07-2021||South||Karnataka files plea in SC claiming right over surplus Cauvery water||Karnataka on Monday filed an original suit in the Supreme Court claiming right on 91 tmc surplus water annually on its side of Cauvery basin and also opposed the Cauvery-Vaigai-Gundar link project planned by Tamil Nadu for transferring excess or surplus water of 45 tmc annually. In the plea, Karnataka said that the Supreme Court in its judgement on February 16, 2018 on Cauvery water dispute had directed Karnataka to ensure 177.25 tmc of flows at the inter State border, Biligundlu in a normal water year for Tamil Nadu. After giving Tamil Nadu's share and allowing Kerala to divert 21 tmc of flows in Kabini, the remaining water in its Cauvery basin belongs to Karnataka, which includes its share of 284.75 tmc and the surplus water of 91 tmc, the plea said. Karnataka calculated the surplus water, based on availability of 483 tmc of water at 50 per cent dependability of the inter State border, Biligundlu, as the base flow based on 1934-35 to 1971-72 series. The state also sought injunction to prevent the Ministry of Water Resources granting permission to Tamil Nadu for the proposed Cauvery-Vaigai-Gundar link project to transfer 45 tmc of surplus water from Cauvery. If the Cauvery-Vaigai-Gundar link project is allowed, then it amounts to an advance commitment of the surplus water in Cauvery to the prejudice of Karnataka, the state said. “Such comment may give a handle to the State of Tamil Nadu to claim equity and prior appropriation,” says Karnataka. The then Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami laid the foundation stone for the first phase of Cauvery-Vellaru-Vaigai-Gundar Link scheme in February this year, which will be built at Rs 6,900 crore to provide water to Southern region of Tamil Nadu by utilising surplus Cauvery water. The entire  262-km river-linking project with the cost of Rs 14,000 crore, aims to divert 6,300 cubic feet of surplus Cauvery water during floods and increase the groundwater levels. The project is being implemented under the Centre's river linking scheme. Karnataka apprehends that if Tamil Nadu's river linking project is allowed, the neighbouring state may put legal hurdles to its plan to utilise its share as well as excess water generated in Cauvery basin. Tamil Nadu is already strongly opposing Karnataka's plan to build a reservoir at Mekedatu near Kanakapura across Cauvery river.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/karnataka-files-plea-in-sc-claiming-right-over-surplus-cauvery-water-1010500.html
19-07-2021||South||Kerala Covid positivity rate climbs to 11%; relaxations lead to busy streets||Kerala's Covid-19 positivity rate continues to climb, breaching the 11 per cent-mark, as the CPI(M) government came under fire for announcing three-day relaxations in lockdown in view of Bakr-Eid celebration. Even as the number of tests done in the last 24 hours was comparatively lower (89,654), the positivity rate was recorded at 11.08 per cent, highest in the last month. The rate was hovering around ten per cent over the last several weeks. The number of fresh cases was 9,931 on Monday, taking the active load to 1,21,708. The Supreme Court on Monday sought Kerala government's response on a plea questioning the relaxations from July 18 to 20. Forums like the Indian Medical Association (IMA) had expressed serious concerns over the move as the Covid situation in the state was worse than most others in the country. The government's decision came as a response to strong demand by traders facing losses due to continued curbs int he state. A section of traders had even made a call to defy the restrictions. Most commercial streets in the state witnessed a considerable rush since Sunday. Social distancing norms were allegedly flouted even in regions where triple lockdown was in place. At 205 places in the state, the positivity rate remained above 15 per cent. Meanwhile, some Muslim outfits, including the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), had raised concerns over the relaxation allowing up to 40 pilgrims at religious centres and allowing only those who took at least one dose of Covid vaccine. They said that such norms were leading to discrimination in screening devotees to enter worship centres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-covid-positivity-rate-climbs-to-11-relaxations-lead-to-busy-streets-1010504.html
19-07-2021||South||Actor Vijay's tax case referred to another bench of Madras HC||A division bench of the Madras High Court on Monday referred a petition from actor Vijay, seeking permission to prefer an appeal against a single judge order indicting him for moving the court on the issue of entry tax for his imported car, to another bench. Holding that the petition has been posted before them by mistake, Justices M M Sundresh and C Saravanan referred the matter back to the Registry for placing it before the appropriate bench, which is likely to be the one headed by Justice M Duraisamy. The amount of Rs one lakh was to be remitted to the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister's Covid-19 Public Relief Fund. The judge had also directed him to pay the tax. Aggrieved, Vijay wanted to file an appeal, challenging the orders of the single judge and to expunge the remarks. As he could not get a hard copy of the order of the single judge, which is mandatory, he filed the present petition to permit him to file the appeal without the original order. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/actor-vijays-tax-case-referred-to-another-bench-of-madras-hc-1010509.html
19-07-2021||South||Rs 1-crore sword offered to Lord Balaji of Tirupati||A sword weighing about 5 kg was on Monday offered to Lord Venkateswara at the shrine in Tirumala Hills near here by a devotee from Hyderabad, an official of the temple said. The devotee, who is a businessman, offered worship to the Lord and presented the sword called 'Suryakataari' that is a combat weapon, said the official. Additional Executive Officer of Tirumala-Tirupati Devasthanom A Venkata Dharma Reddy received the sword at the shrine, the official told PTI. The sword was made with 2 kg of gold and three kg of silver and costs Rs 1 crore, he quoted the devotee as saying.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rs-1-crore-sword-offered-to-lord-balaji-of-tirupati-1010512.html
19-07-2021||South||Focus on rehabilitation, resettlement colonies, CM Jagan tells officials after Polavaram project inspection||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has said the state government is spending its own funds for the construction of the Polavaram national project while the Centre is yet to reimburse about Rs 2,300 crore. On Monday, Reddy went on an aerial survey of the multipurpose irrigation project on River Godavari straddling the East and West Godavari districts. He also inspected the spillway and later held a review meeting with the officials on the pace of works. Explaining the progress of the last two years, i.e. since the time Reddy took over from former CM Chandrababu Naidu, officials said that “works related to spillway are almost complete and that 42 out of the planned 48 gates were already fixed.” Officials said that the Earth-Cum-Rock Fill (ECRF) dam area was damaged during the floods because of the gaps in the lower cofferdam and added that designs would be finalized soon to complete the ECRF dam work. While the chief minister wanted the completion of the linking of the two canals, tunnel works etc., by June 2022, officials said that the excavation works could be completed by December and the remaining works later on. While directing the officials to focus on quality in the construction of R&R (rehabilitation and resettlement) colonies of the project, Reddy ordered the appointment of a special officer to monitor the standards in R&R and rectify any mistakes. Officials informed the CM that they target to shift families from 48 out of the 90 affected habitations by August. The CM said he would visit the R&R colonies next month and instructed the officials to plan programmes for the employment and skill development of the project evacuees. The Chief Minister said that R&R work bills are being cleared despite the financial constraints faced by his government. “We need to get the reimbursement of Rs 2,300 crore from the central government for Polavaram and yet we are spending our own funds for the project,” Reddy said while asking the officials to concentrate on getting the reimbursements at the earliest. The YSRCP government has been asking the Centre to clear the Rs 55,656 crore revised estimated cost of the Polavaram project. The R&R component cost is Rs 33,000 crore. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/focus-on-rehabilitation-resettlement-colonies-cm-jagan-tells-officials-after-polavaram-project-inspection-1010518.html
19-07-2021||South||Goa BJP, AAP leaders to debate over power tariff||Goa may witness yet another face-off between the ruling BJP in Goa and a belligerent AAP over power tariff issues in the poll-bound state.  Delhi Jal Board vice chairman and Aam Aadmi Party MLA from Delhi Raghav Chadha on Monday accepted an invitation from Goa's Power Minister Nilesh Cabral to engage in a public debate over the Delhi government's power tariff scheme and the power tariff implemented by the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government in Goa.  "Nilesh Cabral, I am happy to note that you have expressed your desire to debate with the Delhi government. I, once again, accept your challenge. I hope you will not back out like last time. Please confirm the date, time, venue and I'll be there. Goans want to see a debate on governance!" the AAP leader said, days after Cabral dared the AAP leadership to debate claiming the power tariff model in Goa was better than the AAP's model in place in Delhi.  The AAP in Goa made a major political play last week, during Delhi Chief Minister and party supremo Arvind Kejriwal's visit to the coastal state, by announcing major pre-poll promises in the power sector.  Kejriwal's poll promises include free power up to 300 units for domestic consumption, 24x7 uninterrupted power and waiver of all outstanding power dues, if the party comes to power in the upcoming state assembly polls, which are scheduled for early 2022.  Goa's Power Minister Cabral has, however, accused the AAP of political chicanery, saying that in the overall picture, Goa's power tariff was cheaper than the pre-poll packages announced by Kejriwal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/goa-bjp-aap-leaders-to-debate-over-power-tariff-1010549.html
19-07-2021||State||Portion of wall collapses near KRS dam; creates anxiety||A portion of the wall, on the pathway leading to the Goddess Cauvery statue, has collapsed near Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam at Srirangapatna taluk, Mandya district, on Monday.  Even as the allegations by MP A Sumalatha, over the damage to the dam due to mining activities is yet to subside, the wall collapse has created anxiety among the officials and the people.  The officials rushed to the spot and inspected the place. According to the officials, continuous rains for the last few days has resulted in a few foundation stones falling out. Around 30 stones have collapsed. However, they claimed that there is no danger to the dam as it was the pathway leading to the Cauvery statue. It is said that this was the first time the stones have collapsed anywhere on the dam premises.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/portion-of-wall-collapses-near-krs-dam-creates-anxiety-1010325.html
19-07-2021||State||Rowdy sheeter hacked to death inside a bank in Koramangala||A murder in broad daylight inside a bank in Koramangala on Monday afternoon created fear among the residents and bank customers. A gang of seven or eight masked miscreants barged into the Union Bank in Koramangala 8th block and killed rowdy sheeter Babli around 1.30 pm. Babli was in his late 30s.  Babli was a rowdy sheeter of Adugodi police station. He was an accused in murder, attempt to murder and other cases. The police suspect a rival gang located in Vivek Nagar is behind the murder. Special teams have been formed to nab the assailants at the earliest. According to the police's preliminary investigation, Babli had gone to the bank along with his wife and children. The gang followed him and attacked him with machetes and swords. The gang escaped when severely injured Babli collapsed on the floor. The gang had parked their vehicles in front of the bank. The senior officials including S Murugan, additional commissioner of police (East), Srinath Mahadev Joshi, deputy commissioner of police (South-East) visited the spot. The Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) officials and sniffer dog squad also visited the spot to collect evidence. The Koramangala police have taken up the case of murder. They are analysing the CCTV footage installed in the bank and surrounding buildings. Murugan said, "We are collecting evidence and clues of assailants and will nab them at the earliest. Though Babli is a rowdy sheeter, there were no cases against him since 2011."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rowdy-sheeter-hacked-to-death-inside-a-bank-in-koramangala-1010430.html
19-07-2021||State||CSC, Amity University offer higher education to rural students||The Common Services Centers (CSC) and Amity University Online are joining hands to provide graduate and post-graduate courses to nearly 15 lakh students in India's rural areas.  In the first phase, Amity's courses including BA, BCom, BCA, BBA and MCA will be made available to students through over 5,000 CSC Academy centers, the education and CSR wing of CSC. Some of the courses will also be made available in Hindi. Once the student enrolls for a course at the CSC Academy center, he or she will be able to attend online classes of Amity. According to  Ajit Chauhan, Chairman, Amity University Online, “Our endeavour is to bring grassroot level change and enable professionals in remote areas of India. We hope more and more villages are able to benefit through this initiative." Elaborating on the partnership, Dr Dinesh Tyagi, MD, CSC SPV (special purpose vehicle) said, “ Our association with Amity Online is a significant step in that direction and meets Prime Minister’s vison of Digital India fulfilling the educational needs of rural India."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/csc-amity-university-offer-higher-education-to-rural-students-1010550.html
19-07-2021||State||Mangala Angadi takes oath as Lok Sabha member||Newly elected BJP MP from Belagavi, Mangala Suresh Angadi took oath as Member of Lok Sabha on Monday. She took her oath in Kannada in the name of the 12th-century social reformer, Basavanna. She won elections held in May this year. Mangala is the widow of former Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi, who died of Covid-19 last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mangala-angadi-takes-oath-as-lok-sabha-member-1010555.html
19-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||60,000 kids in Karnataka 'out of school' in 2020-21, private schools claim in survey||As many as 60,000 students in the state are practically out of school as they have not renewed their enrolment or participated in academic activities during 2020-21 academic year, but present only in the government records. This shocking data was revealed during the survey conducted by the Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka (KAMS). Around 250 private unaided schools participated in the survey. According to the association, the numbers could be still more given that Karnataka has 3,600 private unaided schools. Addressing the media after releasing the survey report in Bengaluru on Sunday, D Shashi Kumar, general secretary of the association said, "These students are in the schools according to the government, but there is no evidence of them being present in the schools." The association members alleged that the government pressured schools to upload data of even the non-participating students. "The schools were forced to upload the data on the portals. The students have not renewed their admissions. Neither did they take transfer certificates nor attended the activities conducted by the schools. This number will be even higher during this year (2021-22) and we will get the clear picture by September," said the association members.  According to schools which took part in the survey, a majority of the children were fee defaulters. "Only 45% of the parents have paid 100% fees during the 2020-21 academic year and 17% paid 75% fees and 9% of the parents paid 25% of the fees during the previous academic year," said Shashi Kumar.  The survey covered children in the grades between kindergarten and class 10.  The private school managements have urged the government to step in and make it compulsory for parents to admit their children to schools, with compulsory attendance in online/offline or any other means of teaching by the respective school.  Meanwhile, the association has expressed its concern about the government data counting students who are not part of school documents. "In case any untoward incident happens to any of the children, the schools concerned will be held responsible and this is also one of the concerns," Shashi Kumar said.  The association has also submitted the survey outcome to the Karnataka High Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/60000-kids-in-karnataka-out-of-school-in-2020-21-private-schools-claim-in-survey-1010215.html
19-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||DH Deciphers | What's the truth of cracks in KRS dam?||Mandya MP Sumalatha Ambarish's claim that the Krishnaraja Sagara (KRS) dam —  built across the river Cauvery in her constituency — has developed cracks due to illegal quarrying and blasting around it has created a controversy. Government officials have refuted Sumalatha's assertions but have given few details to back up their claim. Sumalatha, too, hasn't submitted much evidence in support of her statement. Who's telling the truth? ' Why the fuss over the KRS dam?  The KRS dam, which can store 49.45 thousand million cubic feet of water, is smaller than several other dams in the state but four crore people from Karnataka and Tamil Nadu depend on its water for irrigation and domestic purposes. Besides supplying potable water to Bengaluru and most parts of Mysuru, Mandya, Chamarajanagar and Ramanagar districts, the dam also irrigates 3.3 lakh acres of farmland. It also fills up lakes in its command area through a network of canals.  What exactly is Sumalatha's claim? What does the government say?  The parliamentarian summed up the allegation in a petition that she submitted to Karnataka Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot on July 17. According to her, "uninterrupted illegal mining and blast occurrences" have caused pollution, damaged houses, contaminated potable water and created a scarcity of livestock fodder in the vicinity of the dam.  She has called for the constitution of a four-member task force to assess the overall safety of the dam.  Cauvery Neeravari Nigam Limited, the state government agency which operates the dam, has dismissed Sumalatha's claim, saying the dam is safe and there are no structural defects in it.  How safe is the KRS dam?  The KRS dam is 89 years old (it was completed in 1932 after 21 years of construction) and its life expectancy is one hundred years. But according to a report titled 'Ageing water infrastructure: An emerging global risk' by United Nations University’s Institute for Water, Environment and Health, all dams aged 50 years or more pose a threat. By 2025, India will have 1,000 large dams that are over 50 years old, the report adds.  What about quarrying and blasting around the dam?  On May 12, 2011, the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre established a VSAT-enabled Permanent Seismic Monitoring Station on the KRS dam premises. In a study report, the KSNDMC urged the authorities to "inspect the area within a radial distance of 15-20 km from the KRS dam and propose a plan to regulate any activities which can harm the structure in a longer course of time."  Local villagers and activists have demanded a ban on stone quarries in the vicinity of the dam. The Mandya district administration occasionally bans mining within a 20-km radius of the dam. Quarries have officially stopped since 2018 on 1,623 acres of hillocks in survey number 1 of the Bebi village in the Pandavapura taluk. There is only one legal quarry, that, too, on private (patta) land at Bebi Betta. While the lease of 32 quarries was cancelled in 2018, licences have been given for 23 stone crushers on Bebi Betta Kaval, 16 of which are functioning. Currently, only stone crushers and M-sand units have permission at Bebi Betta.  Has any study being done on the impact of quarrying?  In March this year, scientists from the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research-Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research identified three places for a government-approved trial blast to study the effects of stone quarries on the dam but the exercise was put off due to the second wave of Covid-19.  The Cauvery Neeravari Nigam has requested the experts to conduct the trial blast as soon as possible.  Separately, detailed investigations are being conducted under the World Bank's Dam Rehabilitation and Improvement Project to arrest seepage and improve the structural strength of the dam, and reduce seepage and leakage within the masonry structure by using targeted grouting and replacement of 136 gates, two cranes and 136 Skid Mounted Compact Hoists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dh-deciphers-whats-the-truth-of-cracks-in-krs-dam-1010230.html
19-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||DH Toon | B S Yediyurappa remains glued to Karnataka CM post||Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Saturday denied that he had resigned, a rumour that shrouded New Delhi after the BJP top brass is said to have asked him to step down.  “So far, no one has asked me to resign. If there's any such news, there’s no value to it," Yediyurappa told reporters in New Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dh-toon-b-s-yediyurappa-remains-glued-to-karnataka-cm-post-1010242.html
19-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 | Karnataka Unlocking: What changes from Monday||Theatres across Karnataka are all set to reopen today after a gap of three months following the government's announcement of further relaxation of Covid-19 curbs. According to an order issued by Chief Secretary P Ravikumar, “Cinema halls/multiplexes/theatres/rangamandiras/auditoriums and similar places (are) permitted to open with 50% of seating capacity (by) strictly adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour and SOPs issued by the concerned departments.” The night curfew, which was earlier in place from 9 pm to 6 am, has now been reduced to 10 pm-5 am. Revenue Minister R Ashoka told reporters that the lockdown was being relaxed further to help those affected by the restrictions in the past few months. “This will help people, especially those from theatre and film industry,” he said. The government will allow prayers and other rituals to be performed at temples, provided Covid protocols are followed. Karnataka on Sunday recorded 1,708 new Covid-19 cases and 36 deaths. The active case tally presently stands at 29,291.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-karnataka-unlocking-what-changes-from-monday-1010268.html
19-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||SSLC exams begin in Karnataka amid Covid-19 concerns||The two-day Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) or class 10 exams began across the state on Monday, amid Covid-19 concerns. As many as 8.76 lakh students have registered for the examination. This is for the second consecutive year that the Department of Primary and Secondary Education is conducting the SSLC examinations amid the pandemic. Due to Covid-19 situation, for the first time, the examinations have been reduced from six days to two days, with students writing one paper for three subjects per day. On Monday, students are writing the exam for core subjects mathematics, science and social science, while on July 22 there will be exams for languages such as Kannada, English, Hindi, Sanskrit. The department this year has increased the number of examination centres and teachers on duty, Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board officials have said, adding that as many as 1.19 lakh staff have been deployed for 73,064 exam halls in 4,885 centres across the state. Special arrangements have been made for 23 students who have tested positive for Covid-19, to write the exams at the Covid Care Centres in their respective districts. All the necessary arrangementshave been made at the exam centres keeping the pandemic situation in mind, wherein only 12 students, one per bench, will be seated in a classroom and those with symptoms will be allowed to take the exam in a separate room, officials said. All the staff involved in examination duty have received at least one dose of vaccination, the official added. The exam will be in the form of multiple-choice questions and the students will have to mark the right answers on the Optical Mark Reading (OMR) sheet given to them. Wishing all the students appearing for SSLC exams good luck, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa in a tweet said, "I urge my young friends to relax and focus on exams. I assure parents that our government has made all arrangements to ensure exams are held safely." Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar too in a tweet assured parents that the exam centres are safe for students and the government has taken all necessary measures to conduct the exams in a safe environment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sslc-exams-begin-in-karnataka-amid-covid-19-concerns-1010306.html
19-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Early election unlikely in Karnataka, says Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Monday said an early election in Karnataka is unlikely amid speculation that a new government will be installed with the replacement of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa.  “If there’s an early election, we are ready to face it. But, I don’t think an early election will take place,” Siddaramaiah told reporters.  Siddaramaiah was responding to speculation that Karnataka might face an early election along with Uttar Pradesh next year. Karnataka is scheduled to face its next assembly election in 2023.  According to sources, the Congress is discussing the scenario of an early election. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi might bring the issue up during his meeting with Siddaramaiah and Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar on Tuesday.  Siddaramaiah also reminded reporters that he had predicted Yediyurappa’s removal as early as January this year. “Nobody believed me. But, I had the information,” he said. “The Yediyurappa government is corrupt. Yediyurappa himself and his son are corrupt. So, it’s good if he goes,” he said.  Siddaramaiah is scheduled to arrive in New Delhi late Monday evening. It is said that the high command will discuss with him and Shivakumar their "one-upmanship" and the need to maintain unity. Asked about this, Siddaramaiah said: “Do you expect me to tell you what I’ll discuss in the party? Party matters will remain in party forum.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/early-election-unlikely-in-karnataka-says-siddaramaiah-1010441.html
19-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||1,291 new Covid-19 cases, 40 deaths in Karnataka||The total number of active cases stood at 27,527. While the positivity rate was 0.94 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 3.09 per cent. Six of the 40 deaths were Bengaluru Urban, while Dakshina Kannada, Hassan and Mysuru had four each, Belagavi and Kodagu three each, followed by others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 266, Dakshina Kannada 126, Hassan and Mysuru 125, Chikkamagaluru 100, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,22,455, followed by Mysuru 1,71,275 and Tumakuru 1,17,000. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 11,95,843, followed by Mysuru 1,66,988 and Tumakuru 1,14,576. Cumulatively a total of 3,70,19,681 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,35,974 were on Monday alone. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/1291-new-covid-19-cases-40-deaths-in-karnataka-1010483.html
19-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Lingayat leaders support B S Yediyurappa amid exit talks||The Veerashaiva-Lingayat community is estimated to form about 16% of the state’s population and is considered to be the BJP’s core support base. Yediyurappa belongs to this community. “They will destroy themselves,” former Congress minister Shamanur Shivashankarappa, who heads the All India Veerashaiva Mahasabha, told reporters when asked about the BJP’s plan to replace Yediyurappa. Shivashankarappa met Yediyurappa on Monday to thank him for the government’s decision to install 12th century social reformer Basavanna’s statue in Vidhana Soudha. Basavanna is considered as the founder of the Lingayat sect. “[BJP] should remember history...S Nijalingappa, Veerendra Patil, JH Patel and SR Bommai,” he said. “As long as Yediyurappa is there, they will be there. The Veerashaiva Mahasabha is with him.” Another former Congress minister MB Patil also warned the BJP against removing Yediyurappa. “BJP may face the wrath of Lingayats if they ill treat tall leader BS Yediyurappa. BJP should value the contribution of Yediyurappa and treat him with dignity. This is my personal opinion, understanding that the proposed changes may be internal matters of the BJP,” Patil said in a tweet. Rambhapuri Jagadguru said Yediyurappa enjoyed the support of all communities. “Floods and now the Covid-19 pandemic, Yediyurappa has not lost heart and is working hard. If something goes awry, it will have a big impact on the BJP,” he said. Srisaila Jagadguru Channa Siddharama Panditaradhya also favoured Yediyurappa’s continuation. “He may be old, but he's still working. He should be allowed to continue.” Yediyurappa is known to have provided generous grants to mutts and religious institutions during his previous term as chief minister, winning him brownie points. According to some political observers, the mobilisation of the community's support could be Yediyurappa's last-ditch effort to retain his chair. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lingayat-leaders-support-b-s-yediyurappa-amid-exit-talks-1010514.html
19-07-2021||West||Rain intensity reduces in Mumbai after heavy spell; local trains, bus services back to normal||A day after heavy downpour wreaked havoc in Mumbai and claimed 30 lives, the rain intensity reduced on Monday, bringing some relief to citizens of the metropolis, officials said. The local train and road transport services, which were badly affected due to the torrential rains and water-logging on Sunday, were now running normal, they said. On Sunday, 19 people died in Mahul area of Chembur where a retaining wall collapsed on some houses after a landslide, 10 died as some shanties collapsed in suburban Vikhroli, while one person died in Bhandup area where a forest department wall collapsed. On Monday, no fresh death was reported, an official from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. The eastern suburbs of Mumbai recorded the highest 90.65 mm rainfall in the 24-hour period ending at 8 am on Monday, as compared to 48.88 mm rainfall in the island city and 51.89 mm rainfall in western suburbs, he said. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) earlier issued an "orange alert" for Mumbai on Monday, predicting "heavy to very heavy rain at few places". According to BMC officials, there is a forecast of moderate to heavy rain/thundershowers in the city and suburbs with the possibility of very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall in isolated places. Alerts by the IMD are colour-coded from green to red. A 'green' alert stands for 'no warning': no action needs to be taken by the authorities, and the forecast is of light to moderate rain. A 'red' alert stands for "warning", and asks authorities to "take action". An ‘orange’ alert indicates that the authorities are expected to “be prepared”. The suburban train services, which were suspended for a few hours on Sunday due to water-logging on tracks in some areas, were now running normal, spokespersons of the Central Railway and Western Railway said. Bus services of the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) were also back to normal, civic officials said. On Sunday evening, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray took stock of the preparedness by various government agencies to tackle any emergency. Thackeray had directed the agencies to remain more alert and asked authorities to keep a watch on landslide-prone areas and dilapidated buildings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rain-intensity-reduces-in-mumbai-after-heavy-spell-local-trains-bus-services-back-to-normal-1010317.html
19-07-2021||West||Expect Sidhu to carry forward Congress traditions taking everyone along: Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday expressed hope that newly appointed Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu would take everyone along and carry forward the party's traditions and policies. Congratulating Sidhu on his appointment, Gehlot said that it has been the tradition in the Congress that before a decision is taken, everyone is consulted and everyone gets a chance to express their views. "Once the party high command takes a decision while keeping everyone's opinion in mind, thereafter all Congress members follow the tradition of uniting and accepting it. This is the biggest strength of Congress even today,” Gehlot said. Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday night appointed cricketer-turned-politician Sidhu as the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) chief despite opposition from Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. Gehlot said Singh had announced in front of the media last week that he would accept the decision of the Congress president. "Congratulations and best wishes to Sidhu. It is expected that he will also carry forward the tradition of the Congress party and take everyone along," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/expect-sidhu-to-carry-forward-congress-traditions-taking-everyone-along-gehlot-1010410.html
19-07-2021||West||Restore hills to avoid landslides in MMR, say environmentalists||As landslides wreaked havoc during the current wave of incessant rains, environmentalists have called for reclaiming and restoring all hills across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). In a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Environment Minister Aaditya Thackeray, the activists said the landslides are an eye-opener for protecting the region’s biodiversity and requested the government to quickly order a census of all hutments on the hills across MMR and plan a resettlement plan as per the Slum Redevelopment Authority norms. “We do not want to go into the legalities of the hutment colonies and structures on the hills and hill slopes,” said B N Kumar, director of NatConnect Foundation, “since it is for the government to decide.” “We are concerned about protecting the hills and of course the lives of people,” Kumar said. In this connection, he drew the attention of the government to Parsik Hill rejuvenation by NMMC in association with TERI (The Energy and Research Institute) and said similar plans could be worked out for restoration of hills and slopes in other areas of MMR as well. The next dangerous area is the quarried stretch of Parsik Hills that is landslide prone and the hutments, he pointed out. In fact, Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation conducted a vaccination drive in quarry areas, Kumar said. NatConnect also expressed concern over CIDCO plans to develop affordable housing under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) along the quarried Parsik Hill range. Apart from the fact that the land is under the Forest Department, the project will be disaster prone as the blasted hills can be landslide prone, Kumar said. There are lots of huts on hillocks at Turbhe and at the foothill in Belapur which face the landslide threat. The non-stop quarrying is also in progress at Kharghar and poses another major threat, said activist Naresh Chandra Singh. A tweet from KhargharWetlands group appealed to CIDCO and the Raigad district authorities to “put an end to quarrying of Kharghar hills''. “You are endangering the lives of thousands of people that reside at the foothills,” the group said. Nandakumar Pawar, head of Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan, said the government should have a fresh look at the entire MMR biodiversity and work on a comprehensive plan to save the environment and people’s lives. “It will be sad if we do not learn lessons despite these repeated warnings from Nature and disasters.” Pawar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/restore-hills-to-avoid-landslides-in-mmr-say-environmentalists-1010413.html
19-07-2021||West||Heavy rain pummels Konkan belt, death toll mounts to 42||Incessant rains continued to pound Mumbai and the coastal Konkan belt of Maharashtra for the third consecutive day on Monday even as the monsoon-related death toll mounted to 42. Services of the Central Railway’s Karjat and Kasara lines - both suburban and upcountry trains  - were delayed because of water-logging between the Thane-Diva stretch as the Thane district was pounded by heavy rains. The Mumbai-Goa road and rail traffic were badly affected because of the downpour in the Raigad district which resulted in water-logging at several places on the road. The Old Goa Tunnel between Karmali and Thivim stations in Goa saw ingress of water and slush because of heavy rains disrupting the operations of the Konkan Railway as several trains were cancelled, diverted or short-terminated. In yet another landslide at Durga Chawl in Golainagar in Kalwa in Thane district, five persons of one family were killed. However, two others of the same family were rescued. A four-year-child fell in a gutter in Nalasopara while a nine-year-old boy fell in a drain in Mira Road. A 16-year-old boy was drowned in Shahpur. The death toll in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region comprising Mumbai and neighbouring North Konkan districts of Thane, Palghar and Raigad has mounted to 42, according to reports. A mudslide was reported in the hill station of Matheran, however, there were no casualties. Several streams and rivers in North Konkan and South Konkan were flowing above the roads, culverts and bridges cutting off several villages and hamlets. Power and electricity supply was badly affected. In Navi Mumbai township and Raigad, police and fire brigade personnel had to mount two rescue operations including one off the Pandavkada waterfall and Kharghar hills, from where 116 revellers and picnickers were rescued. The power loom town of Bhiwandi in the Thane district was inundated with floodwaters affecting the looms and the industries. Several large e-commerce companies have warehouses in Bhiwandi. In Vasai in Palghar district, the road traffic was affected and Suncity Road that connects Vasai to Nalasopara was flooded. Pen town in Raigad district, which is known as the town of artisans for manufacturing Ganesh idols, was flooded and the locals have suffered massive losses. The popular automobile-free hill station of Matheran in Raigad was cut off because of a landslide. The Kalyan-Dombivali suburbs received heavy rainfall during the day and a landslide was reported in which some people have died. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/heavy-rain-pummels-konkan-belt-death-toll-mounts-to-42-1010424.html
19-07-2021||West||Rajdhani runs with new Tejas rakes||A new era of train travel experience with enhanced comfort is being rolled out by Western Railway with the introduction of newly upgraded Tejas sleeper coach rakes.  These bright golden hued coaches, with enhanced smart features are being introduced to run Western Railway’s prestigious Mumbai Rajdhani Express train and claims to offer best in class travel experience.  This new rake made its maiden run from Monday. According to a press release issued by Sumit Thakur, Chief Public Relations Officer of Western Railway, the existing rakes of Train No.  02951/52 Mumbai – New Delhi Rajdhani Special Express are being replaced with brand new Tejas type sleeper coaches. Two such Tejas type sleeper coach rakes have been made ready to run as Rajdhani Express.  Out of these two rakes, one rake comprises exclusive Tejas Smart sleeper coaches, which is first of its kind to be introduced in Indian Railways.  The new train will have special smart features for enhanced passenger safety and comfort.  The smart coach aims to provide world-class facilities to passengers with the help of intelligent sensor-based systems. It is equipped with the Passenger Information and Coach Computing Unit (PICCU) provided with GSM network connectivity, which reports to the remote server. PICCU will record the data of WSP, CCTV recording, toilet odour sensors, panic switch and other items integrated with fire detection and alarm system, air quality and choke filter sensor and energy meter.                Thakur stated that with the use of Tejas SMART Coach, Indian Railways aims to move to predictive maintenance instead of preventive maintenance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rajdhani-runs-with-new-tejas-rakes-1010439.html
19-07-2021||West||Over 100 revellers rescued in daring operation near Mumbai||In a daring operation, 116 tourists and revellers who were stranded at the Pandavkada waterfalls and Kharghar hills were rescued amid rising water levels and inclement weather conditions. Those rescued include 78 women and five children, according to the Raigad police and district administration.  Located off the satellite township of Navi Mumbai, the Kharghar hills and Pandavkada is a popular destination during the monsoons.  In the wake of accidents in the past and the Covid-19 pandemic, entry to the Pandavkada waterfalls is banned. However, on Sunday, many managed to sneak in even while there was heavy rainfall in the Mumbai metropolitan region. The revellers trekked from Sector 5 of Kharghar but heavy rains swelled the streams behind the golf course and the people were stranded for 2-3 hours.  Teams of local police and fire brigade reached there with ropes and ladders and placed them over the stream, rescuing the people one by one in a difficult operation. Over two dozen officers and men from the police and fire brigade were part of the operation.   Kharghar police station’s Senior Police Inspector Shatrughan Mali said that despite warnings people risk their lives and reach there.  "We have to behave responsibly when we know that there are dangers ahead. People are warned not to go to that area, however, they still venture there often without proper shoes and gears that are needed. They also risk themselves at the waterfall," said BN Kumar, an expert on Navi Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-100-revellers-rescued-in-daring-operation-near-mumbai-1010456.html
19-07-2021||West||Stan Swamy | For how many years can people be asked to languish in jail sans trial? Bombay HC asks||For how many years can people be asked to languish in jail without a trial? it said while hearing posthumously the appeals filed by the late Jesuit priest, whom the HC described as a wonderful person and expressed "great respect" for his work. The observations were made by a bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar that had also presided over Swamy's medical bail plea on July 5, when the HC was informed about the 84-year-old priest's death at the Holy Family Hospital here that day following a cardiac arrest. "We don't have time normally, but I saw the funeral service (of Swamy). It was very gracious," Justice Shinde said. "Such a wonderful person. The kind of service he has rendered to the society. We have great respect for his work. Legally, whatever is there against him is a different matter," he said. The bench also referred to the criticism that the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and the judiciary had received following Swamy's death. It expressed regret over how, in several cases, undertrials languished in prisons waiting for the trial to begin. The bench, however, also said it had ensured to remain fair while passing orders on Swamy's medical bail plea, as well as on the pleas filed by his co-accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case. "You came to us with his medical bail plea on May 28 and we acceded to every prayer, every time," the court said to Swamy's advocate, senior counsel Mihir Desai. "Outside, we are speechless. Only you (Desai) can clarify this. You have said it on record that you have no grievance with this court in the matter," the HC said. The HC further said nobody mentions that this is the court that granted bail to (co-accused) Varavara Rao, despite vehement opposition. "We allowed (Rao's) family to meet as we thought human angle has to be seen. In another case (Hany Babu), we sent to hospital of his choice (Breach Candy Hospital-a private medical facility)," the HC said. "We never anticipated this will happen (Swamy's death in custody). What was on our minds, we can't say now as we couldn't pronounce our order," the HC said referring to the pending medical bail plea of the late Jesuit priest. Swamy was arrested by the NIA in connection with the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case from Ranchi in October 2020. The tribal rights activist, who was suffering from Parkinson's disease and several other ailments, spent most of his time in custody in the Taloja prison's hospital in neighbouring Navi Mumbai. He was admitted to the state-run J J Hospital in Mumbai on two occasions and was shifted to the Holy Family Hospital, a private medical facility, on May 28, following the intervention of the bench led by Justice Shinde. On July 5, the bench was informed by the hospital authorities that Swamy had suffered from a cardiac arrest two days prior and was put on ventilator support. He never regained consciousness and was declared dead by the hospital authorities about an hour before Swamy's medical bail plea was taken up for hearing by the HC, it was informed at that time. On Monday, following the HC's observations on it having passed fair orders, Desai said, "Let me say on record that I am extremely happy with various benches of the HC that heard this matter." Desai, however, urged the HC to let Swamy's aide and another priest, Father Frazer Mascarenhas, to participate in the magisterial inquiry that was initiated under Section 176 of the CrPC following the undertrial's death. He also urged the high court to direct the magistrate conducting the inquiry to adhere to the UNHRC guidelines on such inquiries, and to ask for a report of the probe to be submitted in the HC. Desai was Swamy's counsel in the appeals challenging a special court order denying him bail on both medical grounds and merits. Swamy had also filed a plea in the HC just weeks before his death, challenging section 45-D of the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), which barred a grant of bail to any person accused under the Act. Advocate Sandesh Patil, who appeared for the NIA, on Monday said the central agency was objecting to Desai's request since the HC was hearing appeals challenging a bail order and issues related to the inquiry could not be raised on the same pleas. "Time and again it is projected that the NIA is responsible for whatever has happened, and that jail authorities are responsible too," Patil told the HC. The bench, however, told him there could be "no control on who says what outside on the matter". "You take instructions on how many witnesses, how long will the trial take. We have to look at it practically," the HC said to the NIA counsel. "The concern is that for how many years can people be asked to languish in jail without a trial. Not only in this case, but the question will arise on other cases also," it said. The HC will continue hearing the pleas on July 23. The Elgar Parishad case is related to inflammatory speeches made at a conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which, the police claimed, triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the outskirts of the western Maharashtra city. The police had claimed the conclave was organised by people with alleged Maoist links. The NIA later took over the probe into the case. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/stan-swamy-for-how-many-years-can-people-be-asked-to-languish-in-jail-sans-trial-bombay-hc-asks-1010479.html
19-07-2021||West||Maharashtra's active Covid-19 cases dip below 1 lakh||In the past 24 hours, the state recorded 6,017 cases and 66 deaths taking the progressive total to 62,02,027 and 1,27,097, respectively. The total number of active cases now stands at 96,375. The last time, total number of active cases was below the 1-lakh mark was on March 10 when the state recorded 99,098 cases and the next day on 11 March it jumped to 1,06,070. This was when the second wave hit the state and cases compounded. During the day, Mumbai recorded 404 cases while the larger Mumbai metropolitan region 1,092 cases - the lowest in several months. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-active-covid-19-cases-dip-below-1-lakh-1010499.html
19-07-2021||West||Petition filed against Vedanta's proposed zinc smelter plant in south Gujarat||A public interest litigation (PIL) has been filed at Gujarat High Court against the proposed zinc smelter plant by Hindustan Zinc Limited of Vedanta group at Doswada village in Tapi district, south Gujarat. The petition has sought to stay the process of operation of the proposed plant as a temporary relief and has asked the court to direct the state government to hear the voices of village representatives as prescribed under Panchayat Act for scheduled areas. The development comes days after a violent clash broke out between the police and local residents from a scheduled tribe (ST) community during the public hearing organised by Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) and Tapi collector office for hearing grievances of villagers protesting the upcoming plant. The PIL has been filed by Chhotu Vasava, the 76-year-old Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) from Jhagadia in Bharuch district. The PIL says that on July 1, a group of village heads and concerned citizens had gone to the district collector office to submit resolutions they had passed voicing their concerns against the project but the local authorities refused to meet them. It says that the concerned citizens also raised their objections through letters, e-mails and held peaceful protests to draw authorities' attention. On July 5, the public hearing was organised by GPCB and local revenue officers where, the PIL alleges, only selected persons were allowed to attend. "As this message was spread in villages, having felt cheated and fraud," a large number of people gathered at the hearing confronted the authorities which led to violence. The local police booked over 200 tribals in the FIR without naming anyone for the violence in which several policemen were injured and large scale properties were damaged. Claiming that he was aware of developments happening on the ground, Vasava has stated as one of his grounds for filing the PIL that "There is prima facie many basis of making unfair, illegal and unjust benefit to the influential M/S Hindustan Zinc Limited by respondent authority and some of having vested interest without considering public in general." He has said that there is a gross violation of several provisions of Panchayats (extension to the scheduled areas) act, 1996 which requires "Every Gram Sabha shall approve the plans, programmes and projects for social and economic development before such plans, programmes and projects are taken up for implementation by the panchayat at the village level." He said that there will be "prolonged impact of Zinc Smelter Complex on water sources in particular areas...discharge of polluted or wastewater by contaminated leachate from disposal or dumping of solid waste etc." The proposed project is being implemented in 165 hectares of Gujarat Industrial Corporation (GIDC) land, which according to the state government, "is already under the industrial land use category." The environmental impact assessment (EIA) report, uploaded on GPCB website, states that "the proposed project would have adverse impacts on the environment. However, with proper and judicious implementation of the mitigation and environment management measures, the impacts can be further minimized and can be maintained well within the permissible limits specified by the regulatory authorities." Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/petition-filed-against-vedantas-proposed-zinc-smelter-plant-in-south-gujarat-1010506.html
19-07-2021||West||Gujarat's new anti-conversion law challenged in HC||Provisions of a new Gujarat law which penalises forcible or fraudulent religious conversion through marriage has been challenged in the state High Court, where it was mentioned before a division bench on Monday. The Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amendment) Act, 2021, was notified in the state on June 15. The matter was mentioned before the division bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice Biren Vaishnav for circulation. Allowing the same, the court said it will be listed after two to three days. Lawyer MTM Hakim, who represents the petitioner challenging the provisions of the Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amendment) Act, declined to share any more detail at this stage. The state government had passed the Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amendment) Bill in the Assembly during the Budget session, and Governor Acharya Devvrat gave his assent to it on May 22. It came into force on June 15, and since then several FIRs have been filed in different police stations of Gujarat under the controversial law. The first FIR was filed at a police station in Vadodara against one Samir Qureshi (26) for allegedly luring a woman of another religion by posing as a Christian on social media in 2019, as per the police. The Act has stringent punishment for forcible religious conversion through marriage and attracts imprisonment of 3 to 5 years and up to Rs 2 lakh fine. If the victim is a minor, a woman, a Dalit or tribal, then the offenders may be punished for a jail term of 4 to 7 years and a fine of no less than Rs 3 lakh. For an institution or an organisation found flouting the law, the person in charge during the time of the offence shall invite punishment no less than three years extending up to ten years, as per the Act. “The Gujarat Freedom of Religion Act, 2003 seeks to deal with religious conversion through allurement, force or by misrepresentation or by any other fraudulent means. "However, there are episodes of religious conversion promising better lifestyle, divine blessings and impersonation. There is an emerging trend in which women are lured to marriage for the purpose of religious conversion,” the government had said while introducing the amendment to the Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarats-new-anti-conversion-law-challenged-in-hc-1010515.html
19-07-2021||West||Gujarat police take Ravi Pujari's custody in 2017 case||The Ahmedabad Crime Branch on Monday took the custody of gangster Ravi Pujari from a Bengaluru jail in connection with a 2017 shooting case, in which a municipal councillor of Borsad town of Anand district in Gujarat was attacked allegedly at his behest, officials said. Around 20 criminal cases, including of extortion and attempt to murder, were registered against Pujari in Gujarat alone, said Deputy Commissioner of Police, Crime, Chaitanya Mandlik. Of these, the Ahmedabad Crime Branch is investigating 14 cases, he said. Pujari was lodged in a jail in Bengaluru following his extradition to India from Senegal last year. "We had sought his custody to investigate his role in the 2017 shooting case in Borsad town," said Mandlik. Another official said a court in Bengaluru had remanded Pujari into the custody of the crime branch for 30 days. He added that Pujari will be produced before a magistrate in Borsad in the coming days. The incident happened on January 13, 2017, when three rounds were fired at independent councillor of Borsad municipality Pragnesh Patel from a point-blank range in Borsad by two assailants, who were later nabbed by the Gujarat police along with a third accomplice. Patel, who was injured in the attack, eventually recovered. Pujari had taken the responsibility of the attack. Incidentally, a few days after Patel was attacked, Congress MLA from Anklav in Anand district Amit Chavda, who is now the Gujarat Congress president, filed a complaint claiming Pujari had threatened him over the phone. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-police-take-ravi-pujaris-custody-in-2017-case-1010544.html
19-07-2021||West||Raj Kundra, husband of Shilpa Shetty, arrested on pornography charges||In a major swoop, the Mumbai Police arrested businessman Raj Kundra, the husband of Bollywood actor and model Shilpa Shetty, in connection with making pornographic content and publishing it through mobile applications. Based on a case registered in February this year, Kundra, a British-Indian businessman, was being investigated by the Crime Branch-CID of Mumbai Police. The Mumbai Police has confirmed the arrest of Kundra. "A case registered with Crime Branch about the creation of pornographic films and publishing them through some Apps. We’ve arrested Raj Kundra in this case as he appears to be the key conspirator," Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale said. "We have sufficient evidence regarding this. An investigation is in progress," he added. Shilpa Shetty and Raj Kundra have two children — son Viaan (9) and daughter Samisha (1). Shetty and Kundra have been married since 2009. They welcomed their son Viaan Raj in 2012. In February 2020, the couple had revealed that they became parents to Samisha through surrogacy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/raj-kundra-husband-of-shilpa-shetty-arrested-on-pornography-charges-1010545.html
19-07-2021||West||Pegasus ransomware issue rocks Maharashtra; Congress asks for probe in former BJP govt||As the Pegasus row rocked Parliament's Monsoon Session, the Maharashtra government on Monday wanted to know whether the snooping and phone-tapping took place in the state during the previous BJP-led government headed by Devendra Fadnavis.  Maharashtra Congress spokesperson and general secretary Sachin Sawant sought a thorough probe by the Maha Vikas Aghadi government.  The two other MVA partners, Shiv Sena and NCP, also expressed concern over the episode.  "The Pegasus scandal happened in Maharashtra as well? It is demanded that the MVA government should probe this. In Maharashtra, a case of unauthorised phone tapping through Rashmi Shukla has already come to light during the Fadnavis government. But there were also reports of use of Pegasus,” Sawant said.  Rashmi Shukla, a senior IPS officer was the commissioner of State Intelligence Department and now additional director general (south zone), Central Reserve Police Force.  Sawant further said that phone tapping at a national level through Pegasus software and the possible role of the Modi government is very serious. “All BJP-ruled state governments may have been instructed to work on this procedure. Phone tapping during Fadnavis government has the same mentality and intentions,” he said.  “How many times did some officers go to Israel? Were there any government meetings with NSO? What was the correspondence with NSO? It should all come to the fore. Earlier, such an inquiry was demanded by (Congress leader) Digvijaya Singh also,” he added. Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said, "There was a phone tapping issue in Maharashtra which was raised by state Congress chief Nana Patole. Senior police officials were involved and a probe was underway. But in this case, a foreign company is hearing the phones of our people, especially journalists. This is serious." "I will not be surprised if Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's phone is also tapped," he said. NCP chief spokesman and state minority affairs minister Nawab Malik told reporters that Pegasus had made it clear that it provided the software only to governments and not private individuals. "If the software wasn't sold to private individuals, which agency of the central government hacked the phones of journalists, ministers, social workers, judges and industrialists?" he wanted to know.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pegasus-ransomware-issue-rocks-maharashtra-congress-asks-for-probe-in-former-bjp-govt-1010548.html
