20-07-2021||Comment||The two-child law will harm, not benefit, India||India’s young demography has been considered to be its structural advantage. Half the population is below the age of 27. Of course, there are poorer African countries whose median age is much lower. For example, it is 14.8 years for Niger, 15.8 for Uganda, 19.7 for Kenya. India’s own median age in 1970, when it was much poorer, was just 19.3 years. India is still below the world’s median age of 31. The median age in Japan is 47.3 and is similarly high in Northern European countries. One consequence of an ageing society, such as Japan, is that productivity gains are slow. A 2016 research paper from the National Bureau of Economic Research, using data for different states of America, showed that a 10% increase in the share of population above the age of 60 reduces the growth of per-capita GDP growth rate by 5.5%. This effect is due to slower growth in labour productivity and lower growth in the active labour force. The flip side of ageing societies is the decline in their total fertility rate (TFR). This is the average number of children that a woman of child-bearing age will have during her lifetime. This number is 1.4 for Japan and 1.1 for South Korea, and these are among the lowest for countries of their size. For Taiwan it is 1.1. One stylised fact that seems to emerge is that developed and rich economies are ageing, and their fertility rates are rapidly declining. This is true even within countries, where richer and more educated folk tend to have smaller families. When fertility rates fall below 2.1, that is below the replacement rate. When a woman produces 2 children, they replace the two parents. Adjusting for infant mortality, the replacement rate, which corresponds to zero population growth, is 2.1. If this rate stabilises for some time, then the population will cease to grow. Indeed, due to sustained low TFR, the populations of countries like Japan, Germany and Russia are actually shrinking. Demographic projections, unlike those of economic growth, are much more reliable. The fact of today’s India is that more than 16 states already have TFR below the replacement rate of 2.1. These are 1.5 for West Bengal, 1.6 for Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Punjab and Tamil Nadu, 1.7 for Kerala, Karnataka and Maharashtra. The country as a whole has a TFR of 2.2. The states with high TFRs are Bihar (3.2), Uttar Pradesh (2.9), Madhya Pradesh (2.7), Rajasthan and Jharkhand (2.5). Assam has 2.2 and Gujarat has 2.1. This data is from the Sample Registration System of 2018. Based on this data, the Economic Survey, the official document of the Government of India in 2018-19 had flagged the issue of ageing dynamics in India (see chapter 7). It said that by 2031, all the states of India would reach TFR levels below the replacement rate of 2.1. This trend is attributed to an increase in female education levels, postponement of marriage, access to family planning methods, and the continued decline in infant mortality. So, it is fair to say that across India, families are choosing to have fewer children. Why then are we imposing the two-child law? The fact is that due to various socio-economic factors, identified by the government’s own reports, high GDP growth, rapid urbanisation, increasing female literacy will all lead to a quick fall in fertility rates in any case. This is an organic process. But unfortunately, we are pushing the law to punish families with more than two kids. Such parents won’t be allowed to stand for elections, won’t be eligible for government jobs or food subsidy and other government schemes. The latest to join this bandwagon are the states of Uttar Pradesh and Assam. The Chief Minister of Assam addressed the immigrant Muslim community and urged them to adopt “decent family planning norms”, in the context of the new Assam law. So, clearly, the law is aimed at a particular section rather than all of society. Otherwise, in the light of compelling evidence on the decline of fertility rates across India, and in Assam too, it seems odd to limit the family size. Former chief election commissioner S Y Quraishi has in his book The Population Myth: Islam, Family Planning and Politics in India has clearly shown with data and analysis that fertility rates are determined more by socio-economic factors and not religion. Indeed, as even the National Family Health Survey — 4th round has documented, the fertility rate of a Muslim from Tamil Nadu is much lower than a Hindu from Bihar. So, it is region, not religion, which seems to be the predominant factor, apart from socio-economic characteristics. Coercive population planning policies do more harm than good. Former chief secretary of Madhya Pradesh Nirmala Buch has extensively studied this issue on the ground, and in her 2006 book The Law of Two Child Norm has documented that due to the two-child law adopted in various states, there was a rise in sex-selective and unsafe abortions; men divorced their wives to run for local body elections; and families gave up children for adoption to avoid disqualification. Thus, it is women who bear the disproportionate burden and negative consequences of the two-child law. Unfortunately, such a law pertaining to being disqualified from contesting local body elections is in force in the states of Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Odisha and Haryana. It is interesting that the law does not apply to those contesting elections to the state Assembly or national Parliament. Does it not imply elitism? China adopted a strict one-child policy for more than 30 years, and then abandoned it in 2016, having realised the folly of this approach. And this year, it is officially encouraging a three-child norm. Singapore offers generous incentives for families with more children. Apart from the socio-economic angle of the ill-effects of coercive family planning, we must also acknowledge that it infringes upon the individuals’ right to choose. The policies to focus on are to increase female literacy and their participation in the workforce, and measures that increase productivity and per-capita incomes. The small family norm will automatically emerge, as seen across the world. (The writer is an economist and Senior Fellow, Takshashila Institution) (Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/the-two-child-law-will-harm-not-benefit-india-1010620.html
20-07-2021||First Edit||Majoritarianism taken to the extreme||Assam’s new cattle protection law is more draconian than the 1950 law which it replaces and is discriminatory and divisive like its proposed population control legislation. While the existing law was intended to protect animals that were needed for farming, the new law uses cattle protection as an excuse to increase polarisation in a state which has deep communal fault lines. Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had clearly told Muslims that they had to reduce their population, and he has left no one in doubt about who the cattle protection law is directed at. He has also said that the provisions of the law and the rules to be framed under it will ensure that people will be barred from eating beef in most of Assam, especially in urban centres. It is a majoritarian and authoritarian measure that denies people the right to eat what they want, along with other rights. A key provision of the bill, which is not found in the cattle protection laws of other states, is the geographical demarcation for its operation. It bans the sale and purchase of beef in areas “predominantly inhabited by Hindu, Jain, Sikh and other non-beef-eating communities”, and “within a radius of 5 km” of any temple or sattra. This can, in effect, cover the entire state, which abounds in temples and other shrines. A temple can be built to bar beef anywhere. Barring people from eating a particular food just because they live in a particular area is taking the majoritarian will to the extreme. While the existing law does not have a sweeping ban on slaughter of all cattle, the proposed law makes no distinction among different cattle types and applies to all, including bulls and buffaloes. It disallows slaughter of cattle and their trade and transportation without approvals and licences and empowers officials to inspect any premises or vehicles. Beef is a cheap source of protein for many communities, especially in the lower strata of society, and is an important part of the food of most people in all North-Eastern states like Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram, and Arunachal Pradesh. The bill will hit the availability of beef in these neighbouring states. It is wrong to deny a food item to some because some others do not want that food. The government cannot also claim that most Hindus shun beef. It also cannot presume that those who shun it want others not to eat it. To frame such a law amounts to imposing a religious idea of uncertain value on the entire society. The sentiment is not religious but political, and the aim is to trouble the minorities, especially the Muslims, and hit them where it hurts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/majoritarianism-taken-to-the-extreme-1010607.html
20-07-2021||In Perspective||India's new industrial policy is doomed to fail||One of Narendra Modi’s first promises when elected prime minister in 2014 was to revive the country’s manufacturing sector. India had been de-industrialising since the early part of the century and policymakers correctly argued that only mass manufacturing could create enough jobs for a workforce growing by a million young people a month. In his first major speech as PM, Modi invited the world to help: “I want to appeal all the people world over [sic], ‘Come, make in India,’ ‘Come, manufacture in India.’ Sell in any country of the world but manufacture here.” The “Make in India” slogan quickly developed into a full-fledged government program. Government officials spoke at length about increasing FDI and improving the business climate to attract multinational companies. Careful targeting of World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business indicators raised the country 79 positions in the five years after Modi took office. In 2019, the share of manufacturing in India’s GDP stood at a 20-year low. Most foreign investment has poured into service sectors. “Make in India” has failed, replaced by a government that never admits defeat with a call for “self-reliance.” Now, exactly 30 years after India turned away from central planning and liberated the private sector, the government is again handing out subsidies and licenses while putting up tariff walls. Modi shut down the 1950s-era Planning Commission when he took office. Yet the bureaucrats in New Delhi are back to picking winners and directing state funding to favoured sectors. They’re doing so through new “production-linked incentive” schemes, in which companies apply for and receive extra funding from the state for five years in return for expanding manufacturing in India. Such incentives were originally meant to support domestic mobile phone production. Following energetic lobbying, the government began extending them blindly to all sorts of sectors, from batteries to food processing to textiles to specialty steel. Money is apparently no object: A government that has held off on income support during the pandemic has budgeted Rs 2 trillion for these industrial subsidies. The only thing worse than socialism with central planning is industrial policy with no planning at all. There’s no logical coherence to the sectors chosen, all of which seem to have been included for different reasons. Is the scheme supposed to supercharge job growth? Then why not focus on labour-intensive sectors such as apparel? Is India aiming for economic independence from China? Then subsidies should be limited to sectors where China dominates supply chains, as part of a broader, China-focused trade policy that partners with the US, Australia and others. Is the goal to invest in cutting-edge sectors? Then the government should explain why bureaucrats would do a better job than the flood of private equity that’s pouring into India. Instead, all the problems of India’s socialist-era past are returning, cunningly disguised. Excessive closeness between bureaucrats and the beneficiaries of industrial policy? India’s top civil servant recently called for an “institutional mechanism” that provides “hand-holding” for companies. Endlessly shifting targets? Companies that just began receiving subsidies are already asking the government to relax production quotas. It took decades for India to put its old, inward-looking and uncompetitive manufacturers out of business. Now the government is giving cash to new, inward-looking and uncompetitive companies to produce for the domestic market. Meanwhile, it’s hard-wiring into the economy the kind of connections between industrial capital and policymakers that are nearly impossible to disentangle. The government’s defenders point out that its investor-friendly reforms weren’t answered; nobody came to “Make in India.” And, they ask, hasn’t China profited handsomely from subsidising its own manufacturing sector? Such arguments miss the point. Modi’s manufacturing push never went much further than gaming the World Bank’s indicators. No investor believes structural reforms, particularly to the legal system, have gone deep enough. India has a large workforce but too few skilled workers. To top it all off, the rupee is overvalued. Rather than work at solving these interconnected and complex problems, politicians in New Delhi have decided to paper over them with taxpayer money. Perhaps picking winners has worked for China. What Indians know for certain is that it did not work here after decades of trying. Sure, public investment in sectors of vital strategic importance — electricity storage, perhaps, or cutting-edge pharma — is defensible. But when you start throwing money at every sector that you wish had developed on its own, then all you’re announcing to the world is that you’re out of ideas. India’s haphazard foray into industrial policy is going to fail, just as “Make in India” did. And it’s likely to cost the country billions along the way. (Bloomberg Opinion)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/indias-new-industrial-policy-is-doomed-to-fail-1010603.html
20-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||This Haveri school denied SSLC exam hall tickets to 30 'dull' students for 'good results'||Education Minister Suresh Kumar said aloud and more than once that there were no grounds to deny SSLC exam hall tickets to students. But an aided school at Chikkerur in Hirekerur taluk has refused hall tickets to 30 students citing they are ‘dull’. The aggrieved students on Monday registered their protest against their school and teachers by writing a mock exam on the road in front of the deputy commissioner’soffice. The students, joined by their parents, under the banner of SFI held a protest against their teachers and the Mahatma Gandhi High School management. “I had prepared well for the exam. But they have done injustice to me by not issuing the hall ticket. My dreams of pursuing college education are shuttered,” Nikitha Patil, an aggrieved student, told DH, tears rolling down her eyes. “A parent of another aggrieved student poured out his woes to DH, “My son was a regular student. He had scored 76 per cent in class 9 exam. Despite paying the exam fee, he was denied hall ticket. My son is made to suffer for no crime of his,” Shankar Vantikar, a parent, said. “A few teachers of the school have insulted the students by branding them ‘dull and weak’, and not letting them write exams in a bid to ensure good results to the school,” Basavaraj Bhovi, district joint secretary, Students Federation of India (SFI), told DH. The SFI demanded disciplinary action against the headmaster of the school and BEO for denying the students their rights to write exam, and for spoiling their future. The Education department officials claim that the students were denied hall tickets for non-payment of exam fee, attendance shortage and non-submission of project reports, the agitating parents begged to differ saying that some students were refused hall ticket despite paying exam fee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/this-haveri-school-denied-sslc-exam-hall-tickets-to-30-dull-students-for-good-results-1010588.html
20-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||KSOU gets AICTE nod for offering MBA courses||The All India Council for Technical Education (AICET) has permitted the Karnataka State Open University (KSOU) for launching Master of Business Administration (MBA) courses on open and distant learning mode. Registrar R Rajanna said that KSOU becomes the only recognised open university in India to offer MBA courses in open and distance learning mode. The AICTE has allowed KSOU to admit 10,000 students for the academic year 2021-22 for MBA (General Administration). The KSOU recently got 12-B status, under Section 12(B) of the University Grants Commission (UGC) Act, 1956. 12-B status enables the varsity to get UGC funds. Vice-Chancellor S Vidyashankar said that KSOU is the first among the 18 open universities in India to get AICTE recognition. Earlier, the UGC had approved 11 new online Science courses, in both UG and PG, - MSc (Botany), MSc (Zoology), MSc (Food and Nutrition), MSc (Information Technology), BSc (General), BSc (Information Technology), BSc (Home Science) and BCA. It has to be noted that the UGC had de-recognised the courses offered by KSOU, from the academic year 2013-14, for some violations. However, the permission was restored from the academic year 2018-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ksou-gets-aicte-nod-for-offering-mba-courses-1010590.html
20-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Chitradurga: Couple, child killed in car-lorry collision||A couple and their four-year-old son were killed and two others suffered grievous injuries after the car they were travelling in crashed into a stationary lorry near a petrol bunk on Monday morning. The deceased are Jairam (28), his wife Sushila (26) and their son Akash. The couple’s 8-year-old daughter Karnsaran and their relative Rajaram have been admitted to Chitradurga district hospital. The accident occurred when Jairam, a trader in Bengaluru, and his family was returning to Bengaluru from Rajasthan. The Aimangala police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/chitradurga-couple-child-killed-in-car-lorry-collision-1010608.html
20-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Rain recedes in coast, but no let-up in Kalyana Karnataka||While the intensity of rain receded in Malnad and coastal districts on Monday, the overnight downpour, coupled with heavy discharges from dams, sparked flash floods in three Kalyana Karnataka districts. The Sunday night showers left Balavaddi and Sugur (N) in Chittapur taluk, Yadgir district, inundated. Many villages in the taluk were cut off after relentless rain left Malkappanahalli-Chittapur and Shampurhalli-Rampurhalli roadsunmotorable. Kangaleshwara temple near Bhima bridge has gone completely under the floodwaters of Bhima river. The unrelenting showers and copious inflow to Bhima river has sparked fear of a repeat of last year’s flooding among the villagers in the basin. Seven members of a family at Kouluru in Yadgir taluk had a miraculous escape when the roof of the house caved in. Three more houses have suffered extensive damages in the village. Many parts of Bidar district experienced heavy downpour in the early hours of Monday. Vast tracts of farmland in Hulasuru and Bidar taluks have gone under water following a breach of a pond and an overflowing stream.  Parts of Raichur district, including Maski, and Ballari also witnessed spells of sharp showers on Monday. Acres of paddy crop in Huvinahadagali taluk have been flooded. Kanakumbi forest area, the birthplace of Malaprabha river, and Jamboti in Khanapur taluk, Belagavi district, has been receiving heavy showers. After two days of downpour, showers receded in Shivamogga on Monday. However, inflow into dams continued to swell. Linganamakki reservoir received 51,491 cusec while inflow to Tunga and Bhadra clocked 29,467 and 18,789 cusec respectively. Hosanagar recorded 17.1 cm of rain in the last 24 hours followed by Hulikal 13.6 cm and Maani 11.5 cm. Meanwhile, Kodagu district continued to receive good rains on Monday as well. Madikeri, Bhagamandala, Napoklu, Talacauvery and Karike regions experienced intermittent rainfall. Water level in Harangi reservoir on Monday has gone up to 2,855.31 feet, four feet short of reaching its full reservoir level. The weather department has predicted incessant rain for coastal districts till July 24. With 16 districts in north Karnataka and Malnad regions likely to witness thundershowers, an yellow alert has been sounded in the regions for Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rain-recedes-in-coast-but-no-let-up-in-kalyana-karnataka-1010614.html
20-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Malaria cases decline in Dakshin Kannada, district still tops the state||The malaria cases have declined in Dakshina Kannada district this year compared to previous years. However, the district still tops other districts by contributing to about 80 per cent of the total cases in the state. A year ago, 1,701 malaria cases were reported in Karnataka. Of them, 1,397 cases were reported from Dakshina Kannada. Out of 1,397 cases, a huge chunk of 1,306 cases had been reported from Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) limits. Due to water stagnation at many places, there is a fear of malaria and dengue cases increasing in the district. While the district had recorded 416 malaria cases between January and May in 2020, the number decreased to 277 during the corresponding period in 2021. Out of 277 malaria cases, 255 were reported from Mangaluru city alone. Even dengue cases had increased with the district reporting 122 cases from January till now. In 2019, 2,593 malaria cases were reported in the MCC limits while the district had reported 2,797 cases. “To check malaria and Dengue cases and to create awareness among people, larvae survey is being carried out in the district,” District Vector Borne Disease Control Officer Dr Naveenchandra Kulal said. “Health personnel are visiting houses and are also carrying out a field survey. A task force has been set up at the district level. Awareness programme is a continuous drive. malaria test report using malaria Rapid Diagnostic Kits is given within 20 minutes while the report is given within 10 minutes using Quantitative Buffy Coat (QBC) technique for testing,” he added. District Health Officer Dr Kishore Kumar said that teams had been set up in urban areas. "About 80 per cent of malaria cases in the state are from the district. Dengue cases are on the rise in rural areas. Awareness is being created in this regard. All those who suffer from fever are made to undergo malaria, Dengue and Covid-19 tests. People should not object," he added. A mobile vehicle has been arranged for malaria testing. People can inform the health department if they have symptoms to avail the service, the DHO added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/malaria-cases-decline-in-dakshin-kannada-district-still-tops-the-state-1010780.html
20-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||4 die in accident near Kotanur||A total of four persons died in an accident involving a car and a tanker while one man was injured near Kotanur on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. The Police identified the deceased as Rahul (25), Kasim (26) and Ullas (26). Meanwhile the identity of the another one who was deceased is yet to be established. They were residents of Kalaburagi. The injured is undergoing treatment at a private hospital. The car which was on its way to Kalaburagi from Jewargi hit the tanker going towards Jewargi. A complaint has been registered at Kalaburagi City Traffic Police Station-2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/4-die-in-accident-near-kotanur-1010799.html
20-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mandya MP Sumalatha meets Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, demands probe into collapse of wall near KRS||Mandya MP Sumalatha on Tuesday met Union Water Resources Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and demanded to take steps to safety of KRS reservoir. In her memorandum, she said rampant illegal mining using massive explosives in Mandya district has posed threat to reservoir's safety. Insisting that a recent collapse of a wall near the reservoir was an indication of the threat to the safety of the dam, she said the Central Government must step in and constitute a high-level committee to probe the incident. Separately, she also met Union Mines Minister Pralhad Joshi and demanded a probe into illegal mining in the Mandya district. Due to illegal mining, the government is losing huge revenue that used comes from mining companies. In a memorandum to Joshi, she said the illegal miners have blessings from political leaders and the Centre should order a detailed inquiry. Sumalatha also met Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla and sought permission to raise the issue in the ongoing Parliament session.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mandya-mp-sumalatha-meets-gajendra-singh-shekhawat-demands-probe-into-collapse-of-wall-near-krs-1010880.html
20-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Forum, parents demand reopening of schools||Members of Karnataka SDMC Samanvaya Vedike, parents and educationists staged a protest urging government to reopen schools at the earliest, in Uppinangady. Vedike state president Moideen Kutti said, “Government has already announced unlock guidelines. Yet schools have not been reopened, which highlights anti-student policy of thegovernment.” The decision of the government has affected the children. Even technical advisory committee had advised the government to open the schools. The inordinate delay in reopening of schools has forced some children into marriage and others to take up part time job, he said. Malnutrition in children has increased. Some of the children have also been pushed into begging, the protesters said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/forum-parents-demand-reopening-of-schools-1010946.html
20-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Yediyurappa may quit Karnataka CM's post before August 15: Sources||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa may hang up his boots before August 15, according to party sources, as his request to continue in the top post till then was not accepted by the BJP central leadership.  “If nothing goes wrong, he may resign on or after July 26, when he completes two years in office,” a person aware of the developments said.  The Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) said it will not comment, calling it speculation. Several times earlier, Yediyurappa denied having been asked to step down. “This is obvious as no sitting CM will admit that he is on his way out as that would affect the administration,” the source said. Apparently, Yediyurappa’s exit plan was firmed up even before his visit to New Delhi to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and others last week.  It is learnt that the Yediyurappa’s resignation letter was drafted more than a week ago.  Yediyurappa wanted more time as he was keen on inaugurating some developmental works in Shivamogga, his political home, it is said. Meanwhile, an audio clip purportedly of BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel went viral, stirring the state’s political cauldron and doing little to reaffirm Yediyurappa’s continuation. Kateel called it “fake”, but the voice is heard talking of a new chief minister and a major Cabinet reshuffle.  “There are three candidates shortlisted. There are chances that anyone can become CM...No one from here will become CM. High command will appoint [someone] from Delhi,” according to the clip. Further, the voice on the audio clip talks about big changes in the Cabinet: “Eshwarappa, Shettar and team will be out. A new team will be formed.” K S Eshwarappa is currently the Rural Development & Panchayat Raj (RDPR) Minister whereas Jagadish Shettar, a former chief minister, is the Industries Minister. Kateel has urged Yediyurappa to order an investigation, adding that it was a ploy to tarnish the party’s image. “I have nothing to do with this audio clip,” he said. “Yediyurappa is the party’s soul, Eshwarappa and Shettar are the eyes. There’s no discussion on change in leadership or anything like that.”  Reacting to the audio clip, Eshwarappa said he cared two hoots if he was removed as a minister. “I’m not into politics for positions. I’m a party worker for whom the Hindu society and nation development are more important. There are no permanent positions in politics,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/yediyurappa-may-quit-karnataka-cms-post-before-august-15-sources-1010610.html
20-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurapa is 'soul', Eshwarappa-Shettar eyes of BJP: Kateel clarifies after alleged audio clip goes viral||Karnataka BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel denied any connection with the leaked audio clip where he allegedly talked about a new Karnataka chief minister and big changes in the Cabinet and instead touted the Chief Minister as the party's soul. "I have no connection with the audio clip, claimed to be mine, about the new Karnataka chief minister, changes in cabinet and so on that is circulating on social media. I will write to chief minister. There is a need to conduct an inquiry into the audio clip in order to bring out the truth," Kateel said. Reacting to the audio clip, the Dakshina Kannada MP said, "There was no discussion on change in leadership. Yediyurappa is like 'athma' (soul) of the party. He is our leader. While K S Eshwarappa and Jagadeesh Shettar are like two eyes of the party." "I do not like to suspect on anyone without conducting a probe into the audio clip row. Let the truth come out through a probe. I will answer every thing after the investigation," Kateel declared. Kateel, who had cancelled his trip to New Delhi on Monday, will be travelling to New Delhi on Tuesday, sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurapa-is-soul-eshwarappa-shettar-eyes-of-bjp-kateel-clarifies-after-alleged-audio-clip-goes-viral-1010680.html
20-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Don't replace Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa, Veerashaiva Mahasabha demands BJP top brass||Akhila Bharata Veerashaiva Mahasabha District Unit Rudramuni R Sajjan has warned BJP central leadership that the party would face the fate of Congress in Karnataka if Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is replaced by another leader. Speaking to media persons, here on Tuesday, he said Yediyurappa is not the leader of Veerashaiva community alone but of many communities. So, Yediyurappa must not be asked to step down from the top post as it would cause huge loss to the party. He said BJP high command must not forget that the party suffered defeat in the polls when Yediyurappa had quit BJP in the past. The chief minister played a key role in containing spread of Covid-19 in the state. So, he must be continued as chief minister. Hailing the chief minister, he said Yediyurappa has worked for the development of state and district as chief minister. Many development works including airport, KSRTC bus terminal, hospitals, UAHS and national highway etc were executed in the district during his tenure as chief minister earlier. No other leader would have implemented such development works. So, Yediyurappa must not be asked to step drown from the post of chief minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/dont-replace-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-veerashaiva-mahasabha-demands-bjp-top-brass-1010836.html
20-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Not bothered about phone being tapped: H D Kumaraswamy on Pegasus report||JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy on Tuesday played down the latest revelations in the Pegasus snooping row that his personal secretary Satish was a possible target for surveillance when he was the chief minister of the coalition government that got toppled two years ago. It is also reported that then Deputy Chief Minister G Parameshwara and a close aide of senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah were possible targets for surveillance at the time. Speaking to reporters, Kumaraswamy said he was not much bothered about the probability of his phone being tapped. "Over the last 15-20 years, phone tapping by governments has become common. Even the Income Tax Department does it. It is not just after the Narendra Modi government came to power, even the Congress has played such mischief in the past," he said. Since he was confident that he had done nothing to put the nation's security in jeopardy during his tenure as the chief minister or otherwise, he said he would not want to bother much about either his or Satish's phone being tapped. Further, instead of bothering about phone tapping, all politicians should focus on other important matters, he opined. "The nation is in a bad shape right now. The focus must be on improving the lives of the common man," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/not-bothered-about-phone-being-tapped-h-d-kumaraswamy-on-pegasus-report-1010864.html
20-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Rahul Gandhi asks Siddaramaiah, D K Shivakumar to work unitedly||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday asked former Karnataka Chief Minister Siddarmaiah and state unit president D K Shivakumar to work unitedly, putting aside their differences to strengthen the organisation. Gandhi, who chaired a meeting attended by both Siddaramaiah and Shivakumar, told them that they should work for the party without bothering who should be the next Chief Ministerial candidate. Gandhi also told them that the party legislators and the high command will decide who should be the next CM, sources in the Congress told DH. Rahul Gandhi's intervention to resolve the internal bickering in the state came in the background of continued statements by a section of leaders demanding to project Siddaramaiah as the next Chief Ministerial candidate. In the meeting, which was also attended by Congress General Secretary ( Organisation) K C Venugopal and General Secretary (incharge Karnataka) Randeep Surjewala, Rahul Gandhi is learnt to have told them that continuing internal differences will harm the party prospects. "Leaders should not spoil the bright future of the party. The party will take care of every interest of its leaders," Gandhi said. He also asked the party to take advantage of the infighting in the BJP led government. Gandhi also held exclusive talks with Siddaramaiah. Later, Surjewala told reporters that the party will fight unitedly in Karnataka and elected legislators and high command will jointly decide on who should be the next Chief Minister. He also said there is no confusion in the party on who should be the next Chief Minister. Siddaramaiah also echoed the same and said the party has not discussed revamping of block and district level office bearers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/rahul-gandhi-asks-siddaramaiah-d-k-shivakumar-to-work-unitedly-1010912.html
20-07-2021||National||DH Toon | When will the government listen to common man's SOS?||Pegasus snooping scandal snowballed into a political potboiler on Monday with latest revelations showed that Union Ministers Ashwini Vaishnaw and Prahlad Patel, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, top Trinamool Congress leader Abhishek Banerjee, election strategist Prashant Kishor and former Election Commissioner Ashok Lavasa were either spied or were potential targets. Five friends and at least two aides of Rahul, 18 numbers of family and associates of Vaishnaw and Patel, a former close aide of Union Minister Smriti Irani, an aide of BJP leader Vasundhara Raje, late VHP leader Pravin Togadia and the sexual harassment victim and her husband in the case involving former Chief Justice Ranjan Gogoi were also in the leaked list of targets or potential targets of the snooping using Israeli spyware Pegasus, The Wire reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-when-will-the-government-listen-to-common-mans-sos-1010605.html
20-07-2021||National||India offered 75 lakh doses of Moderna Covid-19 vaccine; indemnity clause talks till on: Sources||India has been offered 75 lakh doses of Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine through the COVAX global vaccine sharing programme, but it is not clear when the jabs will arrive in the country as a consensus on the indemnity clause is yet to be reached, sources said. The government last week said that it is working actively with vaccine manufacturer Moderna to see how its vaccine can be made available in the country. Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine was granted emergency use authorisation by India's drug regulator last month. "India has been offered 75 lakh doses of Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine through the COVAX global vaccine sharing programme," the sources said. However, there is no clarity so far when the shots would be available in India as "the talks are still on and a consensus on the indemnity issue is yet to be reached," they said. On the availability of Moderna vaccine in the country, NITI Aayog member (Health) Dr V K Paul had recently said the government is working actively with Moderna to see how its vaccine can be imported and made available in the country. "...to and fro (talks) are going on over the contractual specifics. Discussions have not yet concluded. We are making efforts as to it happens at the earliest. We are now expecting to hear from them anytime. Currently, they have to respond to some of the points we have made and we will take it forward," he had said on Friday. According to the sources, the Indian government has put forth certain conditions for finalising the indemnity clause contract and has sent it to the US drug manufacturer for their perusal||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-offered-75-lakh-doses-of-moderna-covid-19-vaccine-indemnity-clause-talks-till-on-sources-1010635.html
20-07-2021||National||MH-60R helicopters and P8 Poseidon to enhance interoperability between Indian, US navies: Pentagon||India receiving two MH-60R Seahawk maritime helicopters from the US Navy and the 10th P-8 Poseidon maritime surveillance aircraft will strengthen cooperation and interoperability between the navies of the two countries, the Pentagon said. The Indian Navy is procuring a total of 24 MH-60R multi-role helicopters, manufactured by Lockheed Martin, from the US under foreign military sales at an estimated cost of $2.4 billion. A ceremony was held at the Naval Air Station North Island or NAS North Island, San Diego on Friday, marking the formal transfer of the helicopters from the US Navy to the Indian Navy. "The Department (of Defence) would like to congratulate our partners in the Indian Navy who last week received the first two of 24 MH-60R Seahawk maritime helicopters from the US Navy and their 10th Boeing, P-8 Poseidon maritime surveillance aircraft in Goa, India," Pentagon Press Secretary John Kirby told reporters at his news conference on Monday. "India was the first nation outside the United States to operate the P-8 for surveillance missions in the Indo-Pacific. These capabilities will substantially enhance maritime security and strengthen cooperation and interoperability between our two navies," he said. The MH-60R helicopter is an all-weather maritime helicopter designed to support multiple missions with state-of-the-art avionics. The helicopters would also be modified with several unique equipment and weapons. The first batch of the Indian crew is presently undergoing training in the US. In a statement, William Blair, vice president and chief executive of Lockheed Martin India, said, "MH-60R is the most advanced maritime multi-mission helicopter in operation - deployed globally, and its mission performance by far, second to none. We appreciate the tremendous confidence placed in Team Seahawk by the Indian Navy through their selection of the Romeo." "We stand committed to making this program a tremendous success in partnership with the United States Navy and the Indian Navy," he said. Hamid Salim, vice president, Sikorsky Maritime and Mission Systems said the delivery of the first two MH-60R Romeo helicopters to the Indian Navy marks the beginning of a new era of collaboration and partnership between the United States Navy, the Indian Navy and Sikorsky. "We are committed to standing shoulder to shoulder with the United States Navy to support the Indian Naval Forces in the future through capability upgrades and sustainment as the aircraft transitions to the Indian Navy," he said. The Indian cabinet had cleared the purchase of the MH-60R helicopters in February 2020, weeks before the visit of the then US President Donald Trump.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mh-60r-helicopters-and-p8-poseidon-to-enhance-interoperability-between-indian-us-navies-pentagon-1010648.html
20-07-2021||National||India reports 30,093 new Covid-19 cases, 374 deaths||India on Tuesday reported 30,093 new Covid-19 cases, lowest in 125 days, taking the tally to 3,11,74,322 cases, according to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare data. The country also saw 374 new Covid-19 deaths, the lowest in nearly 4 months. The number of active cases stood at 4,06,130 and 3,03,53,710 people have recovered from the virus so far. 45,254 people were discharged in the last 24 hours. As many as 17,92,336 tests were conducted on Monday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 44,73,41,133. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.68 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for 29 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 2.06 per cent. The case fatality rate stands at 1.33 per cent, the data stated. Over 80 per cent of the new cases of Covid-19 in India have been caused due to the Delta variant which has now spread to 80 countries and the next wave will be driven by a variant to which a significant proportion of the population is susceptible, one of the government’s top health advisors has said. “The B.1.617.2, a variant of Covid-19 known as the Delta variant, was first identified in October 2020 in India, and was primarily responsible for the second wave in the country, today accounting for over 80 per cent of new Covid-19 cases,” N K Arora, co-chair of the India Sars-Cov-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) said. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 41.18 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. With PTI inputs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-30093-new-covid-19-cases-374-deaths-1010662.html
20-07-2021||National||Only 25.9% ST households have access to improved, non-shared sanitation facilities: Study||Nearly 66 per cent of households of people from the general category have access to improved and non-shared sanitation facilities, while the percentage for Scheduled Tribes households is 25.9, according to a new report. The India Inequality Report 2021 by Oxfam also said over 50 per cent of Scheduled Castes (SC) and Scheduled Tribes (ST) households faced difficulties in accessing non-Covid medical facilities, compared to 18.2 per cent for the general category. "Data shows that 65.7 per cent of households belonging to the general category have access to improved, non-shared sanitation facilities, while only 25.9 per cent Scheduled Tribes households have improved, non-shared sanitation facilities," the report said. It also found that 12.6 per cent more children were stunted in SC households than those in households of people of the general category. The chances of a child dying before his fifth birthday is three times higher for the bottom 20 per cent of the population as compared to the top 20 per cent, the report said. The report provides an analysis of health outcomes across different socioeconomic groups to gauge the level of health inequality that persists in the country. It noted that the Covid pandemic has further exacerbated these inequalities. Hindu households are performing better than Muslim households, especially on indicators of access to healthcare, the report stated. Institutional births and access to food supplements under Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) are 10 per cent less for Muslim households as compared to Hindu households; eight per cent less children are immunised in Muslim households, it said. Those in low-income brackets facing discrimination in the community because of being Covid positive was five times than those in high-income brackets, the report found. "Higher-income groups who had to arrange for transport themselves was half of those in low-income groups. Low-income brackets facing discrimination in the community due to being Covid positive was five times than those in high-income brackets," the report said. It said 33.9 per cent females experienced anxiety, irritation and anger, and sleep deprivation during the lockdown as compared to 18.2 per cent males. The report said the rate of female child immunisation continues to be below that of the male child, and immunisation of children in urban areas is more than in rural areas. Immunisation among SC and ST is behind that of other caste groups, it said. The report also noted that states attempting to reduce inequalities and with higher expenditure on health had lower confirmed cases of Covid. "States with higher expenditure on health had higher recovery rate from Covid-19," it said. Noting that 63 million people are pushed into poverty every year due to health costs, the report said 67.8 per cent of total expenditure on health in India was paid out of pocket, while the world average is just 18.2 per cent. The availability of free medicines in public healthcare facilities has declined from 31.2 per cent to 8.9 per cent for in-patient care and from 17.8 per cent to 5.9 per cent for out-patient care over the last two decades, the report said. “Our healthcare infrastructure has many gaps and it adversely impacts the lives of people from marginalised background. Women, tribals, Dalits, Muslims, informal sector workers and the poor have been doubly affected due to the current Covid-19 pandemic," CEO Oxfam India Amitabh Behar said. Policymakers and the government need to focus on more investment in the health sector to provide quality healthcare for the marginalized population, he said. The report recommended an increase in health spending to 2.5 per cent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) to ensure a more equitable health system in the country and that union budgetary allocation in health for SCs and STs is proportionate to their population. It suggested on prioritising primary health by ensuring that two-thirds of the health budget is allocated for strengthening primary healthcare and that state governments allocate their expenditure on health to 2.5 per cent of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP); The Centre should extend financial support to the states with low per capita health expenditure to reduce inter-state inequality in health, the report suggested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/only-259-st-households-have-access-to-improved-non-shared-sanitation-facilities-study-1010666.html
20-07-2021||National||Canada extends India flight ban till August 21||Canada has extended the ban on flights from India till August 21, the Government of Canada announced on Tuesday. It will begin letting fully vaccinated US citizens into Canada on August 9, and those from the rest of the world on September 7.  Canadian officials also announced that children who aren't vaccinated but are travelling with vaccinated parents won't have to quarantine, but will have to avoid group activities including schools and daycare centers. Transport Minister Omar Alghabra said a ban on direct flights from India will be extended to August 21 because of the delta variant. “The situation in India is still very serious,” he said. Trudeau said last week that Canada could start allowing fully vaccinated Americans into the country as of mid-August for nonessential travel and should be in a position to welcome fully vaccinated travellers from all countries by early September. Canada leads G20 countries in vaccination rates, with approximately 80% of eligible Canadians vaccinated with their first dose and over 50% of those eligible fully vaccinated. (With AFP inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/canada-extends-india-flight-ban-till-august-21-1010671.html
20-07-2021||National||WHO assessing Covaxin data for emergency use listing; decision date 'to be confirmed'||The World Health Organization, which is currently reviewing Bharat Biotech's application for an Emergency Use Listing (EUL) of its Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, has said it is assessing the data of the jab. In an update on its website, the WHO, which began rolling data on July 6, said the date for a decision on the jab is yet "to be confirmed". Rolling data allows the WHO to start its review right away, as information continues to come in, to accelerate the overall review process. Suchitra Ella, joint managing director of Bharat Biotech, had recently said the EUL process is a step closer to the final decision on Covaxin's 'global acceptance' as the rolling data was slated to begin in July. She also said in a tweet that the company was working closely with the WHO for inclusion of Covaxin in its EUL and approval is not expected to be a long drawn process as cell line and majority of Bharat Biotech's facilities have already been audited and approved by the global health watchdog for BBIL's other vaccines in the past. The city-based vaccine maker recently said it concluded the final analysis of Covaxin efficacy from Phase 3 trials. The jab demonstrated 77.8 per cent effectiveness against symptomatic Covid-19 and 65.2 per cent protection against the B.1.617.2 Delta variant, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-assessing-covaxin-data-for-emergency-use-listing-decision-date-to-be-confirmed-1010673.html
20-07-2021||National||26/11: Biden admin proposes US court to extradite Tahawwur Rana to India||The Biden administration has urged a federal court in Los Angeles to extradite Pakistani-origin Canadian businessman Tahawwur Rana to India where he is sought for his involvement in the 2008 Mumbai terror attack. Rana, 59, has been declared a fugitive by India, where he is facing multiple criminal charges for his involvement in the 2008 Mumbai terror attack in which 166 people, including six Americans, were killed. He was rearrested on June 10, 2020, in Los Angeles on an extradition request by India In a submission before the US District Court, Central District of California in Los Angeles, the US government argues that India’s extradition request contains sufficient evidence of probable cause on each of the criminal charges for which India seeks Rana’s extradition. “Having found that all of the requirements for certification of extradition have been satisfied, the Court certifies the extradition of Tahawwur Hussain Rana to the Secretary of State and commits him to custody pursuant,” according to a draft order proposed by the US attorney in his submission before the court last week. “Based on the evidence submitted by India, RANA allowed fraud against the Indian government to occur through the creation and submission of forged documents. The purpose behind such fraud is irrelevant under the Indian criminal provisions,” said the document titled proposed findings of facts and conclusions of law. Rana is wanted by the Indian authorities for his alleged involvement in the deadly attacks that are sometimes referred to as India’s 9/11. An Indian warrant for his arrest was issued in August 2018. Indian authorities allege that Rana conspired with his childhood friend David Coleman Headley to assist the Pakistani terror group Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), or Army of the Good, in the orchestration of the 2008 terror attacks in Mumbai. “In any event, RANA knowingly allowed Headley to obtain the business visa and the cover that he needed to conduct terrorism-related surveillance operations in India, ultimately leading to the three-day terrorist attacks in Mumbai. Accordingly, the Court finds there is probable cause that RANA conspired to forge a document for the purpose of cheating and use a forged document as genuine, in violation of IPC 120B, 468, and 471,” it said. According to the court document, the evidence establishes that the Mumbai attacks were committed by LeT, a terrorist organisation targeting India. Thus, an attack on Indian soil, especially one that would result in mass casualties, injuries, and damage to property, would strike terror in the Indian people. “Rana was aware that Headley was involved with LeT, and that by assisting Headley and affording him a cover for his activities, he was supporting the terrorist organisation and its associates. Rana knew of Headley’s meetings, what was discussed, and the planning of the attacks, including some of the targets. Further, it was foreseeable that these attacks would lead to death, injury, and destruction of property,” it said. “Accordingly, this Court finds that there is probable cause that Rana committed the crimes of conspiracy with the object of committing a terrorist act, in violation of IPC 120B and UAPA 16, and conspiracy to commit a terrorist act, in violation of UAPA 18. The court further finds that under an agency theory or an abetting theory (as contemplated by UAPA 16), there is probable cause that Rana committed the substantive crime of commission of a terrorist act in violation of UAPA 16,” said the document submitted by the US attorney. India has charged forgery for purposes of cheating, in violation of IPC 468, as an object of the alleged criminal conspiracy. India also charged the crime of using as genuine a forged document or electronic record, in violation of IPC 471, as an object of the alleged criminal conspiracy. The document said that the evidence establishes that Rana conspired with Headley to provide false information on multiple documents submitted to the Indian government. “In 2006 and 2007, Rana conspired with Headley to include false information on Indian government documents, so that Headley could obtain business visas (a one-year and a five-year multiple entry) as an alleged employee of Rana’s business. On both occasions, Rana reviewed Headley’s applications and failed to correct information Rana knew to be false,” it said. “Rana also had the Immigrant Law Center, through his unsuspecting business partner, submit the applications to the Indian Consulate. RANA also allowed his business to apply to the Reserve Bank of India, while falsely claiming it wanted to open an office in Mumbai with Headley serving as the business’s ‘Office Head’” it said. On the other hand, Rana’s attorney in their proposed draft order is opposed to the extradition. “The Court finds that the government has not satisfied the requirement of Article 9(3)(c) of the Treaty that a request for extradition be supported by such information as would justify the committal for trial of the person if the offense had been committed in the Requested State," it said. Extradition is therefore denied,” says “Rana’s proposed findings of facts and conclusions of law.” Both the documents were submitted before the court on July 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/26/11-biden-admin-proposes-us-court-to-extradite-tahawwur-rana-to-india-1010678.html
20-07-2021||National||Over 2.11 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses available with states, UTs and private hospitals: Government||More than 2.11 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and union territories, and private hospitals, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday. Over 42.15 crore (42,15,43,730) vaccine doses have been provided to states and union territories (UTs) so far, through all sources, and 71,40,000 doses are being supplied, it said. Of this, the total consumption, including wastage, is 40,03,50,489 doses, according to data available at 8 am, the ministry said. It said that 2,11,93,241 balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and UTs, and private hospitals.  The Union government is committed to accelerate pace and expansion of the scope of the Covid-19 vaccination throughout the country, the ministry said. The new phase of universalisation of Covid-19 vaccination started from June and the inoculation drive has been ramped up through availability of more vaccines, advance vaccine availability to states and UTs for enabling better planning by them and streamlining of the supply chain, according to the ministry.   It said that as part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the Centre has been supporting states and UTs by providing them vaccines free of cost. In the new phase, the government will procure and supply at no cost 75 per cent of the vaccines being produced in the country to states and UTs, according to the ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-211-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-available-with-states-uts-and-private-hospitals-government-1010689.html
20-07-2021||National||BJP leader Khushbu Sundar's Twitter account hacked||Since July 18, the leader's Twitter account appears to have posted unusual tweets, including a Bitcoin address, a collage of political leaders including PM Narendra Modi, former PM Manmohan Singh, and Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. Other tweets include 'Free Palestine' and 'Free India'. Confirming the news, Sundar, in a statement said: "I would like to let you know that my Twitter account, @khushsundar, was hacked three days ago. We have been trying to follow up with the Twitter Administration Office regarding this matter. Any activity or tweet done from this account in the last few days was not by me.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-leader-khushbu-sundars-twitter-account-hacked-1010720.html
20-07-2021||National||Here’s how you can lock/unlock your Aadhaar biometrics||As the risk of misuse of Aadhaar and biometrics looms large, the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) rolled out new features for cardholders to secure their biometrics. Users can now lock their biometric details like fingerprints, photo identity, and iris details present in the Aadhar card. A 16-digit virtual ID (VID) number which is called ‘Masked Aadhaar’ will be accepted widely for identification. Here's how you can lock and unlock your Aadhar card: Via the UIDAI website Step 2: Find  ‘Aadhaar Services’ option under ‘My Aadhaar’ category in the drop down menu. In the ‘Aadhaar Services’ option, click on ‘Lock/Unlock Biometrics’ to get started with the process. Step 3: Once directed to a new page, select the agree terms option after reading and then click on ‘Lock UID’ option. Step 4: Fill out your 12-digit Aadhaar number (UID), full name, and area pincode in the required field. The information should be the same as given on your Aadhar Card. Step 5: Click ‘Verify’ and enter the security code. Step 6: Proceed with OTP generation by clicking on ‘Send OTP’. Enter the OTP that is sent to your mobile phone. Step 7: To lock your Aadhar Card, Click the checkbox beside ‘Enable Biometric Locking’ and then hit ‘enable’ again. Via Mobile SMS Step 1: First send an SMS with "GETOTPXXXX" where the Xs denote the last four or eight digits of your Aadhaar number to 1947 from your registered mobile number. Then you will receive a 6-digit OTP from UIDAI via SMS. Step 2: Reply to that with "LOCKUIDXXXX" where the Xs denote the last four or eight digits of the Aadhaar number, and the 6-digit OTP. You’ll receive a confirmation message of your Aadhaar biometrics being locked successfully. The UIDAI said that Aadhaar biometrics can be locked/ unlocked based on one's requirement. Unlocking To unlock your Aadhar Card send OTP request with 'GETOTP' and last six or 10 digit VID number to 1947. Then unlocking request with 'UNLOCKUID' followed by six or 10 digit VID and the OTP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/here-s-how-you-can-lock/unlock-your-aadhaar-biometrics-1010723.html
20-07-2021||National||Afghan Army Chief Gen Wali Mohammad Ahmadzai expected to visit India next week||Afghan Army Chief Gen Wali Mohammad Ahmadzai is expected to pay a three-day crucial visit to India from July 27 to explore boosting bilateral military ties in the face of the Taliban making sweeping offensive across Afghanistan following the withdrawal of foreign forces, people familiar with the development said on Tuesday. Gen Ahmadzai is scheduled to hold wide-ranging talks with the top Indian military brass including his counterpart Gen MM Naravane and National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, they said. "The Afghan Army Chief is scheduled to arrive in India on July 27 for a three-day visit. He is scheduled to return in the first half of July 30. Strengthening defence cooperation will be the focus of the visit," said one of the persons.  Afghanistan has been reaching out to its key allies in seeking support to strengthen its security forces in the backdrop of the Taliban resorting to widespread violence to expand its influence across the country after the US began withdrawing troops from May 1. In the last few years, India has provided at least five military helicopters to the war-ravaged country which has been trying to strengthen its air power. Afghanistan has also been seeking India's assistance in making functional Soviet-era helicopters and transport aircraft that were not in flying condition. The country has been struggling to get spare parts for aircraft and helicopters due to Western sanctions against Moscow. Last month President Ashraf Ghani appointed Gen Wali Mohammad Ahmadzai as the new chief of army staff, replacing Gen Yasin Zia. It is learnt that Gen Ahmadzai is likely to seek supply of military hardware from India to enhance the combat capability of his forces. The Afghan Army chief's visit to India also comes in the midst of increasing strain in Kabul's ties with Islamabad following the brief kidnapping of the daughter of Afghanistan's ambassador to Pakistan. Following the incident, the Afghanistan foreign ministry said it was recalling the ambassador and other senior diplomats until all security threats are removed. In an address at a connectivity conference in Tashkent on Friday, President Ghani hit out at Pakistan for the influx of foreign terrorists into Afghanistan and failing to do enough to influence the Taliban to seriously engage in the peace talks. "Intelligence estimates indicate the influx of over 10,000 jihadi fighters (into Afghanistan) from Pakistan and other places in the last month," Ghani said at the conference in the presence of Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan and several other leaders. India has been a major stakeholder in the peace and stability of Afghanistan. It has already invested nearly $3 billion in aid and reconstruction activities in the country. India has been supporting a national peace and reconciliation process which is Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/afghan-army-chief-gen-wali-mohammad-ahmadzai-expected-to-visit-india-next-week-1010727.html
20-07-2021||National||Shilpa Shetty's husband Raj Kundra, Ryan Tharp sent to police custody till July 23||A day after businessman Raj Kundra — the husband of Bollywood actress Shilpa Shetty — was arrested, the Mumbai Police has picked up a techie in connection with the alleged pornographic racket being probed by them. The Crime Branch have arrested a techie, Ryan John Tharpe, entrusted with the technical aspects of Kundra's companies, from Nerul in Navi Mumbai. The duo was produced before a Mumbai magistrate who remanded them to police custody till July 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shilpa-shettys-husband-raj-kundra-ryan-tharp-sent-to-police-custody-till-july-23-1010733.html
20-07-2021||National||Expected to vaccinate 60% population within two-three months: Kerala to SC||Kerala government has told the Supreme Court that it is “vigorously vaccinating” people against Covid-19 and is expected to inoculate at least 60 per cent of its population within two or three months. In an affidavit filed in the apex court in response to an application raising issue of relaxations granted by Kerala in view of Bakrid festival, the state said it has vaccinated 45 per cent of its 18+ population with at least one dose and 18 per cent have been vaccinated with two doses. It said state has taken a “scientific and pragmatic approach” for conceiving and implementing various measures for curbing the spread of pandemic and the strategy is based on a rational balance of life and livelihood. The affidavit said chairman of expert group of medical officers had informed the crisis management group meeting that more relaxations can be extended to lockdown as the state is "unlikely to face a strong third wave of the pandemic due to the fast and systematic vaccination in the state." However, a bench of Justices R F Nariman and B R Gavai on Tuesday termed “wholly uncalled for” the state’s relaxations for Bakrid in areas with a high Covid positivity rate and said giving in to pressure from traders discloses a “sorry state of affairs”. The bench referred to a paragraph in the affidavit and said it disclosed that the state has given in to associations of traders, which represented that they have stocked up goods for the purpose of Bakrid. “What is extremely alarming is the fact that in Category D where infection rates are the highest, a full day of relaxation has been granted,” the bench said. In its affidavit filed on Monday, the state has said that curbs and resultant economic slowdown have put the population in a lot of misery. “Even though the state government has taken all possible steps to alleviate the same, the people have been frustrated by the curbs which have been in vogue for more than three months," it said. Giving details of steps taken to deal with the pandemic, the affidavit said test positivity rate (TPR) which had reached around 30 per cent during peak of second wave has come down to around 10 per cent now. It said that along with implementation of restrictions, the “state is vigorously vaccinating the people”. "It is submitted that state has vaccinated 45 per cent of its 18+ population with at least one dose and 18 per cent have been vaccinated with two doses. Vaccine waste is negative in the state and the state has used more vaccines than allocated to it by systematically using the wastage portion also,” it said. “The state is expected to vaccinate at least 60 per cent of its population within two or three months in the present phase, subject to availability of sufficient number of vaccines," it said. "The traders were expecting that the Bakrid sales will alleviate their misery to a certain extent. They have stocked up the goods for this purpose much early. The organisation of traders started to agitate against the stringent curbs implemented in the LSGIs (local self government institutions) and declared that they will open shops all over the state flouting the regulations," it said. It said opposition political parties also raised the traders' issue in public domain and demanded more relaxations in curbs to give some respite to traders and to allow some economic activities in the state. "The chief minister held discussion with the organisations and heard their demands on July 16, 2021. The traders assured that the opening of shops will be strictly following Covid protocols and they are ready to follow the additional regulations ordered by the state, if any," it said. The affidavit said their demand was put forth before crisis management group meeting and with the concurrence of chairman of expert group, it was decided to give some relaxations for opening shops for three days prior to Bakrid. "Only one day of relaxation is allowed in areas where the TPR (test positivity rate) is above 15 per cent," it said, adding, "It has been specifically ordered that as far as possible, the persons visiting shops and other establishments may belong to those with at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine and follow strict Covid protocols." "The chief minister has also appealed to the people via his press briefing that only those who have taken at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine alone may visit the shops during these days," it said. It said since lockdown cannot be extended indefinitely considering the repercussions on livelihoods of people, the state is working on a containment strategy that focuses specifically on areas with high spread of Covid-19 allowing economic activity to the extent possible. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had announced the concessions at a press conference on July 17. In view of Bakrid (Eid-ul-Azha) being celebrated on July 21, textiles, footwear shops, jewellery, fancy stores, shops selling home appliances and electronic items, all types of repairing shops and shops selling essential items shall be allowed to open on July 18-20 from 7 AM to 8 PM in category A, B and C areas, he had said. In D category areas, these shops can function only on July 19, he had said. Areas with a TPR of less than five per cent were included in category A, those with 5 to 10 per cent were in category B, areas with 10 to 15 per cent in category C and those above 15 per cent were in category D.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/expected-to-vaccinate-60-population-within-two-three-months-kerala-to-sc-1010760.html
20-07-2021||National||Need for impartial inquiry to fix responsibility, Mayawati said on Pegasus snooping incident||BSP president Mayawati on Tuesday termed the Pegasus snooping incident as a "very serious matter" and demanded an impartial inquiry into it for fixing responsibility. “The dirty game of espionage and blackmailing is not a new thing, but breaching privacy with the help of very expensive equipments, minutely spying on ministers, opposition leaders, officers and journalists, etc. is a very serious matter. There is sensation across the country after it has been busted,” the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said in a tweet in Hindi. In a related tweet, she said, “The clarifications, refutations and arguments of the Centre in this connection have failed to satisfy the people." Due to the seriousness of the matter, it would be good for the government and the country that an independent and impartial inquiry gets conducted at the earliest so that responsibility could be fixed, Mayawati added. 2. इसके सम्बंध में केन्द्र की बार-बार अनेकों प्रकार की सफाई, खण्डन व तर्क लोगों के गले के नीचे नहीं उतर पा रहे हैं। सरकार व देश की भी भलाई इसी में है कि मामले की गंभीरता को ध्यान में रखकर इसकी पूरी स्वतंत्र व निापक्ष जाँच यथाशीघ्र कराई जाए ताकि आगे जिम्मेदारी तय की जा सके। An international media consortium reported on Sunday that over 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including those of two ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders and one sitting judge, besides scores of business leaders and activists in India could have been targeted for hacking through the Israeli spyware Pegasus sold only to government agencies. The government, however, dismissed the allegation of any kind of surveillance on its part on specific people, saying it "has no concrete basis or truth associated with it whatsoever".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-for-impartial-inquiry-to-fix-responsibility-mayawati-said-on-pegasus-snooping-incident-1010761.html
20-07-2021||National||Central Covid team suggests full lockdown in Kolhapur and Sangli districts of Maharashtra: Report||“There are 10 districts which have a higher positivity rate as compared to the rest of the state and the Central team that visited some of them has emphasised on measures like testing, contact tracing, and vaccination…We are following all protocols,” Rajesh Tope, state health minister, told the publication. The Central team was concerned about the transmission in these districts as despite routine measures the cases were not dropping. Dr Sujeet Singh, Director of National Centre for Disease Control, said that the authorities were checking if the cause of the unstoppable spread was due to a variant of concern. According to Dr Shashank Joshi, expert with the state Covid-19 task force, the trend of coronavirus infection in districts such as Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara, Pune rural, Ahmednagar and Nandurbar is concerning. He also mentioned, “We have an active virus in circulation and something is not going right.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-covid-team-suggests-full-lockdown-in-kolhapur-and-sangli-districts-of-maharashtra-report-1010767.html
20-07-2021||National||IIT-Ropar develops first-of-its-kind oxygen rationing device||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Ropar have developed a first-of-its-kind device that can regulate the flow of medical oxygen from the cylinder during inhalation and exhalation by a patient, thereby reducing wastage. "The device supplies a required volume of oxygen to a patient during inhalation and trips when the patient exhales, thereby saving the flow of oxygen at that time," the institute said in a statement on Tuesday. AMLEX is a system developed specifically for oxygen cylinders. It synchronises the flow of oxygen with the inhalation and exhalation of a patient. This conserves a large amount of oxygen in the reservoir, said Dr Ashish Sahani, Assistant Professor, Department of Biomedical Engineering, IIT Ropar. "As we have seen the demand for medical oxygen has jumped manifold during the second wave of Covid-19, the device would help in stopping the unwanted wastage,” said the statement. The device can operate on both portable power supply (battery) as well as line supply (220V-50Hz), said IIT Ropar Director Rajeev Ahuja. The device can be easily connected between the oxygen supply line and the mask worn by a patient. It uses a sensor that senses and successfully detects inhalation and exhalation of the user in any environmental condition, said Sahani. So far, during exhalation, oxygen in the cylinder/pipe is pushed out along with the exhaled carbon dioxide. "This leads to wastage of a large volume of oxygen in long run. In addition to this, a large volume of oxygen escapes from the openings of the mask to the environment in the resting period (between inhalation and exhalation) due to continuous flow of life-saving gas in the mask,” according to the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iit-ropar-develops-first-of-its-kind-oxygen-rationing-device-1010772.html
20-07-2021||National||India, Japan looking to boost cooperation in third countries: Harsh Vardhan Shringla||India and Japan are looking at deepening cooperation in third countries including in the Russian Far East region and the Pacific Island countries, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said on Tuesday. In an address at the India-Japan forum, he said the growing convergence between the two countries on strategic and economic issues has the potential to shape a multi-polar world that is more peaceful, secure and sustainable. Shringla said the evolving geopolitical situation, with the focus shifting decisively towards the Indo-Pacific region and a deeper understanding of the complementarities between the two countries, has further enhanced the partnership. "India and Japan are continuing to enhance their ability to work with other partners in the Indo-Pacific region and beyond. We are looking at deepening our cooperation in third countries, moving beyond India's immediate neighbourhood to the Russian Far East and the Pacific Island states," he said. Talking about people-to-people exchanges and partnership in the area of skill development, Shringla said that the time may have come for the two sides to consider a migration and mobility partnership agreement to facilitate the mobility of professionals and highly-skilled workers. The foreign secretary said that Japan's participation as the lead partner in the "connectivity pillar" of the Indo-Pacific Oceans' Initiative launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi is greatly welcomed and will provide significant impetus to it. At the East Asia summit in Bangkok in 2019, Prime Minister Narendra Modi proposed setting up the IPOI to conserve and sustainably use the maritime domain and to make meaningful efforts to create a safe and secure maritime domain. The evolving situation in the Indo-Pacific region in the wake of China's increasing military muscle-flexing has become a major talking point among leading global powers. Several countries and blocs have come out with their vision for the Indo-Pacific considering its growing strategic interests. Shringla said the progress in the economic pillar of India-Japan ties has been accompanied by an increasing convergence in the strategic outlook towards the region. "This is reflected in our shared vision for a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region. This convergence is not only seen in bilateral exchanges but also in the increasing comfort in working with other like-minded partners through plurilateral forums, involving other partners," he said. "In addition, Quad consultations along with the US and Australia provide a platform for these four countries to explore ways to synergize their respective efforts towards the region," he added. Referring to the coronavirus pandemic, he said it has not only generated severe economic stress but would have a long term impact on the geopolitical situation. "While this period may be characterised by flux and a sense of heightened insecurity, the growing convergence of India and Japan on strategic and economic issues has the potential to shape a multi-polar world that is more peaceful, secure and sustainable," Shringla said. The foreign secretary also mentioned that both sides are taking initiatives to re-work supply chains to make them more reliable. "An important step in this direction has been the Supply Chain Resilience Initiative that India and Japan, in partnership with Australia, have launched recently. The three countries have started working-level interactions on a range of issues under this framework," he said. The foreign secretary identified manufacturing, agriculture, digital technologies, start-ups and clean energy as are where there was scope for creating new partnerships.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-japan-looking-to-boost-cooperation-in-third-countries-harsh-vardhan-shringla-1010773.html
20-07-2021||National||DRDO develops high-strength beta Titanium alloy for aerospace applications||The Defence Research and Development Organisation has indigenously developed a high-strength beta titanium alloy for manufacturing intricate components for aerospace applications, the defence ministry said on Tuesday. "Some of the components which may be forged from this alloy include slat/flap tracks, landing gear and drop link in landing gear – among several others," the ministry said in a statement. The excellent forgeability and high strength-to-weight ratio of the beta titanium alloy facilitates manufacture of intricately configured components for aerospace applications with potential for significant weight savings, it noted. Their relatively lower lifetime cost, owing to superior corrosion resistance in comparison to steels, is an effective trade-off to justify the use of this expensive material in India too, the ministry said. The beta titanium alloy, which contains vanadium, iron and aluminium along with titanium, is used by many developed nations as a substitute for the "relatively heavier traditional Ni-Cr-Mo structural steels to achieve weight savings", it said. The ministry's Aeronautical Development Agency (ADA) has identified over 15 steel components which may be replaced by the beta titanium alloy forgings in the near future with a potential of 40 per cent weight savings, the ministry stated. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday congratulated the DRDO and the industry for indigenous development of the beta titanium alloy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drdo-develops-high-strength-beta-titanium-alloy-for-aerospace-applications-1010774.html
20-07-2021||National||No caste census other than SCs, STs, says government||The government has decided as a matter of policy not to enumerate caste-wise population other than SCs and STs in census, Lok Sabha was informed on Tuesday. Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai also said that according to the provisions of the Constitution, the seats are reserved for SCs and STs in Lok Sabha and in the assemblies in proportion, as nearly as may be, to their population. Rai said in census, the castes and tribes which are specifically notified as Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes as per the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order 1950 and the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order, 1950 (as amended from time to time) are enumerated. "The state governments of Maharashtra and Odisha have requested to collect caste details in the forthcoming census. The government of India has decided as a matter of policy not to enumerate caste-wise population other than SCs and STs in census," he said replying to a written question. Replying to another question, Rai said the intent of the government for conducting census 2021 has been notified in the Gazette of India on March 28, 2019 but due to the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, the census activities have been postponed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-caste-census-other-than-scs-sts-says-government-1010776.html
20-07-2021||National||Maharashtra's Samruddhi Corridor to be flora, fauna friendly||The ambitious Mumbai-Nagpur super communication highway - of the major infrastructure projects of India - is being made nature-friendly and a host of steps have been initiated. The Hindu Hruday Samrat Balasaheb Thackeray Maharashtra Samruddhi Mahamarg is being meticulously designed to avoid disturbing animal activity in the surrounding area.  As many as 96 wildlife structures, which include 7 overpass bridges, 89 underpasses, box culverts, and a few major and minor bridges, are being created to facilitate the passage of wildlife around the Maharashtra Samruddhi Mahamarg. To minimise accidents and the avoid entry of animals into highway corridors, the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) has prohibited planting of 13 varieties of fruit trees that attract wildlife, including mango, cashew, java plum, orange, citrus, and date palms. The Wildlife Institute of India (WWI), which is active in biodiversity research around the country, is collaborating in the construction of the Mumbai-Nagpur super communication highway. The estimated cost of protecting wildlife along Maharashtra Samruddhi Mahamarg is about 326 crore. Commenting on the development, Minister of Urban Development Department Eknath Shinde said, “Our aim is to make people's travel from Mumbai to Nagpur faster, convenient and seamless. The construction of Maharashtra Samruddhi Mahamarg is moving swiftly, and more emphasis has been placed on minimising environmental destruction. Cultural, conserved forests, protected regions, and wildlife sanctuaries will also be enhanced in order to boost tourism in the region. A "Green and Scenic Corridor" will also be created as part of the project.” The Maharashtra Samruddhi Mahamarg will also include large walls that will serve as noise barriers. These walls would stand an average 4 meter tall. These will be installed at multiple locations alongside the highway to prevent upsetting the natural habitat and wildlife in the surrounding area. A total of 11 lakh 31 thousand trees will be planted on both sides of the highway. Ornamental plants will also be placed on the highway barrier. The large-scale tree planting along the highways will also help to mitigate the consequences of global warming and climate change. A drip irrigation system that catches and stores rainwater will irrigate all of the trees and water will be supplied through internal water sources using solar pumps in places with minimal rainfall. The plants will be inspected by a monitoring system based on geological studies, with tree adoption being the primary goal. The project also intends to nurture plants on a regular basis for the next five years after planting. Nagpur, Wardha, Amravati, Washim, Buldhana, Jalna, Aurangabad, Ahmednagar, Nashik, and Thane would be connected by this highway. 14 more districts will be linked to the highway indirectly via interchanges. This will result in the large-scale growth of adjacent districts and communities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtras-samruddhi-corridor-to-be-flora-fauna-friendly-1010789.html
20-07-2021||National||India's excess Covid deaths up to 49 lakh: Study||India's excess deaths during the Covid-19 pandemic could be as high as 49 lakh, according to a new study that provides further evidence that lakhs more may have died from coronavirus than the official tally. The report by the Washington-based Center for Global Development, co-authored by India's former chief economic adviser Arvind Subramanian, included deaths from all causes since the pandemic's start through June 2021. India has officially reported more than 414,000 deaths due to Covid-19, the third highest tally in the world after the United States and Brazil, but the study adds to growing calls from experts for a rigorous nationwide fatality audit. A devastating rise in infections in April and May, driven largely by the more infectious and dangerous Delta variant, overwhelmed India's healthcare system and killed at least 170,000 people in May alone, according to official data. "What is tragically clear is that too many people, in the millions rather than hundreds of thousands, may have died," the report said, estimating the excess death toll during the pandemic at between 34 lakh and 49 lakh. The report did not ascribe all the excess deaths to the pandemic. "We focus on all-cause mortality, and estimate excess mortality relative to a pre-pandemic baseline, adjusting for seasonality," it said. India's health ministry did not immediately respond to a Reuters email seeking comment. Some experts have said excess deaths are the best way to measure the real toll from Covid-19. The New York Times said the most conservative estimate of deaths in India was 600,000 and the worst case scenario several times that number. The government has dismissed those figures. Health experts have said the undercounting is largely because of scarce resources in India's vast hinterland where two-thirds of the population lives, and because many have died at home without being tested. India has reported a decline in daily infections from a peak in May, logging its lowest daily count in four months on Tuesday at 30,093 fresh cases. The Modi government has also been criticised for a messy vaccination campaign that many say contributed to the worsening of the second wave of infections. India has so far only vaccinated just over 8% of eligible adults with the mandatory two doses. In July, the government administered fewer than 40 lakh doses per day on average, versus a record 92 lakh doses on June 21, when Modi flagged off a campaign to inoculate the country's 95 crore adults for free.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-excess-covid-deaths-up-to-49-lakh-study-1010790.html
20-07-2021||National||Covid-19: Over 45,000 cases of mucormycosis reported across India||A total of 45,432 cases of mucormycosis have been reported by states and UTs till July 15 of which 21,085 affected people are receiving treatment and 4,252 have died, the Rajya Sabha was informed on Tuesday.  A large majority of mucormycosis patients (84.4 per cent) had reported a history of Covid-19, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said in a written reply. Most common presentations of mucormycosis include Rhinocerebral (77.6 per cent), Cutaneous (4.3 per cent) and Pulmonary (3.0 per cent). In the wake of second wave of Covid-19, an increased number of mucormycosis cases were reported and the Ministry of Health after thorough gap analysis and consultations took a number of steps to address the problem. Mucormycosis and other fungal infections are most commonly seen as an opportunistic infection.They are found in those with low underlying immunity either due to a diabetes, cancers particularly hematological malignancies, etc. or as a side effect of prolonged/irrational use of certain drugs like steroids, immunosuppressive drugs for management of other disorders including Covid-19, the minister explained. Mandaviya said although it is not a new disease, its true incidence during the beginning of second wave was unknown as it was not a notifiable disease.  The Ministry of Health in May requested states to declare Mucormycosis a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Disease Act to get an objective assessment of the disease. Taking cognizance of association between elevated blood sugar levels (whether in patients with pre-existing diabetes mellitus, or hyperglycemia due to steroid therapy), an updated “Clinical Guidance on Diagnosis and Management of Diabetes at Covid-19 Patient Management facility” was issued by the ministry on June 1. After expert deliberations in the National Task Force on Covid-19, a detailed advisory on treatment and management of Covid-19 associated Mucormycosis (CAM) was formalized and disseminated on June 7.  Amphotericin-B has been prescribed and it is available in two formulations, Liposomal Amphotericin B and  Amphotericin B Deoxycholate, which are similar in efficacy. However, the latter needs to be used with greater caution with respect to its effects on kidney function test and electrolyte imbalance, the minister explained. The second drug of choice is Posaconazole which may be used in cases with compromised renal function, drug reaction to Amphotericin B, electrolyte imbalance or in non-availability of Amphotericin B.  A checklist for managing mucormycosis and other fungal infections was also circulated to all states and UTs on  June 11.  The clinical management guidelines for managing Covid-19 cases by the ministry advocates rational use of steroids for managing moderate to severe cases of Covid-19 under medical supervision.  For the reporting of cases and deaths due to mucormycosis, the ministry has requested the states and UTs to submit the details on the Covid-19 India portal.  States were asked to update the data on the portal which has helped the ministry to analyse and keep a track of evolving nature of problem.  In response to a question on whether the government has taken cognisance of shortage in supply of Amphotericin-B injections used for the treatment of mucormycosis, Mandaviya said since early May the details of production, stock, supplies made and purchase orders were obtained from manufacturers and their cooperation was sought to overcome the gap between supply and demand.  Both first and second line drugs used for managing mucormycosis cases are currently amply available in Indian markets, he said. The Department of Pharmaceuticals (DoP), Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) & National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) have been jointly monitoring the production and availability of critical Covid drugs including Amphotericin-B injections, he said in the reply. The Centre has taken various measures to improve the availability of Amphotericin B (liposomal) through a multipronged approach of augmenting production, and import and ensure equitable distribution to states and UTs. It is also engaging with manufacturers to resolve issues related to raw materials.  The Department of Pharmaceuticals and the Indian Embassy in the US are working continuously with Mylan Labs for increasing import and ensuring early delivery from M/s Gilead Inc. USA.  For equitable distribution, allotments are being made to the states and UTs in accordance with the proportion of their reported case load. Supply arrangements are being monitored by the National Pharmaceuticals Pricing Authority (NPPA) to ensure expeditious availability of the drug, the reply stated.   The NPPA has put in place a strongly responsive system to ensure timely supplies of allocated volumes and maintains continuous contact with states and UTs and suppliers.   The treatment of mucormycosis and other fungal infection is provided free of cost in all Central Government hospitals and autonomous institutions under the ministry, he said in a separate reply. Ayushman Bharat PM-JAY provides free health cover up to Rs. 5 lakh per year per family. The scheme was launched with 10.74 crore beneficiary families. However, 33 states/UTs have increased the beneficiary base to 13.44 families. Beneficiaries of Ayushman Bharat PM-JAY can avail free treatment of post-Covid related complications including Mucormycosis, Black Fungus etc. under the scheme. States are also being supported in terms of allocation and supply of Amphotericin B. Amphotericin B is being provided at an affordable price under the Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Pariyojna (PMBJP).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-over-45000-cases-of-mucormycosis-reported-across-india-1010791.html
20-07-2021||National||Covid-19: ICMR chief suggests reopening of primary schools first||With children being "less susceptible" to Covid-19 infections, the Centre on Tuesday suggested opening primary schools first after considering the public health situation in each district. “So, once India starts considering opening schools, it will be wise to begin with the primary schools, followed by secondary schools,” Indian Council of Medical Research Director General Balram Bhargava told reporters. He said the decision on starting schools will have to be taken by state governments after considering parameters such as the test positivity rate, vaccination of teachers and support staff as well as the public health situation in a particular district. Bhargava said it has been established that children have lower number of ace receptors than adults where the virus attaches itself in the lungs. “Children can handle viral infection much better,” he said, adding that schools have to ensure that all its teachers and support staff, including bus drivers, are vaccinated before a decision is taken to open schools. Bhargava pointed out that several Scandinavian and European countries had not shut down primary schools throughout the pandemic. The suggestion to open primary schools first has come against the backdrop of announcement by some states to open colleges first followed by high schools. Replying to a debate on Covid-19 situation in the Rajya Sabha, Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said that trials on vaccines for children are underway and expressed hope that they too would soon be covered under the vaccination drive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-icmr-chief-suggests-reopening-of-primary-schools-first-1010792.html
20-07-2021||National||Delhi authorities to collect arrears from 2002 for cutting trees: Report||In a new initiative, the forest and wildlife department has started a drive in which it is collecting penalties for illegal cutting of trees in Delhi from 2002 onwards. The forest and wildlife department has already started sending notices to the culprits from the South division to collect arrears from 2002 to 2010. The North division administration will start a similar exercise soon. "There are two options given to an individual who wants to fell a tree. A security deposit is collected followed by the actual amount to fell the tree. Money is also collected for plantation and upkeep of saplings for five years. For each tree being felled, we plant 10 saplings and they are maintained for five years. And for this purpose, the money is collected from the applicant,” an official said the publication. As of now, hundreds of violators have been recognised through this exercise and authorities are expecting to collect lakhs of rupees as penalty from them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-authorities-to-collect-arrears-from-2002-for-cutting-trees-report-1010800.html
20-07-2021||National||Two-thirds of Indians have Covid antibodies, another 40 crore still vulnerable to infection: Centre||Nearly two-thirds of the population in the country has developed antibodies against coronavirus, but 40 crore people are still vulnerable to the disease, a national sero survey conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has found. ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said the findings of the fourth national survey, conducted in the last 10 days of June and the first week of July, presented a “ray of hope” in the fight against Covid-19. At the same time, Bhargava said there is no room for complacency as one in three persons is still vulnerable to infection and it would be better if this group developed antibodies against coronavirus through vaccination and not through infection. He cautioned against crowding at public, religious or political functions and non-essential travels. Bhargava said children between 6-17 years were included in the survey for the first time and more than half of them were sero-positive or had developed antibodies for coronavirus. While the overall seroprevalence was 67.6 per cent in the entire population, in the six-nine year age group, it was 57.2 per cent, and among 10-17-year-olds, it was 61.6 per cent. In the age group of 18-44 years, it was 66.7 per cent and in 45-60 years, it was 77.6 per cent. Bhargava said there was no difference in seroprevalence in men and women and rural and urban areas, indicating equal penetration of infections in the categories. According to the government, 85 per cent of the surveyed healthcare workers had antibodies against coronavirus. Sero positivity was 62.3 per cent in unvaccinated persons covered by the survey, 81 per cent in those having received one vaccine dose and 89.8 per cent in people who had taken both the doses of the vaccine. Health workers showed the highest sero prevalence at 85.2 per cent. The survey covered 28,975 general population and 7,252 healthcare workers and was conducted in 70 districts across 21 states. These were the same districts where previous three rounds of the serosurvey had been carried out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-thirds-of-indians-have-covid-antibodies-another-40-crore-still-vulnerable-to-infection-centre-1010802.html
20-07-2021||National||No specific reports of deaths due to oxygen shortage during second Covid-19 wave: Centre||The Centre on Tuesday told the Rajya Sabha that no deaths due to lack of oxygen were specifically reported by states and UTs during the second Covid-19 wave, triggering outrage from opposition parties. Responding to a question on whether a large number of Covid-19 patients died on roads and hospitals due to acute shortage of oxygen in the second wave, Minister of State for Health Bharati Pawar said that health is a state subject and states and UTs regularly report the number of cases and deaths to the Centre. “However, no deaths due to lack of oxygen has been specifically reported by states/UTs,” Pawar said in response to a question by Congress member K C Venugopal. She said there was an unprecedented surge in demand for medical oxygen during the second wave and it peaked at nearly 9,000 MT per day compared to 3,095 MT in the first wave. Venugopal claimed that the health minister had misguided and misled the House by saying not a single person died due to shortage of oxygen in the country. “I will move a privilege motion against the minister,” he said. Former Finance Minister P Chidambaram said the minister did not say there were “no deaths”, but “no reports of deaths”. “A blind and deaf government will not be able to see” or hear the truth,” Chidambaram said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-specific-reports-of-deaths-due-to-oxygen-shortage-during-second-covid-19-wave-centre-1010807.html
20-07-2021||National||Identification of Lakshadweep problems a continuous process: MHA tells LS||The Centre on Tuesday said the identification of the problems faced by the people of the Union Territory of Lakshadweep is a continuous process and it takes appropriate action to resolve them from time to time. Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai said this in the Lok Sabha in response to a question on whether the central government has any plan to send a delegation to identify the difficulties being faced by the people of Lakshadweep. "The government keeps the welfare of the people at the centre of all its activities. The identification of problems faced by the people is a continuous process and the government takes appropriate action to resolve them from time to time," he said replying a written question. Lakshadweep has recently seen protests by the locals after the UT administration mooted a number of proposals that include plans to develop the island as a major tourist destination, enactment of the Goonda Act and the plan to restrict the slaughtering of cattle. People also protested over the removal of non-vegetarian items from the menu of midday meals for schoolchildren and closure of dairy farms. However, operation of these two orders were stayed by the Kerala High Court, which has jurisdiction over the archipelago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/identification-of-lakshadweep-problems-a-continuous-process-mha-tells-ls-1010812.html
20-07-2021||National||80 dead, 204 missing after Feb 7 avalanche in Uttarakhand: Govt informs Lok Sabha||As many as 80 bodies were recovered and 204 people continue to be missing following an avalanche that occurred in Rishiganga river in Uttarakhand on February 7, leading to a rise in water level, the Lok Sabha was informed on Tuesday. Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai said the avalanche occurred in the upper catchment of Rishiganga river, a tributary of Alaknanda river in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand, which led to a sudden rise in the water level of Rishiganga river. "As per the information provided by the state government of Uttarakhand, due to this incident, 204 people were reported missing. 80 bodies have been recovered so far," he said in reply to a written question. Due to the flash flood on account of the rising water level in Rishiganga, a small hydropower project of 13.2 Mega Watt (MW) was washed away and a 520 MW under construction hydropower project in the downstream at Tapovan was also affected, the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/80-dead-204-missing-after-feb-7-avalanche-in-uttarakhand-govt-informs-lok-sabha-1010820.html
20-07-2021||National||At least 8 Opposition parties boycott PM meet on Covid-19||At least eight Opposition parties, including Congress, CPI(M) and AAP, on Tuesday "boycotted" or "refused" to attend a meeting on Covid-19 called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying that such deliberations should be held in Parliament and not outside when the House is in Session. The non-attendance of these parties, which also includes CPI, Akali Dal, RJD, Muslim League and Kerala Congress, exposed the chinks in the Opposition ranks on the issue even as they appeared on board against the idea of such a meeting for floor leaders outside when Parliament is in Session. Parties attending the meeting include Trinamool Congress, Shiv Sena, NCP, JD(S), BSP and RSP among others from the Opposition benches. Others include AIADMK, TRS, YSR Congress, BJD, JD(U), LJP, NDPP and Tamil Manila Congress among others. Among those prominent leaders attending the meeting are former Prime Minister Deve Gowda, Trinamool Congress' Sudip Bandhyopadhay and Derek O'Brien and NCP's Sharad Pawar and Supriya Sule. When Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi had convened the meeting, almost all Opposition parties were on the same page that such deliberations outside the House were improper and conveyed that they were not in favour of such a meeting. However, sources said, the government took a step for a discussion in Rajya Sabha on Tuesday, just before the Prime Minister's meeting which prompted a re-think among a section of the parties. Also, sources said, the government made some amendments to the programme by making it as a briefing by Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan. Announcing that the Congress would not be attending the programme, Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge said the Congress is "not boycotting the meeting, but it will not attend" as it wants the government to present the facts in Parliament. Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal said his party would attend any such meeting only after Modi calls a meeting to discuss farm issues. CPI(M) Rajya Sabha floor leader Elamaram Kareem told DH, "We boycotted the meeting. It is not proper for the PM to call such a meeting and brief about issues outside Parliament when it is in Session." CPI's Binoy Viswam, who also boycotted the event, described the meeting as  "a gimmick to fool people".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/at-least-8-opposition-parties-boycott-pm-meet-on-covid-19-1010821.html
20-07-2021||National||Senior Congress leader Oscar Fernandes hospitalised||Senior Congress leader and former Union Minister Oscar Fernandes MP has been admitted to a private hospital here after he suffered a fall while doing yoga, family sources said. While practising Yoga on Sunday morning, Fernandes lost his balance and fell down. He did not take it seriously then as it was a minor fall, they said. However, when he visited the hospital for a routine check-up the same evening, doctors found that he had an internal head injury. Noticing the fluctuation in his health condition, he was immediately hospitalised, they said. Doctors at the hospital said Fernandes requires an immediate surgery. He is currently under treatment at the Intensive Care Unit of the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/senior-congress-leader-oscar-fernandes-hospitalised-1010825.html
20-07-2021||National||Don't expect excuse from political parties in disclosing criminal antecedents of candidates: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said it doesn't expect any excuse from political parties in following its February 2020 order on mandating candidates for polls to disclose criminal antecedents through wide publication.  Responding to a contempt petition that political parties did not adhere to the guidelines during the Bihar Assembly polls held last year, senior advocate P V Surendranath, appearing for CPI(M), tendered an unconditional apology stating that this should not have happened and  that there shouldn’t be criminalisation of politics.  "We don’t buy this, sorry, our orders have to be followed,” a bench of Justices R F Nariman and B R Gavai said. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, representing the Election Commission, proposed freezing and suspending the election symbol of the party in case of violation by a national party.  He submitted that Nationalist Congress Party fielded 26 candidates with criminal antecedents and CPI(M) had fielded four such candidates.  He added that Rashtriya Janata Dal was the biggest defaulter with 103 candidates with criminal antecedent and JDU had fielded 56 candidates having criminal antecedent and BJP 77 candidates. “All (parties) have similar answers - the candidate is a social worker etc. When a chargesheet for rape is filed, can a political party take such a stand?,” he asked. “Inspite of bringing out criminal antecedents in the public domain, criminalisation of politics has gone up,” he said.  Senior advocate K V Viswanathan, amicus curiae in the matter, submitted suspension (of election symbol in case of violations) can be time-bound and the idea is to evolve a deterrent on the party. The bench, for its part, asked Viswanathan if it is possible to say in case of a non-egregious violation, the parties can be suspended for a period and in egregious violations, like with these two parties, they can be suspended till next election. The bench also said at national level parties, if a small chap in some panchayat does something, the entire party can't be thrown out. Viswanathan added court can lay down appropriate guidelines, judicial review is available. The bench replied, “How do you find if it has been done by the party or only the candidate?” Senior advocate Harish Salve, also appearing for EC, agreed with Viswanathan’s suggestion that appropriate sanctions may be imposed on the errant political parties. Salve added, and if sanction is made, let it not be Re 1, so people don't have photos taken with a coin handed over and a smile on their face.  After detailed arguments, the top court reserved the judgment in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-expect-excuse-from-political-parties-in-disclosing-criminal-antecedents-of-candidates-sc-1010829.html
20-07-2021||National||Employees in India are working over 11 hours per week for free on average: Report||The amount of unpaid overtime that workers around the world are doing has soared in the past year and in India, employees are giving away more than 11 hours per week for free on average to their employers, according to a report. According to a new study by the ADP Research Institute titled 'People at Work 2021: A Global Workforce View', the average amount of "free time" worked has increased by almost two hours per person per week since Covid-19 hit. The "free time" worked can range from working over breaks and starting early or staying late to regularly putting in extra work for no additional pay. Globally, the average amount of free overtime being worked each week is now 9.2 hours per person – up from 7.3 hours pre-pandemic, according to the findings of the survey of more than 32,000 workers in 17 countries. In India, workers believe that they work an extra 11.1 hours per week for free. More than 82 per cent of the respondents surveyed in India believe they have been underpaid at some point in time. Additionally, about 40 per cent of the respondents are working longer hours during normal working weeks, and almost 39 per cent are increasing efforts to network and develop contacts within the organisation. Rahul Goyal, managing director (India & Southeast Asia) of ADP, a global leader in payroll and HCM solutions, said: "Workers are now routinely clocking up what amounts to more than a working day's worth of unpaid overtime every single week."  "The arrival of Covid-19 has spurred many people to work harder than ever. Essential workers may have been struggling to keep up with the extra workload Covid-19 has created. Non-essential workers may be going the extra mile due to concerns about their job security, to compensate when colleagues have lost their jobs, or because the boundaries between work and home life have been blurred when working remotely," he said. One in 10 workers (10 per cent) globally are now giving away in excess of 20 hours per week for free to their employers. Moreover, given the demanding nature of their jobs, essential workers are putting in more unpaid overtime than non-essential workers — at 10.1 hours per week on average, compared to 8.1 hours. The pandemic has also made individuals more digital-savvy, and about 50 per cent of the respondents started using mobile applications or tools to manage their finances. Over half (52 per cent) of the respondents also aim at becoming certified in new technologies to be successful in new jobs that will be created due to the pandemic. Globally, those working from home (WFH) estimate they are putting in more unpaid overtime than those based in the workplace or on-site, at 9.4 hours per week on average, compared to 8.7 hours. However, those taking a hybrid approach, combining home working for part of the week and on-site working the rest of the time, believe they are doing the most of all, at 9.8 hours. Solving this growing issue is not straightforward; it requires a major cultural shift within companies to change the status quo and attitudes towards overwork, starting with a commitment from leadership, the report said. ADP Research Institute surveyed 32,471 workers in 17 countries around the world between November 17 and December 11, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/employees-in-india-are-working-over-11-hours-per-week-for-free-on-average-report-1010833.html
20-07-2021||National||India may become first country to have a DNA-based Covid vaccine: Mansukh Mandaviya||Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Tuesday said several Indian companies are increasing their production of Covid-19 vaccines and that the country may become the first in the world to develop a DNA-based vaccine. Replying to a short duration discussion on Covid-19 management in Rajya Sabha, the minister said technology transfer to several companies has started and they will begin production in the coming days to reduce vaccine shortage in the country. "Cadila has completed third phase trial of its DNA vaccine and has applied for emergency use authorisation before DCGI (Drugs Controller General of India). Our expert team is looking into it. When this will come in the market, India will be the only country where scientists have developed a DNA vaccine," Mandaviya said in Rajya Sabha. He said that the country has started getting 11-12 crore doses of Serum Institute's Covishield vaccine per month and Bharat Biotech will supply 3.5 crore doses of its Covid vaccine in August. He said that the states are given vaccine availability projections 15 days in advance and that it's their responsibility to plan the inoculation drive accordingly. The minister said that Biological E is conducting third phase of trial of its vaccine and it is expected to come in the market by September-October with 7.5 crore doses. "Zydus Cadila and Bharat Biotech have started trials on children. I expect their trials to be successful. We need to trust our scientists. I trust my scientists and indigenous companies," Mandaviya said. On the allegation of suppressing Covid deaths, the minister said that the registration of Covid deaths is done by states and that the central government has never asked any state to record less deaths or cases. It is not appropriate to say that the Covid third wave will hit children more, the minister stressed citing experience of the previous waves. Mandaviya told the House that 316 oxygen plants out of the total 1,573 planned have been commissioned and the rest will start operations by August-end. Earlier, Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjuna Kharge said that the government's Covid-19 death toll figure of 4-5 lakh is "false" and conservative and claimed the average number of deaths cannot be less than 52.4 lakh so far in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-may-become-first-country-to-have-a-dna-based-covid-vaccine-mansukh-mandaviya-1010835.html
20-07-2021||National||Indian Railways set to roll out over 800 AC 3-tier economy class coaches||The railways is set to roll out 806 air conditioned three-tier economy class coaches this fiscal to offer the "cheapest and the best AC travel in the world", officials said Tuesday. Currently, 25 such coaches are in operation -- 10 in the Western Railway, seven in North Central Railway, five in the North Western Railway and three in Northern Railway. These coaches, officials said, will be economical and the fares will be between the current AC three-tier and non-AC sleeper class travels. They will be rolled out simultaneously from railways’ three coach factories -- Rail Coach Factory (RCF) Kapurthala, Integral Coach Factory, Chennai, and the Modern Coach Factory in Rai Bareilly, the officials said. The coaches were conceptualised by the RCF and the work on design started on war-footing in October 2020. The new coaches can carry more passengers as the number of berths have been increased from 72 to 83. "By (the end of) 2021-22, we will have 806 AC three tier economy class coaches. All our coach factories will work simultaneously to manufacture these coaches. The Railways is getting future-ready and ensuring that all citizens get much better travelling experience than ever before," an official said. Each coach is provided with a wider and one disabled-friendly toilet entry door which is a new initiative. Several design improvements have also been made for enhancing passenger comfort like redesigning the AC ducting to provide individual vents for each berth, it said. The coach also has improved and modular design of seats and berths, foldable snack tables in both longitudinal and transverse bays, injury-free spaces and holders for water bottles, mobile phone and magazines, it said. Individual reading lights and mobile charging points are provided for each berth in addition to the standard socket. A new ergonomically improved design of ladder for accessing the middle and upper berths is also a new feature. There is an increased headroom in the middle and upper berths as well. The design has been improved for both Indian and the Western style lavatories while public address and passenger information systems have been installed, the officials said. There is also improved fire safety by ensuring compliance to world benchmark of EN45545-2 HL3 for materials, thus meeting the high requirements of the new fire protection standard. Currently, some of these coaches are being utilised in the New Delhi Duronto and the Jaipur Duronto in Western Railway, Dehradun-Prayagraj Express, Prayagraj-Jaipur Express in NCR. In North West Railway, some of the trains with such coaches include the Jaipur-Chennai Central Express, Jaipur-Coimbatore Express. The Lichchavi Express which runs between Anand Vihar and Sitamahri station too has such coaches in the Northern Railway zone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-set-to-roll-out-over-800-ac-3-tier-economy-class-coaches-1010844.html
20-07-2021||National||Rs 1,000 crore released for conservation of 160 wetlands: Govt||Over Rs 1,000 crore has been released for the conservation of 160 wetlands in the country under the National Plan for Conservation of Aquatic Eco-systems (NPCA), the government informed Parliament. In a written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha on whether the number of lakes and ponds have declined substantially across the country over the last 10 years, Minister of State for Environment Ashwini Kumar Choubey said developmental activities and anthropogenic pressures do affect water bodies. "While the central and state governments take all possible steps for the restoration, conservation and preservation of lakes and wetlands, developmental activities and anthropogenic pressures do affect water bodies," the minister informed the Upper House of Parliament on Monday. On government schemes to save, conserve or revive such lakes, he said the Centre has so far released its share of Rs 1,046.53 crore for the conservation of 160 wetlands in the country under the NPCA. “The Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) is currently implementing a centrally sponsored scheme, namely National Plan for Conservation of Aquatic Eco-systems (NPCA), for conservation and management of identified wetlands (includes lakes) in the country on cost sharing basis between the central government and respective state governments. “Under the NPCA scheme, the central assistance is based on the proposals received from the State Governments, conformity with the guidelines and budget availability. Accordingly, so far, the ministry has sanctioned projects for conservation of 160 wetlands in the country and released an amount of about Rs 1,046.53 crore as central share,” he said. The NPCA is a single conservation programme for both wetlands and lakes. It is a centrally-sponsored scheme, currently being implemented by the environment ministry, and was formulated in 2015 by merging of the National Lake Conservation Plan and the National Wetlands Conservation Programme. It covers various activities such as interception, diversion and treatment of wastewater, shoreline protection, lakefront development, in-situ cleaning like desilting and de-weeding, stormwater management, bioremediation, catchment area treatment, lake beautification, survey & demarcation, bio-fencing, fisheries development, weed control, biodiversity conservation, education and awareness creation, community participation, etc. "Further, in order to supplement the efforts of the state governments, the Ministry of Jal Shakti provides technical and financial assistance to the state governments to encourage sustainable development and efficient management of water resources through various schemes and programmes such as Surface Minor Irrigation (SMI), Repair, Renovation and Restoration (RRR) of Water Bodies Schemes etc. under Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana (PMKSY) -- Har Khet Ko Pani (HKKP)," the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rs-1000-crore-released-for-conservation-of-160-wetlands-govt-1010856.html
20-07-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Pegasus snooping row reaches Karnataka||In your daily evening news update, a nationwide survey has found two-thirds of the country's population aged above six to have SARS-CoV-2 antibodies; The Pegasus snooping row reaches Karnataka; Raj Kundra was arrested and remanded to police custody till July 23 and Union Health Ministry suggests reopening of primary schools first, before opening colleges.  Here is the top news of July 20th, 2021. The government said today, around 40 crore people are still vulnerable to Covid-19 as a nationwide survey found two-thirds of the country's population aged above six to have SARS-CoV-2 antibodies. It stressed there is no room for complacency in the fight against the pandemic. Their phone numbers are part of a leaked database accessed by the non-profit French media Forbidden Stories and shared with an international media consortium, which includes The Washington Post, The Guardian and The Wire, as part of what is called The Pegasus Project. Kundra, along with his tech-man Ryan Tharp, has been arrested and remanded to police custody till July 23rd taking the total number of arrests in the case to nine. Joint commissioner of police (crime) Milind Bharambe said the case involves international ramifications. The Union Health Ministry suggested today the reopening of primary schools first, before opening colleges. It also said that the decision has to be taken at the district level, ensuring the entire support staff in schools get fully vaccinated. Source: DHNS/ PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-pegasus-snooping-row-reaches-karnataka-1010867.html
20-07-2021||National||ICMR, a controversial face of India's struggles with Covid||By Chris Kay and Muneeza Naqvi For a century, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) was a little-known government body quietly studying illnesses in New Delhi. But during the pandemic, it’s taken on a role akin to Anthony Fauci’s National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases in the US -- a powerful position that’s made it a controversial face of India’s struggles with Covid-19. As the ICMR has acted as a key medical adviser to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Health Ministry, it’s increasingly drawn criticism from the nation’s doctors and independent scientists, who have questioned its drug recommendations and the group’s lack of transparency on data related to variants identified in India that are now spreading globally. India struggled to curb the world’s fastest coronavirus surge this summer, and public health experts are warning that the country is ill-prepared to face a possible third wave of infections. Some of the ICMR’s decisions during the pandemic reflect the broad chaos that’s dogged India’s overwhelmed government apparatus, and have ended up benefiting the pharmaceutical industry rather than patients, critics say. In April last year, physician SP Kalantri -- who helps runs a 1,000-bed hospital in the village of Sevagram -- wrote to the international scientific journal, The Lancet, strongly criticising the ICMR for signing off on the Health Ministry’s decision to recommend the malaria drug hydroxychloroquine as a Covid therapy. The medicine remained on India’s virus guidelines for almost a year after the drug, once embraced by Donald Trump, was discarded as a treatment for Covid in the US. Kalantri’s hospital in Sevagram, a village once home to Mahatma Gandhi, refused to prescribe that and other unproven treatments. Desperate patients, however, simply sought them out elsewhere, he said. “Countrywide, the doctors started writing these prescriptions, which artificially inflated the cost for Covid management,” said Kalantri, director professor of medicine at Sevagram’s Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences. “Big Pharma was laughing all the way to the bank and ultimately the one who suffered was the poor patient -- it’s where the science failed in India.” Numerous therapies initially looked promising and the ICMR’s guidelines are constantly evolving as trial evidence emerges, said Aparna Mukherjee, a New Delhi-based senior scientist at the ICMR. “It’s very easy to criticise when something is put forward,” she said in an interview. “When you know there is some possibility that this drug might work, then just because it is in shortage you cannot say don’t use it.” Like other Indian government health agencies, the ICMR has been “stretched thin” during the pandemic, Mukherjee said. Spokespeople for the ICMR and the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare didn’t respond to requests for comment. Yet criticisms of the ICMR don’t stop there. Over the past year, the government and the ICMR have also been accused of withholding data about Covid and its variants that left physicians in the country flying blind, and of promoting a homegrown vaccine before it had passed key clinical trials. Public health experts say that it isn’t clear how the ICMR decides which Covid drugs to back, and have complained that the agency hasn’t fully disclosed how much funding it provided for the local shot. Such moves have made the ICMR emblematic of India’s struggles with Covid, exemplifying problems in the country’s social and political fabric that existed for decades and lingered under Modi -- from a lack of transparency to the underfunded health-care system. India’s government needed “better evidence-making and policy advice from the ICMR,” said Shahid Jameel, a virologist who resigned in May as chair of the advisory panel of a state Covid genome-sequencing panel after criticising India’s response to the pandemic. The ICMR has also drawn criticism on social media from scientists and health care advocates for its decision-making and recommendations, at times attracting attention overseas. “The Indian Council of Medical Research has been singled out by experts for straying from scientific evidence, appearing at worst politically motivated and at best overly optimistic,” an editorial in The Lancet said in September 2020, discussing the dangers of the “false optimism” that India’s government was projecting even as virus cases continued to rise. The pandemic has killed more than 4 lakh people in India, numbers that experts say are vastly undercounted. As infections surged this summer, hospitals ran short of life-saving oxygen and some patients died in the streets. This month, India’s federal health minister, Harsh Vardhan, resigned amid a broad cabinet reshuffle by Modi, whose popularity has taken a hit over the government’s handling of the pandemic. But the ICMR hasn’t changed. Headquartered in New Delhi, opposite India’s parliament, the ICMR was set up in 1911 by British colonial rulers and was traditionally focused on research. Covid-19 thrust the organisation into the uncharted waters of actually managing an outsized viral outbreak. In past epidemics, India’s National Centre for Disease Control -- which has several infectious disease experts on its board -- has played a bigger role. Yet the ICMR has become the more public face of India’s response to Covid-19, a development some scientists questioned. Sujeet Kumar Singh, the director general of the NCDC, didn’t respond to an interview request. ICMR’s Mukherjee acknowledged that the ICMR’s remit had widened during the pandemic and said that was due to the “need of the hour.” It’s taken on added responsibilities such as testing and procurement of diagnostic equipment, she said. Funded through the Health Ministry, the organisation has a budget of Rs 2,350 crore ($316 million) this year and backs hundreds of scientist fellowships. ICMR-linked researchers published more the 800 papers in Indian and international journals, according to its last annual report. Since 2018, it’s been headed by Balram Bhargava, a cardiolologist. The ICMR has several experts focused on diseases like malaria that have traditionally been India’s biggest public health concerns, but few virologists work for the agency. Bhargava didn’t respond to multiple requests for an interview. With its states easing lockdowns despite only about 6 per cent of the population being fully vaccinated, India is at risk of new waves of infection. But experts question whether India’s health network will be better prepared when the next resurgence comes. “There is a distinct uneasiness in the scientific community on the government’s handling of the pandemic” and the “opaqueness of the process of consultations, consensus building, data sharing, and decision making,” said Lalit Kant, who headed the ICMR’s epidemiology and communicable diseases division for 13 years until 2011. “If we want the third wave to be managed appropriately then we need evidence-based insights.” In April, almost 300 Indian scientists and medical researchers appealed to Modi to allow them access to data that could help study, predict, and curb the spread of the coronavirus. While the ICMR has data on all Indians who’ve been tested for Covid so far, it restricts access, they say. “The ICMR database is inaccessible to anyone outside of the government and perhaps also to many within the government,” the scientists wrote. “While new pandemics can have unpredictable features, our inability to adequately manage the spread of infections has, to a large extent, resulted from epidemiological data not being systematically collected and released in a timely manner to the scientific community.” The ICMR conducted some of the most comprehensive serological surveys last year, including studying the presence of antibodies in various groups. It’s also recently published research on mortality rates during the country’s recent devastating second wave. Scientists outside of the government system have said they haven’t had access to this data. This gatekeeping of crucial information on the genomic makeup of local virus strains, testing and immune response to vaccines has left India flying blind as it contends with the new and highly infectious delta variant, which was first identified in the South Asian country and is now spreading worldwide, say some researchers. “Granular data on antibody surveys, clinical severity of disease, demographics, etc., has not been made available in the public domain,” said Jameel, the Indian virologist. “Open data would have allowed better modeling, better preparation and perhaps saved lives.” Mukherjee at the ICMR said there aren’t constraints on data and anyone with a proper proposal can access it, though she didn’t elaborate on what criteria they needed to meet. The ICMR’s work with local company, Bharat Biotech International Ltd., on a homegrown Covid vaccine, has also drawn criticism from the scientific community. Earlier this year, the shot, called Covaxin, was approved by India’s government for emergency use before final trials were completed, a move doctors and public health experts said was premature and fueled widespread hesitancy. While approvals in India are handled by the drug regulator, the ICMR helped finance the vaccine’s development, although it has not publicly said how much funding it provided. The company, India’s government and the ICMR have been further criticised for not making the details of the intellectual property rights to the Covaxin public. Bharat Biotech in a statement last month said it will pay unspecified royalties to the ICMR and India’s National Institute of Virology. Pandemic Frontlines Bharat Biotech and the ICMR have published studies showing potentially encouraging results on the vaccine’s effectiveness against new variants. However, because the papers have been authored by officials from the company and agency, scientists have pointed to conflict of interest issues. Mukherjee from the ICMR declined to comment on the funding and intellectual property rights around Covaxin, but said final trial efficacy data should be published soon in a peer-reviewed journal, which was reiterated by a spokesperson for Bharat Biotech. Back on the frontlines of the pandemic in Sevagram, Kalantri is mainly concerned about the poor in rural areas, some of whom went into debt buying medicines. Prices of some drugs -- such as Remdesivir, which was added to India’s guidelines in March 2020 -- soared more than tenfold on the black market. Remdesivir is approved and used as a Covid treatment in the US and elsewhere, but the World Health Organization has said there isn’t enough evidence to back it as therapy because the drug hasn’t been shown to improve survival in patients. Its widespread use in India was particularly devastating because many had to pay for it out of pocket in a country where few have medical insurance and average incomes are less than $160 a month. Experts and bodies including the All India Drug Action Network, an umbrella group of non profits advocating drug access in India, have been critical of India’s continued advocacy of Remdesivir. Gilead Sciences Inc., which makes Remdesivir, didn’t respond to a request for comment. ICMR’s Mukherjee said there was little the agency could do about price increases that arose in the black market. Convalescent plasma therapy, too, remained on the list for months despite the ICMR’s own studies in November finding little benefit. Until late June, the Health Ministry’s guidelines also recommended Ivermectin, an anti-parasitic treatment that was untested against Covid, even though the WHO discouraged its use as far back as March 2021. “I’m very sad and disappointed,” Kalantri said about the ICMR. Meanwhile, even with the coronavirus at its peak in India this summer, an index of local pharmaceutical stocks advanced 21 per cent this year and Alliance Bernstein estimates that drugmakers’ sales volumes surged 36 per cent in May from a year earlier due to Covid-related demand. The pandemic has shown up India’s failure to strengthen medical bodies that are “weak and functioning sub-optimally,” said Chandrakant Lahariya, a New Delhi-based epidemiologist and public health expert who has co-authored a book on the nation’s battle against Covid. “It is not merely about the Covid-19 pandemic response, but also about preparing Indian institutions for the future,” Lahariya said. “That opportunity seems to have been lost.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-a-controversial-face-of-indias-struggles-with-covid-1010877.html
20-07-2021||National||Blinken to land in New Delhi next week, likely to discuss with Jaishankar Modi’s visit to US||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar will host United States Secretary of State, Anthony Blinken in New Delhi next week, when the two sides will discuss Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s proposed visit to Washington D.C. later this year. Blinken is going to be the second top US official to visit India after President Joe Biden’s administration took office in Washington D.C. on January 20 last. Biden’s Secretary of Defence, Lloyd Austin, had visited New Delhi on March 19 and 20. The US Secretary of State is also likely to call on the Prime Minister, apart from having a meeting with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. Jaishankar and Blinken are likely to discuss the resurgence of Taliban in the wake of the withdrawal of the US troops from Afghanistan. They will also discuss the future course of India-US bilateral cooperation to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic, sources in New Delhi said. They will further discuss about ways to step up cooperation in Indo-Pacific and exchange views on China’s continuing belligerence along its disputed boundary with India as well as elsewhere in the region – South China Sea, East China and Taiwan Strait. A source in New Delhi said that Jaishankar-Blinken meeting would kickstart preparations for the first in-person meeting between Modi and Biden, proposed to be held in Washington D.C. Biden spoke to Modi over phone twice after taking over as the US President on January 20 last. The two leaders also attended virtual multilateral and plurilateral summits over the past few months. But Modi’s proposed visit to Washington D.C. would create the opportunity for his first in-person meeting with Biden after the change of guard in the White House. Not only Modi, Biden is also keen to invite Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga and Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison for a visit to Washington D.C. around the same time so that the four leaders could hold the first in-person summit of the Quad. The ‘Quad’ is a coalition forged by India, Japan, Australia and the US in 2007 and revived in 2017 – in order to create a bulwark of democratic nations to counter China’s expansionist move and hegemonic aspirations in the Indo-Pacific region. Modi, Biden, Suga and Morrison had held the first ever summit of the ‘Quad’ through video-calls on March 12, elevating the four-nation coalition to the level of the leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/blinken-to-land-in-new-delhi-next-week-likely-to-discuss-with-jaishankar-modi-s-visit-to-us-1010879.html
20-07-2021||National||CBI arrests Goa-based chef for sexually abusing 25-30 kids, selling videos||The CBI has arrested a Goa-based man for allegedly sexually abusing 25-30 children and selling videos of his illicit acts to Indians and foreigners through the dark web and social media platforms, officials said on Tuesday. The accused, a 29-year-old chef in a hotel in Goa, was booked by the CBI on June 22, 2020 after the agency got leads about his activities during the probe against a Chitrakoot-based alleged paedophile who was an engineer in the Uttar Pradesh irrigation department, they said.  In the past year, the CBI searched for the victims of the alleged paedophile, whose name is being withheld as the probe is at a sensitive stage. The agency managed to identify about 25 victims, in the age group of 12-21 years. Some of the victims were not willing to come forward because of social taboo associated with such matter, the agency said. The accused, a hotel management graduate, was presented before a court for cases under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act in Goa which remanded him to judicial custody, CBI spokesperson R C Joshi said. "It was alleged that the accused was involved in sexual abuse of children...in Goa and Maharashtra and also recorded these acts by using his mobile phones, digital camera and other electronic devices, etc.," Joshi said. He allegedly traded and shared these photographs and films containing child sexual abuse material (CSAM) using the dark web with other Indians and foreigners, they said. "It was also alleged that the accused was using emails for connecting with other paedophiles outside the country; the internet to access cloud-based storage services for storing the illegal CSAM content; accessing free photo-sharing websites based in other countries and using other social networking websites and platforms i.e. Instagram, Whatsapp etc. for connecting to individuals abroad for sharing CSAM in huge quantities," Joshi said. During searches, a mobile phone, hard drive, pen drive and laptop allegedly used by the accused to access CSAM were recovered, he said. In November last year, the CBI had arrested 50-year-old Ram Bhuwan for allegedly abusing around 50 children in the age group of 4-16 years in three adjoining districts of Uttar Pradesh -- Hamirpur, Banda and Chitrakoot -- for over a decade and selling those recorded sexually explicit acts through the dark web.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-arrests-goa-based-chef-for-sexually-abusing-25-30-kids-selling-videos-1010883.html
20-07-2021||National||Future-Reliance deal: Singapore EA award valid, needs to be executed, Amazon tells SC||Singapore's Emergency Arbitrator (EA) award, restraining Future Retail Ltd (FRL) from going ahead with its Rs 24,713 crore merger deal with Reliance Retail, is “valid” and needs to be executed, Amazon on Tuesday told the Supreme Court which commenced hearings on its pleas against the amalgamation. A bench comprising justices R F Nariman and B R Gavai started hearing the arguments from senior advocate Gopal Subramanium, appearing for Amazon.com NV Investment Holdings LLC, who apprised the apex court of the facts and legal proceedings so far in the case. The US-based ecommerce giant said the EA award of Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) was enforceable and the single-judge bench of the Delhi High Court rightly gave an interim order in its favour granting a stay on the ongoing amalgamation. Subramanium said a division bench of the high court erred in entertaining the Future group's appeal and granting it relief by paving the way for the deal. Assailing the order, the senior counsel for Amazon said, “the emergency arbitrator (EA) is not a ‘coram non judice’ (not before a judge)” and hence the award of EA is enforceable and the high court under a provision of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act has to act to execute it and not sit in appeal against the interim award. The top court would recommence hearing on the pleas either on Thursday or next Tuesday. On February 22, in its interim order the apex court had asked the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) not to pass the final order on the amalgamation. The Future group had moved the tribunal seeking regulatory approvals to the Rs 24,713 crore deal with Reliance. Amazon moved the top court against the order of the Delhi High Court division bench which paved the way for the Reliance-FRL deal. On February 8, the division bench had stayed the single-judge direction to FRL and various statutory authorities to maintain the status quo on the mega deal. The interim direction was passed on FRL’s appeal challenging the February 2 order of the single judge. In August last year, the Future group had reached an agreement to sell its retail, wholesale, logistics, and warehousing units to Reliance. Subsequently, Amazon took FRL into EA before the SIAC over alleged breach of contract by the Future group. Amazon had first filed a plea before the high court (single judge) for enforcement of the October 25, 2020, EA award by SIAC restraining FRL from going ahead with the deal with Reliance Retail. The high court division bench had however said that it was staying the single-judge order as FRL was not a party to the share subscription agreement (SSA) between Amazon and Future Coupons Pvt Ltd (FCPL) and the US e-commerce giant was not a party to the deal for amalgamation between FRL and Reliance Retail. It had further said it was of the prima facie view that the shareholding agreement (SHA) between FRL and FCPL, the SSA between FCPL and Amazon, and the deal between FRL and Reliance Retail “are different” and “therefore, the group of companies doctrine cannot be invoked”. Another reason given by the court for its interim order was that there was prima facie no reason to seek a status quo order before the single judge. The high court had said there were a lot of contentious issues involved in the matter and it was not going to adjudicate on them at this stage. It had also said that its observations were only prima facie and the single judge ought not to be influenced by them when pronouncing the order on Amazon’s plea for enforcement of the EA award by SIAC restraining FRL from going ahead with the deal. FRL, in its appeal, had claimed that if the February 2 order was not stayed it “would be an absolute disaster” for it as the proceedings before the NCLT for approving the amalgamation scheme have been put on hold. It had contended that the single judge’s status quo order will effectively derail the entire scheme which has been approved by statutory authorities in accordance with the law. In its suit before the single judge for enforcing the EA award, Amazon has sought to restrain FRL from taking any steps to complete the transaction with entities that are a part of the Mukesh Dhirubhai Ambani (MDA) Group. Amazon has also sought detention of the Biyanis, directors of FCPL and FRL and other related parties in civil prison and attaching of their properties for alleged “wilful disobedience” of the EA order. After the SIAC’s EA order, Amazon wrote to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi), stock exchanges and CCI, urging them to take into consideration the arbitrator’s interim decision as it is a binding order. FRL thereafter moved the high court to restrain Amazon from writing to Sebi, CCI, and other regulators about SIAC’s order, saying it amounts to interfering with the agreement with Reliance. A single judge on December 21 last year had on FRL’s plea passed an interim order allowing Amazon to write to the statutory authorities, but also observed that prima facie it appeared the US e-commerce giant’s attempt to control Future Retail was violative of FEMA and FDI rules. Against the observation, Amazon moved an appeal before a division bench and during its pendency, it filed the suit for the enforcement of the EA award.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/future-reliance-deal-singapore-ea-award-valid-needs-to-be-executed-amazon-tells-sc-1010884.html
20-07-2021||National||Red Fort to be shut for public from July 21 to August 15||The Red Fort will be shut for the public from July 21 to August 15 till the Independence Day celebrations are over, according to an order from the Archaeological Society of India. Usually, the fort stays shut for the public for a week before Independence Day, officials said. "In exercise of the powers conferred under Rule 6 of the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Rules, 1959, the Director General, Archaeological Survey of India hereby direct that there shall be no entry inside the Red Fort from the morning of 21st July, 2021 to 15th August, 2021 till the Independence Day Celebration is over," the ASI order stated. The Delhi Police in a letter on July 12 had suggested that the fort be shut from July 15 in view of the Covid pandemic and security reasons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/red-fort-to-be-shut-for-public-from-july-21-to-august-15-1010885.html
20-07-2021||National||921 doctors, healthcare workers paid Rs 50 lakh insurance each: Centre||The Centre on Tuesday said 921 doctors and healthcare workers had been paid insurance claims of Rs 50 lakh each under the insurance scheme for healthcare workers fighting Covid-19. “As of 15th July 2021, a total number of 921 doctors and healthcare workers have been paid insurance claims of Rs 50 lakh each under the said scheme,” Minister of State for Health Bharti Pawar said in reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha. The highest number of claims settled were from Maharashtra (144) followed by Andhra Pradesh (90), Rajasthan (78), Karnataka (71), Gujarat (66), and Madhya Pradesh (57). The scheme provides a comprehensive personal accident cover of Rs 50 lakh to healthcare providers, including community health workers and private health workers, drafted by the government for Covid-19 related responsibilities, who may have to be in direct contact and care of Covid-19 patients and who may be at risk of being impacted by it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/921-doctors-healthcare-workers-paid-rs-50-lakh-insurance-each-centre-1010897.html
20-07-2021||National||Centre seeks four more weeks in SC for guidelines on ex-gratia to kin of Covid-19 victims||The Union government has approached the Supreme Court seeking additional four weeks to frame "robust and comprehensive" scheme for ex-gratia payment for the kin of those who died of Covid-19, in compliance with the top court's judgement.  On June 30, the top court had directed the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) to frame appropriate guidelines within a period of six weeks.  Seeking extension of time, the Centre said the exercise to frame guidelines for payment of ex-gratia is in active consideration of the NDMA and is going on.  Though at an advance stage, it required a little more in-depth examination before it is finalised and implemented, it said, adding any accelerated formulation may result into undesirable results.  On June 30, the Supreme Court had said the Centre failed to perform its statutory duty, cast under Section 12 of the Disaster Management Act (DMA), to grant minimum standards of relief to families of those people who lost their lives due to Covid-19.  The top court had directed NDMA to recommend guidelines for ex-gratia assistance on account of loss of life to the family members of the victims within six weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-seeks-four-more-weeks-in-sc-for-guidelines-on-ex-gratia-to-kin-of-covid-19-victims-1010941.html
20-07-2021||National||No shortage of Covid vaccines, no delay in placing orders with domestic manufacturers: Govt||There has been no shortage of Covid vaccines and the government has been providing free supply of vaccines to states and union territories for inoculating prioritised beneficiaries, Rajya Sabha was informed on Tuesday. Also, there has been no delay in placing orders with domestic vaccine manufacturers, rather advance orders of vaccines are placed with Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech for supply of Covid-19 vaccines, Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar said in a written reply. Responding to a question on whether many states including the hardest-hit Maharashtra were complaining about shortage of vaccines during the last three months, she said, "There has been no shortage of Covid-19 vaccines and the government of India has been providing free supply of vaccines to states and UTs for administration to prioritised beneficiaries as recommended by NEGVAC."  Advance visibility of these allocations i.e. the total doses of vaccine that would be available to a state and union territory, are provided to them 15 days in advance so as to enable them prepare plan for acceleration of vaccination coverage while being cognizant of the available vaccines, the minister said. She also refuted allegations of any delay in placing order of vaccines and said, "There have been no delay in placing orders with domestic vaccine manufacturers rather advance orders of vaccines are placed with Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech for supply of Covid-19 vaccines."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-shortage-of-covid-vaccines-no-delay-in-placing-orders-with-domestic-manufacturers-govt-1010960.html
20-07-2021||National||Leaving widows to fend for themselves needs to be made punishable under law: NHRC chief||NHRC chairperson Justice (retd) Arun Kumar Mishra on Tuesday called for restoration of property rights of destitute widows to mitigate their plight, and said leaving them to fend for themselves needs to be made punishable under the law. He was chairing a meeting on the human rights issues of widows residing in shelter homes in Mathura and Vrindavan and Varanasi.  Expressing serious concerns over the living conditions of the widows in Mathura and Vrindavan and Varanasi, he said that the property rights of widows need to be restored to redress their plight and make a way for their dignified living. "Leaving widows to fend for themselves has to be discouraged by making it punishable under law to stop this practice," he was quoted as saying in a statement issued by the National Human Rights Commission. He said government functionaries have to be made accountable for non-implementation of the welfare schemes if basic amenities are not provided to the destitute widows resulting in violation of their human rights including the right to food, shelter, dignity and property. Mishra said the ground reality of various shelter homes for the widows need to be assessed at the earliest. The NHRC chief said that formulating schemes for the welfare of destitute widows is not just sufficient enough unless their proper implementation is ensured, adding that the focus should be on their skill development to make them self-reliant for their livelihood. Some of the other important suggestions that emerged during the discussions included conducting a study to assess the number of widows living in Mathura and Vrindavan and Varanasi; and increasing their monthly pension to ensure that they may have adequate resources to meet their basic requirements, the statement said. Expanding the scope of various welfare schemes, including Ayushman Bharat to extend the benefits to the destitute widows, was another suggestion, it said. The meeting was also attended by NHRC Member Rajiv Jain, Secretary General Bimbadhar Pradhan, Joint Secretary Anita Sinha, and Winnie Singh of Maitri India, among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/leaving-widows-to-fend-for-themselves-needs-to-be-made-punishable-under-law-nhrc-chief-1010965.html
20-07-2021||National Politics||AIUDF MLA's controversial remark on Assam Budget triggers row||The Assam assembly on Monday witnessed noisy scenes over a comment on the state Budget by Opposition AIUDF member Aminul Islam, which was later expunged from the records. Islam's controversial remark was made on an agricultural project in Darrang district, which was mentioned in the Budget tabled in the assembly last week. Finance Minister Ajanta Neog had said in the Budget speech that under the project, the government has removed encroachers from 77,420 bighas of land in Garukhuti area and indigenous youths living in that area will start agricultural work and rear animals there. An amount of Rs 9.60 crore has been proposed in the Budget for this scheme. After the AIUDF MLA made the comment during his speech, Neog and several other BJP members stood up and objected to it. The finance minister urged Deputy Speaker Numal Momin who was on the chair to expunge from records a particular word Islam used in his comment. Ordering that the word be removed from records, Momin asked Islam to use restrain while making speeches. "You are a good orator. Try to avoid contentious issues," the Deputy Speaker said, addressing Islam. As the discussion proceeded, Islam claimed that the use of words in the Budget speech led to some apprehension and he had aired that. "It has been said in the Budget speech that eviction will be done and indigenous people will be settled there. Does it mean that those who were living there were foreigners?" he asked. Ruling BJP MLA Padma Hazarika, who is heading a committee to lead the agricultural initiatives in Garukheti, urged Islam not to derail the main issue as the project was meant for the greater welfare of the society.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aiudf-mlas-controversial-remark-on-assam-budget-triggers-row-1010581.html
20-07-2021||National Politics||Come well-prepared for 2024: Abhishek Banerjee taunts Shah after being named in Pegasus snooping list||TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee Monday taunted Union Home Minister Amit Shah over allegations of snooping against him, saying Shah was unable to save his face from the humiliation of Bengal assembly poll defeat despite spying on him. He mockingly asked the senior BJP leader to come back well prepared for 2024 Lok Sabha polls. The Trinamool Congress also lamented the development and termed the allegations of snooping on Banerjee and poll strategist Prashant Kishor as "an attack on democracy". "Two Minutes of SILENCE for the SORE LOSERS! Despite ALLIES like ED, CBI, NIA, IT, ECI, @BJP4India's money + might and #PegasusSpying Mr @AmitShah couldn't save his face in #BengalElections2021. Please COME Prepared with Better RESOURCES in 2024!," Abhishek Banerjee tweeted. Two Minutes of SILENCE for the SORE LOSERS! Please COME Prepared with Better RESOURCES in 2024! Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday hit out at the opposition Congress and international organisations for suggesting that the government was involved in surveillance of phones of politicians, journalists and others, saying such "obstructers" and "disrupters" will not be able to derail India's development trajectory with their conspiracies. Despite putting its best efforts, the saffron party failed in its "mission Bengal" and faced defeat in the hands of Mamata Banerjee, who formed government in the state with a thumping majority. The TMC leadership said the revelations prove that the saffron party is suffering from "fear-psychosis" over rise of Abhishek as a national leader. "This is a black day for democracy. This is shameful that the Union government is using spyware to snoop on the phones of politicians, journalists, activists. Even youth leaders like Abhishek Banerjee are also not spared; our poll strategist Prashant Kishors phone was hacked.  "This only reflects the authoritarian mindset of this government. The union government should come clean on it. We condemn it," senior TMC leader Sougata Roy told PTI.  Echoing him, TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh said, the revelations reflect the "fear psychosis" of Abhishek Banerjee that the BJP is suffering from. On Monday, opposition parties hit out at the government over alleged phone-tapping of prominent personalities in the country using Israeli Pegasus spyware and demanded an independent judicial or Parliamentary committee probe. An international media consortium reported Sunday that more than 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including two serving ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders and one sitting judge, besides scores of businesspersons and activists in India, could have been targeted for hacking through Israeli spyware sold only to government agencies.  The Union government has denied any role in it. It was also claimed that the phone of TMCs poll strategist Prashant Kishor was hacked during the high-octane West Bengal assembly polls. "The BJP suffers from the fear psychosis of Abhishek Banerjee and Mamata Banerjee. During the assembly polls campaign, we had witnessed how Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and senior BJP leaders had constantly attacked Abhishek. "Now this revelation about snooping proves they are afraid about the rise of our youth leader. But, such sort of low-level politics wont save the BJP from an imminent defeat in 2024 Lok Sabha polls," Ghosh said. IT and Communications Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on Monday dismissed media reports on the use of Pegasus software to snoop on Indians, saying the allegations levelled just ahead of the Monsoon session of Parliament are aimed at maligning Indian democracy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/come-well-prepared-for-2024-abhishek-banerjee-taunts-shah-after-being-named-in-pegasus-snooping-list-1010637.html
20-07-2021||National Politics||Fortunately, I stopped using my old phone number: Digvijaya Singh on Pegasus row||Congress veteran Digvijaya Singh on Monday said he managed to escape the alleged phone tapping using Israeli spyware Pegasus because he had stopped using his old mobile number which was mentioned in a letter related to the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case. The Rajya Sabha MP said he had already raised the issue of alleged snooping on certain individuals through the Pegasus spyware in December 2019. “I was not on WhatsApp on the number they had mentioned in the letter from one Naxalite to another other and the case registered against me in Pune. Fortunately for me, I had stopped using that phone (number) for a long time, therefore I could not be implicated,” Singh told reporters here. The former chief minister was replying to a question whether he suspects that even his phone may have been compromised in the Pegasus spyware case. More than 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including of two serving ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders and one sitting judge, besides scores of business persons and activists in India could have been targeted for hacking through the Israeli spyware sold only to government agencies, an international media consortium had reported on Sunday. In 2018, the Pune police had seized a letter in connection with the Elgar Parishad probe referring to a mobile number purportedly belonging to Singh. The letter, seized in nationwide raids, was made part of a chargesheet filed against activists arrested for alleged Maoist links in connection with the Elgar Parishad case. Singh was referring to the same letter. In reply to another question, the Congress leader said there was no need to enact population control laws. “The Uttar Pradesh government is talking about the population control law to divert attention of people from issues like poverty, inflation and unemployment,” he said. Singh said, “The fertility rate in our country is coming down without any law. Our total fertility rate has come down from four children per woman to about two to three children and there is a possibility that the total fertility rate will come to 2.1 by the year 2025." So, there was no need to enact population control laws, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/fortunately-i-stopped-using-my-old-phone-number-digvijaya-singh-on-pegasus-row-1010639.html
20-07-2021||National Politics||'Manipur Congress president Govindas Konthoujam resigns, may join BJP'||Manipur Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) president Govindas Konthoujam has resigned from his post and at least eight Congress MLAs will join the BJP today, reported ANI quoting sources. Manipur Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) president Govindas Konthoujam has resigned from his post. At least 8 Congress MLAs will join the BJP today: Sources More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/manipur-congress-president-govindas-konthoujam-resigns-may-join-bjp-1010652.html
20-07-2021||National Politics||Rajya Sabha adjourned till 12 noon amid Opposition uproar||Rajya Sabha proceedings were adjourned for about an hour on Tuesday after opposition parties obstructed regular business over various issues, including the Pegasus snooping controversy. Members of opposition parties, who had given as many as 15 notices under rule 267 requiring setting aside of the business of the day to take up the issue they want to raise, raised slogans and rushed into the Well of the House, prompting chairman M Venkaiah Naidu to adjourn the proceedings till 12 noon. The issues include alleged snooping of Opposition leaders, journalists and vocal critics of the government, fuel price rise and farmers agitation against new farm laws. No sooner had the House condoled the death of a former member, Ramadhar Kashyap, members of Congress, TMC, Left and DMK were up on their feet raising various issues. With the chairman disallowing all the 15 notices as he did for the 17 served on Monday, Anand Sharma of the Congress said either the rule 267 should be removed or the Chairman should consider notices given under them as long as it is there in the rule book. "These are issues of concern. We should not only read about it in newspapers or see on television," he said. Naidu said he agrees with Sharma. "There is a need for (rule) 267. I have been there in the House and I understand the problem of national security, something serious happens, you have to suspend the business and then take up that matter." But this provided the Chairman goes through the notice and then admits it, he said adding the notices given on Monday and Tuesday largely relate to "variety of issues... some of them ongoing for a long time, some of them discussed earlier." "What is the way for the Chairman to admit 15 267 notices and take the house forward," he remarked adding zero hour is the time when members can raise issues on which they have given notices. But Opposition members were not convinced and started to rush into the Well as Naidu called for listed official papers to be laid on the table. As they raised slogans, Naidu adjourned the proceedings. "The House is adjourned to meet at 12 noon because some people have decided not to allow the House (to function)," he remarked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajya-sabha-adjourned-till-12-noon-amid-opposition-uproar-1010694.html
20-07-2021||National Politics||Health condition of former Uttar Pradesh CM Kalyan Singh not stable||The condition of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, who has been undergoing treatment at the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS)  since July 4, has been stated to be 'unstable'. Singh developed respiratory complications following which he was put on oxygen support. ''Kalyan Singh's health status is unstable.....he has been put on non-invasive ventilation due to respiratory worsening.....his clinical parameters are being closely monitored,'' an SGPGIMS release said on Tuesday. According to the sources, Singh's blood pressure is under control.  Sources said that Singh's family members are present at the hospital. ''He is being given antibiotics and anti-fungal medicines,'' said a hospital official. Union defence minister Rajnath Singh and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath had visited the hospital on several occasions to inquire about his health.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/health-condition-of-former-uttar-pradesh-cm-kalyan-singh-not-stable-1010701.html
20-07-2021||National Politics||Illegal migrants pose threat to national security: MHA in Lok Sabha||Illegal Rohingya migrants pose a threat to national security and there are reports that some of them have indulged in illegal activities, Lok Sabha was informed on Tuesday. Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai's written reply came in response to a question by Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) member Ritesh Pandey. "Illegal migrants (including Rohingyas) pose a threat to the national security. There are reports about some Rohingya migrants indulging in illegal activities," he said. The minister said a writ petition has been filed in the Supreme Court, praying not to deport Rohingyas from India. "The matter is sub-judice in the Supreme Court. However, no stay has been granted by the court on the deportation of the Rohingyas," he said. Rai said India is not a signatory to the 1951 UN Convention relating to the Status of Refugees and the 1967 Protocol thereon. All foreign nationals, including refuge seekers, are governed by the provisions contained in The Foreigners Act, 1946, The Registration of Foreigners Act, 1939, The Passport (Entry into India) Act, 1920 and The Citizenship Act, 1955, and rules and orders made thereunder. "Foreign nationals who enter into the country without valid travel documents or whose travel documents expire while staying in India are treated as illegal migrants and are dealt as per the existing legal provisions," the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/illegal-migrants-pose-threat-to-national-security-mha-in-lok-sabha-1010711.html
20-07-2021||National Politics||Lok Sabha adjourned for the day amid repeated disruptions over Pegasus row||The Pegasus snooping controversy rocked the Lok Sabha proceedings on Tuesday, leading to continued disruptions and repeated adjournments of the House. Soon after the House assembled at 3 pm, the opposition members again started raising slogans on the Pegasus snooping issue, forcing the chair to adjourn the House for the day. The Lok Sabha will now meet on Thursday after the Eid holiday. This was the second day of the Monsoon Session that the House could not transact any legislative business. On Monday, the Opposition had disrupted the proceedings over a variety of issues, including price rise and three farm laws. Earlier in the day, the House was adjourned twice after the Opposition created a ruckus over snooping and other issues. Opposition members, including from the Congress and the TMC, started raising slogans and showing placards to attack the government on the snooping issue as soon as the House met for the day at 11 am. The proceedings lasted for barely five minutes. The same scene was witnessed when the House reassembled at 2 pm. One of the placards read that while people are suffering from unemployment, the government is busy with "jasoosi" (spying). The slogan was in Hindi. Some Congress members were holding placards about Rahul Gandhi's name appearing in the list of potential targets of snooping. Trinamool Congress (TMC) members alleged that party MP Abhishek Banerjee's phone number was selected for surveillance. Abhishek Banerjee is the nephew of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. YSRCP members also flagged the issue of special status for Andhra Pradesh. Speaker Om Birla said it is not right to disrupt the House and the government is ready to give answers on any matter. "Please go back to your seats. I will facilitate a debate on every issue. (But) sloganeering is not right. The government is ready to debate on whatever issues you want to debate on," he said. The issue of "snooping" using the Pegasus spyware has snowballed into a massive political row in Parliament and outside as various parties are demanding a thorough investigation and sacking of Home Minister Amit Shah, while the government maintains that it had nothing to do with it. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi, BJP ministers Ashwini Vaishnaw and Prahlad Singh Patel, as also former election commissioner Ashok Lavasa and poll strategist Prashant Kishor were among those whose phone numbers were listed as potential targets for hacking through the Israeli spyware sold only to government agencies, an international media consortium has reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lok-sabha-adjourned-for-the-day-amid-repeated-disruptions-over-pegasus-row-1010715.html
20-07-2021||National Politics||Pegasus snooping row: Akhilesh Yadav terms it gross violation of privacy||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday attacked the Centre over the Pegasus snooping controversy, saying listening to personal conversations of people is a gross violation of the right to privacy. As political heat rose over allegations linked to the Pegasus snooping row, the Centre on Monday categorically rejected them saying attempts were being made to "malign" Indian democracy even as the Congress and the BJP sparred and the main opposition party demanded the sacking of Union Home Minister Amit Shah. In a tweet in Hindi, Yadav said, "Listening to personal conversation of people by spying upon their phone is a gross violation of right to privacy. If the BJP is getting this done, then this is punishable and if the BJP government is saying that it does not have the information about this, then it is its failure on national security." Spying on phones is a crime in democracy, he said. An international media consortium reported on Sunday that over 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including of two ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders and one sitting judge besides scores of businesspersons and activists in India could have been targeted for hacking through the spyware.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pegasus-snooping-row-akhilesh-yadav-terms-it-gross-violation-of-privacy-1010721.html
20-07-2021||National Politics||Pegasus row: Congress demands probe by Joint Parliamentary Committee||The Congress on Tuesday stepped up its attack on the government over the Pegasus snooping controversy and demanded a probe by a Joint Parliamentary Committee. The Opposition party along with other parties also stalled proceedings of both houses of Parliament while raising the issue. Opposition members raised uproar in both houses and demanded a thorough probe into the charges of snooping on journalists, politicians, ministers, judges and others using Israeli Pegasus spyware. Leaders of various political parties also met before the start of proceedings in both houses of Parliament to decide their strategy on the issue. Several of them had also given adjournment notices in both houses demanding a discussion on the issue. Congress spokesperson Shaktisinh Gohil said the government should clearly tell whether it has purchased the Pegasus spyware or not and hold a joint parliamentary probe. "We had given adjournment notices in both Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha to hold a discussion on the violation of national security and the fundamental rights under the Constitution over the phone tapping issue," Gohil told reporters. He said the party's demand is that the government should order a joint parliamentary committee probe into the snooping and phone tapping issue.  "The minister, who was trying to create confusion on the matter should answer clearly whether the government has bought the Pegasus spyware or not. If yes, then the government should order a joint parliamentary committee probe to investigate the entire matter," he said. The government on Monday categorically rejected in Lok Sabha allegations of snooping on politicians, journalists and others using Pegasus software, asserting that illegal surveillance was not possible with checks and balances in the country's laws, and alleged that attempts were being made to malign Indian democracy. An international media consortium reported on Sunday that over 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including of two ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders and one sitting judge besides scores of businesspersons and activists in India could have been targeted for hacking through the spyware.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pegasus-row-congress-demands-probe-by-joint-parliamentary-committee-1010728.html
20-07-2021||National Politics||BJP to hold dharna in Delhi to protest Bengal 'post-poll violence'||In a bid to make post-poll violence in West Bengal a national issue, state BJP on Tuesday declared that it will hold a dharna at Rajghat in Delhi on July 21. Speaking to reporters at the state BJP headquarters in Kolkata, state BJP spokesperson Shamik Bhattacharya said the dharna will be led by state BJP president Dilip Ghosh while party workers will hold protest demonstrations across West Bengal. “BJP will pay homage to the martyrs who lost their lives in post-poll violence in Bengal. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh will lead the dharna in Delhi and party workers will agitate across the state,” said Bhattacharya. He further alleged that at least 20,000 BJP workers have been rendered homeless due to post-poll violence in West Bengal unleashed by the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC). Bhattacharya welcomed the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) report on post-poll violence in the state stating that it revealed “the ground-level situation” in Bengal. Interestingly, the TMC observes July 21 as Martyrs Day every year, paying homage to Youth Congress workers who were killed in police firing in 1993 during the Left Front era. The Youth Congress workers, led by Mamata Banerjee, were holding a march to the Writers Building, the State Secretariat at that time. Mamata was the Youth Congress president when the incident took place. The NHRC recently submitted a scathing report on post-poll violence to the Calcutta High Court stating that “rule of the ruler” was prevailing in the state instead of rule of the law. Not only did it allege complicity between the police and perpetrators of violence but also stated that the current situation in the state shows “abject failure of the State Government.” The TMC, however, alleged that the NHRC report was politically motivated and the Chief Minister accused the institution of submitting a distorted report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-to-hold-dharna-in-delhi-to-protest-bengal-post-poll-violence-1010751.html
20-07-2021||National Politics||Furious Opposition targets govt on Pegasus, disrupts Parliament||A furious Opposition on Tuesday stalled proceedings in Parliament over revelations that Opposition leaders Rahul Gandhi and Abhishek Banerjee among others were potential targets for snooping by Israeli spyware Pegasus though a discussion on Covid-19 in Rajya Sabha was held in the afternoon following an agreement. Lok Sabha could not conduct any business, except for Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman tabling the Supplementary Demands for Grants for 2021-22 and laying of official papers, throughout the day while Rajya Sabha took up a discussion on the pandemic at 1 PM before which Opposition MPs trooped to the Well at regular intervals to force adjournments. The strategy was decided at a meeting of leaders chaired by Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge where it was decided to jointly raise the snooping incident in which two Union Ministers, a former Election Commissioner and those in judiciary were also named targets. Sources said the Opposition did not want to be seen as avoiding a debate on the pandemic while the government found it as a way out for ensuring participation of Opposition leaders in a meeting called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday evening during which Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan will give a detailed presentation on Covid-19 situation. The breakthrough in the logjam in Rajya Sabha was achieved after Leader of Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal held informal discussions with Opposition leaders, they said. Several MPs had submitted notices in both the Houses demanding suspension of business to discuss the Pegasus issue. Both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha witnessed identical scenes with Opposition MPs rushing to the Well of the House and raising slogans. Rajya Sabha witnessed three adjournments before the debate on Covid-19 started. One of the placards in Hindi that was displayed in Lok Sabha read that the government is busy with "jasoosi" (spying) while people are suffering from unemployment. In Rajya Sabha, Trinamool Congress MPs displayed toy phones to register their protest against snooping. Congress and Trinamool Congress were in the forefront of the protests with its top leaders becoming victims to snooping. Trinamool Congress MPs held a protest near Gandhi Statue in Parliament House. Congress stepped up its attack on the government with its spokesperson Shaktisinh Gohil demanding that the government should clearly tell whether it has purchased the Pegasus spyware or not and hold a joint parliamentary probe. He said his party MPs gave adjournment notices in both the Houses to discuss violation of national security and the fundamental rights under the Constitution over the phone tapping issue. "The minister, who was trying to create confusion on the matter, should answer clearly whether the government has bought the Pegasus spyware or not. If yes, then the government should order a joint parliamentary committee probe to investigate the entire matter," he said. Trinamool Congress MP Santanu Sen said in Rajya Sabha that his party will hold a protest everyday in the House for snooping on General Secretary Abhishek Banerjee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/furious-opposition-targets-govt-on-pegasus-disrupts-parliament-1010798.html
20-07-2021||National Politics||Counter Opposition effectively on Covid-19 handling: PM Modi tells BJP MPs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday asked party MPs to counter the opposition effectively – both in Parliament as well as outside – on their criticism of the government's handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. Addressing the BJP Parliamentary Party meeting here, the Prime Minister lashed out at the opposition for “milking” the issue of Covid-19 response for furthering their political agenda and sought to assure the party MPs on the availability of vaccines in the country. Modi asked his party colleagues to be prepared to serve the people if a third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic breaks out and also to ensure that the vaccination drive in their respective constituencies is carried out smoothly without any hiccups. He also urged party MPs to be present in Parliament and participate in the proceedings to scuttle any effort made by the opposition parties to block legislation. Briefing about the meeting, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said the prime minister expressed concern about the attitude of the opposition, especially the Congress, and said it still believes it has the right to be in power. Modi said the government was ready for discussion on Covid-19 management and accused the opposition of behaving in an “irresponsible manner” by stalling the proceedings. The Prime Minister said that despite the pandemic, a huge population got ration, and said that providing relief to the people was the responsibility of the government and not a favour. He said the prime minister asserted that the pandemic is a humanitarian issue and not a political one. Singling out the Delhi government, the prime minister said that nearly 20% of frontline workers are not till now vaccinated against Covid, they said. On the shortage of vaccines, Modi said every effort was being made to ensure availability and stressed on making concerted efforts to ensure minimum wastage of vaccines. The Prime Minister also asked his party colleagues to reach out to people and highlight facts about vaccination to tackle vaccine hesitancy effectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/counter-opposition-effectively-on-covid-19-handling-pm-modi-tells-bjp-mps-1010826.html
20-07-2021||National Politics||Congress goes into huddle after Manipur unit president Govindas Konthoujam resigns||The atmosphere in the Congress camp became tense following reports that at least eight MLAs are in touch with BJP high command and are likely to join the saffron party soon. Refusing to talk about the reports, Congress spokesperson, Ningombam Bupenda Meitei said Congress president Sonia Gandhi rushed AICC in-charge of Manipur and former union minister, Bhakta Charan Das to Manipur to hold talks with leaders of the party on Wednesday. Das is scheduled to reach Imphal at 9 am on Wednesday. "Sonia Gandhiji is well aware of the developments in the state and is deeply concerned about the future of Manipur," he said. Sources said Govindas is unhappy with senior party leader and former Chief Minister Okram Ibobi Singh and his loyalist MLAs. Manipur was a Congress stronghold till 2017 when BJP wrested power and formed its first government in the state with the support of Naga People's Front and National Peoples Party. Congress had emerged as the single largest party with 28 seats but could not stop BJP (21 seats) from stitching the alliance and forming the government. Assembly elections in Manipur is slated next year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-goes-into-huddle-after-manipur-unit-president-govindas-konthoujam-resigns-1010839.html
20-07-2021||National Politics||Centre, states should rise above politics, work as team to combat Covid: PM Modi||With some opposition parties including the Congress skipping an all-party meeting on the Covid-19 management, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday called for the Centre and states to work together as a team and rise above politics to combat the pandemic. Speaking at the meeting called by the central government, Modi said India is in a better position than many other countries in terms of the ratio of the population hit by the disease but underlined the need to remain vigilant as he cited the resurgence of the infection in some countries like the UK, sources said. He said vaccines from more companies are likely to be available in some time and spoke about the push being given by the government to vaccination. A presentation on Covid-19 management was given by Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan at the meeting, which lasted for nearly three hours. It was followed by queries and suggestions from leaders of various parties. Shiv Sena and TMC demanded more vaccines for Maharashtra and West Bengal, respectively. BJD, TMC and few others also demanded the government should expedite the process for getting international recognition for the indigenous vaccine, Covaxin. TRS leader Nama Nageswara Rao urged the government to boost the vaccination drive and noted with concern that the second wave had affected the rural population as well. He though added that Modi has injected extra seriousness in the campaign to fight the pandemic by charing over 20 meetings in this regard. A number of opposition parties, including the Trinamool Congress, NCP and Samajwadi Party, attended the all-party meeting, chaired by the prime minister to discuss the government's handling of the Covid-19 situation while the main opposition party Congress skipped it.  Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh were among those present in the meet for the floor leaders of all parties. Other Union ministers, included Piyush Goyal and Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi. NCP's Sharad Pawar, Samajwadi Party's Ramgopal Yadav and BJD's Pinaki Misra were among the opposition leaders who attended the meeting. Leaders of the BSP and TRS also attended the meeting.  While many non-NDA regional parties attended the meeting, the BJP's former ally, Akali Dal, also skipped it. The Left parties also did not attend the meeting.  Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge said the Congress is not boycotting the meeting but it will not attend as his party wants the government to present the facts on the floor of both houses of Parliament. On Monday, Modi had said he has requested all the floor leaders to take some time out on Tuesday evening when he would like to give detailed information regarding the pandemic. "We want a discussion in the House as well as outside the House with all the floor leaders. I am constantly meeting the chief ministers and all kinds of discussions are happening in different forums. So I also want to meet the floor leaders as House is going on and it will be convenient and we can talk about it (the pandemic) face-to-face," he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-states-should-rise-above-politics-work-as-team-to-combat-covid-pm-modi-1010886.html
20-07-2021||North and Central||Sarojini Nagar market remains closed in protest against SDM order||The Sarojini Nagar market associations have decided to down their shutters on Tuesday to protest against an SDM order that directed to close the export market. The Sarojini Nagar markets' associations kept shutters down of the shops, including the main section, Babu market and mini market, on Tuesday to protest against an SDM order that directed closure of the export market. The export market was closed on Sunday for "grossly" violating Covid-19 norms, according to an official order from the sub-divisional magistrate (Vasant Vihar). Ashok Randhawa, president of Sarojini Nagar Mini Market Association, said that they will decide by evening whether to continue the protest on Wednesday. "We will see till evening if there is any development with respect to opening the export market, else we will continue our protest," Randhawa told PTI. About 550 shops in addition to 200 stores of the export market are closed in the Sarojini Nagar market area. Randhawa had said on Monday that the traders have been given three days to make passes for all the shopkeepers and their employees. "We have time till Thursday to make the passes, otherwise we have been told the market will be completely closed," he added. Delhi was under a complete lockdown from April 19 to May 30, following which the national capital saw a phased unlock process, and markets were allowed to reopen from June 7. The Lajpat Nagar, Laxmi Nagar market, Kamla Nagar, Sarojini Nagar and parts of Sadar Bazar were among those shut in recent weeks by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) for violation of Covid-19 norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sarojini-nagar-market-remains-closed-in-protest-against-sdm-order-1010582.html
20-07-2021||North and Central||Terror outfits using drones for their activities: Jammu and Kashmir DGP||Jammu and Kashmir DGP Dilbag Singh on Monday directed officers to remain extra alert as terror outfits are continuously trying to use drones for terrorist activities. The DGP said all the suspicious elements should be kept under check to foil their attempts. Singh directed the officers to keep special focus on measures to check narcotic trafficking as it is being used to fund terror groups in Jammu and Kashmir. He chaired a high-level joint security meeting at the police headquarters in Jammu to review the security scenario on Monday, officials said. He directed the officers to strengthen and augment the security grids in their respective areas for the safety and security of the people. Singh stressed on the importance of maintaining close synergy between the J-K Police and other agencies to meet the security challenges. The DGP directed the officers to revisit the security plans of their districts. Singh stressed upon the officers to ensure high alertness, especially in the border areas and hinterland, to check any infiltration attempt. "Terror outfits are continuously attempting to use drones for terrorist activities," he said. While reviewing the security situation on the highway grid, the DGP directed the officers to intensify the checking on the highway and plug the gaps with strict security measures, the officials said. The DGP also directed the officers for implementation of Covid SoPs in letter and spirit in view of the upcoming Eid festival.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/terror-outfits-using-drones-for-their-activities-jammu-and-kashmir-dgp-1010640.html
20-07-2021||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: ITBP jawan killed in encounter with Naxals||A jawan of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) was killed and an assistant sub-inspector injured in an encounter with Naxals in Chhattisgarh's Narayanpur district on Tuesday, police said. The skirmish took place on Aamdai Ghati (valley) under Chhotedongar police station limits when a Road Opening Party (ROP) of the ITBP's 45th battalion was out on patrolling duty, Inspector General of Police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P said. The ROP was deployed to ensure security to facilitate the movement of Narayanpur MLA Chandan Kashyap from the route. The gunfight took place after Kashyap's convoy passed through the area and safely reached its scheduled destination Orchha, the official said. At around 10 am, when the ROP was advancing through the forest enroute Dongar hills, located around 300 km from the state capital Raipur, a small action team of ultras opened fire at the security personnel. Constable Shiv Kumar Meena, belonging to the ITBP's 45th battalion, died in the incident, while ASI Keshav Ram received minor injuries, the official said. The injured ASI and the body were shifted to a local hospital, he said. A search operation was still underway in the area, he added. A helicopter was being sent to bring back the MLA from Orchha to Narayanpur, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-itbp-jawan-killed-in-encounter-with-naxals-1010717.html
20-07-2021||North and Central||Supreme Court seeks Manipur's reply on plea for compensation for detention of activist||The Supreme Court on Tuesday sought a response from the Manipur government on a plea seeking compensation for the detention of an activist under the National Security Act for his Facebook post on cow dung and urine. "It is a serious matter. Someone has lost their liberty," a bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud said. The top court issued notice to the Manipur government as a plea was made to pay compensation to the victim. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta submitted the order on detention had been revoked on Monday after the top court on Monday directed for the immediate release of activist Erendro Leichombam. He said he did not even attempt to defend the detention. The matter should rest there, he submitted. Appearing for activist's father L Raghumani Singh, advocate S Farasat said some responsibility has to be fixed in the case as orders were passed in a cavalier manner. The court put the matter for consideration after two weeks. On Monday, the court said continued detention of the petitioner would amount to violation of rights to life and liberty.  The petitioner contended that his son was detained under the NSA due to malice on May 17, the day he was granted bail for his Facebook post of May 13 wherein he reminded the BJP leaders that the cure for Covid-19 is science and not cow dung or cow urine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-seeks-manipurs-reply-on-plea-for-compensation-for-detention-of-activist-1010745.html
20-07-2021||North and Central||'Bandit Queen' Phoolan Devi's husband to take plunge in UP electoral politics||Apparently wanting a piece of the electoral pie by garnering support from the influential fellow 'Nishad' (boatmen, fishermen) community, 'Bandit Queen' Phoolan Devi's husband Ummed Kashyap has decided to take a plunge into electoral politics in Uttar Pradesh. Kashyap, according to the sources, along with leaders of some other 'Nishad' outfits, would be forming a 'Jalvanshi Morcha', which would be putting up its candidates in the forthcoming UP assembly elections, which were barely eight months away. The other outfits, which were part of the 'Morcha', included Eklavya Sena, Rashtriya Jansambhavana Party, Bhartiya Manav Samaj Party and some others. The national president of the Morcha, Gyanendra Nishad said that his community had been 'cheated' by every political party. "No political party has done justice with the Nishad community....we want inclusion of our community in the SC category," he said here. He also said that the 'Morcha' would launch an agitation if their demand for reservation in jobs and inclusion in the SC category was not considered. Sources said that Kashyap would be playing a key role in the election campaign for the Morcha, especially in the areas where the Nishad community voters were in sizable numbers. "We will fulfill the wishes of Phoolan Devi, who is our ideal," said another Morcha leader. Phoolan Devi, popularly known as the 'Bandit Queen', was shot dead outside her Delhi residence in 2001. She hailed from 'Nishad' community, which commands considerable influence in around 50 assembly seats in UP. Phoolan, who represented Mirzapur in the Lok Sabha, was quite popular among the members of her community. The Samajwadi Party (SP) supremo Mulayam Singh Yadav had nominated her from the seat as his party's candidate in 1996 general elections after the then SP government withdrew all cases against her and released her from prison. Two other 'Nishad' outfits, Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP) and Nihad Party, which is an ally of the BJP, were also vying for support from the community.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bandit-queen-phoolan-devis-husband-to-take-plunge-in-up-electoral-politics-1010755.html
20-07-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh govt to revisit population control Bill after objections from RSS, VHP||Uttar Pradesh government is mulling changes in the draft of the new population Bill after objections from the RSS, Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) and other saffron outfits. According to sources, the government plans to do away with the incentives to the couples having one child, which is currently part of the draft of the Uttar Pradesh Population (Control, Stabilisation and Welfare) Bill, 2021. The Bill provides for making couples with more than two children ineligible for state government jobs and also bar them from contesting Panchayat elections while those with two children would receive two additional increments, subsidy in purchase of house and rebate in utility bills. It provided that the couples with one child would receive extra benefits, including four additional increments, free education up to graduation and preference in admission in schools. Along with the opposition parties, several saffron outfits as well as the RSS had expressed serious reservations on several provisions in the draft Bill and had asked the state government to change them. The Sangh had cautioned the BJP on the new population policy and suggested some amendments in the same. The VHP had also earlier asked the UP government to scrap the new policy or introduce a new one with amendments saying that it was against the 'Hindus'. "We have received several suggestions from the members of the public and also legal experts and are currently examining them. Appropriate changes will be made in the draft Bill after considering the suggestions and objections," said a senior state government official here on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-govt-to-revisit-population-control-bill-after-objections-from-rss-vhp-1010759.html
20-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi riots: Court acquits man accused of rioting, dacoity||A court here on Tuesday acquitted a man accused of being a part of an unlawful assembly, dacoity and rioting in last year's northeast Delhi riots case. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat said that there is no identification of the accused and testimonies of witnesses are completely contradictory to each other. "It is a clear-cut of acquittal," he added. According to the police, Suresh, now acquitted, along with a huge crowd of rioters carrying iron rods and sticks, allegedly broke open the lock of a shop in Delhi's Babarpur Road and looted it on the evening of February 25. This is the first Delhi riots case in which the judgment has been pronounced. The trial is under way in many cases related to the violence. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi in February 2020, after violence between the Citizenship (Amendment) Act supporters and its protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and over 700 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-court-acquits-man-accused-of-rioting-dacoity-1010766.html
20-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi records 44 Covid-19 cases, five deaths||The national capital recorded five Covid-19 fatalities and 44 fresh cases of the infection at a positivity rate of 0.07 per cent on Tuesday, according to a bulletin issued by the Delhi health department. The city had recorded 36 coronavirus cases on Monday, its lowest single-day rise in over a year, as the positivity rate stood at 0.06 per cent. Thirty-seven more patients have recovered from the infection in the national capital, the bulletin showed. As total of 14,10,005 people have either recovered, been discharged or have migrated out of the city so far. The case fatality rate stands at 1.74 per cent, it added. With the new cases and fatalities, the city's death toll climbs to 25,035, while the cumulative case tally reaches 14,35,609. The number of active cases stands at 569, while that of containment zones is 406. A total of 63,019 Covid-19 tests were conducted on Monday, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-44-covid-19-cases-five-deaths-1010779.html
20-07-2021||North and Central||Navjot Sidhu pays tributes to Bhagat Singh at his ancestral village||Newly appointed Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday visited Khatkar Kalan, the ancestral village of Bhagat Singh, to pay tributes to the freedom fighter at his memorial here. He was accompanied by MLAs Kuljit Singh Nagra, who is one of the four working presidents appointed by the Congress, Raj Kumar Verka, Angad Saini, Sukhpal Bhullar, Inderbir Singh Bolaria and Gurpreet Singh GP. There was heavy police deployment in the area and barricades were put up. Farmers representing the Kirti Kisan Union later blocked traffic for half-an-hour after they were not allowed to meet Sidhu. Sohan Singh Athwal of the Kirti Kisan Union said they had no plans to 'gherao' the new chief of the Punjab Congress. He said the farmers only wanted to lodge their protest over the alleged failure of various political parties, including the Congress, to come to their rescue. Athwal said the farmers wanted to question Sidhu. Traffic was blocked as police ensured Sidhu's exit from another route, he added. After paying floral tributes, Sidhu, along with other party leaders, headed towards Amritsar. He will pay obeisance at the Golden Temple in Amritsar on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/navjot-sidhu-pays-tributes-to-bhagat-singh-at-his-ancestral-village-1010782.html
20-07-2021||North and Central||Negative Covid report must for people entering UP from states with high positivity rate||The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday made a negative coronavirus report or vaccination certificate mandatory for those entering the state from areas having more than three per cent weekly positivity rate. Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad told reporters said it would be applicable for all those coming by air, rail or road routes from such states. All those coming from other states having weekly positivity rate more than three per cent will have to produce a negative RT-PCR report not older than four days or vaccination certificate of both doses, Prasad said. "The restriction is only for the states having high weekly positivity rate of over three per cent. There is no restriction for other states," he said, adding that the number of active cases in the state has come down to 1,093 in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/negative-covid-report-must-for-people-entering-up-from-states-with-high-positivity-rate-1010816.html
20-07-2021||North and Central||Individuals can now update mobile numbers on Aadhaar at their doorstep with help of postman||Individuals can now update mobile numbers on their Aadhaar cards at their doorstep with the help of a postman. India Post Payments Bank and Unique Identification Authority of India under an arrangement will allow postmen to update mobile numbers of Aadhaar cardholders. The service will be available through a network of 650 India Post Payments Bank, 1.46 lakh postmen and Gramin Dak Sevaks (GDS). "The mobile update service of UIDAI through the ubiquitous and accessible network of post offices, postmen and GDS will help in actualising IPPB's vision of serving the underserved and unbanked areas, and bridging the digital divide," IPPB Managing Director and CEO J Venkatramu said in a statement on Tuesday. At present, IPPB is only providing mobile update service and will very soon also enable child enrolment service through its network. As on March 31, 2021, UIDAI has issued 128.99 crore Aadhaar numbers to residents of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/individuals-can-now-update-mobile-numbers-on-aadhaar-at-their-doorstep-with-help-of-postman-1010817.html
20-07-2021||North and Central||Excise duty on petrol, diesel calibrated to generate resources for infrastruture development: Finance Ministry||The excise duty rates on petrol and diesel have been calibrated to generate resources for infrastructure building and other developmental expenditure keeping in view the prevailing fiscal situation, Minister of State for Finance Pankaj Chaudhary said on Tuesday. In a written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha, the minister said petrol price had gone up by Rs 3.83 a litre in May, Rs 4.58 in June and Rs 2.73 in July (up to July 16). In April, the prices of petrol and diesel were revised down by Rs 0.16 and Rs 0.14 a litre, respectively. The retail selling price of diesel rose by Rs 4.42 a litre in May, Rs 4.03 in June and Rs 0.69 in July (up to July 16). The retail selling price of petrol and diesel in Delhi on July 16, 2021, stood at Rs 101.54/litre and Rs 89.87/litre respectively, he said. "The excise duty rates on petrol and diesel have been calibrated to generate resources for infrastructure and other developmental items of expenditure keeping in view the prevailing fiscal situation," Chaudhary said. In the first three months (April-June) of the current fiscal, the total excise duty collected on petrol and diesel was Rs 94,181 crore.   Excise collections on petrol and diesel jumped by 88 per cent to Rs 3.35 lakh crore in the last fiscal ended March 31, 2021, after excise duty was raised to a record high. Excise duty on petrol was hiked from Rs 19.98 per litre to Rs 32.9 last year to recoup gains arising from international oil prices plunging to multi-year low as the pandemic gulped demand. The same on diesel was raised to Rs 31.8 from Rs 15.83 a litre. The prices of petrol and diesel are market-determined with effect from June 26, 2010, and October 19, 2014, respectively. Since then, the public sector oil marketing companies (OMCs) have been taking appropriate decisions on the pricing of petrol and diesel on the basis of international product prices and other market conditions.  The OMCs have increased and decreased the prices of petrol and diesel according to changes in international prices and rupee-dollar exchange rate, he said. "The government is making concerted efforts to raise resources for infrastructure and other developmental items of expenditure, the details of which were announced in the annual Budget. "The excise duty rates on petrol and diesel have been calibrated to generate these resources keeping in view the prevailing fiscal situation. VAT on petrol and diesel are levied by states," he added. Chaudhary was replying to a separate question on whether the government proposes to cut down high excise duty on petrol and diesel and whether it will continue to increase excise duty and VAT on these products.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/excise-duty-on-petrol-diesel-calibrated-to-generate-resources-for-infrastruture-development-finance-ministry-1010845.html
20-07-2021||North and Central||Ignoring Nishads will cost BJP dear: NISHAD party chief||NISHAD party chief Dr Sanjay Kumar Nishad on Tuesday said ignoring people from his community will cost the BJP dear in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls next year. At the time of the previous elections, the BJP had said that the issue of reservation for the Nishads will be resolved on priority but this has not been done, he told reporters. When Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath was an MP, he had supported the Nishad reservation in Parliament but now he does not seem to fulfil his own promise, he said, adding that the issue will prove costly to the BJP in the 2022 elections. Spelling out the demands of the Nishads, he said the community forms 18 per cent of the Uttar Pradesh population and it is necessary to give proper representation to them and a post of the deputy CM will be better. Recently, Sanjay Nishad had demanded that he be made a deputy chief minister if the BJP, their party's alliance partner, wants to win the Assembly election next year. “If the BJP does not get our support in 2022, then they will have to bear the loss. In the past, Congress betrayed our people and it got finished. Similarly, the SP and the BSP cheated and had to bear the brunt of it,” he said. Saying that after seeing all parties in the past 70 years, he has been with the BJP for the past two years and hoped that PM Narendra Modi and Yogi Adityanath will give reservation to the Nishads. “The BJP will benefit by giving reservation to our people” he said. On BSP chief Mayawati playing the Brahmin card, he said that the Brahmins have always led people and they will not be misled by anyone. At present, the NISHAD party has one MLA in the UP Legislative Assembly. Sanjay Nishad's son Praveen is an MP from Sant Kabir Nagar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ignoring-nishads-will-cost-bjp-dear-nishad-party-chief-1010871.html
20-07-2021||North and Central||Umar Khalid, activists, union leaders among Pegasus targets: Report||Prominent activists, academicians, trade unionists, and students, including Bela Bhatia, Umar Khalid, and Anand Bharti, were among potential targets for snooping using Israeli spyware Pegasus, according to a leaked database. Their phone numbers were part of the leaked database accessed by the non-profit French media Forbidden Stories and shared with an international media consortium, which includes The Washington Post, The Guardian and The Wire. The Wire reported that the database included the numbers of Dalit activist Ashok Bharti, former Jawahar Lal Nehru University students Umar Khalid, Anirban Bhattacharya, and Banjyotsna Lahiri and academic and chronicler of life in Naxal-dominated regions Bela Bhatia. It also included railway union leader Shiv Gopal Mishra, labour rights activist Anjani Kumar, anti-coal mining activist Alok Shukla, Delhi University professor Saroj Giri, peace activist Shubhranshu Choudhary and activist Ipsa Shatakshi. "Without digital forensics, it is not possible to conclusively establish whether their phones were hacked or infected. But their appearance on the list suggests that they were persons of interest to an unidentified client of the NSO Group that was focused on India," The Wire report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/umar-khalid-activists-union-leaders-among-pegasus-targets-report-1010878.html
20-07-2021||North and Central||Opposition targets Modi government over its 'failure' in handling Covid||The Opposition on Tuesday targeted the Narendra Modi government for its "failure" in Covid-19 management on counts of loss of lives, "fake" data on deaths, vaccine shortage, lack of oxygen, and "inadequate" preparation to handle the second wave of the pandemic. The parties also took potshots at the government over removing Harsh Vardhan as Health Minister earlier this month, holding election rallies and declaring victory over Covid-19 just a month before the second wave hit the country. Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge opened the attack, saying the official death toll of 4-5 lakh released by the government is "false" and "conservative", while claiming that the average number of deaths cannot be less than 52.4 lakh so far.         "The government is releasing fake figures and it is far away from the truth," Kharge said, which was echoed by some MPs who spoke on the issue. He said the government "failed" to tackle the pandemic and referred to the impact of lockdown on migrants and the economy. He said it "created unemployment and the problem of inflation". Targeting the government, he said, "The government asked people to wear masks and maintain social distancing. But what were they doing, during the elections in different states? You are breaking your own rules. They should be given credit for flouting Covid-19 norms." He accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of not fulfilling his promise and said, "Instead of taking the blame, he made the health minister (Harsh Varshan) a scapegoat."  Trinamool Congress's Dr Santanu Sen said, "The main problem is that our government is always in a self-congratulatory mode. Some of their leaders are saying corona is a virus, it has the right to live. Can you believe this? One of their ministers is saying have Bhabhiji papad, you will get rid of the corona. Some are saying have cow urine or cow dung. That's the main problem." CPI(M)'s Elamaram Kareem questioned the government's vaccine policy and said the government is continuing with dual vaccine policy. He said 25 per cent of vaccines are still reserved for the private sector, which is going to the upper class of the society. Shiv Sena's Sanjay Raut accused the government of hiding the Covid-19 related data. "Tell us, how many people have lost their lives (due to Covid). Reports say higher number of people have died than the government's official figures," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/opposition-targets-modi-government-over-its-failure-in-handling-covid-1010894.html
20-07-2021||North and Central||Sluggish Covaxin supplies due to batch failing quality tests: Health Minister||The dip in supply of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin for the nationwide vaccination drive against Covid-19 was because its batch of vaccines failed quality tests, the Rajya Sabha was informed on Tuesday. “I have seen news reports that Bharat Biotech may not be producing the claimed number of vaccines. One batch failed. It is a biological system. The batch failed, they were to give me three crore one month, they could not give it. It could be possible that they may supply next month,” Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya told the Rajya Sabha while responding to a discussion on the Covid-19 situation. He said Bharat Biotech was gradually ramping up its vaccine production capacity and was expected to supply 2.5 crore doses in July and 3.5 crore doses in August. Mandaviya said a total of 18 crore doses of vaccines will be available in August for the vaccination drive. Separately, Niti Ayog Member V K Paul told a press conference that the delay in commissioning Bharat Biotech's manufacturing facility at Bengaluru was the reason for slower supplies of Covaxin. He said Bharat Biotech had started manufacturing facilities in Ankleshwar in Gujarat and Bengaluru. Paul said there were issues related to initial validation and stabilisation at the Bengaluru unit of Bharat Biotech, which caused the delay. “Now the issues have been sorted out. It was due to some unforeseen circumstances,” Paul said responding to questions on the sluggish deliveries of Covaxin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sluggish-covaxin-supplies-due-to-batch-failing-quality-tests-health-minister-1010910.html
20-07-2021||Opinion||No signs of a thaw in Punjab Congress||The formula devised to kick-start the Congress campaign for the 2022 Assembly elections in Punjab has been made public. Navjot Singh Sidhu is now the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president, and Amarinder Singh remains the chief minister. Political strategist Prashant Kishor's political consultancy firm, the Indian Political Action Committee (IPAC), has been surveying Punjab for over a month. Its feedback to the Gandhis, the first family of the Congress, that the public exhibition of the infighting in the Punjab Congress could spell doom for the party is what prompted the high command to take a quick decision, which went in favour of Sidhu. Alongside Sidhu's appointment, the party also appointed four new working presidents, none of whom are seen as Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh's men. However, missing from the compromise formula was a public apology that Amarinder Singh had sought from Sidhu. Amarinder Singh had said he would not meet Sidhu till the latter issues a public apology. The apology hasn't come. Instead, Sidhu has started reducing the compromise formula to an apology. Hours after being made the party's state unit chief, he tweeted: "My father, a Congress worker left a royal household and joined the freedom struggle, was sentenced to death for his patriotic work…." The tweet was a jibe at Amarinder Singh's royal descent. Both Navjot Singh Sidhu and Amarinder Singh hail from the same Sidhu clan of the Sikhs. However, their shared lineage does not seem to have helped the two reach a thaw. The Congress high command's 18-point agenda proclaimed as the key to winning the 2022 elections is nowhere in focus. So what is likely to happen in battleground Punjab in 2022? Kishore has told the Gandhis that a united Congress stands the best chance to win the 2022 polls among the three major political forces in the state, the other two being the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). But the unity was nowhere to be seen a day after Sidhu's elevation on Monday. The Congress legislators gathered at two spots. About forty were at minister Tript Rajinder Bajwa's house in Chandigarh to welcome Sidhu, the new state unit chief. Former Congress state unit chief Sunil Jakhar was there too. The rest of the remaining 35 Congress MLAs, including some ministers, were in a different huddle with Amarinder Singh. It told the world who is with whom in the Punjab Congress. With the leadership tussle seemingly settled, the Congress would now need to get to work to implement the 18-point unfulfilled agenda. The difficulty with that is the Amarinder Singh government couldn't implement it in four years and is now expected to execute it before the elections code of conduct comes into place in about six months. Before Sidhu lashed out at the chief minister, accusing him of being soft on the Badals on the issue of sacrilege, Congress had seemed ahead in the game. Just then, the SAD began announcing its candidates. It has declared six candidates who have started campaigning for the upcoming polls. The AAP hasn't announced candidates yet. But Arvind Kejriwal's promise of up to 300 units of free power has meant the AAP has set the tone for an aggressive campaign. Moreover, the SAD's alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), leaving the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to contest the elections alone for the first time in decades, brings a fresh set of challenges for all the parties to understand how the new political equation pans out in the state. There is a sense among keen watchers of Punjab affairs that despite their truck with the BSP, the Akalis aren't sure about the outcome of this new alliance. If it works, it will be a lottery. Else there is nothing they can fall back on. Owing to the SAD and BJP's political divorce, a section of the core Hindu votes, which till the 2017 elections went the SAD-BJP's way, could support the Congress. The Akalis could lose this support now that they have severed ties with the BJP. It could help the Congress party more than the AAP since it is almost a leaderless party in Punjab. But the Congress needs to show a united face, quickly pick up the pieces, focus on implementing the 18-point agenda, draft a good manifesto and announce candidates acceptable to both the camps. The strong orator that Sidhu is, the election strategy of Kishore, and the experience of Amarinder Singh together should be enough to defeat the opposition. But it can only happen if the two warring Sidhus - Navjot Singh Sidhu and Amarinder Singh - fight unitedly. The voters of Punjab are eagerly looking forward to it. (The writer is a Chandigarh-based journalist.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/no-signs-of-a-thaw-in-punjab-congress-1010771.html
20-07-2021||Opinion||Yediyurappa and BJP work out terms of severance||It is almost certain that Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP's) lone mascot south of the Vindhyas and a strong regional leader, has been drawn into playing his final act before being eased out of office. Everyone is sitting up and watching whether he will follow the script being prepared by the BJP's national leadership for the smooth transfer of power or whether he will give them a hard time. No regional satrap has posed as much challenge to the politically astute duo of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah as the 78-year-old Yediyurappa has. He is one political conundrum they have found extremely difficult to handle. Despite Yediyurappa's protestations to the contrary, his back-to-back meetings with Modi, Shah, Rajnath Singh and party present J P Nadda in New Delhi last week have thrown up more than ample hints that the BJP has embarked on divesting Yediyurappa of the chief minister's post and finding a successor to him in preparations for the 2023 Assembly polls and the parliamentary elections a year later. The contours of how and when to relieve him of office are reportedly being worked out, taking him into confidence. Yediyurappa has been an exception to the unwritten rule in the party of keeping out those above 75 years from elective offices. He took over as the chief minister of Karnataka for the fourth time in July 2019 after engineering defections of 18 MLAs from the Congress and the Janata Dal (S), when he had already crossed 76 years. It was seen as giving him a second chance for losing power within three days of being sworn in after leading the party to an impressive performance but falling slightly short of the majority in the 2018 Assembly polls. But, the BJP will be conscious that Yediyurappa's charismatic leadership opened the southern gate for the party in 2008, yet to be emulated in any other southern state, with the first BJP government in Karnataka. More importantly, he has also ensured that in every Lok Sabha election since 2004, the BJP has garnered more than 50 per cent of 28 Lok Sabha seats from Karnataka, which reached a peak of 25 seats in the 2019 elections. It seems that Yediyurappa has created strong enemies within the state unit of the party by allowing his family members to meddle with the administration. His second son, B Y Vijayendra, has been promoted as a vice president of the party. His two daughters are allegedly involved in the allotting contracts to their favourites, which has caused resentment in the Cabinet. Senior minister K S Eshwarappa went public with his complaint against Vijayendra, but he could not take it beyond a point. The rebels led by senior MLA B R Patil Yatnal and MLC H Vishwanath have been embarrassing the party by constantly sniping at Yediyurappa and his family members and demanding the resignation of the chief minister. C P Yogeshwar got ministership thanks to Yediyurappa's persistence but has also turned a vocal critic after he found the chief minister undermining his influence in his backyard of Ramanagara district and favouring JD (S) leader H D Kumaraswamy for political reasons. As dissent grew, the central leadership of the BJP despatched its Karnataka in-charge Arun Singh last month. He held a series of parleys with all factions, including the loyalists, for three days and declared that "Yediyurappa is doing a good job, and there is no question of the change of leadership." However, it was only lip service as no effort was made to punish those indulging in indiscipline, and they have taken it as a 'licence' to keep the chief minister under pressure. The BJP's central leadership will be fully aware that nudging Yediyurappa to step down will be a delicate task. He has the potential to wreak havoc on the party - as he had demonstrated when removed as chief minister in 2010 - if he perceives that the "terms of severance" are not favourable to him. Observers have noted that Yediyurappa's trusted aide, Shobha Karandlaje being taken to the Union Council of Ministers recently was intended to send a favourable signal to him. His more immediate concern would be to get a suitable role for his politically ambitious son, Vijayendra. Already a state vice president, he accompanied Yediyurappa during the recent Delhi visit and was formally introduced to Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh and Nadda. According to the political grapevine, Vijayendra might become a minister or even a deputy chief minister in the next Cabinet, but Yediyurappa is reportedly keen that Vijayendra is made state party president so that he can gain control of the party and have a significant role in distributing tickets for the 2023 Assembly elections. Yediyurappa would possibly also like to have a say in the selection of his successor, who, more than likely to be another Lingayat, that form the BJP's impregnable vote bank. It could be Murugesh Nirani or Basavaraj Bommai, unless, of course, the Modi-Shah duo has a secret trump card up their sleeves. (The writer is a senior journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/yediyurappa-and-bjp-work-out-terms-of-severance-1010783.html
20-07-2021||Panorama||Learning to be alone||If there is one harsh lesson that the pandemic has taught us, then it is that we find ourselves terribly alone at times with no one but ourselves and perhaps a cell phone for company. It could be the case of someone who is in home isolation in a room at home or at a designated centre or a loved one needing specialised, critical care in an ICU in a hospital— or a family caregiver waiting in a lounge or outside a care centre for updates. The loneliness can be scary, traumatic and killing, if one is not used to it and does not know how to deal with it. Eventually of course, frontline heroes such as doctors, nurses, paramedics, volunteers and other service providers become friends (God bless them) whom a patient and their kin look forward to. And bonds are forged with fellow patients and their families, who pitch in to lend support in innumerable and important ways. As the saying goes a friend is a stranger one has never met. Conversely there were family members who live overseas dealing with the trauma and pain of loneliness of a different kind— of not being able to be with their loved ones in their hour of greatest need. Even when one is well and fine, one can find oneself in a room full of people and still feel very alone and isolated. So ultimately it is not about having people around, it is about having those with whom you feel safe or share a bond with, vibe with, can connect to or feel a sense of closeness or camaraderie. I remember hearing young children being asked to bring a favorite toy to school to help them settle in, during the first few days. The familiar and well-worn toys becomes a source of comfort, security and reassurance. Familiarity certainly breeds positive feelings and helps remove fear. If travelling to a new place or a foreign land or even to a hospital, adults bring along a family picture or one of their favorite deity or a prayer book. There is a presence we can sense through these objects that makes us feel that we are protected and cared for. One can draw huge reserves of strength from knowing that God is all around us and with Him for company we are never alone  As almost all scriptures tell us “Why fear when I am here?” That is a thought that can allay a lot of nervous energy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/learning-to-be-alone-1010595.html
20-07-2021||Panorama||Democracy at a crossroads||Two of the world’s largest democracies, the United States and India, are at the crossroads. Both democracies are threatened for various reasons. It is time to introspect the course that we are headed on. A lot has been written and talked about the US and Indian democracy. But we need to analyse, simplify and devise solutions for the foreseeable future. I have lived and practiced as an Oncologist in the United States for 28 years and then came back to India and established multiple cancer centres in urban and rural areas and women empowerment movements. The US has a presidential system, where one can win maximum votes and still not be the President owing to the electoral system in the representation for each state. India follows a parliamentary route based on the UK model of parliament, where elected representatives elect the prime minister. In the United States, from what we have seen in the Trump administration and the accusations of fraud, have led a significant number of people to believe that elections are not fair, as alleged by Trump supporters. So why is there a doubt about fair elections which in a way doubts democracy as an institution? It is primarily because, in the United States, the white population feels threatened. Now, when the minorities are a minority, there is a certain level of acceptance. But when they start taking control or become a threat gaining power, the majority in the society does not accept it like what we saw under Jim Crow law in the US. Misleading information creates voter suppression that confuses the majority. The January 6 Capitol Hill attack is a testimony to this restlessness. Fake news leads to disturbance, anarchy and eventually violence. The concern here is that the January 6 riot may be the beginning of the prolonged battle for power, even if it is in the name of pro-democracy. It could certainly lead to a breakdown of democracy in various ways. When I reflect on my 28 years stay in the US, there was racism, but it was simmering and masked. During Trump’s reign, he unmasked it and brought it out into the open. All the leaders must put their efforts together to strategise long-term goals to safeguard and ensure healthy democracy in the US. Unfortunately, the division is so high that this seems unlikely to happen soon. It is left to the public to reflect and decide what is good for the nation. That is the message we hope the present administration will send strongly. In India the situation may not be different. While there is a good parliamentary system, the Hindutva movement has disturbed it by creating a divided population. India has always been a secular country holding a cordial relationship between the majority and the minorities. The question is not about what is right or wrong; it is about how the prevailing situation hurts the country. Apart from this, the most disturbing thing is autocracy. While democracy seems to be on paper, one is not sure if it is real democracy. It appears to be a more autocratic democracy where people are apparently being jailed for talking against the government. It is indeed disturbing with even social media laws are being relooked in India to ensure nothing is said against the government. This is touching the fundamentals of democracy in a country like India, which guarded it for many decades. It is time for people to raise their voices to create better awareness for the public at large. Again, like the US, it is time, even in India, that people's voices are crucial to save democracy. How do we create better awareness about the public at large? Unlike the United States, there is no voter suppression in India. The election is very transparent, but votes are cast based on creed, caste, and corruption. How do we change this and educate people to understand the value of their vote? This is a crucial task in our hands, and the time is now to attempt to change. I hope we have learned lessons from the previous world wars, unhealthy disturbances and civil wars. Having seen both the democracies (The US and India), the threat to the world today is not external but appears to be from within and it is a time to introspect. (The writer is Executive Chairman, HealthCare Global Enterprises Limited)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/democracy-at-a-crossroads-1010597.html
20-07-2021||Panorama||The pandemic has brought an ‘epidemic’ of mental distress: NIMHANS director||The institute has had a reputation for breakthrough science. Are any new initiatives being planned to enhance research and/or academics at the institute? Nimhans has the advantage of having faculty working in clinical, community and in laboratories, so it represents a unique and rich blend of talent and scope to apply new scientific knowledge to patient care. We span a wide variety of areas meriting further research, from Autism to Alzheimer's disease, from mental wellness to illness. This underscores the need for a developmental perspective to understanding determinants of disease and looking at both the upstream factors for disease in addition to downstream effects including disease manifestation and outcome. Are any changes planned to enhance Nimhans’ mental health and genomic sequencing programmes, both of which have been influenced by the pandemic? Both for mental illnesses and neurological illnesses, colleagues in the institute have been working on examining genetic correlates of a variety of disorders. For example, the ADBS grant has been looking at cross-cutting aspects in schizophrenia, bipolar mood disorders, obsessive-compulsive disorder, addiction and dementia. The c-VEDA project has been examining associations between genetics, imaging and other parameters in populations at risk of addiction. Similarly, there are studies examining genetic correlates of Huntington's Disease, Parkinson’s Disease, ataxias, dementia, ALS and other conditions. What about Covid-19? During Covid, as well as with other infections, the focus has been in studying genetic variations of the infective organism. Thus, there is scope to study both genetic variations in the host as well as the disease agent and how these can dynamically be altered through epigenetic and other mechanisms. This can help us to better understand individual variations for disease risk, manifestation, treatment response and outcome. The areas of genetic epidemiology and applications for personalised medicine hold much promise. Are lab infrastructure or staff increases on the cards to scale up the pace of sequencing? We hope to get more support for cross-cutting studies across different disease conditions. It will be very important to follow-up disease cohorts and families to understand vulnerability to disease and pathoplastic factors. Mental health support had a big role to play during the pandemic. How can this be viewed from the Covid-19 standpoint? The pandemic has brought an epidemic of mental distress. At the same time, it has brought attention to mental health in the forefront. Manifestations of mental distress have ranged from anxiety over the lockdown to fears of contracting Covid-19, fear of loss of livelihoods, stigma over infection, to hospitalisation and isolation due to Covid-19. Loss of family members and lack of the usual support systems for the grieving have led to increased disturbances in mood, depression, anxiety and substance use. Persons with pre-existing illnesses are at greater risk as they may have had difficulties in accessing mental health care, medication and rehabilitation facilities. Those in the ICU are more at risk of developing longer-term psychological difficulties. Have Nimhans’ mental support professionals encountered vaccine-related anxiety? Yes. Aspects of mental support also had to be extended to cover the initial anxiety related to vaccination, leading to 'vaccination hesitancy.’ Later, when vaccination drives were expanded, these translated into ‘vaccination urgency’. There are also anxieties about a potential third wave.  What is the status of Nimhans’ National Psychosocial Helpline? The helpline has been running for over a year and has received more than five lakh calls. There is an effort to specifically address the concerns of children and women through this helpline. While a lot of the calls initially were with regard to services and Covid-19 related information, progressively there have been more calls related to psychological distress.  With talk of the third wave, how have children fared during the pandemic so far, from a mental health point of view? Absence from school, outdoor play with peers, and online classes have posed tremendous challenges. There are concerns about behavioural and emotional problems increasing among children because of this. Concern has also arisen due to increased use of mobile phones and TV watching. Children in difficult circumstances are particularly vulnerable as many of the welfare schemes have not been optimally running for more than a year. There has been an increase in the calls related to child abuse reported by the National Commission for the Protection of Child Rights and other child helplines. A flagship programme at Nimhans, called SAMVAD, has been training child protection functionaries through tele-training and mentoring to provide first-level responses to children in distress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-pandemic-has-brought-an-epidemic-of-mental-distress-nimhans-director-1010618.html
20-07-2021||Right in the Middle||Tampering with the nose||There are two famous walls— The great wall of China, which is still standing, and the Berlin Wall, which was pulled down. And there are the walls of insignificance fought over by blood relations, principally. Years ago, I sat along with my wife before an ENT specialist, who resembled an old barn owl. He inclined his head towards my wife, ignoring me summarily, to hear about the object of our visit. From the dash of vermillion mark on his forehead, I construed that he must be an amalgam of allopathy and homoeopathy. "Doctor, my husband, here, always sniffs habitually like Krishnamachari Srikkanth, when the swashbuckler opens the Indian innings with Sunil Gavaskar. He gives an impression of a traffic cop, sniffing to know if a rider has taken a stiff one in the bar. I am not sure if it is sinus trouble or dust allergy. Please take a look and do something to stop his habit," she told him. I merely sniffed, to supply samples, if need be. The doctor chose at random the gleaming stainless steel instruments from his tray and deftly introduced, one after the other, first into my nostrils, pushing my nose every which way, and my mouth. Depressing my tongue, which I put  out, I choked, suppressing an urge to throw my lunch all over his desk and in Domino Effect sniffed with greater intensity. "Must be dust allergy, doctor," my wife suggested a diagnosis, "His people  are allergic to one thing or the other. His mother is allergic to the smell of garlic and the finicky father to incense sticks." Miffed at being out staged, the doctor said in his booming voice, "Madam, I’ll narrate you a story. There were two brothers who inherited a big house from their father. As it so happens, a dispute arose in dividing the house in two parts. A wall was built across the hall, dividing into two livable portions. But the younger one who checked the wall, constructed in his absence, found that a foot was away from his portion. A long pending dispute arose, that made the town lawyer build a small house from the fees he earned.  Coming to your husband’s case, the wall that separates the nose from the left and right nostrils, is  out of alignment or non-centric due to manufacturing defect by Almighty God." My wife perked up. "Doctor, you mean septum deviation?" Floored by her medical acumen, the doctor stood up and bowed his head in admiration, while I blinked owlishly. "Right, maam. It can be set right by a surgery. If you are sentimental, you can choose the auspicious date for the surgery. Here is an almanac." I stood up seething with anger. "No surgery. And no tampering  with my nose, mind you. I’ve managed to live for fifty long years with that askew septum, centum or whatever wall that is. And I hope to continue for the rest of my life." I quit the doctor’s cabin in a huff leaving both speechless.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/tampering-with-the-nose-1010598.html
20-07-2021||Second Edit||Pending dues, impending crisis||The Karnataka government, which finds itself under acute stress due to constricted revenue flows stemming from pandemic-related lockdowns and increased borrowings to fund the deficit, may well be staring at a financial crisis. Its unpaid bills to contractors have piled up to such an extent that it now owes them about Rs 15,000 crore, with the Public Works Department (PWD) alone accounting for Rs 4,500 crore, followed by the water resources department and the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). The dues, which stood at Rs 4,500 crore when the Kumaraswamy government was pulled down in May 2018, have tripled during the two years B S Yediyurappa has been the chief minister. Though pendency of bills is nothing new, it has never ballooned to such proportions. This is just the tip of the iceberg. While the state readies itself to tackle the third wave of Covid-19, it is yet to clear bills worth crores of rupees to private hospitals for treating patients referred by the government. So far, it has paid bills of barely 30% of the 2.66 lakh patients treated under the government quota. Huge bills of Indira Canteens, which provide subsidised food to the urban poor, are also yet to be cleared. Such delays in payments will have a telling effect on businesses, leaving contractors and their companies bankrupt, besides severely impacting the entire supply chain and rendering many jobless. Contractors and vendors usually have a holding capacity of 45-90 days maximum and any delay in clearing bills beyond this period tends to choke the flow of funds and adversely affects the progress of projects they may be undertaking. Besides, since almost all projects are funded through borrowings, contractors will be forced to default on loans, which not only increases the burden of interest but also has a bearing on their credit rating. The fallout may be even worse in the case of hospitals, with experts predicting that a third wave of the pandemic is impending. While large corporate hospitals may be able to bear it for a while, smaller facilities will be forced to shut down, leading to an acute shortage of beds. Without doubt, the state’s financial position is precarious, but the government, being a sovereign entity, should find ways and means to raise funds and clear its obligations at the earliest. Any further delay will not only destroy business entities to which the state owes large sums but will also have a cascading effect on the state’s economy as a whole.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/pending-dues-impending-crisis-1010609.html
20-07-2021||South||'Heed to citizens' right to life': SC pulls up Kerala over Bakrid relaxations||The Supreme Court on Tuesday slammed the Kerala government for giving in to the association of traders and religious pressure groups and relaxing Covid-19 restrictions for Bakrid festivities. It told the government to pay heed to right to life of citizens and follow its directions in the Kawad Yatra matter. "We may only say it is shocking state of affairs…..the relaxation of a day in category D (areas having high Covid positivity rate) is wholly uncalled for," a bench of Justices R F Nariman and B R Gavai said. "Pressure groups of any kind, religious or otherwise, cannot in any manner interfere with citizens’ fundamental right to life,” the bench clarified.      Senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for P K D Nambiar, a Delhi resident, submitted the court should pass some order in the matter, as Tuesday was the last day of Covid curbs relaxation.   The plea questioned the Kerala government's decision to relax Covid curbs for three days due to Bakrid festivities. The bench, however, said “The horse has already bolted”. Had the plea been filed earlier, then surely something could have been done, the bench said, refraining from passing any order to quash the notification issued by Kerala government. The court, however, said if there is any spread of the infection due to these relaxations, then any person can bring it to the notice of the court which will take appropriate action. The issue was raised through an application in a Suo Motu matter on Uttar Pradesh government's decision to allow the Kawad Yatra. The court had told the Uttar Pradesh government to reconsider its decision on allowing Kanwad Yatra, or the court will pass order on Monday, in view of looming fear of third wave of Covid-19 pandemic. Subsequently, UP government cancelled the Yatra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/heed-to-citizens-right-to-life-sc-pulls-up-kerala-over-bakrid-relaxations-1010691.html
20-07-2021||South||Sasikala visits ailing AIADMK leader; waits for EPS to leave the hospital||Sending out a strong political message, ousted AIADMK interim general secretary V K Sasikala on Tuesday drove to the Apollo Hospital to enquire about the health of an ailing party senior who had rebelled against her in 2017.  High drama was witnessed outside the hospital on Tuesday afternoon as Sasikala waited inside her car for about five minutes for Opposition Leader Edappadi K Palaniswami to leave the premises. Palaniswami was inside the hospital to meet the family of E Madhusudhanan, who is critically ill and is being treated at the ICU of the hospital. Sasikala’s visit to the hospital is significant in more ways than one — the car in which she travelled was used by J Jayalalithaa and the vehicle sported the AIADMK flag on its bonnet. This is also Sasikala’s first public appearance after she announced her intention to make a comeback into politics in May this year.  “Madhusudhanan is an AIADMK veteran. He is part of our family. He has been associated with Thalaivar (M G Ramachandran) since his days in Tamil cinema. I came to inquire about his health from his family members,” Sasikala told reporters after her visit to the hospital. Palaniswami, who was at the hospital to inquire about Madhusudhanan’s health, left the premises after he was told that Sasikala was on her way. Sasikala was inside her car for five minutes before entering the hospital.  By visiting the hospital to inquire about the health of a person who had rebelled against her, political observers said, Sasikala has sent a strong message to EPS and OPS that she was determined to stake a claim for the party leadership. They said one must remember Madhusudhanan had openly rebelled against her and sided with Panneerselvam in 2017. The observers added that this was Sasikala’s way of announcing that she was ready for a patch-up. Sasikala’s attempt to make a comeback to the party is being resisted by Palaniswami, who was handpicked by her to be the Chief Minister in 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sasikala-visits-ailing-aiadmk-leader-waits-for-eps-to-leave-the-hospital-1010796.html
20-07-2021||South||Kerala minister allegedly tried to settle molestation case||Kerala Forest Minister and NCP leader A K Saseendran had allegedly intervened in settling a molestation complaint at Kollam district in Kerala. With the voice recording of the minister asking the complainant woman's father over phone to settle the case coming out, the Minister is on the defensive. Saseendran maintained that he intervened without knowing that it was a molestation case. While the accused and complainant's father are NCP local leaders, the complainant is a BJP worker. The police did not register a case on the molestation complaint of the woman even three weeks after the complaint was filed. The accused allegedly grabbed the woman by her hand and tried to sexually harass her at a hotel in Kollam district in March. The complaint was given at Kundara police in the rural parts of Kollam on June 28. In the telephonic conversation with the woman's father, the minister could be heard telling that the complaint should be settled amicably. The minister later maintained that he intervened as the accused was a party local leader and he was unaware that it was a molestation complaint. But in the audio conversation, the woman's father could be heard telling the minister that it was a molestation and sexual harassment bid attempt. Even then, Saseendran could be heard telling that the matter should be settled amicably The woman's father told a section of media that the delay in filing the petition was due to fear of disgrace as well as fear of being implicated in a false case by the accused. He also alleged that the police seem to be trying to scuttle the complaint as no case was even registered so far. Opposition Congress and BJP leaders in Kerala demanded that Saseendran be ousted from the Cabinet. Kollam District Additional Superintendent of Police Madhusoodanan told DH that the case was not registered so far for want of specific information from the complainant. The complainant did not remember the day the alleged incident occurred. Though it was also alleged that attempts were made to defame them through social media, they did not submit any substantiating materials like screenshots. The police special branch unit has been asked to verify the complaint and based on that a decision on whether to register a case or not would be taken.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-minister-allegedly-tried-to-settle-molestation-case-1010860.html
20-07-2021||South||Free vaccination at Tamil Nadu private hospitals soon, says state Health Minister||The Tamil Nadu government is planning to launch a free vaccination drive through private hospitals in the state, for the benefit of public, by utilising CSR funds provided by private companies, state Health Minister M Subramanian said on Tuesday. Talks were held in this connection with 117 private hospitals in Coimbatore, Tirupur, Erode and Salem and the scheme will be launched in this city initially and later expanded to other parts of the state, Subramanian told reporters here. The private companies that make contributions under the CSR initiative for the purpose will have the option to choose the hospital. So far the government has received Rs 61 lakh and at least 7,800 people can be inoculated using it, he said adding the district collectors and industries should monitor the scheme. Refuting the allegation by BJP MLA Vanathi Srinivasan that the vials meant for free vaccination drive were being diverted to private hospitals, he said if proved stringent action will be taken. Subramanian, who reviewed the medical activities being organised in and around Walayar on Tamil Nadu-Kerala border, said no Zika virus cases were reported in the State, as the government has taken concrete drive to eradicate mosquitoes for which 21,000 personnel were appointed. Of the required 12 crore doses of vaccination, Tamil Nadu has so far received over 1.80 crore, he said adding that in another five days more vaccines will arrive. The government will soon form a trust to provide treatment for spinal chord related problems, he said. Subramanian also wished speedy recovery to senior AIADMK leader E Madhusudhan, who is undergoing treatment at a hospital in Chennai. The State Food and civil supplies minister, Sakkarapani, Health Secretary Radhakrishnan, the District Collector, Sameeran were present during the review.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/free-vaccination-at-tamil-nadu-private-hospitals-soon-says-state-health-minister-1010862.html
20-07-2021||South||Aim to make Tamil Nadu a $1 tn economy by 2030: MKS||Chief Minister M K Stalin set an ambitious target for Tamil Nadu to become a $1 trillion economy by 2030, appealing to industrialists to turn as ambassadors for the state to garner more investments to boost employment opportunities for the youth.  Addressing Investment Conclave 2021, the first after he became Chief Minister on May 7, Stalin said the government was going all out to project and eventually emerge as the first address for investors. Pointing out that the state is already one of the most favoured destinations for investors, Stalin said his government’s aim was to transform Tamil Nadu’s status into that of the best investment destination in South Asia.  At the conclave, the Tamil Nadu government signed 35 Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with various companies for investing Rs 17,141 crore creating employment opportunities for 55,054 persons. Stalin also laid the foundation for nine projects, including an oxygen plant by INOX in Hosur, that would come up at a cost of Rs 4,250 crore. These new projects will provide employment to 21,630 persons. In the first step towards the state becoming an aerospace hub, the Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation (TIDCO) signed an MoU with General Electric for establishing a Centre of Excellence to enhance production of aircraft and aeronautical components for industries in the aerospace and defence sector using advance manufacturing technologies.  In his address, Stalin said the government was setting up a 10 MLD TTRO plant near Hosur to ensure adequate water supply to industries and is spending Rs 500 crore for building workers’ quarters. He also said the state has launched Single Window Portal 2.0 with 100-plus services spread across departments for existing and new investors. The new projects for which MoUs were signed on Tuesday are spread across the state. Taiwan’s Lotus Footwear will set up three units in the state, while Tata Consultancy Service will come up with an IT park on the outskirts of the city. JSW Renew Energy is setting up a 450 MW wind power generation in four districts and Araymond Fasteners is setting up a unit in Hosur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aim-to-make-tamil-nadu-a-1-tn-economy-by-2030-mks-1010870.html
20-07-2021||South||No more relaxation on curbs in Kerala as Covid-19 cases surge||As the Covid graph of Kerala is witnessing further escalation, the state government has decided not to give any more relaxations in lockdown norms. The test positivity rate (TPR) of the state further escalated on Tuesday and reached 11.91 per cent. The TPR of 11.08 per cent recorded on Monday was also the highest over the last one month. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in a statement after the weekly Covid evaluation meeting that testing for the virus in the state would be increased further. At least three lakh tests would be conducted on Friday. The existing lockdown norms would continue for one more week. The three-day relaxations in lockdown given in view of Bakrid, which invited widespread criticism, will end by Tuesday. Since many commercial streets in Kerala witnessed considerable rush following the relaxations, health experts are anticipating a further Covid surge in Kerala by next week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-more-relaxation-on-curbs-in-kerala-as-covid-19-cases-surge-1010899.html
20-07-2021||South||Accused in Kerala bus burning case sentenced to 6 years||A special NIA court in Kochi sentenced an accused in a bus burning case at Kalamasserry on the suburbs of Kochi to 6 years rigorous imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs 1.6 lakh. K A Anoop, a native of North Paravoor in the suburbs of Kochi, was sentenced on Monday. The case pertained to hijacking and setting ablaze a Tamil Nadu government bus on September 9, 2005, protesting the detention of PDP chairman Abdul Nasar Madani in connection with the Coimbatore blast case. Madani's wife Sufia's Madani and terror accused Tadiyantavide Nazeer were among the 13 chargesheeted by NIA. Anoop, who was then absconding, was arrested abroad in 2016. He was sentenced under various offences including section 18 of UAPA for conspiracy to commit a terrorist act. The trial against the other accused is progressing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/accused-in-kerala-bus-burning-case-sentenced-to-6-years-1010915.html
20-07-2021||State||Private schools that denied students opportunity to write SSLC exams to face action||Private schools across Karnataka which deprived students the opportunity to appear for the SSLC examination by not sending their details to the examination board, will face the music according to the state government. Following complaints from students and parents in this regard, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar on Monday ordered an inquiry by the Commissioner of Public Instruction and any school found to have failed to send the details of the students will be dealt with seriously.  Pointing to a particular case of a girl from Koratagere taluk in Tumakuru who tried to kill herself as she was denied admission ticket citing non-payment of fees, Suresh Kumar said, “There is some communication issue between parents and schools. I had even met the student and assured her of allowing to appear for the exams in August. The commissioner has directed the joint director to conduct an inquiry into the issue and submit a detailed report.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/private-schools-that-denied-students-opportunity-to-write-sslc-exams-to-face-action-1010584.html
20-07-2021||State||No problem in writing exam on OMR sheet: SSLC students||The SSLC examinations began on a positive note at 179 examination centres across the Dakshina Kannada district on Monday. Carrying masks and sanitiser bottles beside their exam essentials, students arrived at the centres to write the exams. However, 37 students were absent and did not write the examinations.  As many as 30,606 students had enrolled for the exams in the district. As many as 441students are from the neighbouring Kasaragod district, studying in different schools in the district. The district administration had made arrangements to ferry the students from border areas. Fifteen Covid-19 positive students wrote their examinations at Covid Care Centres (CCC) in taluk headquarters. Of the 28,111 fresh candidates, 28,088 appeared for the exams. Out of 722 private registered students, 716 wrote the exams. While out of 1,773 repeaters, 1,765 appeared for the exams. Thirty-two students wrote their exams in a separate room owing to illness and 165 students wrote their exams in their native villages. Students arrived at the examination centres either through public transport system or were accompanied by their parents. With no other means of transportation, the students from Kasaba Bengre had to depend on boat service to reach the examination centres. OMR sheets The students who marked their answers on OMR sheet for the first time were happy with the entire experience. Canara High School student Renika said, “We wrote the exam amid the scare of Covid-19. We didn’t face any problem in writing the exam on the OMR sheet. As it was multiple-choice questions, we had to shade the right answer on the OMR sheet. Writing the exam on the OMR sheet gave us an opportunity to practice for future exams.”   Ganapathi Nayak, another student, said, “It was not an easy paper. There were indirect questions in social science. Even science and mathematics too were tough. Shading the OMR sheet was a unique experience.” Sweety D’Souza, a teacher at Lady Hill School, said, “The OMR sheets were of different colours. Thus there was no confusion among students and teachers while collecting them after the exam. The students were also informed in advance on shading the OMR sheets.” Manjula, a parent, said, “I was tensed initially as how to send my daughter to the examination. Looking at the precautionary measures taken, I feel the government has taken the right decision to conduct the exam.” As students entered the premises of examination centres, their body temperature was checked and their hands were sanitised. DK Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V visited Padavu School and Capitanio School in Mangaluru where SSLC exams were held. Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Dr Kumar visited St Joseph's School in Jeppu, Hira School in Babbukatte and Nithydhara High School in Permannur-Babbukatte.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-problem-in-writing-exam-on-omr-sheet-sslc-students-1010736.html
20-07-2021||State||Hold Eid prayers in mosques, not Eidgahs: Wakf Board||The Karnataka Wakf Board has directed all mosques in Bengaluru and other parts of the state to hold prayers only inside the mosques and not in Eidgahs or any other grounds, which attract a large congregation of people, on the occasion of Bakrid. The decision was taken keeping in mind the Covid situation, according to officials of the Board. Wakf Board CEO Y M Mohammed Yousuf told DH that the directive was issued based on the government’s guidelines. “The government had issued the guidelines to the minority welfare department and the same has been communicated to all the mosques and religious institutions through the Board. We also created awareness among the mosques to adhere to the guidelines strictly,” he said.  Yousuf said, “Mosques will only be allowed to conduct prayers ensuring social distance and other guidelines. No mosque or institution is allowed to conduct or hold prayers at Eidgahs or any ground by inviting large gatherings.” He said the veterinary and police departments will ensure the prohibition of cow slaughter. “The veterinary department has issued guidelines on the prohibition of cow slaughter. It will be enforced by the veterinary and police departments across the state. We have asked our district-level officers and mosques to educate and make sure people follow the guidelines on slaughter,” the CEO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hold-eid-prayers-in-mosques-not-eidgahs-wakf-board-1010903.html
20-07-2021||State||Degree admissions may see mad rush as PU results zoom up||With more than 6.66 lakh II PU students passing the exams without examination this year, admission to various professional and graduate courses is likely to witness intense competition in the state.  Announcing the results, Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar said, “Out of the 6,66,497 candidates, 95,628 secured distinction, 3,55,078 have secured first class and 1,47,055 passed with second class. As many as 68,729 students have been promoted with just pass.” The minister said, “I know some of the students who wanted to write the exams are angry with me. But, the results are based on the students’ merit and we have put in honest efforts.”  All students have been promoted, considering 45 per cent of the marks scored by them in SSLC (class 10), 45 per cent from I PU and another 10 per cent marks from internal academic activities in II PU. This apart, grace marks of 5 per cent has been given to all students. “If any student is not happy with the result, they can appear for the exam scheduled on August 19. The last date to register for the exam is July 30,” the minister said.  As percentage of students with distinction and first-class has shot up by 33 per cent compared to previous years, admission to higher education courses, including professional and undergraduate, is likely to witness intense competition among students, along with similar competition from students of other states. However, the minister has assured admission to all students. “The higher education department has taken measures to increase the intake in undergraduate courses and students need not worry about availability of seats,” Kumar said.  The government’s decision to promote all students has resulted in a steep increase in the pass percentage compared to previous years. While only one student secured cent per cent marks (600 marks) during 2020, this year 2,239 students secured 600 out of 600, all streams combined. An impressive number of students, 4,50,706, have secured distinction and first class this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/degree-admissions-may-see-mad-rush-as-pu-results-zoom-up-1010906.html
20-07-2021||State||Karnataka govt to develop 5,600 km roads this year||The state government plans to develop 5,600 km of road under the Gram Sadak Yojana this year. Last year, the government managed only about 495 km of road, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said on Tuesday.  He was briefing reporters after a review meeting by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa chaired on centrally-sponsored schemes in Karnataka.  This year, the Centre has allocated Rs 38,078 crore for the implementation of the centrally-sponsored schemes in Karnataka. Of this, the Centre's share is Rs 17,536 Crore. The Centre has so far released Rs 4,074 crore, according to an official release.  There are 11 centrally-sponsored schemes across the 24 departments in the state. The CM reviewed all these programmes, including MGNREGS, Pradhan Mantri Grama Sadak Yojana, Jal Jeevan Mission, Mid-Day Meals, Samagra Shiksha, National Rural Health Mission, among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-to-develop-5600-km-roads-this-year-1010907.html
20-07-2021||State||HC quashes appointment of KAS officers as special DCs of Bengaluru Urban||The High Court has quashed the government order appointing two KAS officers, K M Jagadeesh and Basavaraj, as special deputy commissioners of Bengaluru Urban district. A division bench headed by Justice B V Nagarathna has also directed the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms (DPAR) to post IAS officers for these posts so as to discharge their duties, as quasi judicial officers, under section 136 (3) and such other provisions under the Karnataka Land Revenue Act. The PIL is filed by Vasudeva Reddy, a city-based advocate. The petition sought directions restraining two officers from exercising power contemplated under section 136 (3) and section 67 (2) of the Karnataka Land Revenue Act, 1964, insofar as Bengaluru Urban district. The special deputy commissioners I and II are discharging their duties for Bangalore North Division and Bangalore South Division. The bench noted that the appointment of two KAS officers as special deputy commissioners runs contrary to the government order dated October 10, 2014, which specifies that only IAS officers have to be posted to the two posts. The bench also noted that the appointment is in contravention of the High Court order in a PIL on August 26, 2014, wherein the government had clarified that the special deputy commissioners appointed on temporary basis (KAS cadre) were not required to exercise powers under section 136(3) of the KLR Act. “Therefore, the respondent-state is directed to appoint the officers belonging to IAS cadre as Special Deputy Commissioners I and II to discharge their duties under the provisions of the Karnataka Land Revenue Act, 1964, particularly Section 136(3) and such other provisions which are of a quasi judicial in nature,” the court said, adding that this exercise shall be made within a period of one month from the date of receipt of the order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hc-quashes-appointment-of-kas-officers-as-special-dcs-of-bengaluru-urban-1010908.html
20-07-2021||State||Karwar naval base declared no-fly zone||An area of three km from the perimeter of the naval base at Karwar and Vajrakosh have been designated as ‘no fly zones’. All individuals/ civil agencies are prohibited from flying any aerial drones within these zones for any reason. Use of drones is governed by guidelines issued by Ministry of Home Affairs as amended from time to time. Approval from the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) is to be obtained through the Digi Sky website (www.dgca nic in) and a copy of the approval letter is to be submitted to headquarters, Karnataka Naval Area, at least two weeks before the scheduled flying operation. The Indian Navy reserves the right to confiscate or destroy any aerial drone or unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) found flying within these areas without prior approval. Operators found violating these guidelines will be liable for prosecution under the relevant provisions of law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karwar-naval-base-declared-no-fly-zone-1010909.html
20-07-2021||State||Karnataka Pegasus row: BJP sees role of 'anti-nationals'||The Karnataka BJP has dismissed allegations of snooping on Congress and JD(S) leaders in 2019 prior to the collapse of the coalition government. It alleged that ‘anti-nationals’ and ‘foreign agents’ were behind the slander campaign against the Centre. Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan, addressing a news conference, said that the snooping allegations were baseless. “The culture of phone tapping is only in Congress,” he said, after reports emerged that the controversial Pegasus spyware was used to snoop on leaders of the coalition government. According to responses received under RTI by BJP leaders, the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) had admitted to tapping 9,000 phones and 500 e-mail accounts, he said. Ashwath Narayan alleged that during the tenure of UPA, phones of union ministers and Congress leaders were snooped on. “Amnesty International is trying to bring disrepute to India by making baseless allegations” he said. BJP general secretary Ashwathnarayan charged that Amnesty International, which exposed the Pegasus scandal, was promoting religious conversions in the country. The organisation had been financing anti-national student organisations, ” he alleged. The scam is being highlighted to hide the internal strife in Congress units of Karnataka, Rajasthan and Punjab, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-pegasus-row-bjp-sees-role-of-anti-nationals-1010911.html
20-07-2021||State||CM Yediyurappa reviews flood situation in Karnataka||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa held a review meeting on Tuesday to assess the damages caused by heavy rainfall in several parts of the state. In a video conference with deputy commissioners and chief executive officers of 13 districts, Yediyurappa directed them to ensure that all precautionary measures are in place to prevent loss of life and property. According to a release from the CMO, officials from Kodagu, Ballari, Hassan, Udupi, Shivamogga, Uttara Kannada, Dakshina Kannada, Chikkamagaluru, Vijayapura, Kalaburagi, Mysuru, Koppal and Belagavi districts participated in the meeting. The districts have received heavy rainfall over the past week increasing risk of flooding and landslides. Funds will be released to procure modern equipment for flood relief activity. Special teams were formed to identify regions susceptible to land slides, the CM said, instructing officials to shift people living in such regions to relief camps.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cm-yediyurappa-reviews-flood-situation-in-karnataka-1010914.html
20-07-2021||State||Surjewala to tour Karnataka ahead of Council polls||KPCC working president Saleem Ahmed on Tuesday said that AICC general secretary and Karnataka in-charge Randeep Singh Surjewala will tour across the state from July 22 to 31 with the objective of strengthening the party at the grassroots level ahead of elections to the Legislative Council. Saleem Ahmed told media persons that Surjewala will first reach Bengaluru and hold a meeting with senior Congress leaders on the evening of July 22. On June 23, he will visit Mangaluru and hold day-long discussions with MLAs, former MLAs, MPs, MLCs, candidates who had contested 2018 elections from five districts including, Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, Udupi and Dakshina Kannada districts, Salim Ahmed said. A similar meeting has been convened in Tumakuru on July 25 and other districts up to July 31. An action plan will be discussed in Mangaluru on defeating BJP in the next city corporation, Council and two by-elections, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/surjewala-to-tour-karnataka-ahead-of-council-polls-1010916.html
20-07-2021||State||Next Karnataka CM: BJP central leadership to spring a surprise?||The BJP central leadership is playing its cards close to its chest as its succession plan for Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa remains a closely guarded secret. Though several names are doing the rounds, two names have emerged front-runners in the race: Union Minister Pralhad Joshi, a Brahmin and BJP national general secretary CT Ravi, a Vokkaliga. While elevation of Joshi will result in a CM from Brahmin community for the first time since 1988, the appointment of Ravi is expected to help the saffron party make further inroads into the Vokkaliga heartland of South Karnataka. Other names doing the rounds include BJP national general secretary (organisation) B L Santhosh, Assembly speaker Vishveshwar Hegde Kageri, Mines & Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani, MLA Arvind Bellad among others. The trend of the BJP national leadership to spring a surprise while making such appointments has even left party leaders wondering about who would replace Yediyurappa. Contributing to the suspense were the remarks by Yediyurappa’s critic, Bijapur City MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal. He said Wednesday that the next CM will be a “surprise pick.” It is still unclear whether the central leadership will risk the backlash from Lingayat community by replacing Yediyurappa, what with influential seers threatening the party with dire consequences. Some in the party ranks insist that a Lingayat should be replaced by another Lingayat leader from North Karnataka. “Party high command can handle any disgruntlement after the new CM is picked. What they are wary of is whether it will dent BJP’s prospects in Karnataka or whether it will help the party grow,” a source said, adding that picking a Brahmin CM could hurt BJP in regions where it is planning to expand. Choosing a Lingayat would be optimal, followed by a Vokkaliga or Dalit leader as they can help the party expand its base. The BJP is looking for a smooth transfer of power as installing a new CM will have an effect on the 2023 polls. Speaking to DH, political analyst Sandeep Shastri quipped that all those aspiring to be CM must be praying that “their names are not projected by the media.” A surprise pick cannot be ruled out, as it is the USP of the current BJP leadership, Shastri said, citing the examples of the CM’s in Uttar Pradesh, Assam and other states. “Same thing is likely to happen here...Names not fancied by people will spring up,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/next-karnataka-cm-bjp-central-leadership-to-spring-a-surprise-1010919.html
20-07-2021||State||Karnataka govt taps MGNREGS for water conservation under 'Jal Shakti'||While the Centre had directed all states this year to make use of MGNREGS for taking up works under the Jal Shakti Abhiyan, Karnataka has extensively focused on water conservation activities under the programme over the last four months.  Beginning from the end of March to July, the state government has taken up 1.3 lakh works under Jal Shakti Abhiyan, through MGNREGS. According to officials in the department, as of July, the state government has used 82% of the MGNREGS funds (of Rs 2,000 crore spent until now) towards water conservation activities, while the general mandate for Natural Resource Management (NRM) under the scheme is 65%.  The government has stepped up efforts towards rejuvenation of water bodies, rainwater harvesting, watershed development and afforestation. Not only has this helped increase work opportunities for people under the MGNREGS, it has also encouraged many parched regions in the state to start thinking about creation of sustainable water sources, officials said. Speaking to DH, MGNREGS Commissioner Anirudh Sravan Pulipaka said they had achieved 6.23 crore person days of work under the scheme up till July this financial year comapared with 5.5 crore person days in the corresponding period last year. A majority of the works have been taken up to recharge water bodies (50,000) and for watershed development (49,000), data available with the department showed.  Each district has uniquely prioritised the kind of work to be taken up depending on the requirement in that particular region. While coastal and Malnad areas have focused on getting narrow channels cleared, districts such as Ballari have focused on farm ponds and Ramanagara has take up lake desilting. “Belagavi has done exceptional work. The district has built 200 new tanks with the help of workers under MGNREGS,” the official explained.  The department aims to take up about seven lakh projects by the end of the fiscal. While Jal Shakti Abhiyan was launched in 2019, the Centre directed the states to make use of MGNREGS for works under the programme in March thisyear.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-taps-mgnregs-for-water-conservation-under-jal-shakti-1010939.html
20-07-2021||State||Measures to address woes of Kannadigas, Tamilians in Kerala mooted||A special officer appointed by the Kerala government to study the issues of the Kannadigas and Tamil-speaking linguistic minorities in Kerala has made a series of recommendations like appointing officials familiar with the languages in regions dominated by these groups. The Linguistic Minorities of Kerala Report prepared by special officer Neduvattom Gopalakrishnan Nair, which was submitted to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan the other day, also recommended that preference should be given to the people of linguistic minorities permanently residing in Kerala, rather than those residing outside the state. Gopalakrishnan Nair told DH that even though Kerala gives much consideration to linguistic minorities, those sections were still facing several issues. Hence, the state government appointed a special officer to look into the issues. At present, there are around 87,000 Kannadigas in Kerala, of which over 56,000 are in Kasargod, followed by 14,000 in Wayanad. The Tamil population in Kerala is around 5 lakh. Despite a 1.24 lakh Tulu-speaking population, they were not considered a linguistic minority as Tulu was yet to be considered as an official language. The special officer found that language was a big hurdle for these people in the state. Hence, it was suggested that officers familiar with their languages be appointed on a contract basis. All government announcements and forms in such regions should also be published in Kannada and Tamil, the report said. Other recommendations included question papers in Tamil and Kannada for teachers' eligibility tests and higher secondary examinations. There is a trend of Kannada and Tamil-speaking people from outside the state taking government recruitment tests in Kerala and availing the reservation benefits for linguistic minorities. This was depriving the linguistic minorities settled in Kerala of job chances. The special officer also found that the present norm that those settled in Kerala before 1950 will be only considered as a linguistic minority was causing inconvenience to many. Hence, it was recommended that the cut-off date may be re-fixed as 1970.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/measures-to-address-woes-of-kannadigas-tamilians-in-kerala-mooted-1010952.html
20-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Medical, dental colleges in Karnataka log 80% attendance||The colleges, offering medical, dental and paramedical courses in the state, registered 80 per cent of attendance of students on day one of the resumption of offline classes onMonday. The institutes, affiliated to Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS), resumed the offline classes and the details provided by the university showed that the colleges have reported 80 per cent attendance.  Dr Jayakara, in-charge vice-chancellor, said, “We are expecting 100% attendance after a week as some students are at their home towns and returning to the campuses in a weekor so.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/medical-dental-colleges-in-karnataka-log-80-attendance-1010586.html
20-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Over 8 lakh students brave pandemic to write SSLC exams||As many as 58 SSLC students faced the board exam from Covid Care Centres while 99.64% of the 8.50 lakh SSLC students braved the pandemic to appear for the examinations that commenced on Monday. The attendance is an improvement over last year’s 98.30% per cent. Exams for three core subjects were conducted during the day. Some examination centres were decorated and students were welcomed with flowers. “The students are writing examinations in a critical situation during this pandemic time and we decided to boost their confidence by decorating the exam centre,” said a teacher on examination duty in Nanjangud taluk in Mysuru district. The maximum number of candidates registered was for Mathematics with 8.52,191 of whom 8,49,199 appeared. For science, 8,43,976 students had registered and 8,40,841 were present. In social science, total students registered were 8,24,689 and while 8,21,823 appeared for the exam. It was a lifetime experience for 58 students who wrote their first board exams (SSLC) from the Covid Care Centres (CCC) on Monday. These students had tested positive for Covid-19 but were keen on writing the exam. Considering the requests by students and from their parents, the department of primary and secondary education made separate arrangements in CCCs located at taluk centres, with doctors and medical officers as invigilators. Further, they were also provided with ambulances to pick and drop the students back. As per the data provided by the department, Mangaluru turned out to be the district with the highest number (14) of positive students Meantime, around 111 students across the state have written exams in isolation rooms provided at the respective examination centres due to Covid-like symptoms. “The students with cold, cough, fever and other Covid-like symptoms were made to sit in separate rooms and write the exams,” Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said. Addressing the press conference after the examinations on Monday, Suresh Kumar said, “Around 2,880 students staying in the hostels have appeared for the exams and 10,693 candidates changed their exam centres as their families have migrated.” Even students from neighbouring states of Goa, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Kerala appeared for the exams. Of the 761 registered from these states, 760 appeared for the exams on Day One. The students were happy with the arrangements at the examination centres. “Safety measures were in place and we were provided with hand sanitisers at the entry and exit” said Deekshith, a student. “I was scared to attend the exams due to Covid, but as soon as I entered the exam centre I felt so happy with the arrangements,” said Preksha Gowda, another student.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/over-8-lakh-students-brave-pandemic-to-write-sslc-exams-1010587.html
20-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Snares turn silent killer of leopards in Karnataka||Wire snares have turned out to be silent killers of leopards, with a study showing that about 60per cent of the big cats succumb to injuries caused by the cheap but deadly trap, most of which are set up to catch wild boars. Researchers from the Nature Conservation Foundation analysed 113 reported incidents of leopards snared across Karnataka from January 2009 to December 2020. Though non-linear, the number of such incidents has gone up multifold from three in 2009 to 13 in 2015. Amid the pandemic, nine incidents were reported last year. The study looked into the reason for snaring in 78 incidents and found that protection of livestock accounted for only two (2.5per cent) incidents. The dominant reason for setting the snares was for killing wild boars at 66.7 per cent (52 incidents) followed by other wildlife (30.8per cent). As wild boars are blamed for crop loss, farmers intensify efforts to snare them during the monsoon and post-monsoon period. Leopards have become incidental casualties in this conflict. Of the 113 leopards captured in snares, 59 (52per cent) died at the location of snaring. Six rescued by officials succumbed at rehabilitation centres and two others that were released into the wild were found dead, taking the total mortality to 67 or 59.3per cent. Wildlife biologist Sanjay Gubbi, who led the study, noted that conservation has become a challenge due to changing dynamics in the man-animal conflict and erosion of natural habitats. "Unlike a gun, the snare doesn't make a big sound. Some of the leopards die even after the rescue because snares (built by thin metal wires) cause internal injuries besides the exhaustion and dehydration caused by adrenaline," he said. The study, while stressing that the number of snaring incidents could be much higher than reported, identified seven districts that accounted for about 78per cent of the reported incidents — Dakshina Kannada (15per cent), Mysuru (14.2per cent), Chikkamagaluru and Udupi (11.5per cent), Hassan (10.6per cent), Tumakuru and Ramanagar (7.1per cent). Gubbi said there was an urgent need to launch a full-scale conservation effort directed at leopards, which will indirectly benefit other large carnivores like sloth bear and striped hyena. "A large number of these incidents (55per cent) are happening outside protected areas where the density of human population is high. This tells us that conservation efforts should focus on wildlife outside protected areas," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/snares-turn-silent-killer-of-leopards-in-karnataka-1010613.html
20-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HC asks state to constitute Civil Services Board within two months||The Karnataka High Court directed the state government to constitute the Civil Services Board (CSB) within two months as per the directions of the Supreme Court in the T S R Subramanian case in 2013. A division bench headed by Justice Aravind Kumar passed the order on two petitions filed by the state government and IAS officer B Sharat challenging the order of the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) regarding the premature transfer of the officer. The state government had constituted the CSB on January 31, 2014. But it was back-burnered in a month with the state Cabinet resolving to keep it in abeyance. A Cabinet sub-committee was constituted to advise the government on transfer officers. The bench said the Cabinet's decision to keep the CSB in abeyance for an indefinite period is without any basis and also contrary to the directions of the apex court. "In other words, directions issued by the court in the T S R Subramanian case, rather than being implemented, has been made to vanish into thin air...," it said. The bench said it expected the state government to take immediate steps to constitute the CSB at the earliest. “We make it clear that the said constitution of the CSB shall be made expeditiously, at any rate, within an outer limit of two months from the date of receipt of copy of this order." Meanwhile, on the issue of Sharat’s transfer, the bench said the competent authority (chief minister) shall revisit the order dated September 29, 2020 and pass suitable orders. Background: After his transfer, Sharat was posted as Managing Director of Karnataka Silk Marketing Board Limited, Bengaluru. He filed a petition before the high court contending that after finding the transfer order was illegal, CAT ought to have quashed the order. The state government, on the other hand, challenged the CAT order directing it to reinstate CSB.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hc-asks-state-to-constitute-civil-services-board-within-two-months-1010621.html
20-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Pontiff delegation to meet B S Yediyurappa, extend support||With Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa’s continuation as Chief Minister shrouded with uncertainty, a delegation of 35 Lingayat pontiffs is expected to meet him later in the day even as Chitradurga’s Shivamurthy Murugha Sharana became the latest voice lending support to the BJP leader. The delegation will mostly comprise pontiffs representing the Lingayat community to which Yediyurappa belongs. Balehosur Dingaleshwar Swamy is leading this delegation. On Tuesday, Shivamurthy Murugha Sharana from the Murugha Mutt in Chitradurga said the BJP should not replace Yediyurappa as the CM. “At this stage, a change in leadership is not justifiable,” the Murugha seer said in a statement. “Yediyurappa is someone who walked a lonely road, built the party from the group up and earned praise for forming a government in South India,” he said. “Every election has been fought under his leadership and has toiled much for the party. He has contributed much to the state. The feeling is strong that neglecting such a brilliant, experienced person will cause huge damage going forward. So, it is appropriate to treat him with respect,” the seer said. On Monday, Congress’ Lingayat leaders Shamanur Shivashankarappa and MB Patil also expressed support to Yediyurappa amid talks of his exit. Political circles are abuzz with theories that the Congress is looking to woo the Lingayat community, which is seen as the BJP’s support base. A politically-dominant community, Veerashaiva-Lingayats are estimated to form about 16% of Karnataka’s population.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pontiff-delegation-to-meet-b-s-yediyurappa-extend-support-1010716.html
20-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||I must accept high command’s decision: Yediyurappa tells pontiffs amid speculation of change in leadership||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is said to have told a delegation of pontiffs that he will have to accept the decision taken by the BJP central leadership, firming up speculation that a change of leadership is a real possibility. “All that Yediyurappa said was that he’ll have to accept the [BJP] high command’s decision. He said he won’t say more,” Balehosur Dingaleshwar Swamy, who led the delegation, told reporters after meeting Yediyurappa. “When we pressed, Yediyurappa refused to divulge details.”  More than two dozen saffron-clad pontiffs met Yediyurappa to express their support amid talks that the aging Lingayat leader was on his way out.  The Veerashaiva-Lingayat community is estimated to form about 16 per cent of Karnataka’s population and is considered to be the BJP’s core support base. Yediyurappa belongs to this community. “Yediyurappa is not the CM because he’s a Lingayat. He’s the CM because he’s a good leader. It’s not a question of Lingayat. It’s about his leadership, his capability,” the Dingaleshwar seer said. “In another couple of days, we will mobilise 500 seers for a meeting where we will take a stand. If the high command isn’t interested in keeping the BJP in power, they can change Yediyurappa. They will face the consequences,” he warned.  Mutts have always enjoyed political patronage, blurring the lines between their relationship at times. And, Yediyurappa is known to have provided generous grants to mutts and religious institutions during his previous term as chief minister, winning him brownie points. Earlier in the day, Shivamurthy Murugha Sharana from the Murugha Mutt in Chitradurga said the BJP should not replace Yediyurappa as the CM.  “At this stage, a change in leadership is not justifiable,” the Murugha seer said in a statement. “Yediyurappa is someone who walked a lonely road, built up the party and earned praise for forming a government in South India,” he said.  “Every election has been fought under his leadership and he has toiled much for the party. He has contributed much to the state. The feeling is strong that neglecting such a brilliant, experienced person will cause huge damage going forward. So, it is appropriate to treat him with respect,” the seer said.  On Monday, Congress’ Lingayat leaders Shamanur Shivashankarappa and MB Patil also expressed support to Yediyurappa amid talks of his exit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/i-must-accept-high-command-s-decision-yediyurappa-tells-pontiffs-amid-speculation-of-change-in-leadership-1010757.html
20-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Pegasus snooped on Karnataka leaders, their aides just before Congress-JD(S) government toppled in 2019: Report||A possible link of using Pegasus spyware to topple the JD(S)-Congress government in Karnataka two years ago emerged on Tuesday with a leaked database showing that G Parameshwara, close aides of H D Kumaraswamy and Siddaramaiah, and a policeman attached with former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda were chosen as targets for surveillance just before the coalition lost power. Their phone numbers are part of a leaked database accessed by the non-profit French media Forbidden Stories and shared with an international media consortium, which includes The Washington Post, The Guardian and The Wire. The BJP under B S Yediyurappa had managed to return to power after 17 MLAs from the JD(S)-Congress combine abruptly resigned, forcing Kumaraswamy to seek a vote of confidence, which he lost in July 2019 . The report claimed that the phone numbers of then Deputy Chief Minister Parameshwara and close aides of Chief Minister Kumarasamy and Siddaramaiah were chosen for surveillance ahead of the toppling of the government. The Wire, in its report, said, "The records indicate that the phone numbers of some of the key political players in Karnataka appear to have been selected around the time when an intense power struggle was taking place between the BJP and the JD(S)-Congress-led state government in 2019 after 17 ruling alliance's legislators abruptly resigned to force a trust vote in the Assembly." Parameshwara was also selected as a potential candidate for surveillance during the middle of the political developments in the state. He confirmed that he was using the particular phone number as mentioned in the database during that period but had since stopped using it for many months. The leaked database showed two phone numbers belonging to Satish, the personal secretary of Kumaraswamy, were selected for potential targeting in mid-2019 at a time the coalition government was trying to win back the rebels. Satish confirmed to The Wire that he was using the phone number in 2019 but refused to give further comments. The phone number of Venkatesh, personal secretary of Siddaramaiah, was also added to the database around the same time the coalition was in the doldrums. The Wire reported that Siddaramaiah has not been using a personal phone for many years and relies on his aides for phone conversations and "therefore, the selection of Venkatesh's phone number as a potential target for surveillance in this period assumes immense significance". The leaked database also had the phone number of Manjunath Muddegowda, a policeman who was deployed as one of the security personnel of Deve Gowda. Muddegowda, whose phone was selected as a potential target in 2019, confirmed his identity but refused to speak on the matter, The Wire said. In the absence of digital forensics, The Wire said, it is not possible to conclusively establish whether these Karnataka politician-linked phones were infected or subjected to an attempted hack. "However, the timing surrounding their selections as possible candidates for surveillance is crucial as during the political power game that played out, the Congress and the JD(S) alleged that the BJP, actively backed by the Union government, was attempting to topple their coalition government by poaching their party legislators," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pegasus-snooped-on-karnataka-leaders-their-aides-just-before-congress-jds-government-toppled-in-2019-report-1010797.html
20-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||II PUC results announced. 95,628 students secure distinction ||The state government on Tuesday announced the results of the II PUC (freshers and repeaters) students and it will be available on their registered mobiles in a while, according to officials of the state PU Education department. A month ago, the state government had cancelled the board exams for the II PUC keeping in mind the Covid pandemic situation and promoted all the students (freshers and repeaters) based on their SSLC and I PUC performance. The Primary and Secondary Education minister S Suresh Kumar released the results in Bengaluru. Out of the 6,66,497 students registered for the exam, as many as 95,628 students have secured distinction. while 3,55,078 students have secured first class followed by 1,47,055 students with second class and 68,729 students secured third class. If any students not happy with the results announced by the state government, can write the exam scheduled to be held from 19th August, according to the PUE department. The last date for registering the exam will be 30th July. The education minister has assured that all these students will get opportunities to get admission to higher education as the department of collegiate education has taken measures to increase intake at undergraduate level.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ii-puc-results-announced-95628-students-secure-distinction-1010815.html
20-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 1,464 new Covid cases, 29 deaths||Karnataka reported 1,464 new Covid-19 cases and 29 deaths on Tuesday, taking the total number of infections to 28,86,702 and the toll to 36,226. The day also saw 2,706 discharges, continuing to outnumber the fresh cases, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 28,24,197. Bengaluru Urban topped the list of cases, with 352 infections, as the city saw 1,110 discharges. The total number of active cases in the state is 26,256. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 1.29 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 1.98 per cent. Out of 29 deaths reported on Tuesday, five were from Bengaluru Urban, Dakshina Kannada, Hassan and Mysuru had three each, Haveri, Kolar, Mandya and Tumakuru (two each), followed by others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 352, Dakshina Kannada 200, Mysuru 117, Hassan 108, while the rest were scattered in other districts. Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases with a total of 12,22,807, followed by Mysuru 1,71,392 and Tumakuru 1,17,086. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 11,96,953, followed by Mysuru 1,67,231 and Tumakuru 1,14,658. Cumulatively a total of 3,71,33,137 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,13,456 were on Tuesday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-1464-new-covid-cases-29-deaths-1010881.html
20-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Want to study in US? Virtual showcase on July 23||Yashna Trust-EducationUSA Bangalore will conduct an Undergraduate Virtual Showcase on Friday, July 23.  This is an opportunity for students to interact directly with eight US university representatives and chat with EducationUSA advisers to understand the wide spectrum of educational opportunities available in the United States, all from the safety and comfort of their home.  Yashna Trust-EducationUSA Bangalore is a student advising centre supported by the US.  The US institutions participating in the showcase are the University of Rochester, Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis, Grinnell College, Michigan State University, the University of Wisconsin-Madison, Swarthmore College, the University of Washington, Seattle, and the Florida Institute of Technology.  In a news release, US Consulate General Chennai’s Public Affairs Officer, Anne Lee Seshadri, stated: "Undergraduate opportunities at United States' universities are unparalleled in the world. International students can enjoy flexible curricula, small-class sizes, unique research opportunities, beautiful, state-of-the-art facilities, and diverse student bodies. We welcome you to this event to learn more."  High school students seeking bachelor's degree programmes in the US can reserve their free spot at bit.ly/UG21Oth. The event will not be recorded and hence viewers cannot access it later, the release added.  For more information on the showcase or higher education in the US, call 98800-41115 (on WhatsApp) or email at edusa@yashnatrust.org.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/want-to-study-in-us-virtual-showcase-on-july-23-1010920.html
20-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Pegasus row: Congress demands judicial probe||Congress on Tuesday demanded a Supreme Court-monitored judicial inquiry into allegations of Pegasus spyware monitoring political leaders ahead of the collapse of JD(S)-Congress coalition government in 2019. Alleging that the NDA government's act was nothing but a murder of democracy, the Congress leaders demanded that Home Minister Amit Shah resign immediately owning moral responsibility. Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjuna Kharge, Congress leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah and KPCC president D K Shivakumar, Congress General Secretary (Organisation) K C Venugopal in a joint press conference said that the Modi government tried to destroy constitutional institutions. Announcing that Congress will hold “Rajbhavan Chalo” protests on Thursday across the country demanding the high-level probe, Venugopal said the NDA used this spyware to lure Congress MLAs and toppled Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Manipur governments. "This incident shows — who is safe anymore in the country? Everyone has to be careful in the country nowadays, there’s no privacy, our union government can enter into anyone’s kitchen, bedroom, bathrooms now," Venugopal said. “It is very clear that the central leadership of the BJP has planned to topple the government by horse-trading, by hook or crook. They used the Pegasus software to topple the government,” he said. “This is a crime committed by the Centre and it has to be raised in both the Houses of Parliament. BJP should not play such dirty games,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-pegasus-row-congress-demands-judicial-probe-1010932.html
20-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Water level crosses 100-feet mark in KRS dam||The inflow to the Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam crossed the 100-feet mark on Tuesday with copious rain in the Kodagu district and Cauvery catchment areas.  The water level of the dam on July 20 was 100.05 feet as against the maximum level of 124.80 feet. The inflow to the KRS dam was 12,861 cusec and outflow 2,228 cusec. The water level of the Kabini dam in H D Kote taluk in the Mysuru district was 2,276 feet as against the maximum level of 2,284 feet. The inflow was 6,232 cusec and outflow 5,000 cusec .||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/water-level-crosses-100-feet-mark-in-krs-dam-1010937.html
20-07-2021||West||'400 vehicles submerged in flooded parking lot in Mumbai'||Due to heavy rains, nearly 400 vehicles, including high-end cars, motorbikes and autorickshaws, were submerged in an underground public parking lot built by the Mumbai civic body at Thakur Complex in suburban Kandivali, an activist claimed on Monday. While the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) did not put a number to the affected vehicles, it assured to look into the possibility of giving compensation to their owners after studying an agreement signed with a private contractor that manages the premises. Due to heavy downpour in the western suburbs since Saturday night, rainwater entered inside the civic body's parking lot run by a private contractor. As a result two, three and four-wheeler vehicles parked in the sprawling area have got submerged. The activist, a local resident, said up to 15 feet water was inside the underground parking lot on Sunday morning and nearly 400 vehicles have been affected. Several autorickshaws, two wheelers and cars, including high-end ones like Audis, have got submerged, he said. "Water is being pumped out since Sunday morning, but about three feet water is still inside the parking lot," he said. He said the parking lot flooded because of an adjoining nullah which is about 20 feet wide. "The nullah has been covered with concrete. Hence, when it overflowed on Sunday morning, the water from it entered the parking lot and some neighbouring buildings," he said. Local corporator Sunita Yadav of the BJP said the parking lot used to witness flooding of up to a few inches in the past, but this time the situation was "horrible". "The civic body should pay compensation to all the vehicle owners," Yadav said, adding several autorickshaws drivers from nearby slum- dominated Poysar area had parked their vehicles there. A n autorickshaw driver from Poysar said it was a double whammy for him as water had entered inside his house on Sunday morning and his three-wheeler was among the affected vehicles in the parking lot. He said he will need at least Rs 30,000 to get his autorickshaw up and running on road again. The BMC said it will take a decision about giving compensation to the vehicle owners only after studying parking conditions and the agreement signed with the contractor. "After studying all the facts, we will take a decision accordingly," said P Velarasu, additional municipal commissioner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/400-vehicles-submerged-in-flooded-parking-lot-in-mumbai-1010579.html
20-07-2021||West||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray performs 'maha puja' at Pandharpur temple||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday performed the 'maha puja' of Lord Vitthal and Goddess Rukmini at a temple in Pandharpur town of Solapur district on the occasion of 'Ashadhi Ekadashi', and prayed to God for an end to the Covid-19 crisis and good health of everyone in the state. As per the long-standing tradition, the chief minister performed the puja with his wife Rashmi Thackeray at 2.30 am. Ekadashi marks the culmination of a pilgrimage called 'wari' that devotees (known as 'warkaris') undertake from across the state on foot to reach the Pandharpur temple town. The 'Ashadi Ekadashi' is one of the most important Hindu festivals. However, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the state government has not allowed the pilgrimage on foot since last year. The palkhis (palanquins) carrying 'padukas' (footwears) of saint-poets Dnyaneshwar and Tukaram left for Pandharpur in flower-decked buses from Pune district on Monday. After performing the puja, Thackeray said, "Let there be a sea of devotion in Pandharpur and warkaris be allowed to perform 'wari' on foot again, and for that, I prayed to Lord Vitthal to eradicate Covid-19 and bless people in the state with good health." His son and state minister Aaditya Thackeray was also present on the occasion. Warkari couple Keshav Kolte and Indubai Kolte got the opportunity to perform the rituals alongside the Thackerays. Every year, a warkari couple is chosen to perform the official puja with the chief minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-performs-maha-puja-at-pandharpur-temple-1010668.html
20-07-2021||West||Gujarat shopkeeper arrested for not taking Covid-19 vaccine||Police have arrested a shopkeeper in Gujarat's Kutch district for not taking vaccine against Covid-19, against the backdrop of the state government setting July 31 as the deadline for people in such businesses to get their first jab. While the FIR registered against the 54-year-old shopkeeper specifically mentioned that he had violated district collector's notification about compulsory vaccination by July 31, police officials claimed the main reason for his arrest was the violation of mask and social distancing norms, and not the issue of inoculation. "The person was running his shop without wearing a mask. We also noticed customers were not maintaining social distancing. The collector's notification about vaccination also carries a warning in this regard. Thus, his arrest was mainly because of these violations, not because of his failure in getting the first dose," police inspector KP Sagathiya said. The FIR was lodged at Kandla-Marine police station on July 17 against the shopkeeper under Indian Penal Code Section 188 for disobeying government order, and he was arrested on Sunday. As per the FIR, the man, a resident of Gandhidham town of Kutch, owns a provision store at a shopping centre in the Kandla port area. The complainant, police constable Udesinh Thakor, stated in the FIR that as per a notification issued by the district collector on July 9 to stem the spread of the coronavirus, people associated with businesses pertaining to hotels, malls, ration shops, saloons, and restaurants "are required to get their first dose of vaccine by July 31". As per the FIR, when Thakor and his team, who were on routine patrolling duty on July 17, saw several customers outside the person's shop, the police team approached him and "asked him if he had taken the first dose". However, the man denied it and failed to give any valid reason for not taking the jab, which was a violation of the collector's notification about compulsory vaccination by July 31, the FIR said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-shopkeeper-arrested-for-not-taking-covid-19-vaccine-1010726.html
20-07-2021||West||Raj Kundra lured helpless girls with the promise of film roles, say police||A day after businessman Raj Kundra was arrested by the Crime Branch-CID for running a pornographic content racket, it has emerged that his company allegedly lured girls on the pretext of acting opportunities in short films and web series and forced them to shoot nude and semi-nude pictures.  Kundra, a 45-year-old British-Indian businessman, is the husband of Bollywood actor, TV presenter, model and fitness expert Shilpa Shetty.  “It is a big racket and we have received a lot of complaints,” joint commissioner of police (crime) Milind Bharambe told reporters on Tuesday. The total number of arrests in the case, initially registered in Malvani police station and then transferred to Crime Branch-CID, has gone up to nine with the arrest of Kundra and his tech-man Ryan John Tharp.  The duo was produced before a Magistrate’s court in Mumbai, which remanded them to police custody till July 23. “They lured girls aspiring to be actors and offered them roles in short films and web series…they were told that they will have to give bold scenes and ultimately led them to give nude and semi-nude scenes,” Bharambe said.  According to him, the Crime Branch-CID was investigating the case for the past few months. “We have obtained necessary permissions of the court (during investigations). We have gathered voluminous evidence,” he said, adding that these include electronic evidence and WhatsApp chats. Bank-to-bank transactions have also been noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/raj-kundra-lured-helpless-girls-with-the-promise-of-film-roles-say-police-1010793.html
20-07-2021||West||Internet suspended for 24 hours in 3 Jhalawar blocks of Rajasthan after violence||Internet services have been suspended for 24 hours in three blocks of Rajasthan’s Jhalawar district following arson and incidents of loot, which took place hours after a scuffle between youths from two different communities, police said. The violence took place on Monday night, hours after the youths from the Muslim and Sondhya Rajput communities scuffled over an issue. The matter did not escalate at that time but later social media messages that Hindus have been attacked in Gangdhar town started circulating, triggering communal tensions. The authorities have suspended the Internet services in Gangdhar, Pedawa and Bhawani Mandi blocks for 24 hours from 12 am on Monday night to July 21 midnight . Police have registered four cases against around 200 people, mostly unidentified, for provoking violence and damaging public property. Three people have been arrested while 35 have been detained for questioning so far, police said. According to police, communal tensions gripped the area after the provocative messages were circulated on social media on Monday evening. Jhalawar SP Kiran Kang Sidhu said they immediately arrested three youths involved in the scuffle but Laxman Singh of the Sondhya Rajput community, along with 100 to 150 people, reached the Gangdhar police station, demanding the arrest of all from the other group. The mob was not satisfied with the arrest of just three youths and set the sawmill where the scuffle had taken place on fire, the SP said. When police tried to stop them, members from both communities started pelting each other with stones, in which Laxman Singh and two policemen sustained injuries. The mob also set a few vehicles on fire and damaged public property, the SP said. The situation further worsened when someone spread the rumour that Laxman Singh, who was sent to a hospital for treatment, had sustained bullet injuries. The SP said the situation in Gangdhar town is now under control. However, on the orders of the Kota divisional commissioner, the internet services have been suspended for 24 hours, Jhalawar District Collector Hari Mohan Meena said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/internet-suspended-for-24-hours-in-3-jhalawar-blocks-of-rajasthan-after-violence-1010794.html
20-07-2021||West||Maharashtra Govt did not avail of NSO’s services till I was CM: Fadnavis||Amid calls for a probe by ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi constituents on snooping during the previous BJP-led government, Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis clarified that the services of NSO were never taken when he was at the helm of affairs.  Fadnavis was Chief Minister from 2014-19 when he also held the Home portfolio.  State Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant has demanded a probe into the allegations of snooping when the previous government was in power. Even ruling Shiv Sena and NCP have expressed concern over the Pegasus issue.  Speaking to reporters, Fadnavis said, “When I was there (as Chief Minister) the NSO Group (which makes Pegasus spyware) was never contacted.”  According to him, the Maharashtra government never took any help from NSO till he was Chief Minister.  When asked that a group of five officers visited Israel, he said, “A team of DGIPR (the state government's publicity department) went to Israel after the (2019 Vidhan Sabha) elections and before the next (MVA) government was formed, but that trip was for agriculture development purposes.”  "This is a conspiracy to discredit Indian democracy by spreading such news on the eve of the Parliament session. It is noticed that whenever India moves forward, some people try to discredit the country for different interests," he said.  "With the strategy of derailing this convention, the work of the convention is being hampered by spreading fabricated news," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-did-not-avail-of-nso-s-services-till-i-was-cm-fadnavis-1010805.html
20-07-2021||West||Home vaccination for bed-ridden people to start in Mumbai from Aug 1: Maharashtra govt tells HC||The Maharashtra government and the Mumbai civic body told the Bombay High Court on Tuesday that they would start door-to-door vaccination against Covid-19 for bed-ridden and immobile people in the city as a pilot project from August 1. The court expressed its satisfaction and said, “The Union government did not rise to the occasion. However, the state government has risen to the occasion and today there is some light at the end of the tunnel.” Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, appearing for the state government, told a division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni that initially the plan was to start the home vaccination drive in Pune, but it has been changed to Mumbai considering the response received from such people. Kumbhakoni told the court that the government has received 3,505 responses in Mumbai from people who are bed-ridden or immobile and hence, unable to travel to the vaccination centres. He said a policy to this effect would be issued by the government and the home vaccination drive would begin from August 1 in Mumbai. As per the policy, people who are completely bed-ridden, immobile or suffering from some terminal illness shall be eligible for home vaccination. The court said the government and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) can begin the home vaccination drive for bed-ridden and immobile people from August 1, and a status report shall be filed by August 6 on its progress. "We hope and trust that the state government and the BMC shall leave no stone unturned to ensure that the eligible bed-ridden and immobile individuals will also have the benefit of Covid-19 vaccine,” the court said. The HC said the home inoculation drive shall also include those bed-ridden and immobile people who have somehow managed to get the first dose of the vaccine. Kumbhakoni said they will be included and the vaccines would be free of cost, as is being done in all government and civic-run hospitals. The court was hearing a petition filed by two advocates, seeking a direction to the Union and state governments to start door-to-door inoculation against Covid-19 for senior citizens above the age of 75, specially-abled people and those who are bed-ridden and hence, unable to go to vaccination centres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/home-vaccination-for-bed-ridden-people-to-start-in-mumbai-from-aug-1-maharashtra-govt-tells-hc-1010824.html
20-07-2021||West||Indian Navy to neutralise drones near its Mumbai installation||The Indian Navy has decided to neutralise drones in an area of 3 km from the perimeter of Indian Navy installations in Mumbai, designating it as a "No Fly Zone".  All individuals/civil agencies are prohibited from flying any aerial drones within these zones for any reason, the Indian Navy said. Utilisation of drones is governed by guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs which are amended from time to time. Approval from the Director General Civil Aviation (DGCA) is to be obtained through the Digi Sky website (www.dgca.nic.in), and a copy of the approval letter is to be submitted to Headquarters, Western Naval Command at least a week before a scheduled flying operation. "The Indian Navy reserves the right to confiscate or destroy any aerial drones or Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) found flying within these areas without prior approval. Operators found violating these guidelines will be liable for prosecution under the relevant provisions of law," an Indian Navy spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/indian-navy-to-neutralise-drones-near-its-mumbai-installation-1010828.html
20-07-2021||West||Goa to auction mines, start mining corporation soon, says CM Pramod Sawant||On a day when the Supreme Court of India dismissed review petitions filed by the Goa government and a private company related to the resumption of mining activity in the state, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday said that his government was in the process of forming a state mining corporation and said that the process of auctioning mining leases afresh would be started soon. Sawant also said that he was not to blame for the nearly year-long delay in filing the review petition -- one of the grounds cited by the court to dismiss the pleas -- stating that by the time he took charge as Chief Minister in March 2019, more than a year had already passed since the apex court's order scrapping all operational mining leases in the state. "Despite the fact that the review petitions have been dismissed, we will be passing the Mining Corporation Bill in the upcoming Assembly session. Mining will be started in a big way through the corporation and auctioning of leases will also be carried out, after exploration of the leases by the Mineral Exploration Corporation Limited (a central government agency)," Sawant said. "Mining will be started at the earliest. The government is serious about it," Sawant said. Earlier on Tuesday, a Supreme court bench comprising of Justices Dr Dhananjay Chandrachud and M R Shah passed a judgment dismissing petitions filed by the Goa government and a top mining company, Vedanta Resources Ltd, seeking a review of the apex Court's 2018 judgement, which had scrapped renewal of 88 mining leases in the state citing irregularities in the process. The order had also slammed the petitioners for filing the petitions after nearly two years of the Supreme Court judgement, while also hauling them for filing the petitions after the retirement of Supreme Court judges Madan Lokur and Deepak Gupta, the authors of the 2018 judgement. Mining resumption has been a key issue for the upcoming 2022 state Assembly polls and the Opposition has now accused the ruling BJP-led coalition government of trying to raise expectations related to mining resumption ahead of local elections. "They are fooling the people by giving false promises on restarting mining whenever elections approach. People should now understand the real game plan of the BJP and teach them a lesson," Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-to-auction-mines-start-mining-corporation-soon-says-cm-pramod-sawant-1010882.html
20-07-2021||West||ISRO Espionage case: Ex-Gujarat DGP moves HC fearing arrest, interim relief granted||The Gujarat High Court on Monday granted interim relief from arrest to ex-Director General of Police R B Sreekumar booked in  "ISRO Espionage'' in Kerala by the CBI. Sreekumar is among the 18 police personnel who have been charged for allegedly conspiring to frame former Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) scientist Nambi Narayanan in a spying case back in 1994. The court of justice A S Supehia issued notice to CBI and granted a stay on Sreekumar's arrest. Sreekumar has moved a transit anticipatory bail plea apprehending arrest and sought protection for a temporary period to move to the concerned court in Kerala. A transit anticipatory bail is a temporary relief in which a person approaches the nearest court which may not have jurisdiction over the place of offence. This is an interim protection from arrest till the person approaches the concerned court for relief without fearing arrest. Sreekumar, a Gujarat cadre ex IPS officer, is known for taking on the state government, then headed by PM Narendra Modi. He openly criticised Modi for mishandling the 2002 riots and had alleged that the state government had prevented the police from carrying out their duties during the communal riots. The 74-year-old ex-officer was denied promotion during his service and it was only after a court case that he was promoted to DGP rank post superannuation. Sreekumar's lawyer M M Tirmizi said that the court granted a stay on his arrest and issued notice to CBI while admitting the petition. Sreekumar's petition says that Vanchiyoor police station, Trivandrum had registered an offence under Foreigner's Act against Mariyam Rashida, a Maldivian national, for overstaying in India in 1994. The police also booked Rashida and one Fauzia Hasan, both from Maldives, under the official secrets act, 1923. The investigation was handed over to a special investigation team. During the probe, names of ISRO scientists including Nambi Narayanan and D Sasikumaran were disclosed and were interrogated by the SIT. Sreekumar has said that on the request of DGP, Kerala, the Director of Intelligence Bureau deputed several IB officers from Delhi, Mumbai and Thiruvananthapuram under the supervision of Joint Director, SIB, Trivandrum Mathew John, to assist the local police. The case was handed over to CBI which filed a closer report and concluded that the offence was not made out in the case and requested the central as well as Kerala government to take suitable action against the erring officials. The petition states that in November 1999, the central government served a nine-point chargesheet against three IPS officers including Sreekumar and ordered an inquiry. In October 2004, the government ordered a regular inquiry which exonerated everyone on the ground that no charges were proved. Kerala state didn't take any action.  Meanwhile, the Supreme Court in 2018 awarded compensation of Rs 50 lakh to Narayanan and also ordered the constitution of a committee for obtaining information surrounding the arrest and false implication of Narayanan. Justice D K Jain committee was formed which submitted naming Sreekumar, among others, based on which the FIR was filed by the CBI in May this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/isro-espionage-case-ex-gujarat-dgp-moves-hc-fearing-arrest-interim-relief-granted-1010887.html
20-07-2021||West||Convert Jinnah House into South Asia Centre for Arts and Culture: Maharashtra BJP||In a significant development, Mumbai BJP President Mangalprabhat Lodha called on Union Home Minister Amit Shah and demanded that the Jinnah House in Mumbai be converted into South Asia Centre for Arts and Culture. The historic Jinnah House in Malabar Hill was once the bungalow of Mohammed Ali Jinnah, the barrister-politician, who founded Pakistan and became its first Governor-General. Lodha, a five-time BJP MLA from the Malabar Hill seat, has been pursuing the issue for the last several issues. It may be mentioned that the Centre had handed it over to the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR).  Jinnah House carries a very simple postal address — No 2, Bhausaheb Hirey Marg, Malabar Hill, Mumbai, 400026 and is situated opposite Varsha, the official residence of Maharashtra Chief Minister and the palatial style bungalow is surrounded by ministerial houses.  Earlier Bhausaheb Hirey Marg used to be known as Mount Pleasant Road. Believed to have been built under the supervision of Barrister Jinnah, who was then a practising advocate at the Bombay Presidency High Court, the mansion has a built-up area of 1,694 sq metres and a garden spread over 4,358 sq metres. The mansion was designed by famous British architect Claude Barley. The mansion came into existence in 1938 and was then built at a cost of nearly Rs 2 lakh.  An intangible pre-Independence charm pervades the majestic structure. The momentous Gandhi-Jinnah talks were held here and a host of nationalist leaders including Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru and Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose were among the distinguished visitors to this place.  Historical records reveal that Jinnah wanted this house to be occupied by a “small European family or a refined Indian Prince" and expected rent of Rs 3,000 per month. He made his wishes known to then Bombay Province Governor Sri Prakasa who had been deputed by Nehru to find out what he (Jinnah) wanted to be done with the property after Partition. However, after Independence, it was declared an “evacuee property” and was let out to the British Deputy High Commissioner in 1955, which functioned from here till 1982. When the then Pakistan President Gen. Parvez Musharraf came in 2001 for the Agra summit-level talks with the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, he proposed that Jinnah House could be used as a Pakistani Consulate in Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/convert-jinnah-house-into-south-asia-centre-for-arts-and-culture-maharashtra-bjp-1010895.html
20-07-2021||West||Maharashtra revises number of Covid deaths, pushing India's single-day death toll to 3,998||The Covid-19 death toll in Maharashtra catapulted by a record 3,656 on Tuesday as the state revised the toll figures as part of the reconciliation process on the Covid portal.  India's 3,998 daily deaths on Wednesday were largely attributed to this updard revision. The country also saw over 42,000 new Covid cases. Maharashtra reported 147 single-day deaths on Tuesday and 3,509 old deaths were added to the day's toll, pushing the total number of deaths to 1,30,753.  Similarly, during the day 6,910 fresh cases were reported and 2,479 cases were added, pushing the progressive total to 62,29,596.  The total active cases in the state now stand at 94,593.   According to the  Public Health Department, the reconciliation of the positive Covid cases and deaths has been completed up to July 10 and July 12, respectively.  “Due to updation of previous cases and deaths by the concerned districts, the positive case tally of the state has increased by 2,479 while there is an increase of 3,509 deaths in the state's cumulative tally,” the Public Health Department said. During updation of cases and deaths due to de-duplication and change as per residential address of cases, there is either addition or deletion of cases and deaths in some of the districts. During the day, 7,510 patients were discharged taking the progressive total of recovered patients to 60,00,911. The recovery rate in the state is 96.33 per cent, while the case fatality rate in the state is 2.09 per cent. Among the 4,58,46,165 laboratory samples collected so far, 62,29,596 have tested positive (13.59 per cent) for Covid-19 until date. Currently, 5,60,354 people are in home quarantine and 3,977 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-revises-number-of-covid-deaths-pushing-indias-single-day-death-toll-to-3998-1010923.html
20-07-2021||West||Navy may destroy any drone spotted flying around naval facilities in Mumbai, warns Centre||The Indian Navy will confiscate or destroy any drone flying within three kilometers around its installations in Mumbai, the Ministry of Defence (MoD) stated, amid apprehensions about terrorists based in Pakistan using Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) to smuggle weapons or explosives to India as well as to carry out attacks. The government on Tuesday stated that the Indian Navy reserved the right to confiscate or destroy any aerial drones or Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) found flying within the “No Fly Zone”, an area of three kilometers from the perimeters of the naval installations in Mumbai, without prior approval. The drone operators found violating the government guidelines would be liable for prosecution under the relevant provisions of law, the Ministry of Defence stated in New Delhi. The Ministry of Defence’s warning came even as a high alert was sounded over a possible terror attack in New Delhi using explosive-laden drones before or during the Independence Day celebrations on August 15. Dilbagh Singh, the Director General of Police in Jammu and Kashmir, on Monday said that the role of the terrorist outfit Lashkar-e-Tayyiba (LeT) had been confirmed in most of the cases of smuggling of arms from Pakistan to India across the Line of Control (LoC) as well as the undisputed stretch of border between the two nations. Two low-intensity bombs were dropped on the Indian Air Force station in Jammu on June 27 from what was suspected to be a drone. The explosion damaged the rooftop of one of the buildings and injured two personnel. The incident was followed by at least six instances of sightings of drones near India-Pakistan LoC or over military installations in the Union Territory. The Border Security Force (BSF) personnel on July 14 spotted a drone flying over India’s territory along the undisputed stretch of country’s border with Pakistan at Arnia in Jammu. The drone retreated after the BSF personnel opened fire at it. The Ministry of Defence stated that all individuals and civil agencies were prohibited from flying any drone within the 'No Fly Zone' around the Indian Navy facilities in Mumbai for any reason. The utilisation of drones is governed by the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs. Any operator has to seek approval from the Director General Civil Aviation too fly a drone. A copy of the approval letter would have to be submitted to the headquarters of the Western Naval Command in Mumbai at least a week before the day the operator would like to fly the drone within the 'No Fly Zone' around the naval installations, the ministry stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/navy-may-destroy-any-drone-spotted-flying-around-naval-facilities-in-mumbai-warns-centre-1010947.html
