21-07-2021||First Edit||Independent probe must into Pegasus affair||The disclosure that the phones of over 300 people in the country were targeted for hacking using spyware called Pegasus, supplied by an Israeli company NSO Group, raises many serious ethical, political and legal questions. These questions have a bearing on constitutional practices and democratic conduct. The leaked database of targets for surveillance includes Indian mobile phone numbers, including those of politicians, constitutional officers, journalists, rights activists, even scientists and many others. The list includes not only Opposition leader Rahul Gandhi and the government’s critics but even the government’s own ministers and their aides, most notably the present IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw. Such surveillance is done only by the government or at its behest, but it has denied any association with and responsibility for it. Minister Vaishnaw, who is himself a victim, has made the absurd claim that the reports that appeared a day before the monsoon session of Parliament are an attempt to malign India. This ignores the fact that the disclosures were not just about India. They were made by an international team of investigative journalists from 16 reputed media houses, who found that over 50,000 phones all over the world were hacked with the help of Pegasus. The timing does not detract from the value of any disclosure. Reports of the use of Pegasus spyware in India had appeared two years ago, too. The government’s response then and now – that “no unauthorised instruction has been done” or that it has already answered questions about the use of Pegasus – are vague and misleading. The government’s response to an RTI query in 2019 did not deny the purchase of Pegasus by it, nor has it now categorically denied that it has been used for surveillance. The circumstances surrounding the use of the spyware may actually point to the government, despite its denials. NSO Group has said it only sells the spyware to “vetted’’ governments and it has refused to answer the question of whether it had sold it to the Indian government. Most of those targeted are on the wrong side of the government, and some of them have been subjected to harassment. There should be an independent investigation and those who are responsible for the hacking and surveillance should be identified and held to account for it. If the government has no role in it, it should be of special interest to it to find out who was conducting such large-scale, illegal snooping in the country. It has a bearing on national security and cannot be dismissed as a conspiracy. A democracy cannot function under surveillance and violation of the privacy of journalists, Opposition leaders, constitutional officers and ordinary citizens. A government that does illegal snooping for political purposes loses democratic legitimacy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/independent-probe-must-into-pegasus-affair-1011053.html
21-07-2021||In Perspective||Draft Lakshadweep law does more harm, no good||Lakshadweep Administrator Praful Khoda Patel has proposed the Draft Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation (LDAR) 2021, which would give him unrestricted and arbitrary power to relocate or remove islanders from their properties for town planning or by asserting the land to be a “planning area”. It is to be noted that the powers of the Administrator of Lakshadweep come from Article 240(b) of the Indian Constitution which allows the President to promulgate "regulations for progress, peace and good governance" in Union Territories (UTs). These regulations have the force of an "Act of Parliament". The President acts through the Administrator. According to Section 2(12) of the draft LDAR, the Administrator is the "government" of the UT. The draft regulation would allow the administration to detain any person without any trial for up to a year. Section 19(2)(b) read with Section 29 empowers the government to choose any land for “development” activities under its regulation. Once picked, the government can use that land on its whims and fancies in the name of “public purpose”. Section 2(9) of the draft refers to “development” as activities including “building, engineering, mining, quarrying or other operations in, on, over or under, land, the cutting of a hill or any portion of the making of any material change in any building or land, or in the use of any building or land, and includes sub-division of any land.” If permission is granted for development, the maximum period shall be three years in some cases for the same as per Section 37 of the draft. This means that the fate of an islander is at the mercy of the authority after three years. If you fail to renew permission for your house every three years, you have to pay a fine of Rs 2 lakh and then Rs 10,000 for every additional day of the violation. The draft allows the administration to evict a person from a property that “he is not entitled to occupy” under the procedure prescribed in the rules laid down by the government through the notification. In the absence of any further deep dive into what constitutes “he is not entitled to occupy”, the impugned section infringes on one’s right to property under Article 300A of the Constitution which is not only a constitutional or statutory right but also a human right. Some sections of the draft explicitly state that orders and decisions passed under the legislation are unchallengeable and final. For instance, Section 125 states: "Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Regulation, every order passed or direction issued by the Government or the Prescribed Authority or order passed or notice issued by any Planning and Development Authority under this Regulation shall be final and shall not be questioned in any suit or other legal proceeding." In S P Sampath Kumar v Union of India, Justice P N Bhagwati held that it was well settled that "judicial review is a basic and essential feature of the Constitution." It was said that if the power of judicial review was abrogated or taken away, the Constitution would cease to be what it was. The current draft legislation curtails the power of judicial review, which is an essential part of the basic structure. Also, the draft proposal for the formation of a development authority and the executive order of transfer of powers from panchayats is in direct confrontation with the recommendations of the Justice Raveendran Committee constituted by the Supreme Court in 2012. As per the Island Protection Zone notification 2011, any development activity can only be done under the ‘Integrated Island Management Plan’ Provisions. The elected council representatives of the local population of the island will not be able to make decisions on many issues affecting people directly such as agriculture, healthcare, animal husbandry and fisheries. These subjects would have direct control of the administration. Hence the Administrator’s designs amount to a glaring violation of the International Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, adopted by the UN General Assembly and recognised by India. Further, the draft legislation violates Article 21 (Right to Life and Liberty) of the Constitution as the draft gives sweeping and uncontrolled power to the Administrator without allowing the local population of the island to make decisions on many issues that directly affect their livelihood, such as fisheries. What is happening in Lakshadweep is a calculated effort to break the biological integrity of the 'pristine island with the active involvement of the local community.' (The writer is from NLSUI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/draft-lakshadweep-law-does-more-harm-no-good-1011056.html
21-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru observes Bakrid with Covid norms||Bakrid was observed in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi on Wednesday by adhering to the guidelines issued by the state government. Wearing masks, the Muslim community members offered prayers at the masjids. A few masjids had arranged for namaaz as early as 6.30 am. The government had issued guidelines to allow prayers by allowing the devotees with 50 per cent of the capacity of the masjids. All those above 65 years and below 10 years were restricted from offering prayers in masjids. Arrangements were made to check the body temperature using thermal scanners at the entrance along with sanitisers to sanitise the hands. The prayers were offered at Juma Masjid, Kaprigudda; Masjid Al-Noor, Hampankatta; Salafi Masjid Kudroli; Masjid Ibrahim Khalil at State Bank; Moideen Juma Masjid, Kudroli; Masjid Nadupalli at Kudroli; Jamia Masjid at Kudroli; Shamir Masjid at Car Street;  Mohiyudeen Juma Masjid at Bolar;  Badriya Jumma Masjid at Jeppu Kudpadi; Masjid Kandathpalli; Zeenath Baksh Masjid at Bunder; Eid-Gah Masjid at Light House; Fouziya Masjid, Police Lane; Badriya Masjid, Kandak; Kankanady Juma Masjid; Taqwa Masjid, Pumpwell and Mohiyudin Jumma Masjid Jeppu. Mass prayers were not allowed in halls, 'shadi' mahals and in the open ground. Normally, the Idgah Masjid at Light House Hill Road, witnesses thousands of devotees offering prayers. This year only a limited number of people offered prayers due to Covid-19 restrictions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-observes-bakrid-with-covid-norms-1011092.html
21-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Vishwanath criticises pontiffs for political comments||BJP MLC A H Vishwanath criticised pontiffs of mutts for their involvement in politics. Speaking at a press conference here on Wednesday, Vishwanath said that it is unfortunate that the pontiffs have come on street supporting Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's continuation as the CM. "The pontiffs should not come in support of a particular person or a party. The mutts should be part of the society and not a part of a party," he said. Vishwanath also said that politics should not be brought into Dharma but there should be Dharma in politics. There is not Dharma in present political system, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/vishwanath-criticises-pontiffs-for-political-comments-1011101.html
21-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Saptapadi scheme to be resumed in 100 temples: Poojary||Muzrai Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary stated that saptapadi scheme would be resumed again and simple marriage programmes would be conducted in 100 temples across the state. Speaking to media persons after holding a meeting with officials of the department, here on Wednesday, he said under the scheme, brides would be given gold ornament worth ₹40,000, ₹10,000 cash and a saree while bridegroom would be given cash of ₹5,000 and clothes. The dates and time had been fixed for mass marriages and the official of the department had been directed to make necessary arrangements. He also noted that people are keen to enter nuptial knots in simple marriage ceremonies after Covid-19 which is a healthy trend. He promised that the department would provide all basic facilities in Kote Aanjaneya temple in the city. He has directed the officials concerned to prepare an action plan and submit the same to the government seeking approval. Aagama veda residential schools would be sanctioned in the district and they would start functioning by December, he added. He said it has been decided to provide basic facilities in religious centre of Hindus and Muslims at Hanagerekatte in Thirthahalli taluk. A meeting would be convened in Bengaluru soon in this regard. They would be provided there after discussing it with the offiicals. He said the department would give importance to cleanliness in all temples including Hanagerekatte across the state. The sacrifice of animals in temples has been banned and devotees must follow it. MP B Y Raghavendra, MLC S Rudre Gouda, Mayor Sunita Annappa, SBUDA Chairman S S Jyothiprakash, State Arya-Vysya Community Development Corporation Chairman D S Arun, Deputy Commissioner K B Shivakumar, and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/saptapadi-scheme-to-be-resumed-in-100-temples-poojary-1011230.html
21-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Belagavi airport beats Covid blues, emerges as third-busiest in Karnataka||The aviation sector in Karnataka continues to be grounded as the majority of the airports in the state have not even witnessed 50% of its pre-Covid era flight movement and passenger footfall.  However, Belagavi’s Sambra Airport, which is Karnataka’s oldest airport, has emerged as the third busiest airport in Karnataka, beating the Covid-19 blues by drawing not only higher number of flights but also passengers compared to its pre-Covid (2019) figures. Ever since the airport was included under the Udan Regional Connectivity Scheme in 2019, the performance trajectory of the airport has been rising. Between Apirl-June 2021, the Belagavi airport witnessed 1,640 flights either taking off or landing. In the same months of 2019, the airport had attended 730 flights. In terms of passengers, also the Belagavi airport has catered to 51,190 passengers between April-June 2021, as against 32,113 in 2019. Sambra happens to be among very few airports in the country which saw almost the same number of passengers (2.58 lakh in 2020-21) during the pandemic year as compared to 2.76 lakh passenger in pre-pandemic year of April 2019-March 20.   Bengaluru International Airport in Devanahalli continues to be the busiest airport in the state followed by the Mangaluru international Airport at Bajpe. However, these airports also witnessed sharp fall in both flights and passengers. Kempegowda International Airport (KIA), which handled 2.72 crore domestic and 45.78 lakh international passengers in 2019-20 had received only 1.04 crore domestic and 4.65 lakh international passengers in 2020-21. However, in the first three months of this business year starting from April, KIA handled only 1.18 lakh passengers (in 2019 same period it was 19.49 lakh). Similarly, KIA has also handled fewer flights compared to its pre-Covid year. Till June this year it handled 3,186 international and 22,483 domestic flights. In 2019-20 it had handled two lakh domestic and 30,311 international flights as against 1.02 lakh domestic and 11, 192 international flights during the Covid affected year of 2020-21.  Worst fall  Hubballi, which had emerged as the third busiest airport in state in 2019, is slowly slipping out of the race as for the last two years its numbers are constantly falling. Between April-June 2021 the Hubballi airport has handled 928 flights and 27,352 passengers. However, in the same period in 2019 it had handled 1,958 flights and 1.50 lakh passengers. In fact in 2019-20 the airport had witnessed 4.75 lakh footfalls of passengers and 6,944 domestic flights taking off or landing.  Speaking to DH, Hubballi Airport Director Pramod Kumar Thakre said not just Hubballi airport, aviation sector across India is in slump. Though the movement of flights was not restricted in the second wave of Covid, majority of aviation companies did not operate their flights. “Hubballi Airport has started operating 70% of its pre-Covid routes. However, we are not able to achieve 50% of pre-Covid year passenger footfall. One of the reason being the strict guidelines of compulsory RTPCR tests and other restrictions being imposed by a few states” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/belagavi-airport-beats-covid-blues-emerges-as-third-busiest-in-karnataka-1011263.html
21-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||BJP top brass to take a call on change of Karnataka CM: Poojary||Muzrai Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary stated that BJP high command would take a call on change of chief minister Karnataka. His focus is only on development. Speaking to media persons, here on Wednesday, he said state BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel and BJP President J P Nadda would take suitable steps in this regard. Hailing the chief minister, he said Yediyurappa built the BJP in Karnataka and he knows the pulse of people. But he has no idea about the change of guard in Karnataka. When questioned on Congress leaders' demand for continuation of B S Yediyurappa as chief minister, he said their statements can never become guidelines for BJP. On religious leaders' open support to the chief minister, he said each citizen has a right to do it in a democratic set up. But the party leadership would take a call on it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-top-brass-to-take-a-call-on-change-of-karnataka-cm-poojary-1011082.html
21-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||No chance of leadership change in Karnataka: Sadananda Gowda||Former Union Minister D V Sadananda Gowda on Wednesday said there was no "chance" of leadership change in Karnataka as the BJP central leadership was pleased with the developmental activities and the handling of Covid-19 in the state. Amid speculation in some quarters that replacement of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is on the cards, Gowda, a BJP MP from Bengaluru North, said he does not believe that there was any such move in the offing. "I don't think there is any truth in the ongoing discussion about the leadership change because these are the decisions which are taken by our central level leaders keeping in view the political situation in the states," the former Chief Minister, told reporters here. He said he has information that as of now no such decision was on the cards after Yediyurappa "explained" to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah about the "prevailing situation". Gowda said the steps taken by the Chief Minister during the Covid-19 pandemic and Karnataka's strides in developmental activities have been appreciated and there was no reason to remove him. "It is my strong gut feeling that there is absolutely no chance of leadership change. These are all speculations," he said. On why pontiffs of various Lingayat Matts were rallying behind Yediyurappa amid speculation around leadership change, Gowda said, "Whenever we do some good work, people appreciate it. As a result, people stand in his favour." When asked to comment about the purported audio of BJP state chief Nalin Kumar Kateel hinting at a possible leadership change and formation of a new team, he said there was no need for it as the former himself has disowned it by calling it fake. According to him, the people of the state are standing behind Yediyurappa due to his policies and his "way of governance". "I feel that there is no chance for leadership change. Rest is left to the national level leaders," Gowda said. The talk of change of leadership, which had been doing the rounds for quite some time, gained momentum after Yediyurappa's visit to Delhi last week. Yediyurappa, a Lingayat strongman, has dismissed talks about leadership change as baseless. A large number of Lingayat pontiffs have called on Yediyurappa and extended their support and even cautioned about political fallout for the BJP if he was removed from the Chief Minister's post.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/no-chance-of-leadership-change-in-karnataka-sadananda-gowda-1011104.html
21-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Removing B S Yediyurappa will create Andhra-like situation: Ex-MLA Suresh Gowda||Former BJP legislator B Suresh Gowda on Wednesday warned his party that replacing Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will create an Andhra Pradesh-like situation in Karnataka. “A change in leadership will prove to be a setback to the BJP. This is my personal opinion. I request the party leadership to allow Yediyurappa to complete his term,” Gowda said. “Otherwise, whatever happened in Andhra Pradesh when Jaganmohan Reddy’s father (Y S Rajasekhara Reddy) was changed will happen here also. This is what people are talking about,” he added. Gowda was suggesting that Yediyurappa’s son B Y Vijayendra might go on to become the chief minister just like Jaganmohan. After his father’s death, Jaganmohan broke away from the Congress and built his own party that stormed to power in 2019. “Every time the BJP comes to power and Yediyurappa becomes the CM, there are repeated attempts to disturb him, within and outside the party,” Gowda said. “Yediyurappa has built the party for 40 years. He should be allowed to complete his term. This is the aspiration of Karnataka’s poor, the Dalits and farmers,” he said. Gowda, a former Tumkur Rural MLA, was appointed as a member of the newly-created Vokkaliga Development Board earlier this week. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/removing-b-s-yediyurappa-will-create-andhra-like-situation-ex-mla-suresh-gowda-1011188.html
21-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress distances itself from Lingayat leaders' statements on Yediyurappa||Distancing himself from the statements of senior Congress leaders Shamanur Shivashankarappa and M B Patil in support of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Wednesday said he would speak to both the party leaders and enquire about the context of their statements. Leader of Opposition in Karnataka in Legislative Assembly, who was here to meet Congress former President Rahul Gandhi, also said, “I will not subscribe to what our leaders said. Both the leaders should not have spoken like that.” D K Suresh, Bengaluru Rural Lok Sabha MP also said they must have spoken in personal capacity under the pressure from their community, but I hope they will correct their statements in the coming days. Shamanur Shivashankarappa, president of the All-India Veerashiva Mahasabha and also Congress MLA from Davangere South, met Yediyurappa on Monday and said the Veerashaiva community was firmly behind him. “Any effort to dislodge him would not go well with the community," he said. Reacting to these statements, Suresh said that both leaders' statements were not Congress's opinion. Congress leaders in Delhi were of the view that the statements by both Shivashankarappa and Patil were uncalled for. Congress should focus on exposing the misdeeds of the BJP-led government, instead of supporting Yediyurappa leadership, said a party leader. The Congress government headed by Siddaramaiah in 2018 faced severe criticism from Veerashaiva-Lingayat community leaders when the government decided to give a separate religion tag to the community.    Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-distances-itself-from-lingayat-leaders-statements-on-yediyurappa-1011209.html
21-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Govt trying covering up Covid deaths in Chamarajanagar hospital: Dhruvanarayana||The Karnataka Government has not released compensation to family members of deceased persons due to shortage of oxygen in Chamarajanagar district hospital in the first week of May, Congress state unit working president R Dhruvanarayana alleged on Wednesday. Despite 36 Covid-19 patients dying due to oxygen shortage in the hospital, the state government claimed only 3 people have died. The government is hiding the facts, he said. "If the government claimed only 3 died in Chamarajanagar, then why have they not informed the Union Ministry of Health about the incident? The Union Health Ministry has informed Parliament that no deaths due to oxygen shortage have been reported in the country during the second wave of the pandemic," he said. If the state government claimed only 3 deaths in Chamarajanagar district, then the government should take steps to distribute compensation to deceased families on priority, he demanded. To cover up its poor handling of the pandemic, the government tried to cover up by projecting less number of deaths, he said. Despite more than two months after the tragedy, the government has not taken any action against officials responsible for the incident, he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/govt-trying-covering-up-covid-deaths-in-chamarajanagar-hospital-dhruvanarayana-1011297.html
21-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Not worried over release of sex CD: Renukacharya||Former Minister M P Renukacharya on Wednesday said he is not worried about the release of any sextape of him. Renukacharya, who is also political secretary to the Chief Minister, told reporters that “I am not involved in any immoral activities. Nobody tried to blackmail me on this issue." “Since I have not been involved in any sex CD, I am not worried about who releases what,” he said. Renukacharya also said he has not decided whether to approach the court to apply for an injunction to prevent the media from publishing any defamatory news against him. “Only once in my life, I have made a mistake for which I repented. After that I maintained a clean image,” he said. Renukarchaya, a close associate of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, was in Delhi. He said his visit to Delhi was to meet the newly sworn-in Union Ministers from Karnataka and that there was nothing political in it. Separately, Bengaluru Rural MP D K Suresh criticised the BJP government and said it is a CD government as several ministers are involved in immoral activities. Alleging that Tourism Minister C P Yogeshwara was blackmailing BJP leaders with their sex CD, he said the BJP government in Karnataka should be sacked as it brought disrepute to the people of Karnataka. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/not-worried-over-release-of-sex-cd-renukacharya-1011303.html
21-07-2021||Main Article||We need an Act worthy of Kempegowda||The Karnataka government recently announced its plan to develop 46 sites associated with Kempegowda. These sites are listed in The Nadaprabhu Kempegowda Heritage Area Development Authority Act, enacted for “the development and maintenance of the heritage sites, tourist places and monuments of Nadaprabhu Kempegowda.” The Act lists 46 sites in Bengaluru, Tumakuru, Chikkaballapura and Ramanagara districts as being heritage sites and monuments. It is unclear what processes or criteria were used to select these particular places. Forts, temples, mandapas and other structures around Magadi, Savandurga, Shivagange, Devanahalli, Avatihalli and elsewhere are included in the list, as is the recently discovered samadhi in Kempapura. Inexplicably, so are the Kempegowda Museum and Kempegowda Study Centre, both of which are proposed but have not yet been set up. The list includes the Kote Venkataramanaswamy temple in Bengaluru, which was consecrated by Chikkadevaraja Wodeyar, and the Bengaluru Fort, which is usually ascribed to Chikkadevaraja Wodeyar and owes its present form to Hyder Ali and Tipu Sultan. In Bengaluru Urban district, we also have the catch-all ‘Lakes and Kalyanis’, which erroneously suggests that all such waterbodies in Bengaluru were established by Kempegowda. Surprisingly, some sites that are incontrovertibly linked to the visionary founder are excluded, such as the Ranganathaswamy temple in Bengaluru, where an inscription dated 1628 CE refers to Yelahanka Nadaprabhu Kempegowda’s grandson, Immadi Kempegowda. A few monuments in the schedule are already protected by the Archaeological Survey of India, such as Bengaluru Fort and Devanahalli Fort. A few are under the aegis of Karnataka’s Department of Archaeology, Museums and Heritage. The Act specifies that the government can acquire any sites that are not already under its control. However, there is no mention and hence no clarity on whether these sites will then be declared as ‘heritage’. Buildings and sites declared heritage would come under the purview of the Karnataka Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, which regulates construction and development activities around such heritage monuments. If they are not specifically notified as heritage, construction and modifications in and near monuments and sites listed in the Kempegowda Act will not be legally proscribed. Indeed, the focus of the Act seems to be more on tourism and construction, less so on highlighting the architectural and other contributions of Kempegowda. The two need not be mutually exclusive, but the priority will determine the trajectory of any development. The Act calls for development plans to be prepared for the heritage sites and monuments specified. It is heartening to see that first and foremost on the list of things that can form part of these development plans is ‘conservation and restoration of the heritage site’. Archaeological excavations and explorations can also be undertaken. However, the rest of the activities that can form part of development plans are mostly tourism-related, such as constructing choultries, lodges, hotels, restaurants; providing facilities for communication and transport; construction and reconstruction of buildings, and so on. Some of the items mentioned cause grave disquiet, like shopping complexes, artificial waterfalls, lakes with boating and water games and ‘other such tourist attractions.’ The Kempegowda Development Authority is supposed to oversee the development and maintenance of these sites and monuments. The Authority comprises MPs and MLAs from constituencies in and around Bengaluru, bureaucrats from various government departments and six non-official nominated experts in the history and heritage of the Kempegowda period. Though the Act is ostensibly about heritage, there are no archaeologists, planners, conservation architects or environmental experts included in the Authority. These flaws and lacunae in the Kempegowda Heritage Area Development Authority Act can be overcome fairly easily. A larger question is whether there is a need for such an Act. Certainly, we should celebrate and highlight the founder of the city. But is a compartmentalisation of history, heritage and geography the best way to approach this? It behoves us to look at heritage in the context of the cultural and natural landscape that it is embedded and enmeshed in. Further, the region around Bengaluru has several historical layers, from over two millennia ago to more recent times. It would not be practical or advisable to have multiple Authorities and Acts for every period or dynasty that has left its stamp on the city and its environs. For these reasons, an alternative strategy might be to dovetail some parts of the Kempegowda Heritage Area Development Authority Act with the Zonal Regulations (Amendment) of 2020, which apply to all heritage sites, buildings, precincts and natural features declared under the Karnataka Town and Country Planning Act, 1961. As per the Zonal Regulations, Heritage Conservation Committees in each district – or in Bengaluru, an Urban Art Commission – will draw up a list of heritage monuments and sites for protection. These monuments will be graded into different categories depending on their heritage value. All the monuments mentioned in the Kempegowda Heritage Area Development Authority Act (except the Museum and the Study Centre) could have been identified in these lists. If required, additional and separate guidelines could have been made for them within the framework of the same regulations. It is unfortunately true that most districts do not yet have Heritage Conservation Committees, nor has Bengaluru’s Urban Art Commission been revived. But had the government set these bodies up, as is required by the Zonal Regulations, we could have made much progress towards protecting and highlighting Kempegowda’s legacy as well as the region’s other tangible pasts. The proposed Kempegowda Study Centre is a welcome initiative. While we have an airport, road, hospital and other institutions named after him, we need further deep and scholarly research into Kempegowda’s life, times and legacy. A Kempegowda Museum is similarly much-needed. The small museum that was earlier housed at Mayo Hall was a good step but we hope to see something far more substantial that will help people appreciate Kempegowda’s foresightedness and his enduring stamp on the region around Bengaluru. (Meera Iyer is the author of Discovering Bengaluru and the Convener of INTACH Bengaluru Chapter)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/we-need-an-act-worthy-of-kempegowda-1011058.html
21-07-2021||National||BJP launches nationwide counterattack on rivals over Pegasus row||The BJP Tuesday fielded its senior leaders across the country including state chief ministers to blunt the Opposition attack over the Pegasus spyware issue which has snowballed into a major controversy. BJP chief ministers including Yogi Adityanath (Uttar Pradesh), Manohar Lal Khattar (Haryana), Shivraj Singh Chouhan (MP), Himanta Biswa Sarma (Assam), Vijay Rupani (Gujarat), Jai Ram Thakur (Himachal Pradesh) and Pushkar Singh Dhami (Uttarakhand) were among those who addressed the media to hit back at the Congress and other Opposition parties which have slammed the Modi government over the snooping row. Senior BJP state leaders, including its state presidents and leaders of opposition, also targeted the Opposition. While the Opposition Tuesday stalled Lok Sabha proceedings over the issue, the BJP categorically rejected the charge and accused its rivals of maligning the country's image in league with international forces inimical to India. The Congress has demanded the resignation of Home Minister Amit Shah. Lashing out at the opposition Congress and international organisations for alleging the use of the Pegasus spyware to snoop upon on politicians, journalists and others in India, Shah had Monday said such "obstructers" and "disrupters" were only aiming to humiliate India at the world stage. The row erupted after a global consortium of media houses published a report claiming that Israeli spyware Pegasus was used in several countries including in India for possible spying on activists, politicians, judges and journalists among others. While the Opposition has been attacking the government over the issue, the government has denied any involvement in the entire matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-launches-nationwide-counterattack-on-rivals-over-pegasus-row-1010969.html
21-07-2021||National||Non-bailable warrant against Congress leader Salman Khurshid's wife in misappropriation of funds case||A local court has issued a non-bailable warrant against Louise Khurshid, wife of former Union minister and Congress leader Salman Khurshid, in a case of misappropriation of over Rs 71 lakh received in central grants by Dr Zakir Hussain Memorial Trust run by her. Chief Judicial Magistrate Praveen Kumar Tyagi issued the non-bailable warrant against Louise and Trust secretary Athar Farooqui and fixed August 16 as the next date for hearing In March 2010, the Trust had received a grant of Rs 71.50 lakh from the central government for the distribution of wheelchairs, tricycles and hearing aids among physically challenged persons in 17 districts of Uttar Pradesh. Later allegations of corruption and forgery were levelled against the Trust's office-bearers in 2012 when Khurshid was a minister in the then UPA government. However, the Khurshids had denied any wrongdoing. The Economic Offence Wing started a probe and in June 2017, EOW inspector Ram Shankar Yadav registered an FIR against Lousie Khurshid and Farooqui in Kayamganj police station here. Louise Khurshid was the project director of the Trust. The charge sheet in the case was filed on December 30, 2019. It was alleged that signatures of senior officials of Uttar Pradesh were forged and their fake seals were used to receive grants from the Union government for the welfare of the disabled. The trust had said it had organised camps for differently-abled children across over a dozen districts – Etah, Etawah, Farrukhabad, Kasganj, Mainpuri, Aligarh, Shajahanpur, Meerut, Bareilly, Moradabad, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Rampur, Sant Kabir Nagar and Allahabad-- of UP for the distribution of equipment. It was claimed that equipment was distributed among children and Louise Khurshid had verified it as the director of the Trust in May 2010. However, it was later alleged that camps for the disabled allegedly existed only on paper.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/non-bailable-warrant-against-congress-leader-salman-khurshids-wife-in-misappropriation-of-funds-case-1010972.html
21-07-2021||National||Congress accuses BJP dispensation of bringing down elected govts in India using Pegasus||The Congress on Tuesday accused the government of bringing down elected governments in the country using Pegasus spyware and demanded a Supreme Court monitored independent probe into the entire issue. Addressing a joint press conference, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala alleged the BJP and the Modi government have murdered democracy by misusing the spyware to bring down the Congress coalition government in Karnataka.  Surjewala was accompanied by Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, former Karnataka chief minister Siddharamaiah and Karnataka PCC chief DK Shivakumar. "It is now clear that the BJP-led Modi government has murdered democracy and has thrown the Constitution in tatters by bringing down an elected Congress coalition government in Karnataka using the Pegasus spyware," he told reporters. Surjewala said Home Minister Amit Shah has no right to hold the position and that is why the prime minister does not want a debate on the issue in Parliament. Stressing that now the chronology of events has come out in the open, he alleged the Israeli spyware was used to murder public mandate by toppling an elected government in Karnataka and wondered whether governments in Madhya Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur and Goa were also toppled using Pegasus. 'The Wire' has alleged that the leaked snoop list suggests surveillance, using the spyware, may have played a role in toppling of the Karnataka government in 2019.  It alleged that the numbers of former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy's secretary, ex-deputy chief minster G Parameshwara and the secretary of former CM Siddaramaiah were selected as potential targets for snooping in the run up to the collapse of the JD(S)-Congress government. The numbers form part of a leaked database accessed by French media non-profit Forbidden Stories and shared with an international media consortium as part of what is called the Pegasus Project. Kharge alleged that all this is being done by the government to demolish democratic institutions and democracy in the country and Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Shah are trying to run the country with authoritative dictatorship. "We want the truth should come out aand a court-monitored inquiry should be conducted even on the role of the prime minister. Amit Shah does not have the moral authority to be in power. We condemn such dirty politics of the BJP," Kharge said. Siddharamaiah said this is definitely a crime and it has to be stopped. "This type of dirty game should not be allowed in politics, and this is not democracy. In a democratic government, toppling the democratic government, it is a crime, he said. AICC general secretary KC Venugopal said through the latest revelation it is categorically established that this spyware has been used for toppling the democratically elected government and the timing of the snooping clearly indicates that the BJP's main intention was to topple the Karnataka government at that point of time. "It is very clear that the central leadership of the BJP planned to topple the government by horse trading and they used this spyware in this," he said, suggesting that this may have happened in Madhya Pradesh and other states. "The Congress party is, therefore, demanding that there should be an impartial, independent judicial inquiry into this matter," Venugopal said. "The question before this county is who is safe? As far as personal information... everybody has to be careful nowadays, there is no privacy," he alleged, adding that the Modi government cannot run from answering questions. The government has to come forward for an open discussion in Parliament. "If they are not guilty then why does the government not agree for a Supreme Court monitored inquiry," he said. Referring to an apex court judgement on Congress's plea for the disqualification of 17 of their members who had switched over to the BJP, Venugopal said this verdict has "become instrumental" for this horse trading industry in this country. Therefore, it is very clear that this is being done to topple a democratic government and to negate the electoral process of opposition parties, and it must be investigated thoroughly, he said. "The Modi government has proved that, in its quest for power, it can go to any extent and can undermine democracy and the Constitution," he said. He claimed this snooping was earlier limited to spying into bedrooms of people and violating fundamental rights but it has now reached such proportions that it is murdering  public mandate by bringing down elected government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-accuses-bjp-dispensation-of-bringing-down-elected-govts-in-india-using-pegasus-1010975.html
21-07-2021||National||Experts recommend ways to tackle third wave of Covid||Expansion of vaccination coverage, use of masks with higher filtration capacity and effective social distancing are among a slew of recommendations put forward by a team of experts on combatting the anticipated third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The team, led by a Nagpur-based think-tank, comprises experts from the IIT, the IIM, the IISER among other institutions. The Research for Resurgence Foundation (RFRF) has come up with an independent report on "Covid-19 Third Wave and Beyond: Action Plan for Preparedness", which was shared with reporters here on Tuesday. "We strongly recommend use of masks of different types and properties that have higher filtration capability for effective control of rapid spread of Covid-19 Delta+ variant. Face masks are truly most protective for individual to prevent infection. These are mandatory and simple barriers which help to prevent respiratory droplets of various sizes," the RFRF said in a statement. Early identification and notification of post-Covid health complications such as mucormycosis is also recommended to fight the menace, it added. Promotion of acceptance of vaccine by joining hand with local community level leaders is also recommended. The key to fight against Covid-19 is effective coverage of vaccination of population in both urban and rural areas. Community-level awareness by local social leadership will bring pace to vaccination by removing apprehensions, the experts said. The world has been facing socio-economic and health system challenges due to the unprecedented pandemic situation. A third wave of the pandemic is also anticipated. Since vaccination is being provided for those above 18 years of age, it is apprehended that probably children will be more vulnerable during the next wave, the statement said. Sachchidand Joshi, chairman, RFRF said the think-tank has decided to prepare the report as part of its policy research on the current challenges. The team of experts included Professor Sarit Das from IIT-Madras as convener, Dr Rajesh Biniwale, CSIR-NEERI, Professor Saurav Pal, IISER Kolkata, Professor MLB Bhatt, King George Medical University Lucknow, Professor Mahadev Jaiswal, IIM Sambalpur, Professor Vinayak Deshpande, Nagpur University, Professor B Chopade, Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University, Professor Udit Bhatia, IIT Gandhinagar and Mukul Kanitakar, Bharatiya Shikshan Mandal. Eleven different aspects such as health, vaccination, AYUSH integration, predictive modelling, economic issues, sustainability aspects and possible safety through disinfection devices are included in the report. The report is the outcome of interactions between the experts and peer review, the statement said. The work on the report started in early May during the second wave and was completed around mid-June, the think-tank said. Recommendations have been given at the levels of states, central government, academic institutions and civic society for better preparedness to minimise the impact of the third wave of Covid-19 and any similar situation beyond the third wave, Biniwale said. The report is being disseminated among policy makers, academicians and other stakeholders for its effective implementation, the statement said. Other key recommendations include notifying the changed symptoms, updating the epidemiology based on the prevailing data on age, sex, socio-economic patterns, early identification and notification of post-Covid health complications such as mucormycosis. AYUSH integration with allopathy treatment for improved immunity and post-Covid health management has also been recommended. An easy way to decrease the SARS-CoV-2 infection rates is to avoid virus exposure. People from India should avoid travelling to countries highly affected by the virus, practise proper hygiene and avoid consuming food that is not home cooked, reads the list of recommendations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/experts-recommend-ways-to-tackle-third-wave-of-covid-1010976.html
21-07-2021||National||Haiti's new prime minister to be sworn in, form government||Haiti's new prime minister Ariel Henry was expected to present his new government after taking office on Tuesday, as officials attempt to stabilize a country on the brink of chaos since the assassination of president Jovenel Moise. Henry, named by Moise days before the controversial president was shot dead in his home in Port-au-Prince in the early hours of July 7, will lead a cabinet of 18 officials, five of them women. In addition to running the government, the 71-year-old neurosurgeon will serve as minister of social affairs and travel. His wearing in ends days of uncertainty since acting prime minister Claude Joseph declared a "state of siege" in the hours after the assassination and said he was in charge, launching a power tussle in the violence-wracked, impoverished Caribbean nation. Joseph, who said Monday he had agreed to stand down and cede the role to Henry, will return to his former post as foreign minister. Haiti has no working parliament and no workable succession process, and was already mired deep in a political and security crisis when the 53-year-old Moise was killed. Henry called for national unity in a speech Monday to slow down what he warned was Haiti's descent into the "abyss," arguing that the "very existence of the Haitian nation is in peril." Haitian authorities, with the help of the US Federal Bureau of Investigation, are still investigating the motive for Moise's assassination. More than 20 people, many of them retired Colombian military personnel, have been arrested in connection with the killing. Haitian police have accused a 63-year-old Haitian doctor with ties to Florida, Christian Emmanuel Sanon, of being a mastermind of the plot and having "political objectives." The government's swearing in ceremony will take place at 3:00 pm local time (1900 GMT) in the capital Port-au-Prince.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/haitis-new-prime-minister-to-be-sworn-in-form-government-1010977.html
21-07-2021||National||Professor arrested for making derogatory remarks against Smriti Irani||The professor, who allegedly made derogatory remarks against Union Minister Smriti Irani on Facebook, was on Tuesday sent to jail after he surrendered himself before the magistrate at a local court here. Shahyaar Ali surrendered before Additional Sessions Judge Anurag Kumar and moved interim bail application. The judge cancelled the jail plea after which the professor was sent to jail. Firozabad Police had booked Ali, head of History department at SRK College, in March for an allegedly obscene Facebook post against the women and child development minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/professor-arrested-for-making-derogatory-remarks-against-smriti-irani-1010984.html
21-07-2021||National||Trouble ahead for interfaith marriages amid 'love jihad' laws||She Said She Married for Love. Her Parents Called it Coercion. Manmeet Kour Bali had to defend her marriage in court. A Sikh by birth, Bali converted to Islam to marry a Muslim man, Shahid Nazir Bhat. Her parents objected to a marriage outside their community and filed a police complaint against her new husband. In court last month, she testified that she had married for love, not because she was coerced, according to a copy of her statement reviewed by The New York Times. Days later, she ended up in India’s capital of New Delhi, married to a Sikh man. Religious diversity has defined India for centuries, recognized and protected in the country’s Constitution. But interfaith unions remain rare, taboo and increasingly illegal. A spate of new laws across India, in states ruled by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party, or BJP, are seeking to banish such unions altogether. While the rules apply broadly, right-wing supporters in the party portray such laws as necessary to curb “love jihad,” the idea that Muslim men marry women of other faiths to spread Islam. Critics contend that such laws fan anti-Muslim sentiment under a government promoting a Hindu nationalist agenda. Last year, lawmakers in the northern Indian state of Uttar Pradesh passed legislation that makes religious conversion by marriage an offense punishable by up to 10 years in prison. So far, 162 people there have been arrested under the new law, although few have been convicted. “The government is taking a decision that we will take tough measures to curb love jihad,” Yogi Adityanath, a Hindu monk and the CM of Uttar Pradesh, said shortly before that state’s Unlawful Religious Conversion Ordinance was passed. Four other states ruled by the BJP have either passed or introduced similar legislation. In Kashmir, where Bali and Bhat lived, members of the Sikh community have disputed the legitimacy of the marriage, calling it “love jihad.” They are pushing for similar anti-conversion rules. While proponents of such laws say they are meant to protect vulnerable women from predatory men, experts say they strip women of their agency. “It is a fundamental right that women can marry by their own choice,” said Renu Mishra, a lawyer and women’s rights activist in Lucknow, the Uttar Pradesh state capital. “Generally the government and the police officials have the same mindset of patriarchy,” she added. “Actually, they are not implementing the law, they are only implementing their mindset.” Across the country, vigilante groups have created a vast network of local informers, who tip off the police to planned interfaith marriages. One of the largest is Bajrang Dal. The group has filed dozens of police complaints against Muslim suitors or grooms, according to Rakesh Verma, a member in Lucknow. “The root cause of this disease is the same everywhere,” Verma said. “They want to lure Hindu women and then change their religion.” Responding to a tip, police in Uttar Pradesh interrupted a wedding ceremony in December. The couple were taken into custody, and released the following day when both proved they were Muslim, according to regional police, who blamed “anti-social elements” for spreading false rumors. A Pew Research Center study found that most Indians are opposed to anyone, but particularly women, marrying outside their religion. The majority of Indian marriages — 4 out of 5 — are still arranged. The backlash against interfaith marriages is so widespread that in 2018, India’s Supreme Court ordered state authorities to provide security and safe houses to those who wed against the will of their communities. In its ruling, the court said outsiders “cannot create a situation whereby such couples are placed in a hostile environment.” The country’s constitutional right to privacy has also been interpreted to protect couples from pressure, harassment and violence from families and religious communities. Muhabit Khan, a Muslim, and Reema Singh, a Hindu, kept their courtship secret from their families, meeting for years in dark alleyways, abandoned houses and desolate graveyards. Singh said her father threatened to burn her alive if she stayed with Khan. In 2019, they married in a small ceremony with four guests, thinking their families would eventually accept their decision. They never did, and the couple left the central Indian city of Bhopal to start a new life together in a new city. “The hate has triumphed over love in India,” Khan said, “And it doesn’t seem it will go anywhere soon.” In Bhopal, the capital of Madhya Pradesh state, the BJP-led government passed a bill in March modeled after the Uttar Pradesh law, stiffening penalties for religious conversion through marriage and making annulments easier to obtain. The government is not “averse to love,” said the state’s home minister, Narottam Mishra, “but is against jihad.” Members of Kashmir’s Sikh community are using Bali and Bhat’s case to press for a similar law in Jammu and Kashmir. “We immediately need a law banning interfaith marriage here,” said Jagmohan Singh Raina, a Sikh activist based in Srinagar. “It will help save our daughters, both Muslims and Sikhs.” At a mosque in northern Kashmir in early June, Bali, 19, and Bhat, 29, performed Nikah, a commitment to follow Islamic law during their marriage, according to their notarized marriage agreement. Afterward, Bali returned to her parents’ home, where she said she was repeatedly beaten over the relationship. “Now my family is torturing me. If anything happens to me or to my husband, I will kill myself,” she said in a video posted to social media. The day after she recorded the video, Bali left home and reunited with Bhat. Even though a religious ceremony between people of the same faith — as Bhat and Bali were after her conversion — are recognized as legally valid, the couple had a civil ceremony and got a marriage license to bolster their legal protections. The marriage agreement noted that the union “has been contracted by the parties against the wish, will and consent of their respective parents. “Like thousands of other couples who don’t share same the religious belief but respect each other’s faith, we thought we will create a small world of our own where love will triumph over everything else,” Bhat said. “But that very religion became the reason of our separation.” Bali’s father filed a police complaint against Bhat, accusing him of kidnapping his daughter and forcing her to convert. On June 24, the couple turned themselves into the police in Srinagar, where both were detained. At the court, Bali recorded her testimony before a judicial magistrate, attesting that it was her will to convert to Islam and marry Bhat, according to her statement. Outside, her parents and dozens of Sikh protesters protested, demanding that she be returned to them. It is unclear how the court ruled. The judicial magistrate declined requests for a transcript or an interview. Her parents declined an interview request. The day after the hearing, Manjinder Singh Sirsa, the head of the largest Sikh gurdwara in New Delhi, flew to Srinagar. He picked up Bali, with her parents, and helped organize her marriage to another man, a Sikh. Following the ceremony, Sirsa flew with the couple to Delhi. “It would be wrong to say that I convinced her,” Sirsa said. “If anything adverse was happening, she should have said.” A written request for an interview with Bali was sent via Sirsa. He said she did not want to talk. “She had a real breakdown,” he said, repeating Bali’s parents’ claims that their daughter was kidnapped and forced to marry Bhat. Bhat was released from police custody four days after Bali left for Delhi. At his home in Srinagar, he is fighting the kidnapping charges. He said he was preparing a legal battle to win her back, but he feared the Sikh community’s disapproval would make their separation permanent. “If she comes back and tells a judge she is happy with that man, I will accept my fate,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trouble-ahead-for-interfaith-marriages-amid-love-jihad-laws-1010989.html
21-07-2021||National||Dh Toon | Centre's all-weather nationalism||A furious Opposition on Tuesday stalled proceedings in Parliament over revelations that Opposition leaders Rahul Gandhi and Abhishek Banerjee among others were potential targets for snooping by Israeli spyware Pegasus though a discussion on Covid-19 in Rajya Sabha was held in the afternoon following an agreement. Meanwhile, the BJP fielded its senior leaders across the country including state chief ministers to blunt the Opposition attack over the Pegasus spyware issue which has snowballed into a major controversy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-centres-all-weather-nationalism-1010991.html
21-07-2021||National||India's actual Covid-19 death toll at least 30 lakh: Study||The number of people who have died in the coronavirus pandemic in India is likely to exceed 3 million — nearly 10 times the official Covid-19 death toll — making it one of the worst human tragedies in the country’s history, according to a new study. In an examination of the true toll of the pandemic in the sprawling country of 1.4 billion, the Center for Global Development, a Washington research institute, attempted to quantify excess deaths from all causes during the pandemic based on state data, international estimates, serological studies and household surveys. “True deaths are likely to be in the several millions, not hundreds of thousands, making this arguably India’s worst human tragedy,” said its authors, one of whom is a former chief economic adviser to the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The official government numbers have been called into question repeatedly. Even as funeral pyres lit up the night sky and bodies washed up along the Ganges River, with death all around, the government was widely underreporting the scale of the devastation. A chorus of experts have said the country’s official estimates are a gross understatement. The study released Tuesday estimated that between 3.4 and 4.7 million more people than would normally be expected died between January 2020 and June 2021, and includes an estimate suggesting that deaths from Covid-19 may have reached 4 million. “Estimating Covid deaths with statistical confidence may prove elusive,” the authors wrote. “But all estimates suggest that the death toll from the pandemic is likely to be an order of magnitude greater than the official count of 400,000; they also suggest that the first wave was more lethal than is believed.” The authors said the undercount of death after the first wave of infections last year may have resulted, in part, from the fact that it was “spread out in time,” as opposed to the sharp curve of the second wave when hundreds of thousands of people died amid shortages of oxygen, beds and vaccines. The study has said that the country’s inability to grasp the “scale of the tragedy in real time” during its first wave from March 2020 to February 2021 may have caused “the collective complacency that led to the horrors of the second wave.” At the height of the second wave, interviews by New York Times reporters at cremation grounds in India exposed an extensive pattern of deaths far exceeding the official figures. Nervous politicians and hospital administrators may also have undercounted or overlooked large numbers of dead, analysts said. And grieving families may be hiding Covid connections as well, out of shame, adding to the confusion. India is still reporting nearly 40,000 new cases and about 500 deaths a day, according to a New York Times database. Less than 7% of the population is fully vaccinated. “The challenge of the pandemic is far from over,” said Arvind Subramanian, Modi’s former chief economic adviser and a senior fellow at Brown University who is a co-author of the study. “Vaccination offers the best hope but its pace needs to be ramped up considerably.” Modi’s government has warned of an impending third wave of infections, which government scientists say could strike as early as August. “The spirit of this paper is not to privilege any one estimate but simply to lay them out with transparency,” the authors of the excess deaths study, Abhishek Anand, Justin Sandefur and Subramanian, said. “Given all the difficulties, getting at the true estimate will be difficult and only by piecing together data from different sources will we improve our understanding of the reality of the pandemic.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-actual-covid-19-death-toll-at-least-30-lakh-study-1011001.html
21-07-2021||National||1,19,000 Indian children lost caregivers to Covid-19 during first 14 months of pandemic: Report||More than 1.5 million children in 21 countries, including 1,19,000 from India, lost their primary and secondary caregivers to Covid-19 during the first 14 months of the pandemic, according to a study published in The Lancet. The study funded in part by the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA), part of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), stated that 25,500 children in India lost their mother to Covid-19 while 90,751 lost their father and 12 lost both their parents. The study estimates that 1,134,000 children lost a parent or custodial grandparent due to Covid-19. Of these, 10,42,000 children lost their mother, father or both. Most lost one, not both parents. Overall, 1,562,000 children are estimated to have experienced the death of at least one parent or a custodial or other co-residing grandparent (or other older relative), the NIH said in a media release. The countries with the highest number of children who lost primary caregivers (parents or custodial grandparents) include South Africa, Peru, United States, India, Brazil, and Mexico, it said. The countries with rates of Covid-associated deaths among primary caregivers (>1/1000 children) include Peru, South Africa, Mexico, Brazil, Colombia, Iran, United States, Argentina, and Russia, it added. "Though the trauma a child experiences after the loss of a parent or caregiver can be devastating, there are evidence-based interventions that can prevent further adverse consequences, such as substance use, and we must ensure that children have access to these interventions," said NIDA Director Nora D Volkow. According to the report, 2,898 Indian children lost either of their custodial grandparents while nine lost both of their custodial grandparents. However, the 0.5 rate of loss of primary and custodial parents per 1,000 children in India is much less than other countries like South Africa (6.4), Peru (14.1), Brazil (3.5), Colombia (3.4), Mexico (5.1), Russia (2.0), and the US (1.8). "When examining how variations by sex and age in deaths and average numbers of children influenced estimates of paternal versus maternal orphans, we found that, with the exception of South Africa, deaths were greater in men than women in every country, particularly in middle-aged and older parents," the report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/119000-indian-children-lost-caregivers-to-covid-19-during-first-14-months-of-pandemic-report-1011009.html
21-07-2021||National||India reports 42,015 new Covid-19 cases, 3,998 deaths||India on Wednesday reported 42,015 new Covid-19 cases, an uptick from Tueday's 30,000-odd infections (lowest in 125 days); and 3,998 deaths after Maharashtra revised its death toll. A total of  36,977 people were discharged in the past 24 hours, and the total active cases are at 4,07,170, data from the Union health Ministry showed. The recovery rate stands at 97.36 per cent. The daily positivity rate is 2.27 per cent.  Meanwhile the Centre on Tuesday claimed that no deaths in the second wave happened due to shortage of oxygen and criticised the management by states. The government on Tuesday also said that a sero-survey found that two-thirds of the population aged above six years has SARS-CoV-2 antibodies but stressed that around 40 crore people are still vulnerable to the infection and there is no room for complacency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-42015-new-covid-19-cases-3998-deaths-1011006.html
21-07-2021||National||'Amarinder Singh won't meet Sidhu without apology'||Newly appointed Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu has not sought time to meet Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, an advisor of the CM said Tuesday, rejecting reports suggesting the former cricketer had sought an appointment. There is no change in the stance that Singh will not meet Sidhu till he publicly apologises for his "derogatory" tweets against him, chief minister's media advisor Raveen Thukral said, indicating the simmering tension between the two leaders is far from over. "Reports of @sherryontop (Sidhu) seeking time to meet @capt_amarinder are totally false. No time has been sought whatsoever. No change in stance... CM won't meet #NavjotSinghSidhu till he publicly apologises for his personally derogatory social media attacks against him," Thukral tweeted. Sidhu, who had been at loggerheads with the CM over various issues, was appointed the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief despite strong opposition from the CM. Singh was learnt to have told AICC general secretary Harish Rawat last week that he will not meet the cricketer-turned-politician until he publicly tenders an apology for his "derogatory" tweets against him. There has been no reaction from the CM over the Amritsar East MLA's elevation to the post of the chief of the party's state unit. Earlier, senior Congress leader and cabinet minister Brahm Mahindra had ruled out any personal meeting with Sidhu till he resolves his issues with Chief Minister Singh. The statement comes on a day Sidhu went to Amritsar where he got a rousing welcome from his supporters and party workers. In a statement issued here, Mahindra said the decision to appoint Sidhu had been taken by the high command and is welcome. “However, I will not meet him (Sidhu) till he meets the Chief Minister and resolves his issues with him”, Mahindra said. He said Singh is the leader of the Congress legislature party and he (Mahindra) is duty-bound to follow him. Before going to Amritsar, Sidhu had been calling on ministers and legislators in Chandigarh to mobilise support in the past few days. Sidhu had already met several ministers and MLAs. The cricketer-turned-politician will pay obeisance at the Golden Temple in Amritsar on Wednesday and many party leaders were expected to be there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amarinder-singh-wont-meet-sidhu-without-apology-1011017.html
21-07-2021||National||NSO group, who made Pegasus, claims target list in India is not theirs: Report||In a conversation with NDTV, the group's spokesperson said that NSO is "not related to the list published by Forbidden Stories (the Paris-based non-profit group that worked with Amnesty International to obtain the database of 50,000 phone numbers that triggered this controversy)". The spokesperson said, "It is not an NSO list, and it never was - it is fabricated information. It is not a list of targets or potential targets of NSO's customers," before adding, "If and when NSO receives credible proof of misuse of its technologies, it will conduct a thorough investigation, as it always had and always will." Five friends and at least two aides of Rahul, 18 numbers of family and associates of Vaishnaw and Patel, a former close aide of Union Minister Smriti Irani, an aide of BJP leader Vasundhara Raje, late VHP leader Pravin Togadia and the sexual harassment victim and her husband in the case involving former Chief Justice Ranjan Gogoi were also in the leaked list of targets or potential targets of the snooping using Israeli spyware Pegasus, The Wire reported. The report also said that three phone numbers belonging to the Supreme Court staffer who accused former Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi, who is presently a Rajya Sabha nominated member, of sexual harassment in April 2019 were selected as potential targets for surveillance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nso-group-who-made-pegasus-claims-target-list-in-india-is-not-theirs-report-1011027.html
21-07-2021||National||PM Narendra Modi greets people on Eid ul-Adha||Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted people on Eid-ul-Adha on Wednesday. May this day further the spirit of collective empathy, harmony and inclusivity in the service of greater good, he wished.  Modi tweeted, "Eid Mubarak! Best wishes on Eid-ul-Adha. May this day further the spirit of collective empathy, harmony and inclusivity in the service of greater good." Eid Mubarak! Best wishes on Eid-ul-Adha. May this day further the spirit of collective empathy, harmony and inclusivity in the service of greater good.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-greets-people-on-eid-ul-adha-1011033.html
21-07-2021||National||Kalyan Singh's health critical||The condition of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, who has been undergoing treatment at the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS)  since July 4, was stated to be 'critical'. Singh has been intubated and is on life support system. ''Kalyan Singh's health status is critical.....he has been intubated and put on life saving support system,'' an SGPGIMS release here said on Wednesday.. It said that Singh's clinical parameters were being closely monitored by the expert consultants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kalyan-singhs-health-critical-1011099.html
21-07-2021||National||Aviation Ministry forms advisory groups to resolve challenges facing sector||The Civil Aviation Ministry has formed three advisory groups comprising airlines, airport operators, cargo carriers, ground handling companies, flying training organisations and maintenance, repair and overhaul companies to deliberate and resolve challenges faced by the sector, an official statement said on Wednesday. India and its aviation sector were badly hit by the coronavirus pandemic's second wave in April and May. Many aviation stakeholders are not in a good financial shape currently. The ministry said on Twitter: "Under the chairmanship of the Honourable Minister of Civil Aviation, Shri Jyotiraditya Scindia, the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) has formed three advisory groups comprising airlines, airport operators and MRO, cargo carriers, FTOs and ground handling companies." "The groups shall meet regularly to deliberate upon issues and resolve challenges facing each sector. Orders have been issued for the same," it added. Scheduled domestic passenger traffic was suspended in India for about two months between March 25 and May 24 last year due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Since June 2020, the domestic traffic had been on a path of recovery when the second wave of the pandemic hit India during April and May this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aviation-ministry-forms-advisory-groups-to-resolve-challenges-facing-sector-1011081.html
21-07-2021||National||Opposition-ruled states claimed no deaths due to oxygen, now doing politics: BJP||BJP on Wednesday accused opposition Congress and AAP of engaging in double-speak on deaths due to shortage of oxygen during the second wave of Covid-19 as the Modi government came under fire for telling Parliament that no such deaths were reported by states. In an all-out attack on the opposition, BJP said that AAP and Congress leaders claimed deaths due to a shortage of oxygen during the second wave, but did not report the same to the Centre. “Ask your chief minister & health minister to give statistics of death due to oxygen shortage. Union Government only repeated what report states had sent,” BJP General Secretary B L Santhosh said, hitting back at Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut’s remarks accusing the Centre of lying about Covid-19 deaths due to oxygen shortage. Addressing a press conference here, BJP spokesman Sambit Patra said governments of Maharashtra and Delhi had told the respective high courts that they had not found any evidence to suggest that Covid-19 patients had died due to a shortage of oxygen. Patra accused Congress and AAP of spreading falsehoods about Covid deaths with the sole agenda of spreading confusion and anarchy in the country at a time it was fighting the pandemic. He accused the opposition parties of indulging in "plain politics" over the issue by claiming deaths due to oxygen shortage in public statements, and telling courts that no such deaths occurred. “Rahul Gandhi just acted as a Twitter troll and not as a leader during the pandemic,” Patra said. He also questioned the commitment of the Congress and AAP in the fight against Covid-19, contending that the leaders of the two parties had skipped the meeting of Parliament leaders convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday evening to plan for the third wave of the pandemic. The Modi government came under opposition attack on Tuesday after it told Parliament that no deaths due to lack of oxygen were specifically reported by states and UTs during the second Covid-19 wave. Rajya Sabha member and senior Congress leader K C Venugopal, who had put the question to the government, accused Minister of State for Health Bharti Pawar of “misleading” the House and threatened to move a breach of privilege motion against her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-ruled-states-claimed-no-deaths-due-to-oxygen-now-doing-politics-bjp-1011088.html
21-07-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-Up: Centre denies deaths due to oxygen shortage; new variant to drive next wave||Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-centre-denies-deaths-due-to-oxygen-shortage-new-variant-to-drive-next-wave-1011096.html
21-07-2021||National||RTI provides details of electoral bond sale; Finance Ministry seeks more time to place it in Parliament||The 15th and 16th phase sale of electoral bonds ended months ago with people accessing information about it through the RTI route but when a Rajya Sabha MP sought details, the Ministry of Finance told the Parliament that it will take more time to furnish details. A series of questions on electoral bond sale were put to the government by Trinamool Congress' Rajya Sabha MP Santanu Sen during the ongoing Monsoon Session of Parliament and the question came up for answering on Tuesday. Sen had sought details about the sale of bonds, denomination wise and branch wise details, its encashment and which parties redeemed it, number of bonds printed and expenditure since 2018, when the scheme was launched, as well as the Commission earned by the SBI, which has been mandated to sell the bonds. Minister of State for Finance Pankaj Choudhary said in a written reply to the West Bengal MP, "the government seeks more time to furnish the replies."  The 15th phase of electoral bond sales was between January 1 and January 10 while the 16th phase was between April 1 and 10, when Assembly polls to five states, including West Bengal and several people, including transparency activist Lokesh Batra, received detailed response from the Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance as well as the SBI. Batra had received the response for his RTI on the 15th phase on February 17 from the Department of Economic Affairs, which had forwarded a letter SBI sent to it on January 27. He also received a response for the 16th phase on April 27 from the SBI. The Ministry's response has not gone down well with Sen. "The government does not want to place in Parliament the information it already has. They are employing delay tactics. I am planning to write to the Rajya Sabha Chairman regarding the Ministry not providing details," he told DH. The RTI response showed that electoral bonds worth Rs 42.10 crore were sold in the 15th phase while it rose to Rs 695.34 crore three months later in the 16th phase. In the 15th phase, Rs 42.07 crore worth bonds were redeemed while in the 16th phase, only two bonds worth Rs 1,000 each were not redeemed.  In the 16th phase, Rs 671 crore came through bonds with a face value of Rs one crore while Rs 23.70 crore bonds came with a face value of Rs 10 lakh and Rs 64 lakh bonds with a face value of Rs one lakh, the RTI had said. During this sale in April, SBI’s Kolkata Main branch issued bonds worth Rs 176.19 crore, New Delhi Main branch Rs 167.50 crore, Chennai Main branch Rs 141.50 crore and Mumbai Main branch Rs 91.50 crore. When it comes encashing, bonds worth Rs 350.60 crore were encashed at the New Delhi Main branch, Rs 116 crore bond by the Bhubaneswar Main branch, Rs 106 crore bonds by Chennai Main branch, Rs 63.50 crore by Hyderabad Main branch and Rs 55.44 crore by the Kolkata Main branch. The RTIs had also provided details about the commission earned by SBI, which is the only bank mandated to sell and redeem electoral bonds. In the 15th phase, it earned Rs 2.76 lakh without GST while it was Rs 18.40 lakh in the 14th phase. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rti-provides-details-of-electoral-bond-sale-finance-ministry-seeks-more-time-to-place-it-in-parliament-1011115.html
21-07-2021||National||India tests new surface-to-air, anti-tank missiles for Army, Air Force amid stand-off with China||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) on Wednesday successfully flight-tested the Akash-NG, the new generation surface-to-air missile, which would give a boost to air defence capability of the Indian Air Force. The DRDO also successfully flight-tested indigenously developed “low weight, fire and forget” Man Portable Anti-Tank Guided Missile (MPATGM) on Wednesday. The missile, which was developed for use by the Indian Army was launched from a man portable launcher integrated with thermal sight and the target was mimicking a tank. The missile hit the target in direct attack mode and destroyed it with precision. The test has validated the minimum range successfully an all the mission objectives were met. The missile has already been successfully flight tested for the maximum range, according to a press-release issued by the Ministry of Defence (MoD). The two weapon systems developed for the Indian Army and the Indian Air Force were tested as a display of India’s military might even as its soldiers continued to be engaged in an eyeball-to-eyeball stand-off with the Chinese People’s Liberation Army along the disputed boundary between the two neighbouring nations in eastern Ladakh. The Akash-NG missiles were flight-tested from the Integrated Test Range (ITR) off the coast of Odisha. The flight trial was conducted from a land-based platform with all weapon system elements such as multifunction radar, command, control and communication system and launcher participating in deployment configuration. In order to capture flight data, the ITR deployed a number of range stations like, Electro-Optical Tracking System, Radar and Telemetry. The flawless performance of the entire weapon system has been confirmed by complete flight data captured by these systems. “During the test, the missile demonstrated high manoeuvrability required for neutralising fast and agile aerial threats,” the MoD stated in New Delhi. The missile system was developed by the Defence Research and Development Laboratory (DRDL) in Hyderabad in collaboration with other DRDO laboratories. The Akash-NG weapon system was developed for use by the Indian Air Force to intercept high maneuvering low Radar Cross-Section (RCS) aerial threats. It was first launched a day before the Republic Day this year. Once deployed, the Akash-NG missiles will prove to be a force multiplier for the air defence capability of the IAF, the MoD stated. The officials of the production agencies of the Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) of Bengaluru and Bharat Dynamics Limited (BDL) of Hyderabad also participated in the trials on Wednesday. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh congratulated the DRDO for the successful tests of both the Akash-NG surface to air missile as well as the MPATGM.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-tests-new-surface-to-air-anti-tank-missiles-for-army-air-force-amid-stand-off-with-china-1011127.html
21-07-2021||National||CBSE class 10, 12 exams for private candidates from August 16 to September 15: CBSE||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Wednesday announced that classes 10 and 12 exams for private candidates will be conducted from August 16 to September 15. The board ruled out declaring results of the private candidates on the basis of an alternative assessment policy like that for regular candidates, saying neither schools nor CBSE has any previous assessment record for these students. "The exams will be conducted from August 16 to September 15 and their result will also be declared in minimum possible time to avoid any difficulty to them in admission in higher education," CBSE Examination Controller Sanyam Bhardwaj said. Earlier in the day, a group of private candidates staged a protest outside the CBSE headquarters alleging disparity between them and regular candidates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-class-10-12-exams-for-private-candidates-from-august-16-to-september-15-cbse-1011131.html
21-07-2021||National||Rajnath unveils statue of Lalji Tandon on his first death anniversary||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday unveiled a statue of Lalji Tandon on his first death anniversary and sang the praises of his contributions in strengthening the BJP in Uttar Pradesh and his encyclopedic knowledge of Lucknow. Tandon, a BJP veteran, had served as Governor of Bihar and Madhya Pradesh. After inaugurating the 12-foot-tall statue of Tandon in Hazratganj, Singh said, "All senior leaders of the party, including myself, used to take his suggestions before taking any important decisions. He had a role in establishing BJP in power in Uttar Pradesh." Singh succeeded Tandon as the MP from Lucknow. Starting his speech by praising Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for "gaining popularity all over the country for ending the atmosphere of anarchy in Uttar Pradesh and giving a direction to the development of the state," Singh recalled his association with Tandon and called him an "encyclopedia of Lucknow." "Two people -- historian Yogesh Pravin (who died recently ) and Tandonji -- knew the city minutely and lived their lives according to the culture and traditions of Lucknow," the minister said. Singh said there was a lot to learn from Tandon. He remained connected to his roots and people at the ground level and also shared good relations with all, including those in rival political parties. "He had good relations with leaders of all political parties, be it SP, Congress or BSP. BSP president Mayawati used to call him her brother," Singh said. On Tandon's relations with former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, the minister said Tandon was like "Laxman to his Ram" Vajpayee. The chief minister said, "Tandonji played a long innings in public life and had fans among all sections of society." The bronze statue is sculpted by Rajendra Prajapati.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-unveils-statue-of-lalji-tandon-on-his-first-death-anniversary-1011136.html
21-07-2021||National||2.88 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses currently available with states, UTs, private hospitals||More than 43.25 crore (43,25,17,330) vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far through all sources and a further 53,38,210 doses are in the pipeline. Of this, the total consumption including wastage is 40,36,44,231 doses, the ministry said citing data available at 8 AM on Wednesday. More than 2.88 crore (2,88,73,099) balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs and private hospitals to be administered, it stated. The Union Government is committed to accelerating the pace and expanding the scope of Covid-19 vaccination throughout the country, the ministry said. The new phase of universalisation of Covid-19 vaccination commenced on 21st June 2021. The vaccination drive has been ramped up through the availability of more vaccines, advanced visibility of vaccine availability to states and UTs for enabling better planning by them and streamlining the vaccine supply chain. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the Centre has been supporting the states and UTs by providing them Covid Vaccines free of cost. In the new phase of the universalisation of the Covid19 vaccination drive, the  Centre will procure and supply (free of cost) 75 percent of the vaccines being produced by the vaccine manufacturers in the country to states and UTs, the ministry said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/288-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-currently-available-with-states-uts-private-hospitals-1011140.html
21-07-2021||National||No death due to oxygen shortage in Maharashtra: Health minister Rajesh Tope||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said the state government never reported any death due to shortage of oxygen during the second wave of Covid-19. Notably, in April this year, 22 patients died after the oxygen supply was disrupted at a Nashik hospital due to leakage in an oxygen storage plant, local officials had said. Tope had then said a thorough probe will be conducted to find out if negligence led to the leakage of oxygen at the hospital. On Tuesday, the Union government had told the Rajya Sabha that no deaths due to lack of oxygen were specifically reported by states and UTs during the second Covid-19 wave, drawing sharp criticism from opposition leaders. When asked by a TV channel about the Centre's statement, Tope said, “We never said people died due to oxygen shortage in the state. Many of them had issues like co-morbidities and other illnesses. No death has taken place due to the shortage of oxygen.” Earlier in the day, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut, whose party shares power with the NCP and Congress in Maharashtra, said people whose relatives died due to oxygen shortage should "take the Union government to court". Noting that opposition-ruled states claimed in courts that there was no death due to shortage of oxygen during the second Covid-19 wave and made similar assertions in their response to the Centre, the BJP on Wednesday hit back at its rivals amid a row over the Modi government's reply in Parliament on the matter. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra noted that the central government's reply was based on the figures provided by states and UTs as health is a state subject. No state sent any data about patients dying due to oxygen shortage, he asserted. He said the Maharashtra government also told the Bombay High Court that no one died due to the oxygen shortage and Chhattisgarh Health Minister T S Singh Deo has also made similar claims. Shortly after the statement in the Rajya Sabha was made over the issue in a written reply by Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar on Tuesday, AICC general secretary K C Venugopal accused the minister of having "misled" the House. Describing the statement as "condemnable", Venugopal, a Rajya Sabha MP to whose question the reply was given, had said he will move a privilege motion against the minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-death-due-to-oxygen-shortage-in-maharashtra-health-minister-rajesh-tope-1011143.html
21-07-2021||National||CAA, NRC will cause no harm to Indian Muslims: RSS Chief Mohan Bhagwat in Assam||The CAA-NRC will cause no harm to Indian Muslims and the two have been made a Hindu-Muslim issue by "a section" for political mileage only, RSS Chief Mohan Bhagawat said on Tuesday. In his lecture after releasing a book on the debate on CAA-NRC, Bhagawat said, "The CAA and NRC have been passed not against the Constitution. This will cause no harm to the Muslim citizens of India. India has been maintaining the promise made in the Nehru-Liaquat pact that both countries would protect its minorities. Pakistan did not." The statement is seen as a counter to the narratives by the anti-CAA protesters who call it communal as the CAA seeks to offer citizenship to non-Muslim migrants only from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan. The NRC 1951, on the other hand, was updated in Assam and over 19.06 lakh of the 3.29 crore applicants were left out.  The book, "The Citizenship Debate over NRC & CAA: Assam and the Politics of History" has been written by Nani Gopal Mahanta, a professor of Political Science at Gauhati University. Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma also spoke at the programme.  Bhagawat, who is on a two-day visit to the Northeast said it was India's responsibility to take care of the minorities in Pakistan (Hindus), who suffered and became displaced due to atrocities after the Partition.  "India has always welcomed outsiders but the designs by some to impose their religion, culture and food habits resulted in a sense of fear among the locals, even in Assam," he said.  "Given the political situation, the CAA-NRC has been made a Hindu-Muslim issue by a section for political mileage only. It is not a Hindu-Muslim issue," Bhagwat said. He said India did not need lessons from other countries on secularism and democracy as India has lived with this ethos for more than 4,000 years.  Talking about the NRC, Bhagawat said it was one of the means for the government to know who are its citizens. "All countries have means to know about their citizens, not about what they do, but who are they. NRC is one such means."  Talking about the anti-CAA protests, Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said the narrative over the issue in Assam and the rest of the country is different. "The anti-CAA protesters in Delhi or rest of the country were communal as they wanted Muslims to be given citizenship along with the Hindus. The same in Assam are against citizenship to both Hindus and Muslims under the CAA," he said.  "But we have a duty towards the persecuted people. That is why I will always remain a supporter of the CAA. But at the same time, we will take steps to ensure protection to Assamese identity and culture," he said.  Parts of Assam witnessed violent protests against the CAA in 2019 and the BJP-led government had taken stern measures to contain the protests. BJP and its allies, however, won the Assembly elections held in March-April. The anti-CAA protesters say BJP wants to give citizenship to post-1971 Hindu migrants in order to build a vote bank.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/caa-nrc-will-cause-no-harm-to-indian-muslims-rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-in-assam-1011145.html
21-07-2021||National||On Eid, Indian, Pakistan armies exchange sweets along LoC in J&K||Following the February 25 ceasefire agreement, Indian and Pakistani armies held customary exchange of sweets at various places along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday on the occasion of Eid al-Azha (Bakra-Eid). A defence spokesperson said the two armies exchanged sweets at Kaman Aman Setu, Uri in Baramulla and Tithwal Crossing on Kishanganga River in Tangdhar in Kupwara. Similar exchanges were also reported at Poonch-Rawalakot and Mendhar-Hotspring crossing points in Poonch district of Jammu region. He said that all the necessary Covid-19 protocols were followed during the exchange of sweets by the two sides. “It was done as a gesture for promoting peace, harmony and compassion in the true spirit of the festival,” the spokesperson added. The occasion was seen as an enhanced confidence-building measure held in the backdrop of the recent ceasefire between the two armies. The two forces that are deployed along the over 3,000 kms of border exchange sweets on major festivals such as Eid, Holi, Diwali and their respective national days. Before India and Pakistan recommitted themselves to cease fire across the LoC and other contested sectors on February 25 this year, incidents of shelling from across the border in J&K had been on rise.  In the first 56 days of this year, 658 ceasefire violations were recorded while four Indian security personnel and several civilians were killed. In recent years, there was no customary exchange of sweets between the two armies along the LoC due to the rising tensions. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/on-eid-indian-pakistan-armies-exchange-sweets-along-loc-in-jk-1011147.html
21-07-2021||National||Class 12 board exams: CBSE extends deadline for schools to compile results||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Wednesday extended the deadline for schools to prepare Class 12 results to July 25, examination controller Sanyam Bhardwaj said. Earlier, the deadline was July 22. Bhardwaj noted that the teachers involved in the result preparation process are under stress and getting panicky. "With the the last date for finalising the results approaching fast, the teachers are panicky and committing mistakes and sending request to CBSE to rectify these. CBSE is well aware about the constraints and problems faced by the schools and teachers," Bhardwaj said in an official order. "Accordingly, CBSE has decided to extend the last date from July 22 to 25. Schools may continue to work towards compiling the result to avoid any last minute rush. In case, any school is left to complete the moderation of marks, the result of such schools will be declared separately," he added. With the board exams being cancelled in view of the aggressive second wave of Covid-19, schools have been tasked with tabulation of results using separate alternative assessment policy announced by the CBSE for the two classes. The CBSE, however, did not clarify whether extending the deadline for schools will cause a delay in declaration of results which are due to be declared latest by July 31. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/class-12-board-exams-cbse-extends-deadline-for-schools-to-compile-results-1011149.html
21-07-2021||National||OMAG 'baffled' by 'no oxygen shortage deaths' comment||A day after the Centre told the Parliament that no Covid-19 deaths due to lack of oxygen were specifically reported, the medical fraternity is left baffled with a body of doctors saying it is akin to the film 'No One Killed Jessica". The Organised Medicine Academic Guild (OMAG), which is the federation of medical organisations, said the global community is disillusioned with Minister of State for Health Dr Bharti Pawar’s statement.  “The statements are factually not incorrect on the face of it. The situation is akin to the movie “No One Killed Jessica!,” OMAG secretary general Dr IS Gilada and president Dr Suneela Garg said in a press statement.  The OMAG has appealed to the ICMR, which has been at the helm of the affair since the pandemic began, to clear the air so that the blame game stops, as finally the entire blame gets shifted to the medical community. According to him, there is no denying that “Detailed guidelines for reporting of deaths have been issued by the Union health ministry to all states/UTs” but what has been actually sent, is an eye-opener.  The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) - National Centre for Disease Informatics and Research (NCDIR) document "Guidance for appropriate recording of Covid-19 related deaths in India” at page 6 categorically mentions that Asphyxia, Respiratory arrest/Failure and Respiratory Failure among others cannot be mentioned as cause of death.  Said Dr Gilada: “The minister’s statement that, “...no deaths due to lack of oxygen have been specifically reported by states/UTs” isn’t incorrect either.” Following the national guidelines and state SOPs, no doctor will or can mention ‘Hypoxia’ or ‘Respiratory Arrest’ or ‘Respiratory Failure’ as cause of death. As doctors, we have been always told to avoid mentioning Mode of Dying as Cause of Death. Mode of dying merely tells you that death has occurred and is not specifically related to the disease process. “Doctors have to record underlying cause of death in the Medical Certification of Cause of Death (MCCD) Form 4 (institutional deaths) / 4A (non-institutional deaths); which is submitted to the Office of Registrar General, India (ORGI). The ORGI records and collates data but cannot change it. “In any case, cause of death is never given as the patient died of ‘fever due to lack of paracetamol’ or ‘respiratory failure due to lack of steroid’ and similarly ‘patient died due to lack of oxygen’!,” he said.  The International Classification of Diseases (ICD) doesn't have code for lack of Oxygen or Hypoxia. “Autopsy or post-mortem can help in cases when cause of death cannot be ascertained. However in Covid-19 hardly any autopsies are done due to the fear instilled at since the pandemic began, once again due to ICMR guidelines on how dead bodies of Covid-19 patients should be disposed off,” Dr Gilada pointed out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/omag-baffled-by-no-oxygen-shortage-deaths-comment-1011152.html
21-07-2021||National||Advisory groups formed to advise Aviation Ministry||The Ministry of Civil Aviation has formed three advisory groups with Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia as its head to address issues and find a solution on issues related to airlines, airports and cargo and ground-handling among others. The Civil Aviation Advisory Group on Airlines has Minister of State for Civil Aviation, Aviation Secretary, Director General of Civil Aviation as its members. It also has Air India Chairman and Managing Director Rajiv Bansal, IndiGo Chairman Rahul Bhatia, SpiceJet Chairman Ajay Singh, Go First Director Ness Wadia, Vistara Chairman Bhaskar Bhat and the Alliance Air CEO. The group is tasked with advising the government on enhancing domestic and international connectivity, promotion of passenger and cargo services, passenger facilities, manpower skilling, development of Inida as a hub for passenger travel, cargo and MRO operations, leasing and financing of aircraft, viability of airlines and regulatory issues among others. The advisory group on airports also consist of the Minister of State, Aviation Secretary, the DGCA, the Chairperson of Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India, Director General of Bureau of Civil Aviation Security and the Chairman of Airports Authority of India. It also has GMR Group Business Chairman GBS Raju, Adani Group Vice President Jeet Adani, BIAL Managing Director and CEO Hari K Marar among others.  It will advise the Ministry on airport capacity, infrastructure augmentation and modernisation, augmenting passenger facilities and amenities, customer experience and satisfaction while avaiting various airport services, improving ASQ rating and other similar international benchmark ratings, manpower skilling and tariff related and other regulatory issues among others. The advisory Group of Maintenance, Repair, and Overhaul (MRO), Cargo, Flight Training Organisation (FTO) and Ground-Handling has the Minister of State, Aviation Secretary, DGCA and Senior Economic Adviser in the Ministry as its members. There are four sub groups for MRO, Cargo, FTO and ground-handling in which industry leaders are members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/advisory-groups-formed-to-advise-aviation-ministry-1011163.html
21-07-2021||National||Serum Institute writes to Union Health Minister proposing reforms in drug regulatory system||World's largest vaccine manufacturer by volume, Serum Institute of India (SII) has written to Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya suggesting reforms in the existing drug regulatory system, including allowing manufacturing and stockpiling of non-Covid vaccines while undergoing clinical trial. According to official sources, Prakash Kumar Singh, Director, Government and Regulatory Affairs at Pune-based SII, in a letter, referred to a gazette notification by the Union Health Ministry on May 18, 2020. He said it allowed manufacturing and stockpiling of Covid-19 vaccine under clinical trial for marketing authorization for sale or distribution. "Because of this rule, it became possible for us to manufacture and stockpile the Covid-19 vaccine during clinical trial and we could make the vaccine available in such a short span of time period to protect millions of lives. "It will be a big help for the vaccine industry if this rule is implemented for non-Covid-19 vaccines also," a source quoted Singh as having communicated in the letter to the minister. Singh also sought permission to use the remaining quantities of batches of Covid and non-Covid vaccines for commercial purposes which have been used in clinical trial. In this context, he said the Health Ministry had issued draft rules dated April 12, 2018, to allow remaining quantities of batches of vaccines which have been used in clinical trial for commercial use after granting of permission in form 46 (now it is form CT-23) and manufacturing licence in Form 28D. "However, the gazette notification in this regard has not been issued so far for the implementation of the same," Singh said. He also sought the implementation of recommendations of a high-powered inter-ministerial committee for reforming the Drug Regulatory Systems in India. The letter stated that on the directions of the prime minister, a high-powered Inter-Ministerial Committee for reforming the drug regulatory systems in India was formed under the chairmanship of then OSD, Rajesh Bhushan who is presently the health secretary.  "Recommendations of this inter-ministerial committee should be implemented immediately in line with 'ease of doing business". The letter highlighted few other points also related to regulatory reforms and stated, "If few rules/regulatory provisions are amended, it will be a great help and encouragement for the vaccine industry to grow faster. We are putting forward the following points w.r.t. Reforms in the Drug Regulatory System for your kind consideration which will take the Vaccine Industry of our country to further new heights."    "In view of the genuine difficulties being faced by the vaccine industry, I sincerely request for your kind intervention for the regulatory reforms. This will also be in line with our prime minister's vision of ease of doing business in India and will further encourage his dream project 'Making in India for the World'," Singh mentioned in the letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/serum-institute-writes-to-union-health-minister-proposing-reforms-in-drug-regulatory-system-1011178.html
21-07-2021||National||Kangana moves HC against defamation case filed by Javed Akhtar||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut has approached the Bombay High Court seeking the quashing of proceedings initiated by a city magistrate on a criminal defamation complaint filed against her by lyricist Javed Akhtar. I n an appeal filed through advocate Rizwan Siddiquee, Ranaut claimed that the Andheri metropolitan magistrate's court initiated proceedings against her by relying only on the police's report and did not examine witnesses independently. Akhtar filed a criminal complaint against Ranaut in November 2020 before the magistrate for allegedly making defamatory and baseless comments against him in television interviews. In December, the court directed the suburban Juhu police to conduct an inquiry. After the police stated in its report that an offense was made out on the face of it and further probe was needed, the court initiated criminal proceedings against Ranaut and issued a summons to her in February 2021. "The metropolitan magistrate did not use his own powers to conduct an inquiry but instead blatantly used the police machinery to collect the signed witness statements...which is completely unheard of," the actor's plea said. It was likely that the witnesses were influenced by the police and the magistrate should have recorded evidence of witnesses under oath to "establish if an actual case was made out", it said. The high court is likely to hear Ranaut's plea next week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kangana-moves-hc-against-defamation-case-filed-by-javed-akhtar-1011179.html
21-07-2021||National||MPPSC to hold preliminary exams on July 25||The Madhya Pradesh Public Service Commission's (MPPSC) State Services prelims, which had been postponed twice due to the Covid-19 outbreak, will now be held on July 25, an official said on Wednesday. Although the number of Covid-19 cases in the state has declined, the MPPSC, as a precautionary measure, has decided to seek a “declaration” from the candidates, stating that they are not infected with the virus. “Candidates have to sign a declaration at examination centres that they are not infected by coronavirus,” the MPPSC's officer on special duty (OSD) Ravindra Panchbhai said. While no candidate has so far informed the commission about being infected, as a precautionary measure, 64 special centres have been set up in 52 districts, where infected candidates can appear for the examination separately, the official said. At least 1,011 centres have been set up for the prelims, he said, adding that the examination will be conducted in compliance with all Covid-19 protocols and candidates will be allowed to bring their own water bottles and sanitisers. A total of 3,44,491 candidates will appear for the exams, which will be held in two sessions on July 25, the official said. The examination had been postponed twice in the past due to the pandemic. Earlier, it was scheduled for April 11, then for June 20, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mppsc-to-hold-preliminary-exams-on-july-25-1011180.html
21-07-2021||National||Jaishankar discusses Afghan situation with Iranian counterpart Javad Zarif||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his counterpart in the Iranian Government, Javad Zarif, discussed the situation in Afghanistan during a phone call on Wednesday. Jaishankar spoke to Zarif just days before the proposed visit of United States Secretary of State Anthony Blinken to India. The two ministers also reviewed bilateral relations apart from exchanging views on important regional issues, including the situation in Afghanistan, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Iranian Government said after the talks between Jaishankar and Zarif.   They discussed the resurgence of the Taliban after the withdrawal of troops by the US. The Taliban has already occupied a large number of districts in Afghanistan. The talks between the representatives of President Ashraf Ghani’s government in Kabul and the civil society of Afghanistan with the leaders of the Taliban in Doha failed to reach an agreement on a ceasefire during the Eid-al-Adha.  The Taliban continued its military offensives during the festival and even fired rockets during prayers on the occasion of the Eid-al-Adha at the presidential palace in Kabul. “Good to talk to Iranian FM @Jzarif. A productive conversation on our ties,” Jaishankar tweeted after speaking to his counterpart in Tehran. The External Affairs Minister also had an in-person meeting with the Iranian Foreign Minister during his visit to Tehran on July 7 – the same day the government of the Persian Gulf nation hosted representatives of both the Afghan Government and the Taliban for talks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-discusses-afghan-situation-with-iranian-counterpart-javad-zarif-1011189.html
21-07-2021||National||Heavy rainfall to continue over west coast; intensity likely to decrease in north India: IMD||Heavy rainfall is expected to continue over west and central India over the next three-four days, while the intensity of precipitation over north India is likely to decrease, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rain is likely to continue over the west coast, the adjoining interior areas and the Gujarat region for the next four-five days. Isolated extremely heavy rainfall is also very likely over Konkan, Goa and the adjoining ghat areas of central Maharashtra on July 21-22. Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is likely over east and central India during July 21-24. Isolated extremely heavy rainfall is also likely over coastal Andhra Pradesh and Telangana on July 21-22, and over Chhattisgarh, Vidarbha and east Madhya Pradesh on July 22. The IMD said moderate to severe thunderstorms with lightning are very likely at isolated places over Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh in the next 24 hours. On the other hand, the intensity of rainfall over northwest India is likely to reduce further after 24 hours, the Met office said. Light to moderate rainfall at scattered places over Delhi is very likely in the next 24 hours. "Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls are very likely over the Western Himalayan region (Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand) and adjoining northwest India (Punjab and Uttar Pradesh) on July 21 with further reduction thereafter," the IMD said.  The rainfall is likely to increase from July 25, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heavy-rainfall-to-continue-over-west-coast-intensity-likely-to-decrease-in-north-india-imd-1011197.html
21-07-2021||National||My films are an extension of my ideology: Director Pa Ranjith||Politics will always form an important backdrop in his cinema whether it is speaking about Dalits or breaking the stereotypical image of the subaltern culture, says director Pa Ranjith. Ranjith, one of the most celebrated contemporary directors in Tamil cinema with films such as "Madras" and Rajinikanth-starrers "Kabali" and "Kaala" to his credit, explores the boxing culture of north Chennai in his latest film "Sarpatta Parambarai". According to the director, his past movies as well as "Sarpatta" deal with the ground realities of the working class in the most natural way possible. "My films are an extension of my ideology," Ranjith said. "I have brought sports into the framework of political drama for this project. Be it speaking about Dalit politics or breaking the stereotypical image of subaltern culture, I have always tried to convey this important message through my movies," he told PTI in an interview. Since his new film, starring Arya, Pasupathy, Kalaiyarasan, and Anupama Kumar, is set in the '70s era, political backdrops like Emergency and party politics as well as the split of the DMK and AIADMK are also a part of the story. "Sarpatta" is something of a dream come true as Ranjith first thought of making the film right after his directorial debut in 2012 with "Attakathi". "I tried to show the clan's culture and their honour linked to their Sarpattai clan and sport. Also, the 1970s was a very crucial period as only two parties - the RSS and DMK in Tamil Nadu (under the leadership of late CM Karunanidhi) had opposed the Emergency. The Communist Party (of India) had supported the Emergency. "We had to properly handle these political aspects in minute proportions in the movie though the film is not based on Emergency, which serves only as a political backdrop," the 38-year-old filmmaker said. Ranjith, who also runs his own production house Neelam Productions and social work initiative Neelam Culture Centre to work on a number of films and documentaries on social justice, also wanted to "break the general stereotype of the Dalit culture in north Madras" through the film. American boxing legend Muhammad Ali, born Cassius Clay, was a huge figure in the Dalit culture during that era, he said. "I feel he was a social reformer and not only a boxer. He refused to fight against the Vietnamese (citing his religious beliefs and ethical opposition to the American involvement in the Vietnam War). He was also against racism, white supremacy and boldly wanted to retain his identity with his name Muhammad Ali. "So, he stands out to be a great inspiration for many from the working class because they always felt connected with his macho looks, warrior spirit and also because of his skin colour," Ranjith said. The filmmaker, who will make his Hindi directorial debut with the biopic of Birsa Munda, was full of praise for the work being done by Neeraj Ghaywan of "Masaan" fame and "Sairat" director Nagraj Manjule. He said the popularity of digital platforms gives filmmakers space to make progressive cinema and one should use the platform to tell stories that spark a discussion. "... we must make use of these platforms for wider discussions and breaking stereotypes on oppressed classes. So, though we have struggles and challenges, I don't subscribe to the stereotypical portrayal of Dalits as a rebellious group involved in fights and protests for example. We have progressed and we also live normal lives with great culture and rituals amidst the prevailing challenges," he said. Ranjith hopes to finish the scripting on the Birsa Munda film by August end and then finalise the cast. Munda was a tribal freedom fighter and folk hero, who fought the British oppression in the late 19th century. Ranjith said through the biopic, he wants to clear some misconceptions about the freedom fighter while focusing on his life and contribution to society. "He was a revolutionary who fought against landlords and against religions... His story is so politically relevant with regards to the current times," he added. As a longtime follower of Dr B R Ambedkar, a key architect of India's constitution, Ranjith said the teachings of the social reformer have helped him in his work. "I want to open up a discussion through my cinema. I am not sure if cinema can create a change in society but it can definitely influence. I believe that my past work on social justice and Dr Ambedkar's works have helped me in creating an impact while talking about politics and other issues through my cinema," he added. "Sarpatta", starring Arya, Dushara Vijayan, Pasupathy, and Kalaiyarasan, will be released on the streaming platform Amazon Prime Video on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/my-films-are-an-extension-of-my-ideology-director-pa-ranjith-1011205.html
21-07-2021||National||Farmers block highway; demand release of protesters, withdrawal of sedition charges||Farmers on Wednesday blocked a national highway at three different points to demand the release of five protesters who were arrested last week following an attack on Haryana Assembly Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa's car. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of various farmers' unions, spearheading stir against the farm laws, has also demanded the withdrawal of cases including sedition charges against over 100 protesters booked in connection with the incident involving the attack on Gangwa's car on July 11. Meanwhile, the indefinite fast of farmer leader Baldev Singh Sirsa as protest against the arrests and registration of cases entered the fourth day on Wednesday. A team of the health department conducted Sirsa’s medical checkup at the protest site. The protesters blocked the highway for two hours at different points, including Khuian Malana toll plaza and Panjuana village. While emergency vehicles were allowed to pass, the blockade, however, resulted in traffic jams on both sides of the road. Police in strength had been deployed to prevent any untoward incident. Many passengers, including some students, were seen getting down from the buses and walking on foot and using other means to reach their destinations. The police have booked over 100 people, mostly unidentified, for sedition, obstructing public servants in discharge of their duty, murderous attempt on an elected representative and damaging public property after the attack on the deputy speaker's vehicle. The protesting farmers had earlier claimed that the administration has not been able to show any video or other evidence to prove that the farmers indulged in violence on July 11.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-block-highway-demand-release-of-protesters-withdrawal-of-sedition-charges-1011212.html
21-07-2021||National||DoT extends suspension of official Ashish Joshi by another 90 days||The Department of Telecom (DoT) has extended the suspension of former controller of communication accounts Ashish Joshi by another 90 days, according to a social media post by the officer. Joshi was suspended on February 26, 2019 after he approached the Delhi police demanding action against BJP leader Kapil Mishra for circulating on YouTube and Twitter a "highly incendiary video, provoking people to attack some citizens". Mishra, the former Aam Aadmi Party leader, had uploaded on social media a video, in which he vowed to "wage war" against "traitors". Joshi wrote to the then Delhi police commissioner Amulya Patnaik, saying the content of Mishra's video was in violation of the IT Act and Indian Penal Code. "I have been under suspension for the last 880 days. Now extended by another 90 days," Joshi said in his latest social media post. When contacted, Joshi declined to comment further on his suspension matter. Also, an email query sent to the DoT elicited no reply. Joshi on February 19, 2019 had also issued an order to telecom operators to crack down on offensive or obscene messages and set up a helpline to receive complaints against such customers. The DoT had charged Joshi for misusing official letterhead for filing a complaint against Mishra and also issuing orders to telecom operators on offensive messages with malafide intent without having any jurisdiction or making any advance preparation to address complaints that would come in response to the order.  Joshi was repatriated by the Delhi government to his parent cadre - telecom ministry in May 2015, following a spat with political leadership. He had filed a complaint with the anti-corruption bureau in 2015 against then principal secretary of Delhi, Rajendra Kumar, based on which the Central Bureau of Investigation raided the Delhi Secretariat in December 2015.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dot-extends-suspension-of-official-ashish-joshi-by-another-90-days-1011219.html
21-07-2021||National||Editors Guild demands SC-monitored probe into Pegasus phone tapping allegations||Expressing shock over media reports on widespread surveillance on journalists and politicians using Pegasus spyware, the Editors Guild of India on Wednesday demanded an independent Supreme Court-monitored inquiry into the alleged snooping. “The Editors Guild of India (EGI) is shocked by the media reports on the widespread surveillance, allegedly mounted by government agencies, on journalists, civil society activists, businessmen and politicians, using a hacking software known as Pegasus, created and developed by the Israeli company NSO,” the Guild said in a statement shared on Twitter. It said the reports, which have been published worldwide over the last few days by a consortium of 17 publications, point towards surveillance by multiple governments across the world. “Since NSO claims that it only sells this software to government clients vetted by the government of Israel, it deepens suspicion of involvement of Indian government agencies in snooping on its own citizens,” read the EGI statement. An international media consortium had recently reported that over 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including of two ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders besides scores of business persons and activists in India could have been targeted for hacking using Pegasus software/spyware. The EGI condemned the surveillance on journalists saying it was an attack on the freedom of press. “While some of the instances of surveillance might have been targeted against those who may be seen as credible national security threats, what is disturbing is that a large number of such targets were journalists and civil society activists. This is a brazen and unconstitutional attack on freedom of speech and press,” the Guild said, adding that this act of snooping essentially conveys that journalism and political dissent are “now equated with 'terror'”. “How can a constitutional democracy survive if governments do not make an effort to protect freedom of speech and allow surveillance with such impunity,” it said. Seeking an independent probe into the matter, the EGI demanded that the inquiry committee must include journalists and civil society activists to ensure independent investigation. “This is a moment that demands deep introspection and inquiry into the kind of society we are heading towards, and how far we may have veered away from the democratic values enshrined in our constitution. “The Guild demands an urgent and independent inquiry into these snooping charges, under the aegis of the Supreme Court of India. We also demand that this inquiry committee should include people of impeccable credibility from different walks of life--including journalists and civil society--so that it can independently investigate facts around the extent and intent of snooping using the services of Pegasus,” the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/editors-guild-demands-sc-monitored-probe-into-pegasus-phone-tapping-allegations-1011232.html
21-07-2021||National||Seventh batch of Rafale jets arrive in India from France||A seventh batch of three more Rafale fighter jets arrived in India after flying non-stop for a distance of almost 8,000 km from France, in a further boost to the strike capability of the Indian Air Force (IAF). The new batch of the aircraft will be part of the IAF's second squadron of the Rafale jets. The aircraft were provided mid-air refuelling by the air force of the United Arab Emirates (UAE). "Three Rafale aircraft arrived in India a short while ago, after a direct ferry from #IstresAirBase, France. IAF deeply appreciates the support by UAE Air Force for in-flight refuelling during the non-stop ferry," the IAF said in a tweet. Following the arrival of the new batch, the number of Rafale jets with the IAF went up to 24. The new squadron of Rafale jets will be based in Hasimara airbase in West Bengal. The first Rafale squadron is based in the Ambala air force station. A squadron comprises around 18 aircraft. India had signed an inter-governmental agreement with France in September 2016 for the procurement of 36 Rafale fighter jets at a cost of around ₹58,000 crore. The first batch of five Rafale jets arrived in India on July 29 last year. India is expected to get more Rafale jets from France in the next few months. The Rafale jets, manufactured by French aerospace major Dassault Aviation, are India's first major acquisition of fighter planes in 23 years after the Sukhoi jets were imported from Russia. The Rafale jets are capable of carrying a range of potent weapons. European missile maker MBDA's Meteor beyond visual range air-to-air missile, Scalp cruise missile and MICA weapons system will be the mainstay of the weapons package of the Rafale jets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/seventh-batch-of-rafale-jets-arrive-in-india-from-france-1011235.html
21-07-2021||National||Sachin Pilot demands independent probe into Pegasus snooping charges||Congress leader and former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Wednesday demanded an independent probe into the charges of snooping on politicians, journalists and others using Pegasus spyware. "This is a very serious issue and an independent inquiry is necessary to get to the bottom of it. The probe should be conducted by a joint parliamentary committee or under the supervision of the Supreme Court because impartiality cannot be expected from the government of India,” he said. He said that privacy has been breached, so the government of India has no reason for not initiating an independent inquiry into the matter. “It is the responsibility of the government to order an independent inquiry in the matter. The government of India is under question and there is no reason for not initiating an inquiry,” the Congress leader said. Pilot said that there is resentment among people and any attempt to undermine democracy will not be tolerated. He said the Congress will hold demonstrations across the country, including in Jaipur, on the issue. An international media consortium reported on Sunday that over 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including of two ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders besides scores of business persons and activists in India could have been targeted for hacking through the spyware. The government on Monday categorically rejected in Lok Sabha allegations of snooping on politicians, journalists and others using Pegasus software, asserting that illegal surveillance was not possible with checks and balances in the country's laws, and alleged that attempts were being made to malign Indian democracy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sachin-pilot-demands-independent-probe-into-pegasus-snooping-charges-1011239.html
21-07-2021||National||Congress, NCP, RJD, DMK leaders attend Trinamool Congress' Martyrs' Day event in Delhi||Leaders of opposition parties such as the Congress, NCP, RJD and the DMK attended the Trinamool Congress' Martyrs' Day event in Delhi where West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's speech giving a clarion call to anti-BJP parties to unite was streamed live. Addressing the Martyrs' Day rally in Kolkata online, she accused the Narendra Modi government of trying to establish a "surveillance state" and pitched for opposition unity to oust the "authoritarian" BJP dispensation in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. Unlike other Martyrs' Day rally on July 21, which is the TMC's flagship annual political event drawing massive crowd to the heart of Kolkata for the keynote address by the party chief, this year's event was streamed live across Punjab, Tripura, Tamil Nadu, New Delhi, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh. The day is observed to commemorate the 13 West Bengal Youth Congress workers who were killed in a police firing in 1993 during a demonstration led by Mamata Banerjee, then a firebrand Youth Congress leader. Opposition party leaders like the Congress' P Chidambaram and Digvijay Singh, DMK's Tiruchi Siva, NCP's Sharad Pawar and Supriya Sule and RJD's Manoj Jha attended the TMC's Martyrs' Day function in Delhi. In Delhi, the speech was shown on a giant screen put up at the Constitution Club. In attendance were party MPs who are in Delhi for the ongoing monsoon session of Parliament. The party also relaunched its mouthpiece 'Jago Bangla' with Banerjee's new slogan: 'Ebar Shopoth, Cholo Dilli (New Pledge, Chalo Delhi)'. Mamata Banerjee is expected to be in Delhi on July 25 for four days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-ncp-rjd-dmk-leaders-attend-trinamool-congress-martyrs-day-event-in-delhi-1011251.html
21-07-2021||National||India reports first human death from bird flu||An 11-year-old boy has died in India from a bird flu virus of the H5N1 strain, the first such fatality in the country, highlighting a potential new risk for the world's second-most populous nation battling the coronavirus pandemic. The boy was admitted at New Delhi's premier All India Institute of Medical Sciences on July 2 and died on Tuesday after a multi-organ failure, a government statement said. Health workers treating the patient and the boy's family have been kept in isolation, and authorities have launched contact tracing, the statement said. In Haryana, the boy's home state in India's north, the Animal Husbandry Department has not found any suspected cases of bird flu and has stepped up surveillance, it said. India has seen more than half a dozen bird flu outbreaks in poultry in the past two decades, all of which were brought under control, with no human cases reported in the country previously.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-first-human-death-from-bird-flu-1011255.html
21-07-2021||National||India to take part in environment ministers' meet at G20 Summit||India will participate in the environment ministers' meeting at the 16th G20 Summit on Thursday. Union Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav will virtually take part in the two-day meeting, along with Minister of State for Environment Ashwini Choubey and senior officials, the environment ministry said in a tweet on Wednesday. "India to participate virtually in the #Environment Ministerial Meeting of the G20 countries on 22nd July 2021. #India shall be represented by a delegation led by Hon'ble Union Environment Minister, Shri @byadavbjp & Hon'ble MoS, Shri @AshwiniKChoubey & senior officers of @MoEFCC," it said. The 16th G20 Summit under Italian Presidency is slated to revolve around its primary theme of "People, Planet' and Prosperity".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-take-part-in-environment-ministers-meet-at-g20-summit-1011258.html
21-07-2021||National||In touch with Congress high command over party issues: Sachin Pilot||Former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Wednesday said he is in touch with the Congress high command over party issues raised by him and hoped that required steps will be the top leadership. Pilot and 18 other MLAs had rebelled against the leadership of Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot last year. After a month-long crisis, the Congress high command had formed a committee to look into the issues raised by them. “In depth discussions were held on the issues which were raised in the context of Rajasthan. The AICC is taking steps for the betterment of the government and party organisation. We are in touch with the high command and I believe that the AICC is going to take necessary steps required to be taken,” he told reporters. He said it is a collective responsibility of party leaders to ensure that the Congress retains power and suggestions in this regard were given by him. “The workers who have given so much to the party should get political reward in proportion to their efforts. It is not about any post or position. We want to expand the Congress family...new people should be associated,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-touch-with-congress-high-command-over-party-issues-sachin-pilot-1011259.html
21-07-2021||National||Health authorities on alert after bird flu death in Delhi||The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has launched an epidemiological investigation into the death of the boy hailing from Haryana, besides putting his family members, close contacts and healthcare workers under surveillance. “Contact tracing, an active search for any symptomatic case has been carried out in the hospital and area where the case resided,” a health ministry statement said. It said the Animal Husbandry Department has not found any suspected cases of bird flu in the area and has enhanced surveillance in a 10 km zone as a precautionary measure. However, AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria told new agency PTI that human-to-human transmission of the H5N1 virus was very rare and there was no need to panic. The 11-year-old boy was admitted to AIIMS on July 2 and passed away on July 12. He was diagnosed with acute myeloid leukemia and developed symptoms of fever, cough, coryza and breathing difficulty soon after induction therapy. According to the WHO, almost all cases of H5N1 infection in humans have been associated with close contact with infected live or dead birds, or H5N1-contaminated environments. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-authorities-on-alert-after-bird-flu-death-in-delhi-1011262.html
21-07-2021||National||Over 41.76 crore vaccine doses administered in India so far: Health Ministry||The total Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has exceeded 41.76 crore, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. More than 20.83 lakh vaccine doses have been administered on Wednesday, according to a 7 pm provisional report. The ministry said that on Wednesday, beneficiaries in the age group of 18 to 44 years got 10,04,581 vaccine jabs as first dose and 95,964 as second dose. Cumulatively, 13,04,46,413 people in the age group of 18 to 44 years across all states and Union Territories have received their first dose and 53,17,567 their second dose since the start of phase three of the vaccination drive. Three states — Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh — have administered more than 1 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine in the age group 18-44 years. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have administered the first dose of Covid vaccine to more than 10 lakh beneficiaries of the age group 18 to 44 years, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-4176-crore-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-so-far-health-ministry-1011266.html
21-07-2021||National||Suicide, Covid risks in Mumbai prison focus of Nirav Modi extradition appeal in UK||Nirav Modi faces a “substantial risk” of suicide amid an “overwhelming” impact of Covid-19 at Arthur Road Jail in Mumbai, where he will be lodged on being extradited, the High Court in London was told during an extradition appeal hearing on Wednesday. Justice Martin Chamberlain presided over the "renewal application" hearing, held under the court’s Covid-19 video conferencing setting, and has reserved his judgment, to be handed down in writing at a later date, on whether to grant Nirav permission to appeal against his extradition ordered by District Judge Sam Goozee in February and certified by UK Home Secretary Priti Patel in April. The bearded 50-year-old diamond merchant, wanted in India to face charges of fraud and money laundering in the estimated $2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case, observed the remotely held court proceedings from his Wandsworth Prison in south-west London dressed in a black suit and white shirt. Helen Malcolm, the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) barrister appearing on behalf of the Indian authorities, argued against permission to appeal by reiterating that the expert evidence on Nirav's mental health has not been disputed and that the regime awaiting him in Mumbai is based on assurances from the government of India of adequate medical care. “Such a high level of diplomatic assurance has never been breached,” she said, a point also asserted by the counsel appearing on behalf of the UK Home Secretary. “There is nothing to suggest that the speciality arrangements in place (under the UK-India Extradition Treaty) are not effective,” said Rosemary Davidson, as she countered the defence team’s representations based around other Indian extradition cases involving former Kingfisher Airlines boss Vijay Mallya and alleged cricket bookie Sanjeev Chawla. Opening the hearing earlier on Wednesday, Nirav’s lawyers sought to establish the grounds for a full High Court appeal hearing by claiming it would be oppressive to extradite him due to his mental condition that could lead to suicidal impulses, given his family history of suicide of his mother, and that he is at risk of a “flagrant denial of justice” in India. Nirav’s barrister Edward Fitzgerald argued that District Judge Goozee made a “succession of errors” in his ruling in favour of extradition in February, when he concluded that not only was Nirav’s severe depression not unusual given his incarceration, but that he did not exhibit an immediate impulse to commit suicide. “The District Judge was wrong to hold that there was nothing unusual about the Appellant’s (Nirav Modi) mental condition; and wrong to focus on his present fitness to plead,” said Fitzgerald. “As to the District Judge’s conclusion that ‘the Applicant’s condition will improve on his return’ and ‘there will be an amelioration of his current conditions of detention’, that finding was perverse on the evidence before him and unsustainable in the light of the new evidence. It was based on his assessment that the conditions in the prison at Arthur Road, Mumbai will be better than they are at HMP Wandsworth,” he noted. Nirav’s lawyers relied on expert evidence from forensic psychiatrist Dr Andrew Forrester, presented previously at Westminster Magistrates’ Court in London. “In my opinion, Nirav Modi should now be considered at substantial (meaning high), albeit not immediate, risk of suicide,” reads Forrester’s assessment in his report dated August 27, 2020. The lawyers also submitted fresh evidence to claim the Covid-19 pandemic is “overwhelming to the effect that the new outbreak of Covid renders the healthcare system on the brink of collapse”. Fellow barrister, Ben Watson, argued that Judge Goozee was led into error when making his ruling in favour of a prima facie case against Nirav over the "scope" and nature of the PNB scam conspiracy. The defence once again sought to question the admissibility of a lot of the evidence submitted by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), saying it is an issue that has “bedevilled many Indian extradition requests”. “That is to say it’s an argument that has been tried a number of times,” countered Helen Malcolm, as she categorised it as re-submitting of evidence already dealt with by the District Judge. In relation to the Home Secretary’s extradition order of April, it was argued that she should not rely on Indian government assurances. “She (Priti Patel) failed totally to address the evidence of other breaches of commitments made to both the UK and to third states,” claimed Fitzgerald. Nirav is the subject of two sets of criminal proceedings, with the CBI case relating to a large-scale fraud upon PNB through the fraudulent obtaining of letters of undertaking (LoUs) or loan agreements, and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) case relating to the laundering of the proceeds of that fraud. He also faces two additional charges of "causing the disappearance of evidence" and intimidating witnesses or “criminal intimidation to cause death”, which were added to the CBI case. India is a designated Part 2 country by virtue of the Extradition Act 2003, which means it is the UK Cabinet minister who has the authority to order a requested person’s extradition after all legal issues are dealt with in the courts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/suicide-covid-risks-in-mumbai-prison-focus-of-nirav-modi-extradition-appeal-in-uk-1011285.html
21-07-2021||National||50 lakh Indians died during second Covid wave due to Centre's wrong decisions: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday alleged that around 50 lakh Indians died during the second wave of Covid-19 infection due to "wrong decisions" of the Union government. India has officially reported around 4.18 lakh Covid deaths in the country so far. Gandhi shared on his Twitter handle a new study by the Centre for Global Development which reported excess mortality estimates from three different data sources from the start of the pandemic through June 2021.  "The truth. GOI's wrong decisions during Covid second wave killed 50 lakh of our sisters, brothers, mothers and fathers," he tweeted while sharing the study. The Truth. In another tweet, Gandhi talked about the central government saying no to any compensation to those who lost their lives during the farmers' protest. "Everything is recorded in the tears of those who have lost their loved ones," he said in a tweet in Hindi using the hashtag 'farmers protest'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/50-lakh-indians-died-during-second-covid-wave-due-to-centres-wrong-decisions-rahul-gandhi-1011300.html
21-07-2021||National||IDSP initiates epidemiological investigation into first bird flu death||The IDSP State Surveillance Unit of Haryana has initiated an epidemiological investigation into the first documented human case of bird flu in India, an 11-year-old boy who succumbed to the infection at AIIMS recently, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. The child has been reported as the first human case of H5Nx from Gurgaon in Haryana, the ministry said in a statement. The Animal Husbandry Department has not found any suspected cases of bird flu in the area and has enhanced surveillance in a 10 km zone as a precautionary measure.  Further, the epidemiological investigation by the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), involving the Animal Husbandry Department and state government surveillance unit, is underway and appropriate public health measures have been instituted. The boy was diagnosed with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) in the Paediatrics Department of AIIMS, Delhi in June. He developed symptoms of fever, cough, coryza, and breathing difficulty, soon after induction therapy for AML. He was diagnosed as AML with febrile neutropenia with pneumonia and shock that progressed to ARDS. He was admitted to AIIMS, New Delhi on July 2. The boy suffered from multi-organ dysfunction and died on July 12, the ministry said in a statement. The Department of Microbiology, AIIMS received the bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) for respiratory panel testing on July 7 and July 11.  The sample has tested positive for both Influenza A and Influenza B. It was negative for SARS COV-2 and other respiratory viruses. Subtyping for Influenza A remained inconclusive with available reagents for H1N1 and H3N2 at AIIMS. So, the samples were sent to NIV on  July 13. "At NIV, both the samples were tested for Influenza A and Influenza B along with Influenza A seasonal (H1N1, H1N1 pdm09 and H3N2), non-seasonal avian subtypes (H5, H7, H9 and H10) by real-time PCR. The result showed that the sample is positive for A/H5 and Type B Victoria lineage. Whole-genome sequencing and virus isolation is in process," the statement said. The NCDC, Delhi received information on July 16 from AIIMS, Delhi along with a lab report from NIV, Pune. "The information was communicated to the IDSP State Surveillance Unit (SSU), Haryana to initiate an epidemiological investigation into the case. The matter was also reported to the Animal Husbandry Department," the statement said. A team from NCDC comprising epidemiologists and microbiologists was set up and it immediately visited AIIMS, New Delhi and Gurgaon for undertaking an epidemiological assessment. Officials of the state Health Department and the Animal Husbandry Department are also involved in the investigation, it said. Based on the available information, the team of doctors and nurses treating the patient are being monitored since July 16 for development of any influenza-like illness. However, no one reported symptomatic till date. Contact tracing has been undertaken, and family members, close contacts and healthcare workers are under close surveillance. None of the close contacts have any symptoms. Contact tracing, an active search for any symptomatic case, has been carried out in the hospital and area where the patient resided. IEC activities were carried out for the public with an advice to report any symptomatic case to the health authorities.  There are no symptomatic individuals in the area at present. "The Animal Husbandry Department has not found any suspected cases of bird flu in the area and has enhanced surveillance in a 10 km zone as a precautionary measure. Further, epidemiological investigation by the NCDC, involving Animal Husbandry Department and state government surveillance unit, is underway and appropriate public health measures have been instituted," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/idsp-initiates-epidemiological-investigation-into-first-bird-flu-death-1011320.html
21-07-2021||National Politics||Completely false to say no one died due to oxygen shortage: Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said there have been many deaths due to oxygen shortage in Delhi and many other places across the country. "If there was no shortage of oxygen, why did hospitals move court? Hospitals and the media had been flagging oxygen shortage issues daily. Television channels showed that how hospitals were running out of life-saving gas. It is completely false to say that no one died due to oxygen shortage. There have been many deaths due to oxygen shortage in Delhi and many other places across the country," he said. The Central government on Tuesday informed the Rajya Sabha that no deaths due to lack of oxygen were specifically reported by states and UTs during the second Covid-19 wave. But there was an unprecedented surge in demand for medical oxygen during the second wave and it peaked at nearly 9,000 MT compared to 3,095 MT in the first wave following which the Centre had to step in to facilitate equitable distribution among the states, it said. Responding to a question on whether a large number of Covid-19 patients died on roads and hospitals due to acute shortage of oxygen in the second wave, Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar noted that health is a state subject and states and UTs regularly report the number of cases and deaths to the Centre. "Detailed guidelines for reporting of deaths have been issued by the Union Health Ministry to all states and UTs. "Accordingly, all states and UTs report cases and deaths to the Union Health Ministry on a regular basis. However, no deaths due to lack of oxygen have been specifically reported by states and UTs," Pawar said in a written reply.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/completely-false-to-say-no-one-died-due-to-oxygen-shortage-delhi-health-minister-satyendar-jain-1011073.html
21-07-2021||National Politics||People whose kin died due to oxygen shortage should take Centre to court: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Wednesday said people whose relatives died due to oxygen shortage during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic should "take the Union government to court". Raut's comments came a day after the central government said in the Rajya Sabha that no deaths due to lack of oxygen were specifically reported by states and UTs during the second Covid-19 wave. Reacting to it, Raut said, “Many people have died due to oxygen shortage in several states. Those whose relatives (Covid-19 patients) died due to oxygen shortage should take the Union government to court." "The Union government is running away from the truth. Seems like it is the effect of Pegasus (Israeli spyware),” the Rajya Sabha member said sarcastically while talking to reporters. The Sena's chief spokesperson further said it needs to be found out whether the people whose relatives died due to lack of oxygen supply believe in the Centre's response in Parliament over the issue. The Union government on Tuesday said in the Rajya Sabha that there was an unprecedented surge in demand for medical oxygen during the second wave and it peaked at nearly 9,000 MT compared to 3,095 MT in the first wave, following which the Centre had to step in to facilitate equitable distribution among the states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/people-whose-kin-died-due-to-oxygen-shortage-should-take-centre-to-court-sanjay-raut-1011080.html
21-07-2021||National Politics||Change in oxygen distribution policy by Centre led to disaster during 2nd Covid wave: Sisodia||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday said all deaths reportedly caused due to shortage of oxygen during second wave of Covid-19 in the city will be probed if the Centre allows the Delhi government to form a panel. He also charged the Centre with trying to "hide its fault" and alleged that its "mismanagement" and change in oxygen distribution policy after April 13 caused shortage of the life-saving gas in the hospitals across the country, leading to a "disaster". In an online briefing, Sisodia accused the BJP-led Centre of not allowing the formation of a committee for probing deaths caused due to oxygen shortage during second wave of Covid-19 in Delhi. "The government shamelessly told white lies in Parliament. There was utter chaos due to oxygen shortage after April 15 till May 5 and there is no big deal that people would die due to oxygen shortage," he said. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader said the Kejriwal government, by taking responsibility, tried to form a committee to audit all the deaths that happened reportedly due to oxygen shortage but the Centre prevented it through the LG. He claimed that the Centre did not allow formation of the committee "fearing its mismanagement will be exposed". The Kejriwal government is still ready for an independent audit of each death due to oxygen shortage if the Centre allows it to form the committee, he added. The central government on Tuesday informed the Rajya Sabha that no deaths due to lack of oxygen were specifically reported by states and UTs during the second Covid-19 wave. But there was an unprecedented surge in demand for medical oxygen during the second wave and it peaked at nearly 9,000 MT compared to 3,095 MT in the first wave following which the Centre had to step in to facilitate equitable distribution among the states, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/change-in-oxygen-distribution-policy-by-centre-led-to-disaster-during-2nd-covid-wave-sisodia-1011087.html
21-07-2021||National Politics||Mamata slams Centre over Pegasus spyware, calls for anti-BJP front||Lashing out against the Centre over the Pegasus issue and accusing it of tapping the phones of Opposition leaders, Ministers, judges and bureaucrats, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday urged Opposition parties to form an anti-BJP front. She was addressing the Trinamool Congress’ (TMC) Martyrs' Day rally in Kolkata. “The phones of Ministers, Opposition leaders, judges, Ministers and bureaucrats are being tapped. If the BJP loved democracy it would not have bulldozed the federal structure in the country. I urge all the (Opposition ruled) States to unite and set up a front. This is the right time to prepare for battle,” said Mamata. The TMC supremo urged the Supreme Court to take suo-motu cognizance of the Pegasus snooping row. She accused the BJP of trying to transform India into a “surveillance state.” “BJP’s aim is to transform a democratic country into a surveillance state rather than a welfare state,” said  Mamata. She alleged that she could not speak to Opposition leaders and other Chief Ministers as her phone was being tapped and they were spied upon by the Centre. The Chief Minister accused the Centre of using the revenue earned through tax on fuel and other commodities for buying “dangerous software” and not for welfare and social welfare schemes. “ I know very well that my phone is being tapped. All Opposition leaders know that their phones are being tapped. I can’t speak to Opposition leaders such as NCP chief Sharad Pawar, Congress leader P Chidambaram or other Chief Ministers because the Centre is spying on Opposition leaders,” said Mamata. Making her national ambitions clear, the TMC supremo said that “ democracy is going through an alarming situation. I don’t know what will happen in 2024 (Lok Sabha elections) but we have to start planning from now.” She said that she will be going to Delhi soon and if Pawar or Chidambaram convened a meeting of Opposition leaders she will attend it. Leaders such as Pawar, Chidambaram as well as leaders from the Akali Dal, Samajwadi Party and DMK listened to her speech virtually from Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamata-slams-centre-over-pegasus-spyware-calls-for-anti-bjp-front-1011091.html
21-07-2021||National Politics||Haryana CM Khattar hits out at Congress over Pegasus snooping row||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday hit out at the Congress over its attack on the central government over the Pegasus snooping row, and accused its leaders of joining hands with those forces who want to tarnish India's image. He claimed that there is no evidence to link the government with the matter. Addressing a press conference here, the senior BJP leader also questioned the credentials of those behind the story and alleged “everyone knows their leanings”. He also targeted Amnesty International, saying the agenda of the organisation, “which had failed to disclose its source of funding, is well-known”. Hitting out at the Congress, he alleged that it leaders are joining hands with those forces who want to tarnish India's image. "They should refrain from playing such games which lower the country's image in the eyes of the world.... Today, India has reached to some level in the world which is because of policies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and of the NDA government. The way they have raked up controversy, we condemn it. "By raking up this controversy under a conspiracy, they are trying to systematically assault the country's prestige, which we condemn,” Khattar said. Khattar also questioned the timing of the story coming as it did a day before Parliament's Monsoon session began on Monday. "The entire row is timed to disrupt Parliament and build a baseless agenda,” he said and also raked up snooping allegations levelled against the opposition party in the past, including a row involving then Union ministers Pranab Mukherjee and P Chidambaram. He further claimed everyone knows under what circumstances the government led by former Prime Minister Chandra Shekhar fell in 1991 when the Congress decided to withdraw support in the wake of a controversy over spotting of two intelligence operatives outside the residence of its leader at 10, Janpath in the national capital. Further targeting the Congress, he said it has been revealed that around 9,000 phones were monitored during the previous UPA regime. He said Parliament would have taken up many important issues pertaining to various sections, including the youth, women, farmers and backward classes, but the Opposition stalled the proceedings. “Congress' target has always been that when some good things are to take shape in the country, it joins hands with some forces to derail things," he alleged. "They are not creating obstacles in running of the government, but in the country's progress.... Congress' black deeds will never succeed in the country,” he said. When asked about the claim that Pegasus software/spyware is sold only to government, Khattar quipped, “No, private agencies also procure it from them. Now, it may be that private agencies take it from them privately and not declare it.” An international media consortium reported on Sunday that over 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including of two ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders besides scores of business persons and activists in India could have been targeted for hacking using Pegasus software/spyware.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/haryana-cm-khattar-hits-out-at-congress-over-pegasus-snooping-row-1011121.html
21-07-2021||National Politics||JD(U) insists on census for OBCs, a day after Centre said 'only' for Dalits||A day after the Centre told Parliament that an exercise to ascertain the population of "only SCs and STs" was being proposed, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar's JD(U) on Wednesday insisted that the same should be conducted for Other Backward Classes (OBC) as well. A statement to this effect was made by JD(U)'s parliamentary board chairman Upendra Kushwaha, a former union minister himself who has been a strong votary of affirmative action, seeking introduction of quotas even in the judiciary. "It is essential to get an exact idea of OBC's population. Even the Supreme Court has expressed such an opinion. Findings of exercises conducted to this end in the past should be made public. Besides, regular census must be conducted caste-wise, Kushwaha told reporters here. He was responding to queries about the submission, about SC/ST census, made by Union minister of state for Home Nityanand Rai in the Lok Sabha on the previous day. Notably, caste-based census has been a demand, raised time to time, by most of the OBC politicians in Bihar who owe their rise to the churning of the 1990s that followed implementation of the Mandal Commission recommendations. Not surprisingly, arch rivals like Nitish Kumar and his arch rival Lalu Prasad, who heads the Rashtriya Janata Dal, are also on the same page on the issue. The JD(U)'s stance also marks another point of ideological divergence with the BJP its ally at the centre and in the state, which derives its considerable support from the upper castes as well. Kushwaha was also asked about speculations in a section of the media that Prasads younger son Tejashwi Yadav is all set to take over as the next national president. "I do not think it is going to make much of a difference. In any case, he (Tejashwi) has been calling the shots in the RJD for quite some time", said Kushwaha, who was with the RJD-led Grand Alliance until the assembly elections last year. He was also asked about the JD(U)'s national executive meeting scheduled on July 31 and speculations that he was being considered for a "big responsibility" in the wake of party president RCP Singhs induction into the Union cabinet. "I am not carrying a small responsibility even now. I am devoting myself to help the JD(U) regain its numeo uno status in the politics of the state", Kushwaha , who had merged his Rashtriya Lok Samata Party into the JD(U) a few months ago, shot back. A former protege of Nitish Kumar, Kushwaha had parted ways with his mentor in 2013 to float his own outfit. His RLSP contested the Lok Sabha polls a year later as an ally of the NDA, which Kumar had quit, and was appointed to the Union council of ministers. He remained bitterly opposed to Kumar whose return to the NDA in 2017 seemed to have not gone down well with the RLSP chief who walked out of the alliance, giving up his ministerial berth, a few months ahead of the Lok Sabha polls. His re-induction into the JD(U), notwithstanding Kumar's reputation as someone who does not forgive past insults, is being seen as the chief minister's attempt to consolidate his "Kurmi-Koeri" base at a time when his party has lost the upper hand to the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jdu-insists-on-census-for-obcs-a-day-after-centre-said-only-for-dalits-1011234.html
21-07-2021||National Politics||Abhishek Banerjee calls for defeating Delhi's 'authoritarian duo' as TMC eye pan-India presence||Senior Trinamool Congress leader Abhishek Banerjee on Wednesday asserted that his party will not be cowed down by the BJP's "intimidation tactics" and it will ensure that the country is "freed from the shackles of the authoritarian duo sitting in Delhi" in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. The TMC national general secretary, who is also the nephew of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, also condemned the arrest of several party leaders and workers in Tripura for allegedly violating Covid-19 norms and taking part in the TMC Martyrs' Day programme in the northeastern state. "We will not be cowed down by the threats and intimidation of the BJP. We need to ensure that India becomes free from the shackles of the authoritarian duo sitting in Delhi," the Diamond Harbour MP said, without elaborating on whom he referred to as the "duo". "I want to thank the leaders of various political parties who attended our event. We all need to fight together against the authoritarian regime. The TMC will fight under the guidance of Mamata Banerjee. West Bengal will be the beacon for the country," he said, while concluding the programme after the TMC supremo's speech. The parliamentarian, who was appointed as the party's national general secretary after its massive victory in this year's assembly elections, played a major role in ensuring that the annual Martyrs' Day event was a gala programme and beamed live in various parts of the country. He has been given the charge of expanding the party's base across the country. "We strongly condemn the attack on @AITCofficial supporters in @BJP4India ruled states. We will NOT be cowed down by such intimidation tactics! On #ShahidDibas, let me reiterate that TRINAMOOL will not budge an inch in its fight against the oppressive forces. COME WHAT MAY!" he tweeted. We will NOT be cowed down by such intimidation tactics! After the party's massive victory for the third consecutive term, the TMC has vowed to spread its wings in other states to achieve a pan-India presence, and the Martyrs' Day event was used to boost its national footprint. The virtual address was not only addressed by leaders of various parties, including the NCP, Congress, Shiv Sena and Samajwadi Party, but was also aired live in states like Punjab, Tripura, Tamil Nadu, New Delhi, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, and poll-bound Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh. Several senior TMC leaders were sent to these states to take part in the live streaming programmes. "We are in Uttar Pradesh today to spread the message of Mamata Banerjee for restoration of democracy in the country. The Samajwadi Party has supported us during the assembly polls. They are our allies. The BJP has to be defeated in both UP and across the country at any cost," TMC chief whip in Rajya Sabha, Sukhendu Sekhar Ray, said. Banerjee's speech was telecasted on giant screens across West Bengal, and also in other states. In West Bengal, the speech was telecasted as delivered by Banerjee, who spoke in English, Hindi and Bengali, while in other states, it was translated into local languages. In Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah's home turf Gujarat, where assembly elections are due in 2022, the TMC aired Banerjee's speech on giant screens in several districts in Gujarati. Graffiti and posters projecting Banerjee as 'Amma', a sobriquet attached to late AIADMK leader Jayalalitha, have come up in Chennai, as the TMC tries to make inroads into the southern states with its first foray being in Tamil Nadu. Also, the party's mouthpiece Jago Bangla became a daily from weekly from Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/abhishek-banerjee-calls-for-defeating-delhis-authoritarian-duo-as-tmc-eye-pan-india-presence-1011308.html
21-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi Covid vaccine stock to last less than one day: Bulletin||Delhi has less than a day's stock of coronavirus vaccines left, with nearly 30,000 doses administered on July 19, according to a bulletin issued on Tuesday. The national capital, as on Tuesday morning, had a balance stock of 2,63,170 coronavirus vaccines, out of which 1,95,290 doses are of Covishield and 67,880 of Covaxin, data shared by the government showed. However, only 20 per cent of the Covaxin stock is to be used, since its stock is limited and has irregular delivery cycles, it noted. Only 25,986 doses were administered on Monday, of which 16,704 were first doses and 9,282 second doses. As many as 93,83,468 vaccine doses have been administered in the national capital till date, including 22,25,292 are second doses. Delhi's current vaccination capacity stands at 47,605 doses per day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-covid-vaccine-stock-to-last-less-than-one-day-bulletin-1010978.html
21-07-2021||North and Central||Suspected drone spotted in Jammu's Satwari area||A suspected drone has been spotted in Satwari area of Jammu.  Jammu & Kashmir | Suspected drone spotted in Satwari area of Jammu. Details awaited. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/suspected-drone-spotted-in-jammus-satwari-area-1011018.html
21-07-2021||North and Central||Naxals release 7 villagers abducted in Sukma||Seven people, who were allegedly abducted by Naxals in Chhattisgarh's Sukma district a few days back, have been released and they have safely returned to their village, police said on Wednesday. Before releasing them, the rebels warned the villagers "not to support police or development works" in the area, the police said. "These people reached their village Kunded under Jagargunda police station limits on Tuesday night and all of them are safe," Inspector General of Police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P told PTI. On July 18, Maoists had forcefully taken the seven people along with them towards Puvarti village, the native place of dreaded Maoist commander Hidma, and allegedly kept them in captivity, he said. When they did not return, a group of villagers from the area went into the forest in search of them. After being alerted, the police swung into action and launched a search for these people, the official said. Meanwhile, local representatives of tribal communities were also contacted and they issued an appeal in the media, asking the ultras to release the abducted villagers, he said. "With the growing pressure from police and appeals made by local tribal leaders, Naxals had to set them free," the official said. The police will record statements of the abducted villagers, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/naxals-release-7-villagers-abducted-in-sukma-1011103.html
21-07-2021||North and Central||Landslides following heavy rains leave 150 people stranded in Uttarakhand's Champawat||Landslides triggered by heavy rains along the Tanakpur-Ghat national highway in Uttarakhand's Champawat district have left around 150 people stranded, an official said on Wednesday. As traffic remained blocked at Vishramghat on the highway till late Tuesday night, the district administration made arrangements for the stay of the stranded people in Champawat, District Disaster Management Officer Manoj Pandey said. Landslides occurred at eight points along the highway on Tuesday bringing mounds of debris onto the road. Though the debris was cleared at seven points by Tuesday evening, the rocks and boulders in Vishramghat could not be cleared till midnight despite efforts, Pandey said.          Efforts to clear the rubble on the road in Vishramghat were resumed on Wednesday morning with the help of earthmoving machines and a loader he said. Some of the stranded people, who were headed for Haldwani, are being sent there via Devidhura, he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/landslides-following-heavy-rains-leave-150-people-stranded-in-uttarakhands-champawat-1011118.html
21-07-2021||North and Central||Parliamentary panel may discuss Pegasus issue on July 28||Officials of the Ministries of Home, Information Technology and Telecom are likely to face questions on the Pegasus snooping episode from a Parliamentary panel on July 28 when it meets to discuss citizens' data security and privacy. The leaked database accessed by French media non-profit Forbidden Stories and shared with an international media consortium including Washington Post, The Guardian and The Wire, had shown that Opposition leaders, journalists, constitutional authorities and activists among others were "potential" targets for surveillance by Israeli spyware Pegasus. The names of former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and Trinamool Congress General Secretary Abhishek Banerjee, both Lok Sabha MPs, as well as Union Ministers Ashwani Vaishnaw and Prahlad Patel surfaced in the leaked database as potential targets earlier this week. Sources said the Opposition MPs will raise the matter in the meeting next Wednesday during which the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology will seek "evidence of the representatives of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Ministry of Home Affairs and Department of Telecommunications on the subject of Citizens data security and privacy". Committee Chairman Shashi Tharoor said three hearings were held on Pegasus in 2019 and the panel heard representatives of hacking victims, and Secretaries of IT, Telecoms and MHA. "This was part of two broader subjects, 'Citizens' Data Privacy and Security' and 'Cyber Security', on which discussions are continuing," he tweeted in response to a question. The panel had taken up the Pegasus issue in November 2019 despite opposition from the BJP MPs who forced a vote on whether to discuss it or not and lost. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) had then told the panel that at least 121 Indians were snooped using Pegasus. However, the government had so far not revealed the names of these 121 people. The issue came up before the panel then after reports emerged that WhatsApp accounts of at least 121 activists and journalists were targeted by Pegasus with the Congress then claiming that its General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi was also a victim. Tharoor also said, "If it turns out that it's our government and it has authorised to do it, the government needs to give an explanation as the law only permits interception of communication for issues of national security and terrorism. Otherwise, it's illegal. It is essential for the government to cooperate in a probe," Tharoor said on Tuesday. "It's been proved that phones examined in India had an invasion of Pegasus. Since this product is only sold to vetted governments, the question arises which government? If the government says they haven't done it, or some other government did it, then it's a more serious national security concern," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/parliamentary-panel-may-discuss-pegasus-issue-on-july-28-1011125.html
21-07-2021||North and Central||Those against Indians will be killed in encounters: UP minister Anand Swaroop Shukla||Uttar Pradesh minister Anand Swaroop Shukla triggered a controversy when he dubbed those who had stayed back in India during the partition of the country in 1947 ''conspirators trying to break the country again'', and said that such people would be killed in 'encounters'. Shukla, a minister of state in the Yogi Adityanath government, made the remarks while speaking to reporters in Ballia on Tuesday evening. His remarks came in response to the reported statement of noted Urdu poet and Sahitya Academy Award (Urdu Literature) winner Munawwar Rana that he (Rana) would leave UP if the BJP returned to power after the 2022 Assembly polls in the state and Yogi Adityanath became the chief minister of the state again. He had also said that UP was not 'safe' for the Muslims anymore. ''Munawwar Rana is among the Muslims, who chose to stay back in India during the partition in 1947, as part of a conspiracy to divide the country against,'' Shukla said. ''Aise sabhi log, chahe woh jo bhi hon, encounter mein mare jayenge'' (all such people, whosoever they are, will be killed in encounters), he remarked. Rana, an acclaimed Urdu poet, had returned the Sahitya Academy Award in 2015, a year after receiving it, and had vowed never to accept any government award in protest against the ''rising intolerance'' in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/those-against-indians-will-be-killed-in-encounters-up-minister-anand-swaroop-shukla-1011148.html
21-07-2021||North and Central||Eid-ul-Adha celebrated across UP amid Covid curbs||Eid-ul-Adha was celebrated across Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday with limited number of people offering prayers at mosques amid gathering curbs due to the coronavirus pandemic. According to reports from various districts, the usual buzz was missing this time as people preferred to celebrate the festival in the confines of their homes. Led by Maulana Khalid Rashid Farangi Mahali, around 50 people offered “namaz” with masks on while maintaining social distancing at the historic Eidgah in Lucknow. They prayed for the eradication of coronavirus and development of the country, a statement issued by the Islamic Centre of India said. Religious congregations at the Eidgah witness a turnout of about five lakh on such occasions. The Centre had issued an advisory for celebrating the festival in accordance with the Covid protocol of the government. The government had said that in view of Covid, not more than 50 people should gather at any place at a given time for any event related to the festival and had also asked its officials to ensure that no cows, camels or any other banned animals are sacrificed anywhere. Maulana Khalid Rashid said around 20 lakh farmers get work through the sale of animals meant for sacrifice and about 40 lakh poor people get free food for several days. "The business on this festival is worth over Rs 10,000 crore,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/eid-ul-adha-celebrated-across-up-amid-covid-curbs-1011150.html
21-07-2021||North and Central||Farmers to protest near Parliament amid Monsoon Session||Farmers agitating against the three farm laws will hold a 'Kisan Parliament' every day at Jantar Mantar, during the ongoing Monsoon Session of Parliament, beginning Thursday. A group of 200 farmers will hold “peaceful demonstrations” at Jantar Mantar demanding scrapping of the agri laws and no protester will go to Parliament where the Monsoon Session is underway. The Monsoon Session of Parliament started on Monday and is scheduled to conclude on August 13. “We informed the police that every day 200 farmers will go to Jantar Mantar from the Singhu border in buses during the Monsoon Session. It will be a peaceful demonstration and protesters will have identification badges,” Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh President Shiv Kumar Kakka said. The Delhi Police granted permission for the protests after the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the umbrella body spearheading the seven-month protests at Delhi’s borders, assured that the farmers will not march towards parliament. The government has ruled out repeal of the three farm laws – a key demand of the farmers – and asked them to join talks if they want to suggest any amendments. The agitating farmers and the government had held 11 rounds of talks in December-January but failed to reach any agreement. The government had offered to suspend the three farm laws for 18 months and continue talks with the protestors, but the proposal was shot down by the farmers’ unions. The violence during the tractor rally carried out by the farmers on Republic Day and the storming of the Red Fort by protestors marred the agitation that has been continuing on the Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur borders of the capital since November 26 last year. However, over the past few months the number or protestors has thinned at the three sites as farmers were busy with the sowing for kharif crops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-to-protest-near-parliament-amid-monsoon-session-1011153.html
21-07-2021||North and Central||Sidhu puts on a show of strength in Amritsar with 62 Congress MLAs in tow||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh appeared cornered by his own partymen as 62 out of the 80 Congress MLAs rallied behind newly-appointed state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on his visit to Amritsar. Sidhu was appointed as the Punjab Congress chief on Sunday and the cricketer-turned-politician has lost no opportunity to put up a show of strength and send a clear message to his bete-noire, the chief minister, that “winds of change” had started blowing in the party. Sidhu is set to formally take over as the Punjab Congress President on Friday and has sent an invitation to the chief minister, signed by MLAs backing him, to attend the event. Amarinder has refused to meet Sidhu till he apologised for his personally derogatory social media attacks against him. But, MLAs supporting Sidhu have ruled out an apology and asked the 79-year-old chief minister to sink differences and welcome him with “open arms” to strengthen the party. “I think at this level, leaders should not ask each other to apologise,” Amarinder Singh Raja Warring, Punjab MLA and former Youth Congress President said in Amritsar. The 62 MLAs gathered for a meeting at Sidhu’s residence in Amritsar and later boarded a luxury bus to visit the Golden Temple, Durgiana Temple and Ram Tirath Sthal. "Winds of change — of the people, by the people, for the people — Chandigarh to Amritsar, 20 July 2021," Sidhu said on Twitter posting a video of people receiving him with warmth throughout the state. At least four ministers in Amarinder’s council of ministers were present at Sidhu’s residence besides the outgoing state unit chief Sunil Jakhar. Punjab minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said even the chief minister’s arch-rivals Partap Singh Bajwa and Sukhpal Singh Khaira had resolved their issues. “Why can’t the chief minister sink differences with Sidhu,” Randhawa wondered. The rivalry between the chief minister and Sidhu can be traced back to 2017 when the latter joined the Congress after a bitter fallout with the BJP just ahead of the assembly elections. Strongly backed by the Gandhi family, Sidhu charted his own separate way in the Punjab Congress which was not liked by the chief minister, who ensured his ouster from the cabinet in 2019. Since April, Sidhu has been openly critical of the chief minister, accusing him of not keeping the poll promise of taking action against the perpetrators in the sacrilege case and the drug mafia in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sidhu-puts-on-a-show-of-strength-in-amritsar-with-62-congress-mlas-in-tow-1011171.html
21-07-2021||North and Central||Snake gets stuck in AC unit in Delhi, rescued||A two-foot-long juvenile Indian rock python slithered into the air conditioner unit fitted at a house in Chattarpur and got stuck there. Upon realising their air conditioner wasn't functional, the family decided to investigate. To their surprise, a two-foot-long juvenile Indian Rock Python had slithered into the air-conditioning unit through the exhaust tube and was trapped inside. The family reported the matter on the emergency helpline of Wildlife SOS, a wildlife conservation non-profit. A two-member team from the NGO rushed to the location with rescue equipment. It took them 45 minutes to dismount the AC unit, disassemble it and extricate the snake, a Wildlife SOS official said. It was examined for injuries and later released into the wild. In another incident, a five-foot-long Indian rat snake was found entangled in synthetic garden netting at the National Institute of Plant Genome Research (NIPGR) in Vasant Kunj. The snake's futile attempts to break free had resulted in the wires to tighten its grip around the body. The Wildlife SOS rescuers carefully cut through the netting to free the distressed snake.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/snake-gets-stuck-in-ac-unit-in-delhi-rescued-1011186.html
21-07-2021||North and Central||J&K amends domicile law; non-local spouses can now get domicile certificate||For the first time after 1947, spouses of permanent residents of the union territory (UT) of Jammu and Kashmir will now be entitled to all benefits otherwise enjoyed by the residents of the erstwhile state. “In exercise of the powers conferred by proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India read with Section of the J&K Civil Service (Decentralisation and recruitment) Act, 2010, the government hereby grants domicile certificates to spouse of a domicile,” a government order issued on Tuesday, reads. However, now the government has authorised tahsildars to issue such certificates against “valid proof of marriage” and a deputy commissioner will be the appellate authority for the same. A senior government official said that the new clause in J&K domicile rule is for a spouse and not gender-specific, which means if a male member marries outside the UT, his wife will enjoy all the rights like a woman from J&K. “Similarly, if a girl from J&K chooses an outsider as a life partner he will enjoy all the rights in J&K,” he added. In the erstwhile state, husbands of local women married outside had no right to buy property or apply for jobs in J&K. However, after the abrogation of J&K’s special status under Article 370 on August 5, 2019, and the bifurcation of the erstwhile state into two UTs, this has changed. Consequent to these changes in these rules, permanent residents of J&K, who lived in the erstwhile state for 15 years, Central government employees having worked in J&K for 10 years, and students who have passed Class X or XII examination have the right to government jobs in the UT. They will be eligible for scholarships and the acquisition of immovable properties. Besides, children born to mothers who were married outside J&K had to hitherto produce domicile certificates of their ‘parents’. Often they faced procedural issues while obtaining the document. Meanwhile, the ruling BJP hailing the order termed it “a historic decision and end of the injustice meted to the girls of J&K at the hands of previous governments who were married outside the erstwhile state.” Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-amends-domicile-law-non-local-spouses-can-now-get-domicile-certificate-1011229.html
21-07-2021||North and Central||PM Modi to inaugurate 9 UP medical colleges on July 30||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on July 30 inaugurate nine medical colleges in Uttar Pradesh, the state government said in a statement on Wednesday. The PM will inaugurate the colleges from Siddharth Nagar district. All necessary arrangements for the prime minister's programme should be completed in time, he directed officials, the statement said. Aimed at providing better health facilities to people of Uttar Pradesh, the nine medical colleges will be made functional by the July-end, the statement said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-9-up-medical-colleges-on-july-30-1011245.html
21-07-2021||North and Central||Congress brings in next gen leaders but aims to handle seniors with caution||In appointing Navjot Sidhu as Punjab Congress chief despite objections voiced by Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, Congress has given a clear indication of its next-generation plan. In recent appointments of the grand old party like Revanth Reddy as Telangana PCC Chief (June 2021), Kannur MP K Sudhakaran as Kerala Congress chief (June 2021), Nana Patole as Maharashtra chief (February 2021) and Hardik Patel (July 2020) as Working President of Gujarat, ignoring objections from strong entrenched regional leaders there, a trend is noticeable. A party functionary said Congress is mindful that a prolonged dependence on ageing veterans can ultimately kill the party as in Assam and Himachal where party veterans Tarun Gogoi and Virbhadra Singh won several elections but kept the party in their iron fist and did not allow a second leadership to grow. After both leaders passed, the party is gasping for breath in these states. Lok Sabha MP Reddy, 53, was made Telangana state chief even though he had joined the party only three years ago in 2017. Sidhu had also joined Congress in 2017 after a three year-stint with BJP. Reddy, before joining Congress had stints with TDP, TRS and BJP's Youth wing Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad. Nana Patole, 58, moved from Congress to BJP and then back to Congress. All were given key roles as the Congress felt they were energetic, young leaders and could serve longterm interests of the party. Patole, who has given Congress a voice in the state, is being assisted by six working presidents, Sidhu by four. "The party wants fighting, fit leaders and is also not averse to a few lateral entries to boost its armoury. Performance is the key," a leader said. Addressing a group of social media workers of the party last week, Rahul Gandhi had said, "There are many people who are not scared but are outside the Congress. All these people are ours. Bring them in, and those scared within our party should be shunted out. We want fearless people." While decisions to promote young leaders in Haryana and Rajasthan are also on the anvil, the party is treading with caution even as it seems inclined to move to the next generation after many dilemmas in recent years.   Sonia Gandhi recently had a meeting with Kamal Nath, who later had a meeting with Ghulam Nabi Azad. Gandhi is also learnt to have met two other members from G-23, considered a dissenter group. The party, in a rejig of its Parliamentary groups last week, brought in for Lok Sabha strategy Manish Tewari and Shashi Tharoor, both from the G-23 group, which wrote to the party chief seeking structural changes. While promoting young futuristic leadership is being pushed as the core agenda of change, Sonia Gandhi is keen not to antagonise veterans like Ashok Gehlot and Bhupinder Singh Hooda in states like Rajasthan and Haryana. The Congress owes to Hooda for its revival in 2019 Assembly polls and despite growing discomfiture in the Sachin Pilot camp, the party is not in a tearing hurry to get him what he wants and sidelining Gehlot seems out of question, at least for the time being. One reason is that Rajasthan is a party ruled state — one of the only three in which the party is in power on its own (others being Punjab and Chhattisgarh) and is clearly not in a mood to rock the boat after having lost Madhya Pradesh to BJP within one year of winning it after 15 years.  Some 'please all' formula will be worked out there. Unlike Punjab, where elections are due in next nine months, polls are two and half years away in Rajasthan. "It's a tight-rope walk. Will change all in one go does not work in a party like Congress," says a leader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-brings-in-next-gen-leaders-but-aims-to-handle-seniors-with-caution-1011248.html
21-07-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand CM unveils Rs 200 crore package for tourism sector, traders connected with Chardham Yatra||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Wednesday announced a package of Rs 200 crore for people in the tourism sector and for those whose livelihoods depend on the Chardham Yatra.  At a press conference in Uttarkashi, Dhami said the package was needed considering the adverse effects of Covid-19 on tourist activities and the Chardham Yatra. "The pandemic has brought tourist activities to a halt and the chardham yatra remains suspended. Hotels, tour operators and porters whose trades are connected directly with tourism and the Chardham Yatra have been hit really hard," the chief minister said.  The package will benefit 1.63 lakh families in the state and it is being announced despite the economy not being in a good shape, he said. Under the package, the money will be transferred directly to bank accounts of people in these sectors, the chief minister said.  Concessions will also be given on licence fees for starting different commercial activities, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-cm-unveils-rs-200-crore-package-for-tourism-sector-traders-connected-with-chardham-yatra-1011250.html
21-07-2021||North and Central||After BSP alliance for 2022 Punjab polls, SAD now trying to rope in CPI(M), CPI||Having stitched an alliance with the BSP for the 2022 Punjab assembly elections, the opposition Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) is now working towards broadening the coalition by roping in two Left parties to take on the ruling Congress, sources said on Wednesday. The SAD announced its alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) in June, months after it had severed its decade-old tie-up with the BJP over the Centre's three contentious farm laws. Sources in the SAD said the party has held meetings with leaders of the CPI(M) and the CPI to form a grand alliance. When contacted, CPI(M) Punjab unit secretary Sukhwinder Singh Sekhon said SAD leaders have met him but nothing has been finalised yet. There are some issues which need further discussions, thereafter a clear picture about the alliance may emerge, Sekhon said. The SAD and the CPI(M) had forged an alliance in 1967 and formed the first non-Congress government in Punjab. Communist veteran Harkishan Singh Surjeet had played an instrumental role in formation of that government. The SAD and the BSP have come together after a gap of 25 years. They had contested the 1996 Lok Sabha polls together and the alliance had won 11 out of 13 seats in Punjab. In the last assembly elections in 2017, the SAD managed to win just 15 seats in the 117-member Punjab Assembly, registering its worst performance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-bsp-alliance-for-2022-punjab-polls-sad-now-trying-to-rope-in-cpim-cpi-1011253.html
21-07-2021||North and Central||Sidhu to take charge as Punjab Congress chief on July 23, to invite Amarinder for event||As newly appointed Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and four other working presidents are set to assume charge here on Friday, an invite will be extended to Chief Minister Amarinder Singh for the event. Sidhu will be taking over from incumbent state Congress chief Sunil Jakhar. The chief minister was also averse to his appointment as the state Congress chief. After Sidhu's elevation, the CM had said that he won’t meet him until the cricketer-turned-politician apologises for his "derogatory" tweets against him. A party leader told reporters in Amritsar on Wednesday that the chief minister will be requested to grace the event. Sources said that an invite is set to be extended to the chief minister on behalf of the newly appointed state unit chief and four working presidents. Incharge of Punjab affairs at the AICC, Harish Rawat, and other senior Congress leaders are expected to attend the event, sources said. Congress president Sonia Gandhi had on Sunday appointed Sidhu as the new president of the party's Punjab unit, notwithstanding the strong opposition from Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. Gandhi also appointed four working presidents, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Pawan Goel and Kuljit Singh Nagra, to assist Sidhu in the run-up to the next Assembly elections. Earlier, the Punjab chief minister's media adviser had said the CM will not meet Sidhu till he publicly tenders an apology for his "derogatory" tweets against him. Nagra said they have requested AICC office-bearers, senior leaders of the Congress Party, including the chief minister and party workers, to attend the event. “They must reach the event to bless the new team. We request Jakhar sahab and Chief Minister sahab that they must attend,” Nagra told reporters in Amritsar. Sources said that Nagra is likely to meet Amarinder Singh on Thursday while formally inviting him for the Friday's function. Earlier during the day on Wednesday, in what was seen as a show of strength, nearly 60 Congress MLAs gathered at the residence of Sidhu in Amritsar, amid suspense over a possible truce between him and CM Amarinder Singh. The Congress has 80 MLAs in the state Assembly. Before going to Amritsar, Sidhu had been calling on ministers and legislators in Chandigarh to mobilise support in the past a few days. Sidhu had already met several ministers and MLAs. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sidhu-to-take-charge-as-punjab-congress-chief-on-july-23-to-invite-amarinder-for-event-1011295.html
21-07-2021||Oasis||Attending to appearance||A British film star recently revealed that throughout the London lockdown she and her family dressed glamorously at home. “I put on red lipstick every day and every bit of Chanel that I have in my cupboard,” said the actress. Her husband wore bright Gucci suits and their little daughter was in elegant apparel. Grandly attired, they bounced up and down on their garden trampoline. This way of coping with quarantine seems excessive. How many of us can afford to shop at European fashion houses? There is, however, something in what the celebrity says. The awareness that one is looking good serves as a morale booster, especially in dismal situations.  What Katy Did, a 19th-century children’s classic by Susan Coolidge, endorses this view. Energetic young Katy is confined to bed with a back injury and deeply depressed. At this abysmal point in her life, she is visited by her cousin. Helen (an invalid) is distressed to see what Katy is doing to herself. The 12-year-old girl has red circles under her eyes from crying. She keeps running her fingers impatiently through her hair so that it sticks out like a bush. Helen observes that Katy’s nightgown is ‘particularly ugly in pattern’.  “A sick person ought to be as fresh and dainty as a rose,” Helen admonishes Katy. She adds that, after an accident, she herself had been a dreadful sight. It was her father who, long ago, had urged her to be neat and tidy. Ever since Helen has taken care of herself and is always well-groomed. Katy takes this advice to heart and improves holistically.   We all understand the value of inner beauty, but externals are important too. In these demoralising times, it is easy to let ourselves become flabby and shabby. The need of the hour is neither to eat too much nor exercise too little. As for clothes, we can be simply, yet smartly turned out, without designer wardrobes. Let us attend to our appearance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/attending-to-appearance-1011048.html
21-07-2021||Opinion||Developing nations need help to quit coal addiction||Coal-fired power plants are proving hard to shutdown in developing economies because they are cheap and convenient, but keeping them going is pumping out carbon dioxide at a rate far beyond the level needed to achieve net zero emissions by 2050. Coal, which is being phased out of the power system in many industrialised nations, is still a vital fuel for generation in many developing economies and may remain so for decades to come. Countries outside the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, a grouping of mainly industrialised nations, accounted for 80 per cent of worldwide coal consumption in 2019, the last year before the pandemic, BP's annual energy report says. ("Statistical review of world energy", 2021) If emissions from coal combustion are to be reduced and global emissions cut to net zero by mid-century, then progress towards phasing out coal-fired power in non-OECD economies is essential. But there is little evidence that developing economies are lessening dependence on coal as power demand climbs because of urbanisation, industrialisation, rising incomes and growing populations. OECD countries relied on coal to meet less than 13 per cent of their total primary energy in 2020. That figure rises to more than 21 per cent in the non-OECD outside China and 57 per cent in China itself. OECD countries obtained around 27 exajoules (EJ) of energy from coal, rising to 42 EJ in the non-OECD outside China, and another 82 EJ in China itself (https://tmsnrt.rs/3Bn5bkx). In relative terms, China has reduced the share of coal in its energy mix steadily since 2007, although in absolute terms Chinese consumption rose by 1.2 per cent a year from 2010 to 2020. In non-OECD states excluding China, consumption rose 2.7 per cent a year. Reduced consumption in the OECD in past decade (-18 EJ) has been more than offset by increased use in China (+9 EJ) and the rest of the non-OECD (+10 EJ). Non-OECD countries including China consumed 124 EJ worth of coal in 2020, up from 105 EJ in 2010, 52 EJ in 2000 and 48 EJ in 1990. Coping with Change For developing countries, coal-fired plants remain cheap to build and easy to add to grids that have limited capacity to cope with the intermittent generation of renewable power. Coal is cheaper and more secure than gas, particularly when imports rely on shipments of liquefied natural gas (LNG), technically simpler and cheaper than nuclear, and more predictable than renewables such as solar and wind power. In OECD economies, coal is rapidly being replaced by a mix of wind, solar and gas-fired generation, aided by advanced grid management with battery storage being developed as a back up. Outside the OECD, especially outside China, newer forms of generation are spreading more slowly and coal remains in favour. With any innovation, higher-income countries tend to be early adopters, while lower-income nations usually stick with older technology for longer. (“Diffusion of innovations”, Rogers, 2003) Coal has become the default choice for the poor, and is set to remain so even as wealthier states shift to new technology. If OECD countries want to cut global coal combustion faster, they must provide more technical and financial help to non-OECD counterparts to overcome barriers and adopt new technology. For OECD policymakers and climate campaigners, the focus has been on restricting coal mine production and the provision of concessional finance to build new coal-fired power stations. This strategy has sought to compel a shift to alternatives by raising the cost of coal generation. But non-OECD countries need positive encouragement too, with cash and technology transfer, if they are to switch to more gas, hydro, wind and solar generation, and adapt their grids to deal with the change. Without that kind of assistance, coal-fired generation outside the OECD is unlikely to reduce significantly by 2050.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/developing-nations-need-help-to-quit-coal-addiction-1010971.html
21-07-2021||Opinion||Will Priyanka's efforts help Congress in UP?||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is back in circulation in Uttar Pradesh, her "karmabhoomi" since she was entrusted with the charge of the country's most populous state a few years ago. Unlike the past, when she would make only occasional forays into Uttar Pradesh, she proposes to stick in the state for longer spells so that she could put the country's oldest party back on its feet where it had once ruled for four decades. The Congress party's fate dwindled ever since it was voted out of power 32 years ago in 1989. The party's traditional support base of Brahmins, Dalits and Muslims was devoured by different parties, including the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Reduced to a paltry seven seats in the 403-member Uttar Pradesh house, it would be a tall order for the Congress to even dream of putting up a fight against a 312-member ruling BJP. But Vadra is not prepared to give up.  "At the last state election in 2017, our party organisation stood completely crumbled. But over the recent past, we have worked silently on rebuilding the organisational base. It has now taken shape and will surely be in far better a position to take on the ruling party at the next state election in 2022," she told media persons in an informal chat during her recent three-day visit to Lucknow. Displaying far more clarity than her other family members, Vadra sought to make it loud and clear that she would rather have no truck with any other Opposition party than risking her own party's interests. "Whenever we aligned with another political party, we have had to compromise with the larger interest of the Congress. Therefore we would prefer to go it alone at the coming Uttar Pradesh election", she said. She hastened to add, "But we still believe in keeping an open mind." In her bid to extricate the Congress from the debris, Vadra is leaving no stone unturned to impress that she is all set to take the challenge. A beginning has been made through the silent 'dharna' (sit-in) she staged under the statue of Mahatma Gandhi – a popular public protest site in the heart of the state capital here. She also created waves when her long motorcade rode through the city thoroughfares, throwing everyday life out of gear. The following day she drove down to Lakhimpur-Kheri, about 140-km from the state capital, to meet the Samajwadi Party (SP) activist Anita Yadav. Her videos showing how she thwarted a bid by BJP goons to pull her saree had earlier gone viral. Anita Yadav, a proposer for the local SP nominee in the recently held panchayat elections, was maltreated by the ruling party activists. The SP nominee was deprived of filing her nomination, while the BJP candidate sailed through unopposed. Significantly, Vadra took the opportunity to stand beside her when even SP's senior leaders had not cared to visit her.   That same evening, Vadra gave audience to a select group of half-a-dozen journalists at a dinner hosted at the residence of veteran Congress leader Pramod Tiwari, whose MLA daughter and Congress Legislature Party leader Aradhana Misra, was in tow. It was here that a journalist stealthily shot her entire interaction with the private group and beamed it live to an influential official in the CM's media team.  Subsequently, and before a Lucknow-based senior journalist could expose this snooping, Vadra attended a lunch arranged at the residence of Naseemuddin Siddiqui, who had switched loyalties from the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) to the Congress after his showdown with Mayawati a few years ago. Here Vadra met with a bigger group of journalists. While Vadra did not miss a single opportunity to make her presence felt in Uttar Pradesh, what seemed to be absent was a sustained effort to keep her connect with both party workers and the electorate. Earlier in October 2020, Vadra had visited the family of the Hathras rape and murder victim.  However, her forays into Uttar Pradesh have been infrequent and at inordinately prolonged intervals. Her detractors allege that she has made her current visit to Lucknow after a gap of one-and-a-half years. "I may not have visited Lucknow for several months, but I have been going to different parts of Uttar Pradesh," Vadra has said in her defence. There can be no denying that she was spotted attending to the plight of the man on the street. Apart from her visit to Hathras, she has stood in solidarity with those harassed for staging anti-CAA protests and the migratory labour stranded on the Delhi border while returning to their homes in Uttar Pradesh from different corners of the country, or be it arranging oxygen for Covid patients. While she arranged hundreds of buses to cart the stranded migratory labour, the Uttar Pradesh government not only refused to use those but went to the extent of putting the UP Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu behind bars. The Uttar Pradesh police charged Lallu with non-fulfilment of his commitment in terms of the number of buses. And for months, he could not even get bail. Whether such an effort will pay any political dividends is very difficult to say. Vadra's claims of rebuilding the party organisation on its feet aside, her consistent presence on the ground in UP is the need of the hour. According to insiders, the Congress hopes to win back a section of its old and lost support base of Dalits, Muslims and Brahmins. That appears a remote possibility and can only happen if Vadra succeeds in projecting the party as a serious player in the electoral game. Unlike the past when her occasional trips to UP prompted the BJP leadership to describe her as a "political tourist", Vadra promises to operate from Lucknow this time. "You will find me on ground zero from next month when I propose to return after finalising my daughter's admission and seeing her off at the new university," she said. She dismissed BJP's charge of her being a "political tourist" as a "false and baseless smear campaign, which is typical of that party." Time will tell what she has in store to meet the might of the ruling BJP. Meanwhile, the saffron brigade has begun preparing its arsenal for its attacks on her. The BJP's most significant advantage at the moment is a fragmented opposition, and indeed, the party's all-powerful leadership would move heaven and earth to ensure that the opposition does not come under a common umbrella at any cost. We may rule out the possibility of a formally united opposition for the time being. Yet, speculation is rife about Vadra pushing for an unwritten electoral understanding between different opposition parties in Uttar Pradesh, which could give some sleepless nights to the ruling dispensation. (The writer is a Lucknow-based journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/will-priyankas-efforts-help-congress-in-up-1011084.html
21-07-2021||Opinion||Could Mamata Banerjee be the lynchpin for Opposition unity?||Subhas Chandra Bose, the only Bengali political leader to have truly ever captured the national imagination, raised the slogan "Dilli Chalo" (On to Delhi) some 80 years back. Since then, "Dilli Chalo" is the battle cry for groups who have disagreed with and felt the need to shake up the government of the day in New Delhi. The farmers sitting on the borders of Delhi are the most famous recent example to have hollered "Dilli Chalo" until West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee bellowed the rallying cry on Wednesday. In a signed article in her party Trinamool Congress's relaunched mouthpiece Jago Bangla and later in a speech, Banerjee urged opposition leaders to "Dilli Chalo". Having won a third successive Assembly win and a rare leader to have stopped the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) 's juggernaut, Banerjee on Wednesday opened up about playing a more active national role. The exception of Bose aside, Banerjee has ambitions to accomplish something that leaders from Bengal, such as Bidhan Chandra Roy and Jyoti Basu, who had their moments, could not. On Wednesday, Banerjee asked opposition leaders to come together, start shaping a "gathbandhan", an alliance, from now on if they wished to defeat the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. She asked them to organize a meeting during her visit to Delhi later this month. She said her party would hold a massive public meeting to get all opposition leaders on a single platform – from Sonia Gandhi, Sharad Pawar and the rest – in the winter months in Kolkata. The Trinamool Congress took pains to portray her as the only leader on the Indian political scene who can bring all manner of anti-BJP forces onto one platform. While Banerjee spoke virtually, the Trinamool Congress got leaders of several non-NDA parties to watch her speech on a screen in New Delhi. The occasion was the Trinamool commemorating its annual martyrs' day. The party usually marks it with Banerjee addressing a massive public meeting in Kolkata. On Wednesday, Banerjee opted to address the meeting virtually. In a departure, her party installed video screens in several cities, including in Gujarat and Delhi. In another departure, Banerjee spoke not just in Bengali but in English and at length in Hindi. It was reminiscent of when Narendra Modi spoke in Hindi after leading the BJP to a third successive Assembly polls win in Gujarat in 2012. At the time, Modi spoke at length in Hindi to send out the message that he was looking at national politics. The Trinamool put up a screen at an MPs' club in Delhi where leaders from several parties watched Banerjee's speech. These included the Congress's P Chidambaram and Digvijaya Singh and Nationalist Congress Party's Sharad Pawar and Supriya Sule. Telangana Rashtra Samithi, Shiromani Akali Dal, Shiv Sena, Samajwadi Party, DMK, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), and Rashtriya Janata Dal leaders were also present. Trinamool Congress leaders have stressed that several of these parties were unlikely to accede to the Congress leading the putative federal front, particularly Telangana Rashtra Samithi and even AAP. However, Banerjee will be acceptable to all. In her speech, Banerjee laid out the contours of the political battle. She promised "khela hobe", or the game is on, for the 2024 Lok Sabha in not just every state of the country but every polling booth. She said her party won in Bengal against mafia, muscle and money power and the misuse of the central agencies and the Election Commission. Banerjee said democracy in the country was in peril. She appealed to the Supreme Court to institute a special investigation team to look into the snooping episode. The Bengal chief minister asked opposition parties to launch protests against high petrol, diesel and LPG prices. She said the time for the opposition to shape a "front" was now and hoped she would meet opposition leaders during her visit to Delhi later this month. Banerjee said it won't help if they were to hurry now, neither would it help if they were to put up a front close to 2024 polls, but they should start slowly shaping the alliance. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP had shocked the Trinamool by winning 18 of the state's 42-seats. The Trinamool has already started preparing for the next Lok Sabha polls to sweep most of the 42-seats in the state. It is not only allowing those of its leaders who had left for the BJP to return to its fold but selecting its Lok Sabha candidates. Her party has also taken to showcase that Banerjee is the most successful politician in the country. She has not only led her party to three successive wins in her state, but she is a seven-term parliamentarian. One will need to wait for events to unfold to know if all of this will suffice for her to get the top job. But the opposition needs to fight several battles before that, and a fearless street fighter of a leader like Banerjee might be best suited to lead its charge in the interregnum.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/could-mamata-banerjee-be-the-lynchpin-for-opposition-unity-1011174.html
21-07-2021||Panorama||50 years ago: July 21, 1971||State’s steps to allot land for landless BANGALORE, July 20 THE Mysore government has taken necessary administrative steps including the appointment of Special Assistant Commissioner to expedite the distribution of government land to landless agriculturists. Special Assistant Commissioners had been appointed in Tumkur, Shimoga, Mysore, Chikmagalur, South Kanara and North Kanara districts. considering the needs of the task, a government spokesman told pressmen today. Following the abolition of the taluk Level Land Distribution committees, adequate powers were delegated to revenue officials to complete the task of land distribution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/50-years-ago-july-21-1971-1011046.html
21-07-2021||Panorama||25 years ago: July 21, 1996||Left parties slam UF govt’s economic survey  NEW DELHI, July 20 THE Left parties today criticised the update of the Economic Survey released by the Finance Ministry on Friday saying it was a “virtual slap in the face of the electorate”. Describing the survey as “only an unabashed defence of the Rao government’s economic policy and a plea for accelerating the same”, the CPM warned the UF that people would not tolerate any further attacks on their livelihood”. Ironically, the survey update paid only lip service to the question of poverty alleviation and not a reference to the numbers living below the poverty line.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/25-years-ago-july-21-1996-1011047.html
21-07-2021||Panorama||Musical earworms and sleep||George Eliot (Mary Ann Evans) has said, “Life seems to go on without effort when I am filled with music”. It is true though; music has the ability to transport us to a world that somehow we have been longing to go but never know how. Every single person I know listens to and enjoys some form of music. But have you ever experienced a musical tune playing in your head the whole day or not being able to get that ‘one’ song out of your head? Thanks to the concept of Involuntary Musical Imagery (INMI) or “Earworms”, an “experience whereby a tune comes into the mind and repeats without conscious control”. Musical imagery, is the process of creating music in one’s own head, even without stimulation from an external object. It is commonly reported by people, and musicians use it to practice or produce music, in the way of notational audiation (mentally hearing and understanding music, even in its absence). It also occurs involuntarily with little or no voluntary control. According to a study of earworms, songs with a faster beat, catchy lyrics, and specific rhythm, such as highs or lows or repeating a tune is what makes them unique, eventually becoming an earworm. A study published by the APA’s Journal found that the most likely tunes to get stuck in our heads were found in nursery tunes and particularly in Twinkle, Twinkle Little Star among others. Thus, the song Moves Like Jagger by Maroon 5 is a commonly reported earworm. A number of synonyms for earworms used in scientific and popular literature as given by sleep researchers and scientists are: Brainworms, Stuck-song Syndrome, Sticky music and tune on the brain among many others. In a very interesting study by sleep researcher Dr Michael Scullin (Associate Professor of Psychology and Neuroscience at Baylor University) and colleagues, it was found that music that we put on to help us sleep, might actually be putting us off it. The study showed that participants who frequently listened to music during the day were more likely to report persistent night-time earworms, which then led to subsequent sleep problems. When sleep researcher Michael Scullin realised that he could not sleep well at night due to a song stuck in his head, he quickly understood that this would be a good opportunity to study how music and specifically what scientists call ‘Stuck Songs’ affects sleep patterns. A recent study published in the Journal of Psychological Science on June 9, 2021, by Michael Scullin, Chenlu Gao and Paul Fillmore discusses the interesting relationship between music listening and sleep, wherein a song or tune repeatedly plays in a person’s mind. Even though this is very likely to happen when one is awake, but the study found that this also happens while one is trying to sleep. Scullin said, “our brains continue to process music even when none is playing, including, apparently, while we are asleep”. This study is a significant breakthrough in understanding the relationship between music and sleep because the common notion is that music improves sleep but the study results clearly proved otherwise. Interestingly, some instrumental music (without vocals) is responsible for twice as many earworms, thus making it even harder to fall asleep. A few tips given by the lead researcher of the study to deal with this problem are: Lessen phone/TV use before bedtime; avoid listening to music before bedtime and instead engage in some form of cognitive activity; write down the next day’s to-do list; all these free up space in the mind (offload) and help one sleep faster. Music Psychologist Dr Kelly Jakubowski offers a few tips to help get rid of musical earworms: Engage with the entire song and listen to it till the end; try distracting yourself with a different song or musical tune; try not to obsess over the song by over thinking about it, instead allow it to naturally run its course. Some studies have shown how chewing a gum can also help in the elimination process— the logic is that when our jaws are otherwise engaged, our ability to imagine music is impaired. Listening to music has innumerable health benefits and is definitely very rejuvenating, but as Scullin said, “sometimes you can have too much of a good thing”. Makes a lot of sense, right? (The writer is assistant professor (Psychology) at Department of Social Sciences, School of Liberal Education, FLAME University, Pune)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/musical-earworms-and-sleep-1011049.html
21-07-2021||Panorama||Tapping into the brain to help a paralysed man speak||He has not been able to speak since 2003 when he was paralysed at the age of 20 by a severe stroke after a terrible car crash. Now, in a scientific milestone, researchers have tapped into the speech areas of his brain— allowing him to produce comprehensible words and sentences simply by trying to say them. When the man, known by his nickname, Pancho, tries to speak, electrodes implanted in his brain transmit signals to a computer that displays them on the screen. His first recognisable sentence, researchers said, was, “My family is outside.” The achievement, published recently in the New England Journal of Medicine, could eventually help many patients with conditions that steal their ability to talk. “This is farther than we’ve ever imagined we could go,” said Melanie Fried-Oken, a professor of neurology and paediatrics at Oregon Health & Science University, who was not involved in the project. Three years ago, when Pancho, now 38, agreed to work with neuroscience researchers, they were unsure if his brain had even retained the mechanisms for speech. “That part of his brain might have been dormant, and we just didn’t know if it would ever really wake up in order for him to speak again,” said Dr Edward Chang, chairman of neurological surgery at the University of California, who led the research. The team implanted a rectangular sheet of 128 electrodes, designed to detect signals from speech-related sensory and motor processes linked to the mouth, lips, jaw, tongue and larynx. In 50 sessions over 81 weeks, they connected the implant to a computer by a cable attached to a port in Pancho’s head, and asked him to try to say words from a list of 50 common ones he helped suggest, including “hungry,” “music” and “computer.” As he did, electrodes transmitted signals through a form of artificial intelligence that tried to recognise the intended words. “Our system translates the brain activity that would have normally controlled his vocal tract directly into words and sentences,” said David Moses, a postdoctoral engineer who developed the system with Sean Metzger and Jessie R Liu, graduate students. The three are lead authors of the study. Pancho (who asked to be identified only by his nickname to protect his privacy) also tried to say the 50 words in 50 distinct sentences like “My nurse is right outside” and “Bring my glasses, please” and in response to questions like “How are you today?” His answer, displayed on-screen: “I am very good.” In nearly half of the 9,000 times Pancho tried to say single words, the algorithm got it right. When he tried saying sentences written on the screen, it did even better. By funnelling algorithm results through a kind of autocorrect language-prediction system, the computer correctly recognised individual words in the sentences nearly three-quarters of the time and perfectly decoded entire sentences more than half the time. “To prove that you can decipher speech from the electrical signals in the speech motor area of your brain is groundbreaking,” said Fried-Oken, whose own research involves trying to detect signals using electrodes in a cap placed on the head, not implanted. After a recent session, observed by The New York Times, Pancho, wearing a black fedora over a white knit hat to cover the port, smiled and tilted his head slightly with the limited movement he has. In bursts of gravelly sound, he demonstrated a sentence composed of words in the study: “No, I am not thirsty.” In interviews over several weeks for this article, he communicated through email exchanges using a head-controlled mouse to painstakingly type key-by-key, the method he usually relies on. The brain implant’s recognition of his spoken words is “a life-changing experience,” he said. “I just want to, I don’t know, get something good, because I always was told by doctors that I had 0 chance to get better,” Pancho typed during a video chat from the Northern California nursing home where he lives. Later, he emailed: “Not to be able to communicate with anyone, to have a normal conversation and express yourself in any way, it’s devastating, very hard to live with.” During research sessions with the electrodes, he wrote, “It’s very much like getting a second chance to talk again.” Pancho was a healthy field worker in California’s vineyards until a car crash after a soccer game one summer Sunday, he said. After surgery for serious damage to his stomach, he was discharged from the hospital, walking, talking and thinking he was on the road to recovery. But the next morning, he was “throwing up and unable to hold myself up,” he wrote. Doctors said he experienced a brainstem stroke, apparently caused by a post-surgery blood clot. A week later, he woke up from a coma in a small, darkroom. “I tried to move, but I couldn’t lift a finger, and I tried to talk, but I couldn’t spit out a word,” he wrote. “So, I started to cry, but as I couldn’t make any sound, all I made were some ugly gestures.” It was terrifying. “I wished I didn’t ever come back from the coma I was in,” he wrote. The new approach, called a speech neuroprosthesis, is part of a surge of innovation aimed at helping tens of thousands of people who lack the ability to talk, but whose brains contain neural pathways for speech, said Dr Leigh Hochberg, a neurologist with Massachusetts General Hospital, Brown University and the Department of Veterans Affairs, who was not involved in the study but co-wrote an editorial about it. That could include people with brain injuries or conditions like amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (also known as Lou Gehrig’s disease) or cerebral palsy, in which patients have the insufficient muscle control to speak. “The urgency can’t be overstated,” said Hochberg, who directs a project called BrainGate that implants tinier electrodes to read signals from individual neurons; it recently decoded a paralysed patient’s attempted handwriting motions. “It’s now only a matter of years,” he said, “before there will be a clinically useful system that will allow for the restoration of communication.” Pancho’s buoyant personality has helped the researchers navigate challenges, but also occasionally makes speech recognition uneven. “I sometimes can’t control my emotions and laugh a lot and don’t do too good with the experiment,” he emailed. Before his stroke, Pancho had attended school only up to sixth grade in his native Mexico. With remarkable determination, he has since earned a high school diploma, taken college classes, received a web developer certificate and begun studying French. “I think the car wreck got me to be a better person, and smarter too,” he emailed. With his restricted wrist movement, Pancho can manoeuvre an electric wheelchair, pressing the joystick with a stuffed sock tied around his hand with rubber bands. At stores, he’ll hover near something until cashiers decipher what he wants, like a cup of coffee. “They place it in my wheelchair, and I bring it back to my home so I can get help drinking it,” he said. “The people here at the facility find themselves surprised, they always asked me, ‘HOW DID YOU BUY THAT, AND HOW DID YOU TELL THEM WHAT YOU WANTED!?’” The speech study is the culmination of over a decade of research, in which Chang’s team mapped brain activity for all vowel and consonant sounds and tapped into the brains of healthy people to produce computerised speech. Researchers emphasise that the electrodes are not reading Pancho’s mind, but detecting brain signals corresponding to each word he tries to say. “He is thinking the word,” Fried-Oken said. “It’s not random thoughts that the computer is picking up.” Chang said “in the future, we might be able to do what people are thinking,” which raises “some really important questions about the ethics of this kind of technology.” But this, he said, “is really just about restoring the individual’s voice.” The team also wants to engineer implants with more sensitivity and make it wireless for complete implantation to avoid infection, said Chang. “I just wanted to somehow be able to do something for myself, even a tiny bit,” Pancho said, “but now I know, I’m not doing it just for myself.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/tapping-into-the-brain-to-help-a-paralysed-man-speak-1011057.html
21-07-2021||Panorama||The economics behind the news anchor’s ‘performance’ on TV||In India, the licence granted to a media house for use of sovereign airwaves is granted by the Government of India for a public purpose — to inform, hold a mirror to society, and to hold to account institutions — for the common good. Sadly, the breach of this is the widespread reality. The country was silent when Tamil Nadu had and continues to have television news channels owned by the same people who run its politics, with not even a fig leaf of pretence. This silence in one state enabled the phenomenon to permeate to other states and then to national news. This heightened to a crescendo with the BJP coming to power in 2014, of course with the fig leaf of arms-length ownership. It is easy to drive viewership, and therefore revenues, by ‘performing’ before the camera. The return on investment (ROI) earned is staggering. The direct cost of a byte-sized news story at breaking time is roughly just Rs 28,000 (source: mynewsdesk), but the returns are huge if it catches viewer-attention.  Recently, a national channel carried ‘breaking news’ that vaccine vials were found in a dustbin in Rajasthan. The newsroom editor decided to spin the story, devoid of details, looping amateur footage, and called it ‘Covid Sabotage’. This less than-Rs 50,000 story enjoyed 30 minutes of Prime Time, and if it had caught on, the returns would have been 5,000 times – government ads, other ads and then the ingratiation enjoyed by both sides playing this game. In an article published in March 2014, ahead of the Lok Sabha elections, Business Standard estimated that Rs 2,500 crore was the “official” spend by the BJP and Congress on print and TV advertising. Contrast this to the BJP’s audited accounts for FY2010-11, which presumably reflects spends on the 2009 Lok Sabha campaign— a modest Rs 34 crore! In the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections in 2017, over Rs 5,500 crore was spent on campaigns by various parties, with 70% of this spent by the BJP (CMS pre-post poll study). Even today, it is estimated that up to Rs 50 crore is spent on advertisements every day to manage perception of the Yogi Adityanath government. Money for nothing According to Untamedscience, a National Geographic feature of one hour costs the channel Rs 2.9 crore, and the cost of a single episode on BBC’s Planet Earth is estimated to be Rs 14 crore. A well-researched investigative report in India could cost upwards of Rs 10 lakh. One of the best documentaries on Kashmir was made by Times Now in November 2019, tracing Kashmir’s history from the Gupta Empire to its current day impasse and the revocation of Article 370 over its two-hour length. Based on the budget drawn up by Swastika Films (see Table), for 30 minutes, the documentary could have cost upwards of Rs 30 lakh. We have, expectedly, never seen anything like that since! A Washington Post editor, J Lynn, is quoted as saying that an ideal combination of sources that go to make a credible story is 25% sources, 25% on-the-ground investigation, 30% research, 10% from public or owned databases, 2% from social media, and the rest from others. The point is, if a news editor wants his/her hands muddied in a story, then 80% of time and money is going to be spent on investigation. Contrast this to the Sushant Singh Rajput suicide spin, which could have nearly altered political fortunes and electoral outcomes. Comprising studio guests, political spokespersons, a cameraman, and some paparazzi-type ‘journos’, this ‘breaking news’ would have cost a few lakhs, but yielded crores in returns in terms of advertising revenues, and the gratefulness of the government as an add-on. It is easier to justify zero investment in the field, and zero time and money spent on investigation or research. It is also quicker. Things Must Change  Social benefits outweigh costs, even if it does not yield positive returns for the media company. But then, this must be encouraged with policies for licences— grants and renewals. First, ownership of the media house cannot be the same as ownership of the waves, which is public property. Make that difficult. Conflict of trust of public funds ensures that Diversified Corporate Houses cannot own a bank. The same principle should be applied to media, which holds another kind of public trust. Politicians and industrialists must be barred from owning media. But, instead, as examples, Reliance controls directly or indirectly Network 18 (CNN News18) and some other channels, and politicians own Sun, Kalaignar, Jaya, Odisha TV, Jana TV, etc. Second, separate ownership and editorial control, with independence of the editorial desk vested with the board. The audit committee of a listed company reports to the board and not the owner. To protect shareholders, SEBI and Registrar of Companies ensure financial propriety. So, why not a similar mechanism here? Third, it is time to build deterrence to this lucrative business of news-spin, with laws that tug at the purse strings. Here are two suggestions: One, investments must be shown and maintained on original and researched production (investigations, open stories and documentaries), outsourced or inhouse, as a percentage of revenues, of staff and salaries year after year. It stands to logic, and hope, that drivel cannot be the preserve of so many in the organisation. Two, build in punitive measures for baseless sensationalism, regulated by a constitutional authority (like CVC or CEC), independent from the government. Since it is an umpire, the argument that journalists will not be free will not hold. India stands 142 in the press freedom index out of 179 countries (French NGO RSF 2021). It is not free anyway! (The writer is a former managing director of a Tata Company and now runs a corporate finance practice headquartered in Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-economics-behind-the-news-anchor-s-performance-on-tv-1011061.html
21-07-2021||Right in the Middle||A cat and mouse game||I was overcome with memories of days past as I was watching the second season of that slick series The Family Man. And more specifically of Vedaranyam, the locale for some of the dramatic events in the series and a place where I had spent a lot of time.   My initial posting in Customs was on the east coast. Those were the days of smuggling through the sea route— Both on the west and east coast of India. On the east coast, landings of contraband took place in the whole stretch from Mahabalipuram to Kanyakumari. Small hamlets and villages hug the coastline with roads running parallel to it. The smuggled goods used to come from Sri Lanka— the nearest point there being an hour away by fibre-glass boats powered by 40 HP outboard engines. The range of goods being smuggled was vast, from gabardine textiles (thick, shiny and extremely popular) to zip fasteners, to cassettes and cassette recorders including the big, clunky video cassettes recorders.  When intelligence inputs about possible landings were received, we would rush to the coast. We would park our vehicles discreetly on the road, walk barefoot attired in lungis and banians, with a cloth around our head. We would, in the dark of the night, go through the villages towards the coast. The incessant barking of dogs did not help. The intelligence would suggest possible landing spots— usually identified by the light of a structure on the shore. Even as we crouched and waited on the shore, we would very many times helplessly watch a flare going above our heads towards the sea. This was a signal to the smuggler’s boat that there was danger ahead; that officers were waiting, to abort the landing. We had been spotted. We would curse our luck and call off the operation. On one occasion we reached our vehicle only to discover that we had a flat tye— all of them. We had but one spare tyre. Obviously, this was mischief. We cursed under our breath as a small boy watched us nonchalantly. He must have been all of 7-8 years. We asked him who did this. He shrugged his shoulders and said how do I know? Then he cheekily asked us, "how come you are not travelling by your regular vehicle? This seems to be a new vehicle?" We were shocked that this kid knew our vehicle numbers and had spotted that we were using a different vehicle. So much for our attempt at camouflage. The work was back-breaking, frustrating and interesting— a cat and mouse game in which not every time did the cat get the mouse.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-cat-and-mouse-game-1011050.html
21-07-2021||Second Edit||Pass, enforce anti-trafficking law||The government has done well to improve the provisions of the anti-trafficking bill, which has now been put out for public comments. The draft bill has received appreciation, though there may still be room for improvement. Most of the concerns over the old bill, which was presented in the Lok Sabha in 2018, have been addressed in the present draft. Though the bill was then passed by the Lok Sabha, it could not be cleared in the Rajya Sabha due to much criticism and opposition. The new bill expands the scope of the offences under it to include among other things forced labour, organ harvesting, illegal clinical drug trials and unlawful biomedical research. It also extends the definition of trafficking victims to include transgender persons, apart from women and children. It has provisions to tackle cross-border trafficking. Punishment has been enhanced to life imprisonment in most cases, while in cases where children less than 12 years are involved, death penalty is prescribed. Trafficking is an offence with a long history. It involves exploitation of women and children who are abused sexually and in other ways after being abducted or taken away from their homes on promises of employment or better life. Organised gangs operate across states and across national borders, and many are highly connected. Poverty and problems within families are the main drivers of trafficking. The epidemic has aggravated the problems and the new law needs to be finalised, passed and enforced early, though some provisions need a second look. Failure to report trafficking has been made an offence but this should be clearly defined to avoid misuse. Those who file false complaints will be punished. This should not lead to punishment of an informer or a person who reported a case in good faith, if the case does not lead to conviction. This is particularly important because the conviction rate has remained low in trafficking cases. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) will handle the cases, because trafficking often involves cross-border jurisdictions. But the agency should not be used as a tool for harassment. The bill shows that the temptation to prescribe death penalty for more and more offences remains strong, but this does not make the law more effective in any way. According to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), 2,260 cases involving 6,600 victims were reported in 2019, but the actual number could be much higher. The mechanism to check trafficking in states and districts is almost dysfunctional and they need to be activated and made operational for the law to be enforced effectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/pass-enforce-anti-trafficking-law-1011055.html
21-07-2021||South||A subdued Bakrid for Muslim community in Kerala under Covid-19 second wave||The Muslim community in Kerala on Wednesday celebrated Bakrid in a subdued manner at their homes sans any public festivities and usual social gatherings as the state is reeling under a severe second Covid-19 wave. Large Eid-Gahs (mass prayer on the beach, etc) and mass Namaz at mosques were absent this year also as the government continued to impose strict restrictions in view of the fear of a resurgence of the pandemic after a drop in cases this month. As only 40 people were permitted for prayers adhering to stringent pandemic protocol, there was no usual festive mood in mosques across the southern state, which used to witness a sea of devotees since morning during the occasion. Devotees could be seen following social distancing norms during the prayers inside the mosques. Considering their safety, the majority of mosque authorities have asked devotees to come for the Eid prayer in the morning after performing "Vulu" (cleaning) and to carry their own "Musalla" (sheet for niskaram)". They also seemed to avoid the usual exchange of pleasantries and embraces after the prayers in view of the health protocols. "It is a great relief that at least a few people were allowed inside the mosques for prayers during the occasion," Shan, a Muslim youth hailing from the capital city, said. However, there was no change in the age-old custom of preparing a sumptuous feast, with traditional delicacies,at homes during the occasion. Despite the anxiety triggered by the pandemic scare, festivities and feast continued in traditional Muslim families on the day of Eid. As a majority of families preferred to stay safe at home, the usual visiting of relatives during the festival was also rare. Eid al-Adha or the 'Feast of Sacrifice,' falls two months and ten days after the observance of the Ramadan (Eid Ul-Fitr) which was celebrated on May 13. Thanks to the relaxations by the state government for three days from Sunday, devotees were on a festival-special shopping spree, with hundreds thronging textile and footwear shops and malls since then. However, the Supreme Court's criticism of the government's relaxations for Bakrid in areas with high Covid-19 positivity rate further dulled the spirit for some ahead of the festival. During the daily Covid-19 evaluation meet in Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had said there would be no relaxation in the curbs as of now and the current restrictions would continue for the next week. The Chief Minister's statement came hours after the Supreme Court had termed as "wholly uncalled for", the Left government's relaxation of lockdown restrictions in areas with high Covid-19 positivity rate, ahead of Bakrid festival. The apex court directed the state government to "heed the Right to Life" and warned Kerala of action if the easing of curbs leads to further spread of the virus and this is brought before it by any person. Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, and other senior political leaders including Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan greeted the people of Kerala on the occasion of Bakrid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/a-subdued-bakrid-for-muslim-community-in-kerala-under-covid-19-second-wave-1011068.html
21-07-2021||South||Death threat to martyr's son triggers political row in Kerala||A threat to the life of Kerala MLA K K Rema's son and a senior party colleague is causing much embarrassment to the CPM as Rema's husband, dissident CPM leader T P Chandrasekharan, was brutally killed by CPM activists by inflicting 51 hacks to settle political scores. Rema, who represents the Revolutionary Marxist Party (RMP) formed by her husband, received the threatening letter at her office at Vadakara in Kozhikode on Tuesday. It said that Chandrasekaran was murdered by inflicting 51 injuries as he did not heed repeated warnings. Her son will be eliminated by causing 100 wounds and his face would scatter like coconut flower buds, the letter said. The letter signed by 'Red Army Kannur' and 'PJ Boys' wants Rema to keep off from criticising CPM leaders. It also raises a threat to the life of RMP state secretary N Venu. RMP is a coalition partner of Congress-led UDF. In a bid to defend, CPM senior leader from Vadakara P Jayarajan said in a social media post that the threat letter could be an attempt of the opposition parties to rake up an old case. He also indirectly raised suspicion against Congress leaders for the letter. Chandrasekharan was killed on May 4, 2012, at Onchiyam in Kozhikode by a gang involving CPM local leaders. The brutal killing was allegedly done with the knowledge of party top leaders, especially the 'Kannur lobby,' owing to political vengeance. Some prominent local leaders of the party were among those convicted in the case. Rema has been strongly campaigning against the CPM leadership, especially on murder politics, over the years. Rema said that it was very evident that the threat was raised by CPM cadres only. She added that she would continue her political fight relentlessly. The police registered a case for criminal intimidation and creating provocation with the intention of rioting. Police personnel was also deployed near the houses of RMP leaders and their office.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/death-threat-to-martyrs-son-triggers-political-row-in-kerala-1011105.html
21-07-2021||South||AIADMK slams Karnataka's opposition to Cauvery-Gundar scheme||The opposition AIADMK on Wednesday slammed Karnataka for reportedly moving the Supreme Court against Tamil Nadu's Cauvery-Gundar interlinking scheme, alleging it was done in the context of the state's opposition to Mekedatu dam and was an expression of its "jealousy." AIADMK Coordinator O Panneerselvam said the Cauvery- Gundar interlinking initiated by the previous party-led government only entails diverting excess water to drier regions in Tamil Nadu and would not affect Karnataka. The Rs 14,400 crore, 262 km project is aimed at diverting 6,300 cubic ft of surplus water during flood times to drier areas in the state's southern districts and the then Chief Minister K Palaniswami had laid the foundation stone for the first of the three-phase initiative in February this year. Cauvery, South Vellar, Vaigai and Gundar rivers will be interlinked in this major intra-state water project. Panneerselvam, citing reports of Karnataka moving the apex court against the project, said it came in the wake of Tamil Nadu's "stiff opposition" to that state's proposal to construct a balancing reservoir on river Cauvery at Mekedatu there to meet the twin objectives of meeting drinking water requirements and power generation. Tamil Nadu was opposed to Karnataka's proposal to construct the dam since it was against the final award of a Cauvery tribunal, even as the matter was pending before the country's top court. "It is unfair on part of Karnataka to have moved the Supreme Court against Tamil Nadu's irrigation schemes just because it did not give approval to the Mekedatu project," Panneerselvam said in a statement. Karnataka had nothing to do with Tamil Nadu's intra- state project, he said. Tamil Nadu was opposed to the Mekedatu dam only over fears of the reduction in its quantum of water from the inter-state Cauvery river and the state's delta region turning into a 'desert' should the project take shape, he added. At the same time, the Cauvery-Gundar interlinking and related projects including construction of shutter dams would only help in utilising surplus water and "would not impact Karnataka," he added. "Karnataka opposing schemes being implemented within Tamil Nadu is an expression of jealousy," and seemed to indicate it was okay with excess water draining into sea but not being useful for the people of his state, the former chief minister alleged. According to the past agreements between the then presidencies of Madras and Mysore, the latter cannot construct dams on Cauvery without the other's consent as Tamil Nadu was a lower riparian state, Panneerselvam said. Karnataka, therefore, had no grounds to move the SC against the said projects in Tamil Nadu and Chief Minister M K Stalin should take due legal steps to ensure the former's petition was dismissed, he demanded. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-slams-karnatakas-opposition-to-cauvery-gundar-scheme-1011132.html
21-07-2021||South||Mystery over Kerala transgender activist's death; govt orders probe||With allegations of mystery over the death of transgender activist Anannyah Kumari Alex, who was found hanging in her flat at Kochi on Tuesday evening, the Kerala government launched a high-level probe. Alex, aged 28, had been complaining of severe health issues after undergoing sex reassignment surgery and alleged medical negligence. According to the city police, prima faice it was a case of death by suicide. She was found hanging in her bedroom. Further investigation would be initiated on the basis of post-mortem report. With Alex's father Alexander and TG activists raising suspicion over the death, Kerala Health Minister Veena George ordered a high-level probe into the matter. A panel of doctors performed the post-mortem examination. A group of transgender activists also staged a protest in front of the private hospital. Alex, who is a native of Kollam district, was the first radio jockey in Kerala. She had undergone sex reassignment surgery in 2020 at a private hospital in Kochi. She had been complaining that she was not even able to walk after undergoing the surgery and she had alleged of medical negligence. She even lamented over transgender persons being exploited by private hospitals over sex reassignment surgeries and made many social media posts on the issue. Alex's father Alexander alleged that the hospital authorities even assaulted her after she complained of medical negligence. Alex was also in the news recently as she filed nomination to contest in the Assembly election from Vengara in Malappuram district. But she later withdrew from the contest alleging of mental torture from leaders of the Democratic Social Justice Party that she represented. Alex had also worked a news reader and anchor as well as a make up artist. She had fought for rights of transgender persons after she allegedly faced discrimination at her younger age.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mystery-over-kerala-transgender-activists-death-govt-orders-probe-1011142.html
21-07-2021||South||Kerala government launches probe into mysterious death of transgender activist's death||Kerala Health Minister Veena George ordered a high-level probe into the mysterious death of transgender activist Anannyah Kumari Alex, who was found hanging in her flat at Kochi on Tuesday. Alex, aged 28, had been complaining of severe health issues after undergoing sex reassignment surgery and alleged medical negligence. Alex's father and other activists are raising suspicions over the death. According to the city police, prima facie, it was a case of death by suicide as she was found hanging in her bedroom. Further investigation would be initiated on the basis of the postmortem report. Alex, a native of the Kollam district, was a radio jockey in Kerala. She had undergone sex reassignment surgery in 2020 at a private hospital in Kochi. She had been complaining that she couldn't walk after the surgery. She even lamented over transgenders being exploited by private hospitals over these surgeries and posted on social media about it. Alex's father Alexander alleged that the hospital authorities even assaulted her after she complained of negligence. Alex was also in the news recently as she filed nomination to contest in the Assembly election from Vengara in Malappuram district. She later withdrew from the contest alleging mental torture from leaders of the Democratic Social Justice Party that she represented. Alex had also worked as a newsreader and anchor as well as a make-up artist. She fought for transgender rights after she faced discrimination when she was younger.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-government-launches-probe-into-mysterious-death-of-transgender-activists-death-1011158.html
21-07-2021||South||Kerala Assembly session to begin on July 22, likely to be stormy over controversies||A host of controversies ranging from the mass felling of rosewood trees, increasing Covid cases and gold smuggling case to a minister facing charges of trying to settle a sexual harassment case are likely to be raked up by the opposition in the second session of the 15th Kerala Assembly when it commences here on Thursday. Unlike the first session, which met soon after the second Pinarayi Vijayan government came to power with a historic victory in the April 6 polls, the opposition Congress-led UDF has enough issues in their kitty this time to grill the ruling front. Opposition leader V D Satheesan already made it clear that Forest Minster A K Saseenndran, who is being accused of trying to settle the sexual harassment case involving a party member in Kollam, should not be there in the House when the it meets on Thursday. Saseendran, who met Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan at his official residence here and appraised him the issue, however, did not react to the opposition's demand. A Vijayaraghavan, convener of Left Democratic Front (LDF), said his party or the state government has not taken a decision yet as they do not have the complete details regarding the matter. Interestingly,Saseendran had to resign as transport minister from the first Vijayan government, in the wake of sleazetalk allegations against him. The government is also likely to face opposition heat over an alleged 100-crore loan fraud reported in a ruling CPI(M)-controlled co-operative bank in Thrissur, the alleged link of a Kannur-based gold smuggling syndicate with the Marxist party and its leaders and the stepping back of the apparel major Kitex Group from the state. However, the differences cropped up in the opposition front over the restructuring of the ratio for minority student scholarships may give the ruling benches ammunition to strike back. Meanwhile, Assembly Speaker M B Rajesh said the main thrust of the 20-day-long session would be the voting on demand for grants in the 2021-22 budget. The reports, tabled by the Subject Committees, would be taken up and the private members' bills would be considered during the period, he said here on Tuesday. For debate and voting on the supplementary demands for grants, two days would be set aside, he said, adding that two Financial Bills would also be considered during the session. After completing the scheduled business, the House would be adjourned sine die on August 18, the speaker added. Stating that the entire House proceedings would be held adhering to Covid-19 protocols, Rajesh also said facilities for antigen/RT-PCR tests and vaccination would be arranged for the legislators at the Assembly complex as part of the session.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-assembly-session-to-begin-on-july-22-likely-to-be-stormy-over-controversies-1011167.html
21-07-2021||South||About Rs 700 crore of Andhra Pradesh's DBT funds ends up in wrong hands||A staggering sum of Rs 700 crore might have gone into the wrong hands so far this year under the various direct cash transfer schemes being implemented by the Andhra Pradesh government, a cursory verification by the Finance Department has established. The Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government has claimed it has doled out a sum of over Rs one lakh crore under various freebie schemes between June 2019 and June 2021. When state Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath recently undertook a review of the cash flow situation, with top officials of his department, it was decided to go for a revalidation of all beneficiaries' data under different schemes to plug the leaks. A test check of some major schemes then exposed the gaping holes in the beneficiaries' data and indicated that "huge sums of money" fell into the wrong accounts, authoritative sources in the Finance Department said. "We have only just started but the basic findings itself are startling. We now suspect that more than Rs 3,000 crore might have gone to dubious persons in the last two years," the sources told PTI on the condition of anonymity. Prime among the annual schemes that entail a large sum of money to lakhs of beneficiaries are Amma Vodi (Rs 15,000 to each mother), PM Kisan Rythu Bharosa (Rs 13,500 to each farmer), Cheyuta (Rs 18,750 to each BC, ST, SC and minority woman over 45 years of age), Vahana Mitra (Rs 10,000 to each cab/auto driver) and Matsyakara Bharosa (Rs 10,000 to each fisherman). On June 22, the Chief Minister clicked a computer button to transfer Rs 18,750 each to 23,41,827 beneficiaries under the Cheyuta scheme. But subsequently, payment amounting to Rs 168.17 crore has been stopped for 89,694 women as the government sought to verify the genuineness of the beneficiaries, sources in the Finance Department said. On May 18, Jagan pressed the computer button to credit a sum of Rs 119.88 crore into the bank accounts of 1,19,875 fishermen under Matsyakara Bharosa. But later the dole amounting Rs 21.73 crore was stopped for 21,736 perceived beneficiaries as officials smelt "something fishy" about their veracity. The parched Anantapuramu district has 5,76,972 total beneficiaries under the PM Kisan scheme, for whom Rs 205.43 crore was distributed in 2020-21. A physical verification of only 28,622 farmers in the district revealed that 235 of them were ineligible to draw benefits under PM Kisan. "In this case the amount is only Rs 31.72 lakh but it could be crores of rupees if a full verification of all beneficiaries is conducted. In the 13 districts, tens of crores of rupees may actually have gone into the wrong hands so far," sources in the Finance Department pointed out. The government has been borrowing huge sums from the open market to keep the freebie schemes running month after month but the beneficiary identification process left much to be desired, officials aver. Amma Vodi (meaning mother's lap), which is intended to encourage mothers to send their children to school, is one major scheme that has virtually gone unchecked for any veracity so far. "The scheme was launched in January 2020 but thereafter schools functioned hardly for two months due to the outbreak of coronavirus. So, there has been no way to validate if the targeted children have been enrolled in schools, which is mandatory under the scheme," a top official said. With online classes being the order of the day, attendance of students is also not actually captured. "We have received many complaints about dubious beneficiaries under Amma Vodi. There are cases where the students are residents in the neighbouring state but drawing the freebie benefit here," the official pointed out. As the next Amma Vodi cash transfer is due only in January 2022, the government has decided to conduct a thorough audit to weed out bogus claimants, the official added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/about-rs-700-crore-of-andhra-pradeshs-dbt-funds-ends-up-in-wrong-hands-1011184.html
21-07-2021||South||Kerala minister who tried to settle molestation complaint gets party backing||The interventions made by Kerala Forest Minister and NCP leader A K Saseendran to settle a molestation complaint against a party local leader is snowballing into a major political row in Kerala with the opposition Congress and the BJP demanding his removal from the Cabinet. Opposition leader V D Satheesan said that the issue would be raised in the Assembly session beginning on Thursday. Saseendran, who called on Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday morning, seems to have maintained that the entire row was the outcome of internal issues in the party. NCP state president P C Chacko also backed Saseendran by stating that Saseendran only asked the complainant's father to settle the complaint amicably and he did not ask him to withdraw the petition. The fresh row is over Saseendran asking the father of woman who complained of molestation by a NCP local leader of Kollam to settle the complaint amicably. The telephonic conversation of the minster with the woman's father, who is also a NCP worker, had come out. The woman in a BJP worker. Incidentally Saseendran had to quit from the previous Pinarayi Vijayan ministry after allegations of sleaze talk with a channel reporter. It was alleged to a honey trap. Saseendran was exonerated after the woman withdrew her complaint. Hence he had made a come back to the ministry. Meanwhile, the woman who gave the molestation complaint against NCP local leader said that if the Chief Minister did not take action against Saseendran she would move legally against him for trying to settle her complaint. Even though the woman, who is a BJP worker, gave the molestation complaint to the local police last month, the police registered a case only by Tuesday after the matter became controversial. Though the police received couple of petitions seeking action against Saseendran for trying to interfere in the case, the police is yet to take action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-minister-who-tried-to-settle-molestation-complaint-gets-party-backing-1011190.html
21-07-2021||South||Covid curfew in Andhra Pradesh extended till July 30||The Covid Curfew in Andhra Pradesh has been extended till July 30. "After a thorough review of the Covid-19 situation and keeping in view the decline in the number of positive cases, the government decided to extend the curfew upto July 30, from 10 pm to 6 am daily," Principal Secretary (Health) Anil Kumar Singhal said in an order on Wednesday. Prohibitory orders under Section 144 CrPC, preventing the gathering of more than five persons, will be imposed during non-curfew hours from 6 am to 10 pm, he said. A penalty ranging from Rs 10,000 to Rs 25,000 would be levied on shops and establishments that allowed any person without a face mask. "If any gross violation occurs in following the Covid protocol in any market or commercial establishment, such establishments will be closed for a day or two, depending on the seriousness of the violation.Violation of instructions will also result in prosecution under various sections of Disaster Management Act and Section 188 of IPC," the official said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-curfew-in-andhra-pradesh-extended-till-july-30-1011193.html
21-07-2021||South||Bakrid celebrated with fervour in Telangana||Bakrid was celebrated with fervour across Telangana on Wednesday with Muslims offering prayers at various Eidgahs in the city and other places in the state. Miralam Eidgah, hockey ground at Masab Tank, military ground at Mehdipatnam and others here witnessed major congregations, though rain (since morning hours) and Covid-19 pandemic appeared to have had an impact on the celebrations. The state government had completely lifted the Covid-induced lockdown last month and removed all restrictions. State Home Minister Mohd Mahmood Ali performed prayers at a mosque in Azampura in the city. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, state Congress president and MP A Revanth Reddy and other leaders conveyed their greetings to Muslims on the occasion. The Bakrid festival symbolises the spirit of sacrifice and supreme devotion, Soundararajan said. Greeting Muslims, Rao said Bakrid is a symbol of sacrifice. He said the message of showing mercy, compassion, sacrifice and patience towards others should be learnt from Bakrid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bakrid-celebrated-with-fervour-in-telangana-1011200.html
21-07-2021||South||4 more test positive for Zika in Kerala, taking total cases to 42: State Health Minister||A fourth person tested positive for Zika virus in Kerala on Wednesday, taking the totalreported cases of the infection to 42. The latest case of Zika was reported from Kottayam -- the second instance of the virus infection from another district other than Thiruvananthapuram. Earlier in the day, Kerala Health Minister Veena George said that three cases of the virus were reported from Thiruvananthapuram. The three were -- two residents of Anayara aged 26 years and 37 years and one person (25) from Pettah. The first instance of a Zika infection being reported outside the state capital was on July 17 from Ernakulam of a health worker who was working in Thiruvananthapuram. The case reported from Kottayam is also of a health worker who had gone to Thiruvananthapuram to study the Zika virus, according to a release issued by the Kottayam district public relations department. After returning to the district, he underwent a blood test on July 19 after showing signs of illness, the release said and added that the patient has been placed in isolation and was being monitored. The health department has taken steps to test the blood of those who have been in close contact with the patient and people living close to him are being monitored for symptoms. Efforts to eradicate mosquito breeding grounds in the area have also been intensified, the release aid. In the other three cases, the virus was confirmed in tests conducted at the virology lab of the Thiruvananthapuram Medical College, the minister had said in a release and added that their health was satisfactory presently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/4-more-test-positive-for-zika-in-kerala-taking-total-cases-to-42-state-health-minister-1011216.html
21-07-2021||South||TTD plans to make incense sticks from flower garlands of Tirumala-Tirupati temples' deities||The fragrance of the flowers that adorned Lord Venkateshwara in Tirumala could soon fill the abodes of his devotees. The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams officials have planned to make incense sticks utilising the garlands-flowers that decorate the deities in various Tirumala-Tirupati temples every day. “The innovative initiative makes use of the sacred garlands which otherwise are given away or discarded. The divine fragrance emanating from these incense sticks, we believe, would brighten up the homes of Srivari devotees,” a TTD official told DH. According to TTD Executive Officer Dr Jawahar Reddy, a Bengaluru based company - Darshan International Limited - “has come forward to manufacture these incense sticks on a cost to cost basis.” “The plan is to commence the distribution and sales from Independence Day, next month. Initially, these sacred incense sticks will be sold to devotees at the Laddu counters in Tirumala and later on at other places,” Reddy said. Officials said that aspects like pricing, branding are yet to be worked out. To provide flowers for the daily rituals of Lord Venkateswara and enhance the beauty of precincts, TTD is developing several sacred gardens on the Tirumala hill, where marigold, Vrukshi Roja, lily, Madurai jasmine, Kanakambaram, Manu sampangi, Tulasi leaves, other aromatic plants are cultivated. The TTD meanwhile has moved to modernize the SV Ayurvedic Pharmacy while strengthening its product portfolio. While the Ministry of AYUSH has approved 115 products, 70 more are under process. SV Dairy Farm officials are directed by the EO to manufacture 15 varieties of products from Panchagavya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ttd-plans-to-make-incense-sticks-from-flower-garlands-of-tirumala-tirupati-temples-deities-1011249.html
21-07-2021||South||Madras HC recommends training to judges dealing with POCSO Act||The Madras High Court has recommended special training to the judges dealing with cases under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, so that they render proper and appropriate judgments. Justice P Velmurugan made the recommendation recently while dismissing a criminal appeal from a child rape accused, who challenged the conviction and sentence awarded by a lower court. The trial court had held that the sentences were to run concurrently. Instead Justice Velmurugan said that it should run consecutively. "It is pertinent to mention here that the trial Judge has failed to appreciate the age of the victim girl and not understood the relevant provisions of the POCSO Act," the judge said. In many cases, the special Judges who deal with cases under POCSO Act, do not properly understand its scope and object."Before posting any Sessions Judge to the Special Court, which deals with the cases under the POCSO Act, have to necessarily sensitise and impart training to them through the Tamil Nadu State Judicial Academy," the judge said. He directed the Registrar-General and the Director of State Judicial Academy to take steps for the same after getting necessary approval from the Chief Justice, who is the Patron-in-Chief and Board of Governors of the Academy. The appeal was from one Venkatachalam, a resident of Puduchathiram village in Namakkal district, seeking to quash an order dated January 22 this year of the Sessions Judge, Fast Track Mahila Court in Namakkal and acquit him of the charges. The lower court had sentenced him to undergo rigorous imprisonment (RI) for three years for the offence under Sec. 7 r/w 8 of POCSO Act and for the one under sec. 506(i) of the IPC, to undergo one year RI. The sentences are to run concurrently. After verifying the records, Justice Velmurugan found that the victim girl, at the time of occurrence of the offence in January 2014, was only eight years old and the trial Judge had failed to appreciate the same and understand the relevant provisions of the POCSO Act. The judge noted that the appellant had sexually harassed her, who was below 12 years and also threatened her not to disclose the incident to anybody. The minimum punishment for the offence under Section 7 of the Act is three years, whereas for the offence under Section 9(m) of the Act, five years, the judge pointed out. "Under these circumstances, this Court finds that the appellant has committed the offence under Section 9(m) of the Act, punishable under Sec. 10 of the Act." "However, the trial Court has failed to look into the age of the victim girl at the time of occurrence i.e. 8 years and wrongly convicted and sentenced him only under Section 7 of the Act. In fine, this Court does not interfere with the charges framed by the trial Court against the appellant," the judge said. The court, however, set aside the order of the trial court, which had stated that the sentences were to run concurrently and modified into 'consecutively'. This would meet the ends of justice, the judge said and directed the trial court to take appropriate steps to immure him in prison to serve the remaining period of sentence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-hc-recommends-training-to-judges-dealing-with-pocso-act-1011261.html
21-07-2021||South||Soon, flowers adorning deities at Tirumala to turn into incense sticks||The fragrance of the flowers that adorn Lord Venkateshwara in Tirumala could soon fill the homes of his devotees. The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams officials have planned to make incense sticks utilizing the garlands and flowers that decorate the deities in various Tirumala-Tirupati temples every day. “The innovative initiative makes use of the sacred garlands which otherwise are given away to people or discarded. The divine fragrance emanating from these incense sticks, we believe, will brighten up homes of Srivari devotees,” a TTD official told DH. According to TTD executive officer Dr Jawahar Reddy, Bengaluru-based company Darshan International Limited “has come forward to manufacture incense sticks on a cost-to-cost basis.” “The plan is to commence the distribution and sales from Independence Day. Initially, these sacred incense sticks will be sold to devotees at the laddu counters in Tirumala and later on at other places,” Reddy said. Officials said aspects like pricing, branding are yet to be worked out. To provide flowers for the daily rituals of Lord Venkateswara and enhance the beauty of its precincts, TTD is developing several sacred gardens on the Tirumala hill, where marigold, vrukshi roja, lily, Madurai jasmine, Kanakambaram, manu sampangi, tulasi leaves and other aromatic plants are grown. The TTD also plans to modernise the S V Ayurvedic Pharmacy, while strengthening its product portfolio. While the Ministry of AYUSH has approved 115 of its products, 70 more are under process. The EO has also directed officials of S V Dairy to manufacture 15 different products from ‘Panchagavya’.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/soon-flowers-adorning-deities-at-tirumala-to-turn-into-incense-sticks-1011265.html
21-07-2021||South||Ex-Congress leader Kaushik Reddy joins TRS||In a shot in the arm for TRS in the coming bypoll to the Huzurabad assembly constituency in Telangana, former Congress leader Kaushik Reddy on Wednesday joined the ruling party. Bypoll to the Huzurabad seat, near Karimnagar, was necessitated following the resignation of former minister Eatala Rajender last month. Rajender had quit the TRS and as MLA after he was removed from the state cabinet over allegations of land grabbing. He had dismissed the allegations against him and joined the BJP. Rajender is expected to be the BJP candidate in the Huzurabad by-election. The Election Commission is yet to announce the schedule for the Huzurabad bypoll. Kaushik Reddy was the Congress candidate in Huzurabad in the 2018 Telangana assembly elections and his entry is likely to help the TRS in the upcoming bypoll. Kaushik Reddy joined the TRS here on Wednesday in the presence of party president and Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. Speaking on the occasion, Rao recalled the decades-long fight for separate Telangana and the contribution of different leaders. Talking about the efforts being made by his government to boost state's development since the formation of the separate state in 2014, Rao said Telangana, which suffered badly during undivided Andhra Pradesh, now produced three crore tonnes of paddy. Telangana contributed 92 lakh tonnes of paddy to the Food Corporation of India (FCI), he said. The per capita consumption of power in Telangana is highest in the country, he said. Rao also cited the examples of various schemes, including sheep distribution to backward sections, 'Harita Haram' green campaign and 'Rythu Bandhu' investment support scheme for farmers. Observing that Dalits have remained backward all over the country, he said the soon-to-be-launched 'Dalit Bandhu' scheme (providing Rs 10 lakh to the beneficiaries) would benefit Dalits in a big way. On comments that a pilot project of 'Dalit Bandhu' is going to be taken up in Huzurabad in view of the bypoll, he said TRS is a political party and asked what was wrong if political benefit is expected when something good is done. It has to be taken up in some constituency and he could have done it in his assembly segment of Gajwel if he was so selfish, Rao added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ex-congress-leader-kaushik-reddy-joins-trs-1011291.html
21-07-2021||South||Heavy rainfall likely in Pune in next 48 hours: IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Wednesday predicted very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall for Maharashtra's Pune district in the next 48 hours. As the westerly winds are strong, very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall is likely to occur in the ghat areas of Pune district in the next 48 hours, while the city areas will receive moderate rainfall, said Anupam Kashyapi, head of the weather department at IMD Pune. Isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely to occur in the ghat sections of the district on July 23, the official said. Goa, Konkan, central Maharashtra, Marathwada, and Vidarbha regions will witness widespread rainfall in the next 72 hours, he added. Meanwhile, the collective water storage in all four dams - Khadakwasla, Temghar, Warasgaon, and Panshet - which supply water to the city, was at 11.3 TMC (37.83 per cent) as of Tuesday. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/heavy-rainfall-likely-in-pune-in-next-48-hours-imd-1011310.html
21-07-2021||South||Festivities, political activities worry Telangana health officials about Covid-19 resurgence in the state||Festivities like Bakrid, Bonalu on one side and political rallies on the other are worrying Telangana health officials about a possible resurgence of Covid-19 in the state. The rise in daily cases has remained below the 1000-mark for several days now, according to the public health department. On Wednesday, 691 new cases were detected when 1,14,260 samples were tested. In Hyderabad, where fresh cases remained in the seventies for a week, it went to 85. The drop-off in cases had allowed the K Chandrasekhar Rao government to lift all the Covid-19 restrictions a month ago when it declared that “the virus has come under control in the state”. However, people ignoring precautions like masks, social distancing and meeting relatives, friends for festivities and political activities like meetings, rallies picking up momentum after the lull during the second wave, has the officials worried now. “The public should not be under the impression that the second wave has receded. We believe that its effect will be there for two more months. The virus spread is still evident in some areas of the state,” said public health director Dr Srinivasa Rao. Dr Rao has appealed to the political parties, leaders to operate responsibly, ensuring they and their followers adhere to the Covid-19 safety protocols. While former health minister Eatala Rajender has embarked on a padayatra in preparation of the Huzurabad assembly bypoll, Telangana BJP chief Bandi Sanjay, YS Sharmila of the newly formed YSR Telangana Party and Revanth Reddy, the recently appointed Telangana Congress president also have plans to connect with people with different forms of rallies, protests against the TRS government. The top health official sought to remind the public and the leaders of the grim situation only two months back when there was a struggle for beds, oxygen, and medicines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/festivities-political-activities-worry-telangana-health-officials-about-covid-19-resurgence-in-the-state-1011316.html
21-07-2021||State||Sniffer dog helps police crack murder case in Davangere||Police succeeded in cracking a murder case involving a woman that took place at Kakkaragolla village in the taluk with the help of sniffer dog Tunga, the Doberman Pinscher, and nabbed a man and recovered gold ornaments worth Rs 4.10 lakh.  According to police, the arrested has been identified as B G Revannasiddappa (48) of the same village. He was accused of murdering Gowramma (75) on July 18 in her house at night. Based on the complaint registered at Davangere Rural police station, the probe team led by DySP Narasimha V Thamradwaja went to the spot with sniffer dog to get some clues. The ten-year-old dog went around the village and gave clues about the house of the accused to the probe team. Later, the team went to the house and took him to custody. During the interrogation, he admitted that he killed Gowramma to avoid repaying the loan to her. He stole two gold bangles, one gold chain belonging to the woman after killing her.  It may be mentioned here that the dog had helped the probe team in cracking a murder case in Channagiri taluk last year. District in-charge Minister B A Basavaraj had honoured it at the Independence Day event last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sniffer-dog-helps-police-crack-murder-case-in-davangere-1010967.html
21-07-2021||State||Bommai dubs Pegasus report 'misinformation campaign' to destabilise India||Even as reports said that Pegasus may have been used to topple the Congress-JD(S) government in Karnataka in 2019, state Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday dubbed it a controversy to malign the nation as "India is growing stronger day by day." Using digital platforms, they try to destabilise different countries. Now, the eyes are set on India because India is growing stronger day by day: Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on 'Pegasus Project' media report "It is a conspiracy involving foreign press where these kinds of misinformation campaign have been done against India. In past too, many names came up regarding Swiss Bank accounts, now there are cases against its CEO. Using digital platforms, they try to destabilise different countries. Now, the eyes are set on India," he told news agency ANI. He did not comment on the role it may have played in toppling the Congress-JD(S) government in the state. A possible link of using Pegasus spyware against the JD(S)-Congress government in Karnataka two years ago emerged on Tuesday with a leaked database showing that G Parameshwara, close aides of H D Kumaraswamy and Siddaramaiah, and a policeman attached with former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda were chosen as targets for surveillance just before the coalition lost power. Their phone numbers are part of a leaked database accessed by the non-profit French media Forbidden Stories and shared with an international media consortium, which includes The Washington Post, The Guardian and The Wire. The BJP under B S Yediyurappa had managed to return to power after 17 MLAs from the JD(S)-Congress combine abruptly resigned, forcing Kumaraswamy to seek a vote of confidence, which he lost in July 2019. Check out latest videos from DH:  (With DHNS inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bommai-dubs-pegasus-report-misinformation-campaign-to-destabilise-india-1011065.html
21-07-2021||State||Former union minister Oscar Fernandes remains critical||The condition of former union minister and Rajya Sabha member Oscar Fernandes continued to be critical on Wednesday. There was slight improvement in his condition with movement in his hands and legs, said Congress leader and former minister M B Patil, who visited the hospital in Mangaluru where Fernandes is undergoing treatment. A team of expert doctors from Udupi and Manipal are monitoring his health condition. If required, telemedicine facility will also be arranged for his treatment, said M B Patil. Patil said that Congress President Sonia Gandhi and senior leader Rahul Gandhi are in touch with Fernandes' family and are enquiring about his health. The 80-year-old veteran leader sustained a head injury while performing yoga at his residence. He had visited Yenepoya hospital for his routine dialysis and during the check-up he was found to be suffering from clot in his brain on Tuesday and was shifted to ICU. Former union minister Janardhan Poojary too visited the hospital to enquire on the health condition of Oscar Fernandes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/former-union-minister-oscar-fernandes-remains-critical-1011078.html
21-07-2021||State||Termination notice based on internal plaints panel report is illegal: HC||The High Court has quashed the second show notice issued to a professor of Mangalore University, who was placed under suspension over allegations of sexual harassment to a project student. The court cited non adherence to procedural safeguards contained in administrative law (service rules) while issuing the second show cause notice with a possible penalty of dismissal from service. The petitioner is working as a professor at the Department of Economics. The second show-cause notice was issued on November 5, 2020, based upon the report of the Internal Complaints Committee. The allegation was made against the petitioner professor in 2018 which was converted into a complaint under section 9 of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013. The University placed the complaint for an enquiry before the Committee constituted in terms of the Act which held the petitioner guilty of the allegations. Subsequently, the syndicate accepted the report of the committee. The syndicate had placed the petitioner under suspension before issuing the second show-cause notice. The bench observed that the order which places the petitioner under suspension indicates that the syndicate proposed to impose major punishment of dismissal from service invoking its power under the service rules. “Dismissal being a penalty under the Service Rules, in my considered view, could not have been imposed without, at the outset, following the procedure stipulated in the Rules empowering the University to dismiss the petitioner from service,” Justice M Nagaprasanna said.  The court cited the order of the Apex Court which held that an order of termination being passed on the basis of Internal Complaints Committee is illegal.   The court said that the decision to impose penalty of dismissal was an act without jurisdiction, as no inquiry as contemplated under the service rules was ever initiated. “The University is at liberty to initiate proceedings against the petitioner under the Service Rules by following the procedures stipulated therein and conclude the proceedings within two months from the date of receipt of the copy of the order,” the court said. The complaint was lodged by a project student before the Karnataka State Commission for Women. This was communicated back to the University by the Commission to look into the complaint and take appropriate action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/termination-notice-based-on-internal-plaints-panel-report-is-illegal-hc-1011267.html
21-07-2021||State||HC declines interim relief to MBBS grads on rural service||The Karnataka High Court has declined to grant interim relief to a batch of medical students who have challenged the compulsory rural service rule. The bench said the students are bound to undergo the service since they have voluntarily executed the bond. The petition was filed by Dr Prarthana N and others, challenging the June 8, 2021 notification issued by the government. The notification called upon the undergraduates, who have secured government seats and completed their MBBS examination during the academic year 2020-2021, to register for rural posting.  Declining the interim relief sought by the petitioners, Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum said that it was reasonable on the part of the government calling upon the students to undergo one-year rural service. “The legal relationship between the petitioners and the state is that the latter will provide education in medicine by way of subsidised fees on the condition that qualified doctors would serve the rural areas of the state for a specific period of time. This has to be taken as a composite bargain between the state and the students,” the court said. The bench observed that the present batch of fresh graduates is a ray of hope for the public at large in the Covid-19 situation, especially at a time when experts are anticipating a third wave. "Therefore, it is high time that the medical professionals understand the concept of duty in their response to Covid-19. The doctors have a duty to treat and the state is looking upon the doctors and is expecting them to come forward and counter this pandemic," the judge said. The rural service for fresh graduates was to commence on June 30. The petitioners contended that the notification is discriminatory and arbitrary as it excludes other undergraduates of the same batch under the management quota. They claimed that they need to appear for the NEET examination in order to pursue higher education in medical sciences and rural service affects their preparations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hc-declines-interim-relief-to-mbbs-grads-on-rural-service-1011268.html
21-07-2021||State||1.88 lakh kids infected with Covid-19 in four months in Karnataka: Govt data||A day after the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Director-General Balram Bhargava suggested reopening primary schools after ring immunisation, the state health department's data revealed that as many as 1.88 lakh kids were infected in the past four months accounting for 10 per cent of the total Covid infections reported from March to June. Out of these children, 1,212 died of Covid complications. Paediatricians suggested that though the nationwide ICMR serosurvey found more than half of the surveyed paediatric population to have already been exposed to the virus, parents still need to keep their children's guard up as these figures only suggest infection among those tested. Besides, only 36 children from three districts of the state were part of the national serosurvey. While 18,91,775 people got infected in the state in four months between March 1 and June 29, 1,88,612 (9.97 per cent) of them were children. Paediatrician Dr Shrikanta J T, a member of the state high-level expert committee for the prevention and management of Covid third wave, said, in the first wave 8 per cent of those infected were children which have seen a proportional increase by 2 per cent this wave as the number of cases were also high. As per the department's data, 81,596 children were infected in the first wave till February 28, this year, and 118 died. "Deaths in paediatric population are low. From our hospital subgroup analysis of why they died, we found comorbidities like type 1 diabetes, obesity or neurological conditions," he said. The ICMR national survey found that out of 2,892 surveyed in the 6-9 age-group, seroprevalence was 57.2 per cent and among 5,799 surveyed in the 10-17  age-group, 61.6 per cent. "Even though the entire paediatric population is unvaccinated, the mortality is less and symptoms are milder. That is why the ICMR is suggesting opening primary schools provided ring immunisation is done (school staff and parents are vaccinated)," he said. However, epidemiologist Dr Giridhar Babu said it indicates a higher risk of infection for children in the next wave. "The absolute numbers are scary. We should be careful in interpreting this data and not jump the gun in opening schools immediately. For the parents of more than 1,200 children lost to Covid, it is devastating. The sample size for children in the national serosurvey is not representative unless an exclusive survey is done among children in the state," he said. "This itself is a warning signal as losing even one child to Covid is not an option. The government should think about saving even these lives by creating biosecure bubbles of vaccinated people around them," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/188-lakh-kids-infected-with-covid-19-in-four-months-in-karnataka-govt-data-1011273.html
21-07-2021||State||One dead, 6 injured in rain-related incidents in Karnataka||Heavy rains continued to batter Kalyana Karnataka districts On Wednesday, leading to loss of life and properties. A 33-year-old woman died after a portion of her house wall collapsed on her at Kumarchincholi in Humnabad taluk, Bidar district. Parvathi Vaijnath's husband and their two children have suffered serious injuries in the incident. Two houses were damaged in Bidar old city area when a heap of mud from the fort wall near Shahgunj arch caved in on them. Several houses in the district have suffered partial damage due to prolonged wet weather. Kalaburagi city experienced drizzle through the day. The non-stop drizzling affected normal life in the city. Mantagi stream, which drains into Amarja river, is in full spate in Aland taluk. The dead bodies of Manikamma and Pralhad Dodla, who were swept away in the overflowing Kagina river in separate incidents are yet to be traced despite search operations for the past three days. Parts of Yadgir, Raichur and Koppal districts also witnessed good showers in the day. Meanwhile, Krishna river and its tributaries have been receiving copious inflows following the incessant rain in their catchments in Khanapur taluk and Konkan belt of Maharashtra. As many as six of nine bridge-cum-barrages in Chikkodi and Nippani taluks, Belagavi district, have gone underwater despite no discharges from Maharashtra dams. With Malaprabha, Pandari and Mahadayi rivers and streams flowing in full ferocity, many villages in Kanakumbi and Bhimgad forest areas in Khanapur taluk have been cut off. A couple and their daughter sustained grievous injuries after a concrete wall of their house fell on them at Uchangidurga in Harapanahalli taluk. The locals pulled out Shekarnaik, his wife Lakshmibai and their daughter Tejaswini from the debris and shifted them to the taluk hospital.  Meanwhile, the intensity of rain has come down considerably in the coastal and Malnad districts, with the exception of Kodagu. The hilly district continued to see sharp showers intermittently. Madikeri, Napoklu, Bhagamandala, Talacauvery and Mukkodlu regions received intermittent rains on Wednesday. Harangi reservoir level touched 2,855.66 feet mark, just four feet short of reaching its full reservoir level. The weather department has predicted heavy showers for four Malnad and three coastal districts for the next two days. A yellow alert has been sounded for the aforementioned districts on Thursday and Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/one-dead-6-injured-in-rain-related-incidents-in-karnataka-1011275.html
21-07-2021||State||Filmmaker files plaint over release of flick on OTT||A Sandalwood filmmaker has approached the police against an OTT platform, a Kannada TV channel and a middleman for allegedly releasing a movie produced by him on the OTT platform without his knowledge.  Filmmaker A M R Ramesh, in his complaint to the police, said that his movie 'Veerappan Attahasa' (known as Attahasa) was uploaded on the OTT platform a few months ago, but he recently learnt about it when people who watched the movie on OTT started calling him to appreciate the flick. Ramesh said he had given the satellite rights to a regional entertainment TV channel through a middleman. The channel executive and the middleman met him in Kathriguppe and signed an agreement in 2012. The movie was released in 2013 and it received a good response. After six months, the movie was telecast on the channel. In 2018, the middleman approached Ramesh and told him that they will make one more agreement to release the movie on OTT platform, for which he was offered Rs 50 lakh. However, the agreement did not happen, Ramesh said.  The filmmaker had an original copy of the movie with English subtitles on his hard disk and the same was given to the middleman.  Ramesh said that till recently, he was following up about the agreement for the movie's release on OTT and the middleman had told him that it is still in process. But in January this year, Ramesh learnt that the movie was uploaded on the OTT platform. Ramesh got to know that it was the same copy with English subtitles, which he had given to the middleman.  Ramesh told DH that the middleman told him that the channel had given the copy of the film to the OTT platform. As he didn't get proper response from both the middleman and the channel, he approached the police. The film maker said they told him that there is mention of rights of uploading the movie on the internet in the agreement, so they had given it to the OTT platform.  The C K Acchukattu police said they had taken up a case of cheating, breach of trust and are investigating.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/filmmaker-files-plaint-over-release-of-flick-on-ott-1011276.html
21-07-2021||State||JLR to build eco-tourism resort at Manchanabele||Planning an eco-tourism resort on the outskirts of Bengaluru near Manchanabele reservoir in Ramanagar district, Tourism Minister C P Yogeshwar directed the Ramanagar Deputy Commissioner to hand over 10 acres of revenue land to the state-owned Jungle Lodges and Resorts (JLR). Holding a high-level meeting with the tourism department, JLR and Cauvery Neeravari Nigam officials in Vidhana Soudha, Yogeshwar said the location, because of its close proximity, would help tapping into the tourism potential of Bengaluru, which is now focussed on short-duration trips. "As the location is close to Bengaluru city, more and more people will visit the resort if it is developed with all the tourist-friendly facilities and basic infrastructure," the minister said. Highlighting that the resort at the location must be eco-friendly Yogeshwar said, "The resort and its construction work should not hamper the beauty of nature and the reservoir. Also, the resort should adopt all eco-friendly measures from construction to operation level." Rakesh Kumar, Deputy Commissioner, Ramanagar assured the minister that the land will be handed over within two days after the spot inspection. Yogeshwar, who had travelled about 40 km on a speed boat in the KRS backwaters, directed the CNN officials to take up water sports in three islands located in the backwaters. Deccan circuit Boosting tourism activities in Deccan region areas such as Kalaburagi, Vijayapura, Bagalkot, Ballari, Bidar and Koppal by providing aviation services, Apollo Hospitals and Trac India Private Limited have proposed to launch Deccan Circuit programme. Shobhana Kamineni and Anil Kamineni of both the firms on Tuesday made a presentation to the tourism minister. The firms are already offering air services in 3,000 km of airspace over Maharashtra, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. Minister Yogeshwar suggested the tourism officials to hold talks with the deputy commissioners and arrange for the land.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/jlr-to-build-eco-tourism-resort-at-manchanabele-1011277.html
21-07-2021||State||It's wait and watch for ministers who defected for B S Yediyurappa||While uncertainty surrounds B S Yediyurappa’s continuation as chief minister, a sense of nervousness haunts legislators who became ministers after defecting from the Congress and JD(S) to help the Lingayat leader install the BJP government.  As many as 17 quit the Congress-JD(S) coalition and 16 of them joined the BJP in 2019 in a protracted political drama that Yediyurappa is said to have scripted. Of them, 12 are currently Yediyurappa’s Cabinet colleagues. Notwithstanding the general understanding that the party is unlikely to ask the ‘migrant’ ministers to step down, they are jittery over the implications a change of guard will have on their standing in the BJP. A senior BJP leader and a Yediyurappa loyalist told DH, “If anyone believes that these ministers will be asked to step down because of a change in leadership, they are underestimating the stature of Yediyurappa’s leadership.”  However, the newbies are not privy to many developments in a party that follows a strict code of hierarchy, which has caused some concern. One of the migrant ministers told DH, “We want to believe that the party high command will keep its promise and not ask us to step down. But we know nothing for certain. It is a wait-and-watch game as of now. We just know that there are talks of replacing Yediyurappa. We do not know what the final decision will be. While we were actively part of decision-making in our previous parties, we are not privy to all the information in the BJP.” These ‘migrants’ also face some pushback from the ‘native’ BJP leaders who felt heartburn when Yediyurappa appointed turncoats as ministers.  Some of the Congress-JD(S) turncoats that DH spoke to ruled out any possibility of them switching back to their old parties, irrespective of whether they continued in their posts or not. Requesting anonymity, one BJP legislator from Bengaluru said Yediyurappa’s promise to the Congress-JD(S) rebels was fulfilled the day many of them were inducted into the Cabinet. “They have enjoyed power. Whether they continue or not is immaterial.”  Of the 16 who defected to join the BJP, 13 were rewarded with ministerial positions. One of them, Ramesh Jarkiholi, resigned recently following a sex scandal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/its-wait-and-watch-for-ministers-who-defected-for-b-s-yediyurappa-1011279.html
21-07-2021||State||B S Yediyurappa will continue as CM, says Ravikumar||BJP general secretary N Ravikumar said B S Yediyurappa will continue as the chief minister and the party's state in-charge Arun Singh and national president J P Nadda will clarify this.  He told reporters here that the party has not thought about the chief minister's change. "This issue is being discussed only in media. The party's Delhi leaders will clear these confusions," he added. Ravikumar said a meeting of the legislature party had been convened as the government is completing two years in office. Covid management and the government's schemes were to be discussed in the meeting. It has been cancelled as the change of the guard issue came to the forefront. But the dinner programme is on, he replied to a question. He said the party high command has taken a serious view about some people who are causing embarrassment to the party and the chief minister. Notices have already been served to MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal and others. The party will take a suitable decision at an appropriate time, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/b-s-yediyurappa-will-continue-as-cm-says-ravikumar-1011288.html
21-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||More seers queue up to back BSY as Karnataka CM||Several pontiffs made a beeline at Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa's residence on Wednesday amidst speculations of an imminent change in Karnataka government leadership. The move was seen as the CM's attempt to consolidate his support base and send a message to the national leadership over his stature as the leader of the Lingayat community.  Among prominent seers who visited Yediyurappa was the pontiff of Siddaganga Mutt, Tumkur. More than 30 other religious heads, especially from Lingayat mutts, met the CM to extend their support for his continuation as head of the government.  Siddaganga seer said that it was the view of all pontiffs to allow Yediyurappa to continue as CM. "Our wish is that he remains CM for a full term," he said. Yediyurappa is hosting seers for the second consecutive day, as several of them had met the CM on Tuesday, too. Lingayat leaders from Congress also have batted in support of Yediyurappa in recent days.  According to sources, the visit by seers was a last-ditch attempt by Yediyurappa to secure his seat. The CM's trusted lieutenants, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Revenue Minister R Ashoka had also visited several mutts in the past two weeks. The CM's son and BJP vice president BY Vijayendra had also met several religious heads recently.  On Tuesday, Shivamurthy seer of the prominent Muruga Mutt in Chitradurga had also batted for the continuation of Yediyurappa as CM.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/more-seers-queue-up-to-back-bsy-as-karnataka-cm-1011085.html
21-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Amid talk about CM Yediyurappa's exit, guessing game on successor gains traction||As the speculation within the ruling BJP circles persists over whether B S Yediyurappa's exit as the Karnataka Chief Minister is on the cards, talks in the party around his possible successor have been gaining momentum with the guessing game in full swing. Yediyurappa, who is completing two years in office on July 26, had dismissed reports in some quarters that the party's central leadership is actively mulling to replace him. Several names are doing the rounds as a possible replacement for the 78-year old Lingayat strongman. Though there is a long list of aspirants for the post, the challenge before the party will be to find a suitable replacement who can fill Yediyurappa's "big" shoes, a BJP functionary said. It is said that the BJP is hoping to bring in a generational shift in the state's leadership, and smooth transition of power but finding a replacement for the "undisputed mass leader" of the party in the State is never going to be easy. The BJP will also have to strike some kind of a balance while effecting this leadership change, as it will have to see to it that the move does not antagonise its core vote base, the dominant Veerashaiva-Lingayat community, over which Yediyurappa wields considerable influence. The Veerashaiva-Lingayat community, which is estimated to form about 16 per cent of the state's population, is considered to be the BJPs core support base in the state, and is reportedly largely opposed to Yediyurappa's removal. There are some reports that the party may name a surprise candidate for the Chief Minister post as they have experimented in other states. Among the names doing the rounds as probable successor to Yediyurappa are that of Union Minister Pralhad Joshi, BJP national General Secretary C T Ravi and the party's national organising secretary B L Santhosh. While Joshi and Santosh are Brahmins; Ravi, who is MLA from Chikkamagaluru, is a Vokkaliga, another dominant community in the state, mostly concentrated in Southern Karnataka, where the party is trying to make inroads. Another Brahmin name that is being talked about is Assembly speaker Vishveshwar Hegde Kageri. There has been no Brahmin Chief Minister in the state since 1988, after Ramakrishna Hegde. Indicating that there may be "surprise pick", Yediyurappa's bete noire and senior MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, who has been openly criticising the Chief Minister and seeking for his ouster, had recently said that the Prime Minister would choose an honest leader with Hindutva ideology for the post of CM, who can ensure victory for BJP in the next election. If the party looks for replacing Yediyurappa with another leader from the dominant Veerashaiva-Lingayat community, the probable names that are doing rounds include, Mining Minister Murugesh Nirani and MLA Arvind Bellad. While Nirani is a businessman-politician, whose repeated Delhi visits recently have raised eyebrows in the party circles; Bellad is a MLA from Hubli-Dharwad West Assembly constituency, who is said to be among the disgruntled legislators seeking Yediyurappa's outster. Bellad had recently alleged that his phone was being tapped and attempts were on to fix him in some case. Though Yatnal's name was also doing rounds for the CM post from the Veerashaiva-Lingayat community, his repeated statements embarrassing the party and the government, may go against him. Yatnal himself had recently clarified that he was not in the race to become CM. Among the current Ministers in the state government, the names of Home Minister Basavaraj S Bommai (Lingayat), Revenue Minister R Ashoka and Deputy CM, C N Ashwath Narayan (Vokkaligas), have also been doing the rounds. Another Lingayat leader from north Karnataka -- Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar, who has earlier served as the Chief Minister -- is also seen as a contender.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/amid-talk-about-cm-yediyurappas-exit-guessing-game-on-successor-gains-traction-1011170.html
21-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||B S Yediyurappa's dinner for BJP legislators on July 25 postponed||Amid leadership change buzz, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's dinner for BJP legislators, which was scheduled to take place on July 25 to mark his government completing two years in office, has been postponed, official sources said on Wednesday. "The scheduled dinner meeting has been postponed and the new date is yet to be fixed," official sources said, without divulging reasons for the postponement. The dinner was scheduled to take place at around 7 pm on Sunday at a city hotel. Earlier there were reports that the BJP legislature party meeting will be convened on July 26, on the occasion of completion of two years in office, during which some clarity was expected on speculation about the leadership change. However, officials have clarified that no legislature party meeting has been called. Yediyurappa, who is completing two years in office on July 26, had visited Delhi last week, during which he had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and BJP president J P Nadda. The trip raised questions in some quarters if the party is now working out a succession plan. On his return from the national capital, Yediyurappa had however, rubbished reports that he is on the way out, and asserted that the central leadership has asked him to continue in the post.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/b-s-yediyurappas-dinner-for-bjp-legislators-on-july-25-postponed-1011202.html
21-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 1,639 new Covid cases, 36 deaths||Karnataka on Wednesday reported 1,639 new cases of Covid-19 and 36 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 28,88,341 and death toll to 36,262, the health department said. The day also saw 2,214 discharges, pushing the total number of recoveries to 28,26,411. Bengaluru Urban recorded 419 new cases, as the city saw 963 discharges and 7 deaths. Active cases in the state stood at 25,645. Dakshina Kannada recorded 6 deaths, Hassan and Kolar (3), Chamarajanagara, Dharwad, Shivamogga (2), followed by others. After Bengaluru Urban, Dakshina Kannada reported the highest number of new cases with 190 followed by Mysuru 160, Hassan 141 and Udupi 104. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with 12,23,226, followed by Mysuru 1,71,552 and Tumakuru 1,17,149. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 11,97,916. Mysuru has reported 1,67,391 and Tumakuru 1,14,743. Cumulatively a total of 3,72,85,851 samples have been tested so far,of which 1,52,714 were tested on Wednesday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-1639-new-covid-cases-36-deaths-1011227.html
21-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Honour to serve BJP, don't indulge in protests or indiscipline: CM B S Yediyurappa tells supporters||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday urged his supporters to “not indulge in protests or indiscipline that is disrespectful and embarrassing for the party”, in a subtle statement that came in the midst of uncertainty over his continuation. “I am privileged to be a loyal worker of BJP. It is my utmost honour to serve the party with the highest standards of ethics & behaviour. I urge everyone to act in accordance with party ethics & not indulge in protests/indiscipline that is disrespectful & embarrassing for the party,” Yediyurappa said. I am privileged to be a loyal worker of BJP. It is my utmost honour to serve the party with highest standards of ethics & behaviour. I urge everyone to act in accordance with party ethics & not indulge in protests/indiscipline that is disrespectful & embarrassing for the party. He tweeted this on a day when the number of pontiffs coming out in his support swelled, which included the influential Siddaganga Mutt that is rarely seen getting directly involved in political matters. In the Kannada tweet, Yediyrappa said no one should issue statements in his favour based on the political developments. “The party is like my mother and any incident that disrespects her will give me immense pain,” he said. For the second day in a row, more than 30 seers made a beeline at Yediyurappa's residence. "It is the view of all mutts that Yediyurappa should be allowed to continue and complete the term as CM," Siddaganga Mutt seer Siddalinga Swamy said. "Yediyurappa told us that PM Modi, Amit Shah and J P Nadda had special respect for him. No one aged above 75 was given this opportunity, except him. He said he'd work for the party till his last breath." Veerabhadra Chennamalla seer of the Nidumamidi Mut also pressed the BJP central leadership to allow Yediyurappa to complete his term. Such mobilization of support is seen as a message aimed at the BJP central leadership. "It looks like Yediyurappa wants to put up a fight," a senior BJP leader said. The pontiffs faced criticism for their involvement in a political issue even as some more mutts are expected to express solidarity with Yediyurappa in the coming days. A few BJP leaders also spoke up on the issue, siding with Yediyurappa. "It was Yeddiruppa who first brought BJP to power in Karnataka. Some conspired to remove him since he would not be a chamcha. Without him BJP could not return power in the state. Only upon his return to BJP could the party win again. Why repeat the same mistake," BJP MP Subramanian Swamy asked in a tweet. It was Yeddiruppa who first brought BJP to power in Karnataka. Some conspired to remove him since he would not be a chamcha. Without Him BJP could not return power in the State. Only upon his return to BJP could the party win again. Why repeat the same mistake? Former union minister D V Sadananda Gowda said the central leadership had appreciated the state government's functioning. "According to me, there's no truth in speculation over change in leadership," he said. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Yediyurappa's aide, said rumours over the CM's replacement were aimed at creating political instability. "[Yediyurappa] is very strong, he is our leader and he will continue to be the CM," he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/honour-to-serve-bjp-dont-indulge-in-protests-or-indiscipline-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-tells-supporters-1011236.html
21-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||SC restores Rs 88.73 lakh relief to girl for school negligence||The Supreme Court has restored a higher compensation of Rs 88.73 lakh to a girl student from Bengaluru who as a Class IX student in 2006 suffered from disease Meningo Encephalitis during a North India tour due to negligence of her teachers, depriving her of normal life and marriage prospects. A bench of Justices Navin Sinha and R Subhash Reddy allowed an appeal filed by Kum Akshatha against the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission’s order. The National Commission had reduced the compensation amount from Rs 88.73 lakh awarded by the State Consumer Commission to Rs 50 lakh, to be paid by the school. The top court found that the National Commission did not opine that the compensation awarded was excessive, yet it simply went on to reduce the amount, which became “arbitrary” and “unsustainable” in absence of any such material, discussion or reasoning. “Judicial discretion is not arbitrary to be exercised sans reason to the prejudice of another. There is no discussion by the National Commission or any reasons spelt out for the formation of this opinion to reduce the compensation,” the court said in its order. It also noted that the complainant was a child aged 14 years at the relevant point of time. In December 2006, she went on an educational tour with other students to several places in North India, accompanied by teachers of the school. She was taken ill during the tour by viral fever, diagnosed as Meningo Encephalitis. The doctors opined that had she been given timely medical aid and attention, she could easily have been cured. “Ultimately, she had to be airlifted in an air ambulance to Bengaluru. Consequentially, she has become bedridden and also lost her memory and speech with no prospects for recovery. She stands deprived of a normal life and marriage prospects despite being of marriageable age,” it said. The bench said the State and the National Commissions have arrived at concurrent findings of gross negligence of their duties by the teachers and the other children of the school run by B N M Education Institutions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sc-restores-rs-8873-lakh-relief-to-girl-for-school-negligence-1011270.html
21-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Seers must not indulge in politics: BJP MLA||Veteran BJP and leader Davangere North MLA S A Raveendranath stated that religious leaders must not indulge in politics and they must not rally behind an individual.  Speaking to media persons on Wednesday, he said he is also Veerashaiva Lingayat. Jagadish Shettar, Murugesh Nirani and Umesh Katti are also Lingayat leaders and all are devotees of the mutts. Under such circumstances, it is unbecoming of religious leaders to speak on behalf of a single leader, he said.  Objecting to support extended by Congress MLAs Shamanur Shivashankarappa and M B Patil to the chief minister, he said they must not extend support to the BJP leader, being a part of Congress. If they have genuine concern towards the chief minister, let them quit Congress and embrace BJP, he suggested. On change of leadership in Karnataka, he said the party high command would take a call on it and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa too has told the same to seers of mutts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/seers-must-not-indulge-in-politics-bjp-mla-1011306.html
21-07-2021||West||Gujarat HC orders collection of critical Covid-19 patient's sample as wife wants child||The Gujarat High Court has directed a hospital in Vadodara to conduct an IVF/Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) procedure for the collection of sample of a critical Covid-19 patient having slim chances of survival after his wife expressed the desire to bear his child. The HC issued the order issued on Tuesday, considering it as an "extraordinary urgent situation". After an urgent hearing of a petition filed by the patient's wife, Justice Ashutosh J Shastri directed the Vadodara-based hospital to conduct the IVF (In vitro fertilisation)/ART procedure for the collection of his sample and keep it stored in an appropriate place as per medical advice. The petitioner wants to conceive his child through the IVF/ART technology, but the hospital was not allowing this unless she got a court order directing it to collect his sample, her lawyer Nilay Patel said. Hence, she approached the high court on Tuesday with an urgent plea, he said. The HC said, "the ad interim relief is granted in an extraordinary urgent situation before the court and the same shall be subject to the outcome of the petition". The court also issued notices to the state government and the hospital's director and sought their response on July 23. The petitioner approached the court, saying her Covid-19-infected husband was suffering from multi-organ failure and was on a life support system, and according to doctors, he has slim chances of survival, Patel said. The HC directed the petitioner and the assistant government pleader to communicate its order to the hospital for collection of the patient's sample, looking at the criticality of the situation when his health condition is said to be deteriorating.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-hc-orders-collection-of-critical-covid-19-patients-sample-as-wife-wants-child-1011060.html
21-07-2021||West||IMD issues 'red alert' for rainfall in Mumbai, says conditions favourable for heavy showers||The Regional Meteorological Centre of the IMD issued a 'red alert' for Mumbai, predicting heavy to very heavy rainfall in the country's financial capital on Wednesday. Earlier, the MeT office had sounded an 'orange alert', but it is now been changed to 'red alert' for Wednesday because of the "favourable synoptic conditions", Dr Jayant Sarkar, head of the Regional Meteorological Centre here said. Heavy rains had battered the metropolis on Sunday and Monday as well. "There are two favourable synoptic situations for heavy to very heavy rains in Mumbai today and in the next few days. The offshore trough, spread from south Gujarat coast to Karnataka is expected to increase the intensity of showers," Sarkar said. The second factor is the "shear zone" (referring to wind patterns) developed over Mumbai and the neighbouring region, he said. Sarkar there will be widespread rainfall over Konkan and central Maharashtra as well. The Marathwada region is also expected to receive widespread showers till Thursday and the rain intensity is likely to reduce subsequently, he said. There is an off-shore trough running between Maharashtra and Karnataka, which generally carries moisture-laden westerly winds from the Arabian Sea to land, another official from the MeT office said. In addition to it, there is an east-west "shear zone cutting across Maharashtra" and it has been adding to the prevailing favourable monsoon conditions, he said. “These two synoptic systems are leading to very heavy rain over Konkan, Goa and central Maharashtra, especially the Ghat areas,” the official said. Alerts by the IMD are colour-coded from green to red. A 'green' alert stands for 'no warning': no action needs to be taken by the authorities, and the forecast is of light to moderate rain. A 'red' alert stands for "warning", and asks authorities to "take action". An ‘orange’ alert indicates that the authorities are expected to “be prepared”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/imd-issues-red-alert-for-rainfall-in-mumbai-says-conditions-favourable-for-heavy-showers-1011095.html
21-07-2021||West||Maharashtra teenager who joined Naxals clears Class X, wants to be a cop||A teenager who was once forced into Naxalism but managed to escape from the clutches of the outlaws - has now cleared Class 10 and wants to join the police. The girl, Rajula Hidami, now around 19, now wants to do Class 11 and 12 and subsequently wants to join the police force. Rajula, who belongs to the Gond tribal community, hailed from the Lavhari village in Gadchiroli district, which is infested by Naxalites. Thanks to the efforts of Deputy Inspector General Harish Baijal and Additional Superintendent of Police Sandeep Atole and their team, she got a fresh lease of life. Baijal had earlier worked as Superintendent of Police of Naxal Cell and Atole his junior. “We are very happy with the result,” said Atole, who is currently posted as Principal of Police Training School at Daund in Pune district. The girl passed with 51.80 per cent. “We have been taking care of her and will take care of her…we want her to study as per her wishes,” Atole told DH from Pune. As of now, she is in Deori, where her guardian is a member of the Deori Naxal Cell. “As of now, schools are closed. She is with my parents in the village who stay alone,” the caretaker, who didn't want to be identified, told DH from Gadchiroli. The police officials said that Lavhari village was often frequented by Naxalites and once she was asked to accompany them and subsequently recruited. She was part of the Korchi-Khobramenda-Kurkhda dahlam that operates in the Gadchiroli district. “She was given training by the group,” Atole said, adding that in 2018, she managed to escape while on sentry duties. “She was educated till Class VII and wanted to study further and we made the arrangements,” he said. “There was no one to take care of her…her father had died and mother had remarried. Her two sisters were married….we decided that we will take care of her,” officials said, adding that one policeman managed to get her documents and then got her admitted to school with hostel facilities. “Since there was no family support and that she had surrendered, we could not have left her alone and hence we decided to be under your constant watch,” a Gadchiroli police officer said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-teenager-who-joined-naxals-clears-class-x-wants-to-be-a-cop-1011107.html
21-07-2021||West||Raid on adult film shoot in February led to Raj Kundra's arrest||It was a tip-off about a porn film shoot in a private bungalow in the picturesque location of Madh Island that prompted the Malvani police station to carry out a raid. During February-March, the Mumbai Police already was under severe pressure at that point of time because of the case involving now dismissed Assistant Police Inspector, the maim accused in the planting of Scorpio near the residence of Reliance Industries Ltd Chairman Mukesh Ambani and murder of the SUV owner Mansukh Hiren. The Mumbai Police handed the case to the Property Cell of Crime Branch-CID and then emerged from the name of United Kingdom-based Pradeep Bakshi, the brother-in-law of Kundra. Kundra, who is the founder of Viaan Industries Ltd and Bakshi, the Chairman of Kenrin Group of London - and they were allegedly the masterminds of the pornography racket run on HotShot App. “We have the details of the financial trails among them,” said joint commissioner of police (crime) Milind Bharambe. The nine other persons arrested earlier include TV actress Gehna Vashisht (32) Yasmin Baig Khan alias Rowa Khan (40) Monu Joshi (28) Pratibha Nalavade (33) Atif Ahmed (24), Shaan Banerjee alias Dipankar Khasnavis (38), Bhanusuryam Thakur ( 26) Tanvir Hashmi (40) and Umesh Kamat (39). Gehna Vashist is a model and actor, while Yasmin Rowa Khan was a producer-director. Kamat was the frontman for Kundra. Pratibha was the graphic designer, Joshi was cameraman. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/raid-on-adult-film-shoot-in-february-led-to-raj-kundras-arrest-1011137.html
21-07-2021||West||Gujarat tribal couple tied to tree, thrashed with sticks for eloping, 9 held||A young tribal couple from a village in Gujarat's Chhotaudepur district was allegedly abducted, tied to a tree and thrashed with sticks as 'punishment' for eloping, police said on Wednesday. The police have arrested nine men for the attack that reportedly took place in Chiliyavant village under the Rangpur police station in Chhotaudepur district on Tuesday, Deputy Superintendent of Police A V Katkad said. A video of the incident, which surfaced on social media, showed some men taking turns to beat the couple, who were tied to a tree, with sticks in the presence of other villagers, the police said. On learning about the incident through the video, the police rushed to the village on Wednesday and arrested the accused on the charges of rioting, kidnapping and illegal confinement based on a complaint lodged by the victim girl, the official said. "The couple had eloped on July 18 with an intention of getting married. However, angry villagers eventually traced them to a neighbouring village and brought them back to Chiliyavant on Tuesday morning. The accused tied the duo to a tree and thrashed them with sticks," the DySP said. The victim in her complaint has claimed that the accused were angry because a local tradition bars marriage of man and woman from the same village, it was stated. A similar incident took place in Dhada village under Rangpur police station a month ago, where a tribal couple was assaulted by five men as a punishment for eloping.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-tribal-couple-tied-to-tree-thrashed-with-sticks-for-eloping-9-held-1011187.html
21-07-2021||West||Uddhav Thackeray's ex-aide Ajoy Mehta's flat purchase under tax lens||The Income Tax Department has sent a show cause notice to a Pune builder who had sold a tony Nariman Point apartment to Ajoy Mehta, ex-principal advisor to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, for Rs 5.33 crore last October through an alleged benami transaction. Mehta, the chairman of MahaRera (Maharashtra Real Estate Regulatory Authority), had purchased the apartment from the Pune-based Anamitra Properties, alleged to be a shell company that is not doing any business, according to the tax department. The tax department issued the notice on July 7 to Anamitra, which according to the records had sold the flat to Mehta in October 2020 in the Samta Cooperative Housing Society in the upscale Nariman Point central business district of the megapolis for Rs 5.33 crore. The notice was issued under the Prohibition of Benami Property Transaction Act of 1988, saying the transaction that led to Anamitra's acquisition of the apartment at B5, Samta Cooperative Housing Society, for Rs 4 crore in May 2009, was a "benami" deal as its two listed shareholders are "people of low means" living in chawls in western suburbs of the city. Issued by initiating officer Pooja Gabriyal, the notice also said that the "owners" of Anamitra have also "denied their knowledge of ownership under oath" regarding the apartment. A reply has been sought from Anamitra within 15 days. The tax department's allegation against Mehta is that the apartment was owned by the shell entity "made only for the purpose of holding benami properties". Mehta could not be contacted for comments. Mehta, a 1984-batch IAS officer, was Thackeray's principal advisor from July 2020 until his appointment as MahaRera chairman in February 2021. He had also served as the Chief Secretary from May 2019 to June 2020, and was also the BMC Commissioner from 2015 to 2019. According to the notice, one of the shareholders of Anamitra, Kamesh Nathuni Singh, who owns 99 per cent stake with each share carrying a face value of Rs 100, in fact, lives in the Shyamnarayan Chawl, Vittbhatti, near the Oberoi Mall in Goregaon in the western suburb of the megapolis. The second shareholder, Dipesh Ravindra Singh, who is a resident of the Babunath Pandaya Chawl near JVLR, Jogeshwari-E, has shown an income of only Rs 1.71 lakh in his sole income tax return filed for the assessment year 2020-21, the notice said. Further, the notice said in an oath given to the department on July 7 under the Prohibition of Benami Property Transaction Act, both Kamesh Singh and Dipesh Singh said they were "not aware" of purchasing any shares of Anamitra. "These shareholders have squarely and categorically denied their knowledge of ownership of Anamitra. Moreover, these are persons of no means with little to show for making transactions involving crores of rupees. "Therefore, it is clear that their names have been used by some unknown beneficial and real owners to make these transactions," the notice said. According to an RoC filing, Anamitra has an authorised and paid up capital of Rs 1 lakh each, of which 99 per cent was held by Kamesh Singh and the rest by Dipesh Singh. The notice also said the financial profile of Anamitra reveals that it is not doing any business and had no income in the past three years ending assessment year 2019-20. From this, it can be concluded that Anamitra is a shell entity made only for the purpose of holding benami properties and is treated as a "benamidar", the notice added. As per Anamitra's income tax filing, the flat was purchased by it on May 7, 2009 for Rs 4 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/uddhav-thackerays-ex-aide-ajoy-mehtas-flat-purchase-under-tax-lens-1011208.html
21-07-2021||West||Le Corbusier's ATMA building in Ahmedabad to host cultural events||The Ahmedabad Textile Mill Owners’ Association (ATMA) and CEPT University have signed an MoU to make the iconic ATMA house, designed by noted French architect Le Corbusier, available for hosting architecture, design, literary, academic, cultural and industry events. In a statement, CEPT University on Wednesday announced the signing of the MoU "to jointly work towards revitalizing the ATMA building." It said that both institutes plan "to create an annual calendar of events appropriate to the space and the mandate of both institutions. The facilities would be available for architecture, design, literary, academic, cultural and industry events". The statement said that the building's air-conditioned auditorium, a hall on the ground floor, two large halls and an open lobby on the first floor and a hall on the second floor will be used to curate events, exhibitions and displays. The original design has a provision for a cafeteria which would also be made functional. “CEPT is privileged to partner with ATMA to revitalise one of the modern architecture's masterpieces. We will together strive to create a cultural space that Ahmedabad and her visitors would cherish,” said Tridip Suhrud, Provost, CEPT University. ATMA building or house is one of the four buildings designed by Corbusier which is considered one of his masterpieces. It was built between 1952 and 1954 at Ashram Road on the bank of Sabarmati River. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/le-corbusiers-atma-building-in-ahmedabad-to-host-cultural-events-1011238.html
