22-07-2021||Analysis||Cut to size, Nitish Kumar continues to face constant humiliation by ally BJP||There was a time, not very long ago, when Nitish Kumar’s opinion or suggestion was the last word in Bihar. Today, in his fourth successive term, Nitish is facing a barrage of dissenting notes from his alliance partner – that too from the lesser mortals in the BJP – who have no qualms over attacking the Bihar Chief Minister if he’s at variance with their party’s avowed agenda. Sample this: Last week, while talking about Uttar Pradesh’s new education policy for 2021-30, in which the Yogi Adityanath government has incentives for those who help check the state’s population growth, Nitish said he was “not in favour of enacting any legislation to bring down the population growth.” Citing the example of Bihar, where the fertility rate has come down considerably in the last 15 years, Nitish said, “Education of girls is the key to population control. If the girls are given proper education, their awareness increases, which, in turn, helps check fertility rate. We promoted girls’ education after coming to power in 2005 and it has yielded the desired result by bringing down the reproduction rate in the last one-and-a-half decades.” Nitish’s remarks against the Yogi government evoked a sharp reaction from Bihar BJP chief and Lok Sabha MP from West Champaran, Sanjay Jaiswal. “The step taken by Yogi government is commendable. It’s high time other states, too, bring in legislation to check population growth,” said Jaiswal, who has missed no opportunity in slamming Nitish in the last one year. Senior BJP leader and Union minister Giriraj Singh, a known Nitish-baiter, too, joined the chorus and suggested that the Bihar CM adopt the Yogi model. Two of the BJP’s ministers in the Nitish cabinet – Nitin Navin and Samrat Choudhary – echoed Jaiswal and Singh, seeking a legislation to check population growth. “How can you check rapid population growth without enacting a law,” wondered Navin, Bihar’s Road Construction Minister. It was then that Nitish had to field his trusted aides like Ashok Choudhary, a senior minister, to counter the BJP that Bihar needed Nitish model (where the focus is on girl’s education) and not Yogi model. “So far as population control is concerned, the Bihar model focuses on raising awareness among girls by imparting to them proper education. And this is the best model,” argued Choudhary. Former Deputy CM and BJP’s now marginalised leader Sushil Modi played the role of peacemaker when he suggested to both camps to exercise restraint. “It’s not necessary that the two alliance partners speak out their mind in public on sensitive matters. Such discordant notes give a wrong impression about the NDA,” said Sushil Modi, who enjoys a warm relationship with Nitish but has apparently fallen out of favour with the BJP’s top leadership for that very reason. But then, this is not the first time that the BJP has provoked Nitish and tried to belittle him by asking him to emulate Yogi Adityanath. A few months ago, when a senior official of a private airline was shot dead barely one kilometre from the police headquarters in the state capital, a large section of BJP leaders, including ministers, had demanded that Nitish “adopt the Yogi model and give the police a free hand so that criminals could be eliminated through encounters.” “There is no way other than to adopt UP’s ‘encounter model’ if one has to check crime in Bihar. Vehicles need to be ‘overturned’ if the morale of the police has to be kept high,” said BJP MLA Pawan Jaiswal. In using the term ‘overturn’, the BJP legislator was referring to the incident related to Kanpur gangster Vikas Dubey, whose vehicle ‘overturned’ before he was shot dead in a police encounter by UP police. The ruling alliance partner JD(U) was not impressed with the BJP leader’s assertion. “Staged encounters lead to human rights issue,” Ashok Choudhary had said, “We are aware of the rise in crime incidents. And we are taking all possible steps to stem the rot.” But still, the BJP misses no opportunity to deride Nitish in public. Jaiswal, in particular, was the first to question Nitish when the Bihar Chief Minister announced night curfew from 9 pm to 6 am before imposing a full lockdown. It was Jaiswal, too, who last year had lashed out at Nitish over the problems being faced by migrants and students during the 2020 lockdown. The Bihar BJP chief had then suggested that Nitish take a leaf out of Yogi’s book and ensure that those who wanted to return to their home state were allowed to do so. Nitish has so far refrained from joining issue with lower-rung BJP leaders. “After all, once upon a time, he would engage only with the likes of LK Advani and Arun Jaitley and had once even cancelled a dinner party (in 2010), such was his antipathy towards Narendra Modi then. But having been cut to size by the same Modi, Nitish now has no option other than to play second fiddle to the BJP if he has to remain in power,” opined senior political commentator Ajay Kumar. The observation by the social scientist assumes significance in that Nitish, who could win only 43 seats in the 243-member Assembly last year, is 31 short of the BJP’s strength of 74 MLAs in the House. That the saffron camp has allowed Nitish to continue as Bihar CM is in itself a consolation for him. But then, he is paying a heavy price, having to digest humiliation every now and then.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/analysis/cut-to-size-nitish-kumar-continues-to-face-constant-humiliation-by-ally-bjp-1011347.html
22-07-2021||First Edit||Virgin space, pregnant with potential||The final frontier above the earth may have moved just a bit closer to it in a space of 10 days with two resourceful men breaching it in a flash and returning to the planet, safe and fine. Neither Richard Branson nor Jeff Bezos came back trailing such clouds of glory as Yuri Gagarin or Alan Shepard did. But the two short flights that the two took could mean big leaps for tourism or other enterprises in times to come. Every great business starts as a flight of imagination into virgin territories. Branson and Bezos are hard-boiled businessmen who would not build castles in thin air, but both are daring enough to take the long shot into the future and wait for it to hit home in a dollar shower. There are differences between the carriers, methods, claims and the long-term aims of the two. Branson travelled in a space plane, went above the 50-mile line which is the edge of space by some readings, and returned in 59 minutes. Bezos blasted off in a capsule mounted on a rocket, rose 12 miles above the Branson line and returned in 10 minutes. Both realised that weight is an illusion that flesh and bones are prone to on earth, and it is this experience of freedom from mortal coils that both would take to the market. There are few on earth who wouldn’t have dreamt of a brush with the Great Beyond and of a loss of being into nothingness. Space is the elemental state before things took shape, and the two men are now offering an escape from the human condition into the terrible beauty of the vast void for a few fleeting surreal minutes, subject to terms and conditions.  The conditions are spelt out in terms of millions of dollars but there will be many who will not be daunted by the bill for a piece of otherworld adventure. The ethics and economics of it may be debated but it is the ambition to go beyond the bound and the technology that aids it that will dominate the debate. The age of space tourism has been ushered in. The origin of new eras is in virgin moments, and there is space out there for X, Y and Z. Bezos is thinking beyond tourism and has plans to set up human colonies in space. The plan is still the stuff of science fiction, but he may have had a quick look at the real estate on his trip. Humans will need an alternative home if things go wrong here on account of a wayward meteor, a determined virus, or a move of our own nuclear finger. No harm in keeping some options open.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/virgin-space-pregnant-with-potential-1011350.html
22-07-2021||In Perspective||Two pandemic-hit Olympics: 1920, 2021||Three editions of Olympics (1916, 1940 and 1944) have been cancelled since the Games began in the modern era in 1896 due to two World Wars, but none had been postponed and held a year later before the Tokyo Olympics, which begins on Friday. But it’s not the first instance that Olympic athletes would be competing in a world reeling under a pandemic. It happened a century ago, in 1920, when the Games were organised in the Belgian city of Antwerp amid twin devastations – the Spanish Flu pandemic that swept around the world from 1918 until early 1920, killing an estimated 50 million people, and World War I, which had ended in 1918. The Spanish Flu was partly ‘overshadowed’ by the war, and the 1920 Olympics were meant to symbolise a recovery from WWI. Belgian sports historian Ronald Renson’s 1996 book The Games Reborn: The VII Olympiad, Antwerp 1920 discussed the political, social and cultural context of the preparations, organisation and administration of the Antwerp Olympics, which marked the rebirth of the Olympic Movement. Antwerp was not completely ready for the fiesta though. American sportswriter Allen Guttmann wrote: “The facilities were far from ideal. The stadium was unfinished. The track was poorly built, and heavy rains made it worse. The Belgian public took little notice of the games.” Renson, however, observed: “In a minimum of time, they organised the games, but they were relatively improvised games.” It’s difficult to compare two Olympics a hundred years apart. The number of competing nations has grown to 206 in 2021 from 29 in 1920, and the number of participants has increased to 11,000+ from 2,600. Olympics were predominantly centered on white, male athletes from privileged backgrounds in those days. Also, Germany and its wartime allies and Bolshevik Russia were simply not invited to Antwerp. The legacy of Antwerp consists of the introduction of some important Olympics cultures like the raising of the Olympic flag with five rings, the releasing of the doves as a symbol of peace, and the reading of the ‘Olympic Oath’. There were some amazing performances, too. Italian fencer Nedo Nadi won gold in five of the six fencing events, and American swimmer Ethelda Bleibtrey broke world records to win in all three of the women’s swimming events. Antwerp marked the emergence of Paavo Nurmi, the ‘flying Finn,’ who won three of his nine Olympic gold medals there. But, if 1920 is to be symbolised by only one player, that would be French tennis star Suzanne Lenglen, who displayed amazing tennis to win the gold medal in the women’s singles without losing a single set in the whole tournament. She also won gold in the mixed doubles and bronze in the women’s doubles. The women’s trophy of today’s French Open bears her name. In their 2003 book The 1920 Olympic Games: Results for All Competitors in All Events, with Commentary, Bill Mallon and Anthony Th Bijkerk noted that the Antwerp Olympics “helped the world to recover from the war, and perhaps allowed them to enjoy a sporting spectacle again, instead of having to worry about the future of mankind.” The Spanish Flu pandemic had almost ended by the time the Antwerp Olympics took place. But Covid-19 is very much still around as Tokyo Games begin. While the concerns in 1920 were mostly financial and logistical, those around the Tokyo event relate to safety and public health. Can Tokyo 2021 be of similar relevance as Antwerp 1920 amid the global pandemic? Eight years had passed since the last Olympic Games of Stockholm 1912 as the scheduled Berlin 1916 Games had been cancelled due to WWI. Had the 1920 Olympics not taken place, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) had feared, it would lose its relevance, as Renson observed. Similarly, the IOC’s relevance would have been at stake if the Tokyo Olympics had been cancelled. As it is, the 2022 Beijing Winter Olympics is under the shadow of boycott by many countries over China’s human rights issues. Still, Tokyo 2021 might be the “most unwanted” Games in the history of modern Olympics. About 80% of the Japanese people wanted cancellation or further postponement of the Games due to the ongoing pandemic. However, the IOC was not in a mood to oblige. At the memorial service of the 11 murdered Israeli team members during the 1972 Munich Olympics, then IOC president Avery Brundage refused to cancel the remainder of the Games, declaring that “the Games must go on”. Although Brundage’s statement was mostly applauded at that time, the decision to continue the Games has since been harshly criticised. The IOC’s decision to continue with the Tokyo Games will also be under the scanner for sure. (The writer is Professor of Statistics, Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/two-pandemic-hit-olympics-1920-2021-1011346.html
22-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Someshwara TMC converts wet waste into manure||The Someshwara Town Municipal Council (TMC) has initiated measures to convert wet waste, collected from its jurisdiction, into manure using cocopeat. The TMC collects three tonnes of wet waste and five tonnes of dry waste from households and business establishments daily, said TMC Commissioner Vani Alva. Using the cocopeat, the wet waste will be converted into manure in bins placed on half-a-cent of land, owned by Purushotham Gatti, near Kolya, she said.  As many as 14 bins have been placed to process the wet waste using the cocopeat. The cocopeat is used in layers along with the wet waste in the bins. The bins are also closed to ensure that there was no staunch smell emanates from them, Vani added. The bins have been built in such a way as to ensure that no leachate discharges from them and thus doesn’t pollute the area. Even asbestos sheets have been laid as roof on the portion of the land, to ensure that rainwater does not enter the bins. Six labourers are engaged in collecting and processing the wet waste in the TMC limits. The wet waste are converted into manure in 45 to 60 days, she said. Initially, the wet waste was converted into manure at Ashraya Colony in Kumpala. About two tonnes of manure were generated and private firms procured it by paying Rs 8 per kg. The TMC is taking up the project of converting waste into manure with the help of Micro Green firm. The residents of Nisarga Layout said that the TMC had initiated measures to convert wet waste into manure in their layout in Kumpala. However, staunch smell started emanating after rainwater entered the bins and this had inconvenienced the residents. The TMC Commissioner has promised to take up waste management in a scientific manner. The TMC has also developed a vegetable garden on the premises of its office using the manure it had produced. Vegetables like okra, ridge gourd, chilli and brinjal are cultivated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/someshwara-tmc-converts-wet-waste-into-manure-1011490.html
22-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Make KSE next Karnataka CM, Kuruba Mahasabha demands from BJP high command||Halumatha Mahasaba urged the BJP central leadership to make senior BJP leader K S Eshwarappa of the Kuraba community the next Chief Minister of Karnataka and thus, provide justice to the loyal worker of the party.  Speaking to media persons on Thursday, Halumatha Mahasaba District Unit President C Veeranna said the debate on the change of leadership in Karnataka is going on now. "During the period 2008-2013, B S Yediyurappa, Jagadish Shettar and D V Sadananda Gowda were made chief ministers. Yediyurappa became chief minister again in 2019. With this, the BJP high command accorded the chief minister post to two Lingayat leaders and a Vokkaliga leader. This time, the party leadership must make K S Eshwarappa as chief minister and thus give representation to Kuruba community," he said.   He said Eshwarappa is one of the leaders who built BJP in Karnataka and he was imprisoned during the emergency period in 1975-77. He had served in various positions of BJP including the state wing president. He was elected as a legislator for the first time in 1989 and he has worked hard with Yediyurappa to bring BJP to power in 2008 for the first time in south India. Halumatha Mahasabha office-bearers Ditur Chandru, Raju Mourya, Ghanraj, S M Siddalingappa, R B Paramesh, N Parashuram were present during the press conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/make-kse-next-karnataka-cm-kuruba-mahasabha-demands-from-bjp-high-command-1011670.html
22-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Music video depicting Hubbali village kids' views on school reopening goes viral||Giving an audio-visual representation to the feelings of several students who are missing the experience of going to schools and playing outdoors freely due to the Covid-19 pandemic, a unique video song has emerged from a village in Hubballi Rural taluk. Written by a teacher, the 'Geleyera Jodi Aatilla, Shaalyaga Teacher Paatilla' (no play with friends, no lesson by teachers in school) song is sung by a student. Other children in the village have also acted in this. Basavaraj Koliwad, a teacher at Smt Rudramma Rayappa Gunjal Primary School at Koliwad village, has written this song and made the video involving children. In addition to its relevance for the present situation when hopes are being expressed about the reopening of schools, this music video is also grabbing the attention of viewers due to its typical North Karnataka dialect of Kannada language. Basavaraj Koliwad has so far written hundreds of songs in folk style and has also sung some of them on audio and video platforms. This time, he trained sixth standard student Basavaraj Pujar to sing and act in this video. All visuals are shot at Koliwad village itself, using the teacher's mobile phone. Kids' feelings The video song depicts children's memories about their life before the pandemic, how they learnt in schools and played with their friends, and also their wish to have the same days again. "Children, parents, and even teachers in our village are not happy due to the absence of offline classes. I interacted with some students to know their feelings on this issue, and I wrote a song on that basis. Basavaraj Pujar of our school practised the singing for two weeks, and I shot the visuals for two days," says Basavaraj Koliwad. Music of a 'DJ-style song' prevalent at the local level was adapted for this song. The school management, teachers, and the villagers extended co-operation to make this five-minute video song. Another video song was prepared six months back when there was a possibility of school reopening, he noted. Basavaraj is now writing a song on safety measures to be taken to prevent Covid-19 spread, especially when schools reopen, and he is planning to once again involve children in that.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/music-video-depicting-hubbali-village-kids-views-on-school-reopening-goes-viral-1011734.html
22-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Will abide by BJP high command decision, says CM Yediyurappa amid leadership change row||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday dropped, by far, the biggest hint about spending his last days in office, saying he was ready to obey the high command’s decision that he is expecting on July 25. “From July 26, I will start my work,” he said, vowing to strengthen the BJP and bring the party back to power. He said he offered to resign two months ago. “I will continue as CM as long as they want me to,” Yediyurappa said. Asked about his successor, he said it was up to the high command. “I have not and will not recommend anyone. There is no need for me to do that.” On July 26, there is a special programme to mark the completion of two years of the Yediyurappa government. A handbook highlighting the government’s achievements will be released. “After participating in the programme, it is my responsibility to follow our [BJP] national president’s direction,” Yediyurappa said. The 78-year-old said he was the only leader in the BJP allowed to continue in power despite crossing the 75-year age limit. “National leaders have special affection towards me. Nobody above 75 is given any position. But, appreciating the work done by Yediyurappa, PM Modi, BJP national president J P Nadda and Home Minister Amit Shah have allowed me to continue till 78-79 years,” he said, requesting his supporters to cooperate. Yediyurappa is scheduled to inspect some road works in Bengaluru on Friday. “I’ll do my duty till the last minute,” he said. “Whether or not I am in power, I have decided to tour the state with the aim of strengthening the party’s organisation and bring the BJP to power,” he said. On visits by seers over the last two days, Yediyurappa said he received support from all communities. “Nobody has received such support and blessings in the past. I will never forget this.” Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Revenue Minister R Ashoka, Yediyurappa’s aides, were neutral and said the high command’s decision will be final. “We don’t know what has been decided; only Yediyurappa and Nadda know. Whatever it is, we will abide by the decision,” Ashoka said. Asked why the dinner for MLAs was cancelled, Bommai said: “Due to Covid and instructions from the high command, it has been postponed." Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/will-abide-by-bjp-high-command-decision-says-cm-yediyurappa-amid-leadership-change-row-1011434.html
22-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Pontiffs' visit to CM B S Yediyurappa uncalled for: Congress leader||Former Karnataka Minister Basavaraj Rayareddy on Thursday slammed religious pontiffs for meeting Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and extending their support to him. "People respect the Swamijis for their religious activities and social works. However, it is sad that a section of several Lingayat seers and other religious leaders are meeting the CM and extending support," the Congress leader said. "The acts of these religious leaders will bring disrespect to them. They should correct themselves," he told reporters here. “Changing the Chief Minister is part of Indian political system and it is the internal affairs of the political party. What is the need for the Swamjijis visiting the CM and giving suggestions to him?,” he asked. He also criticised senior Congress leader Shamanur Shivashankarappa and former Minister M B Patil for extending support to Yediyurappa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/pontiffs-visit-to-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-uncalled-for-congress-leader-1011603.html
22-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Eshwarappa responsible for Yediyurappa's exit as CM: Ex-MLA||Congress leader and former MLA K B Prasanna Kumar alleged that Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa was responsible for B S Yediyurappa's exit from the chief minister's post.  Speaking to media persons here on Thursday, Kumar said that Eshwarappa had submitted a complaint against Yediyurappa's administration to the then Governor of Karnataka Vajubhai Vala some months ago and thus laid the foundation for the exit of the BJP leader from the post of chief minister.  He said Yediyurappa must continue as chief minister for the sake of development. Most people of the district and the state are of the same view.  Many leaders of Congress party have expressed their sympathy towards Yediyurappa. But Eshwarappa of our own district wants Yediyurappa to step down from the top post.  When questioned, he said he would welcome if Eshwarappa is made chief minister. He also thanked the government for approving the installation of bust of Basavanna at the entrance of Gandhi park in the Shivamogga.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/eshwarappa-responsible-for-yediyurappas-exit-as-cm-ex-mla-1011619.html
22-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||'Migrant' ministers' meeting with Yediyurappa gives rise to speculations||Giving rise to speculations, a few ministers who joined BJP in 2019 from Congress and JD(S), held a meeting with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday after the Cabinet meeting. It is believed that there were at least six ministers from the "migrant" camp, including Health and Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar, Municipal Administration Minister MTB Nagaraj, Excise Minister K Gopalaiah and Agriculture minister B C Patil, Urban Development Minister B Basavaraj and Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar. Their meeting with the chief minister comes amidst concerns about their future in the BJP if Yediyurappa were to resign from his post. However, the ministers who attended the meeting maintained that it was just a routine meeting regarding the development works of their respective portfolios. Speaking to media persons later, MTB Nagaraj said there was nothing "special" about the meeting. "We met him with regard to some transfers and other development works." As for the migrant ministers' future in the party, he added that all the ministers were bound by the decision of the high command. "If the high command asks us to resign, we will," he stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/migrant-ministers-meeting-with-yediyurappa-gives-rise-to-speculations-1011701.html
22-07-2021||Main Article||Hindutva: In all but name||Hindutva is the proverbial elephant in the room, but everyone refuses to recognise it. The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) pretend that they do not know anything about it, and all that the two organisations are interested in is nationalism, national culture, national security. The never-say-die secular critics refuse to accept that Hindutva has emerged as the dominant ideology of the government. They continue to speak as though they are engaged in a fight to stop Hindutva from taking over the reins of power when as a matter of fact it is the ruling ideology. The secularists would need a different strategy to fight Hindutva when it is in the saddle compared to the time when it was trying to get into the saddle. Prime Minister Narendra Modi gets the credit for establishing Hindutva as the reigning creed without, of course, using the label. There is indeed the irony that the advocates and partisans of Hindutva are quite embarrassed to admit that they have succeeded in replacing secularism with Hindutva, which was indeed the goal. Instead, Prime Minister Modi still chants ‘secularism’ and ‘democracy’ and ‘open society,’ and there is the nagging feeling in his mind that it is still not respectable or decent to utter the word Hindutva and equate it with democracy, freedom, and open society. Modi and others seem to be acutely aware of the negative fallout if the RSS-BJP were to declare Hindutva as India’s ideology because that would equate India with the many Muslim-majority countries that are constitutional Islamic states, and it would be difficult to sustain the argument that Hindutva is not a sectarian creed. In its second term in office, the Modi government has scored undeclared Hindutva victories in the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya at the site of the demolished Babri Masjid, with the Supreme Court ruling in favour of the temple, the criminalisation of triple talaq which many Muslims wrongly defended, the reading down of Article 370, which had given special status to Jammu and Kashmir, followed by the state’s bifurcation into two Union Territories, which is an undeclared triumph over a Muslim-majority state. There is a move to push for a uniform civil code, which is an ideal without religious leanings but which the RSS and BJP see as a way of checking the privileging of Muslims. The population policies in Uttar Pradesh and Assam are again indirectly directed against Muslims. This is the fulfilment of the long-held demands of Hindutva agenda since Independence. The ideological thrust of RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat that Muslims in India share the same DNA with the Hindus is a way of saying that Muslims in India were originally Hindus, a way of disrespecting the religious beliefs of people other than Hindus. The Sikhs have always resented the argument of right-wing Hindus that there is no difference between Hindus and Sikhs, and that the Sikhs were Hindus by another name. Many of the Hindutva ideologues argue rather sheepishly that Hindutva is secularism by another name because Hinduism as interpreted by British-Indian Indologists and English-educated Indians of the 19th century was the most tolerant religion and it accepted other religions and other sects within Hinduism in a spirit of bonhomie. The fact was that Indians were arguing that Hinduism was tolerant, unlike the Abrahamic religions, even as they poured contempt at other faiths for being intellectually inferior. It was not an act of deliberate hypocrisy or villainy. Labelled uncouth natives by the colonialists, the English-educated Hindu was forced to hit back. The dialectic had its own traps. What was said in self-defence soon became the war cry of indignant right-wing nationalists, imitating the Western model of virulent nationalism. An underlying theme of Hindutva is that Hindus, being 84% of the population, should have the final say in all matters and that this is indeed the logic of democracy, the rule of majority. English political thinkers like Edmund Burke and John Stuart Mill readily recognised the dangers of dominance of the majority in full-fledged democracies and the dangers involved in it. In his famous address to voters in Bristol, his parliamentary constituency, Burke told them that he would not do what they wanted him to do, but that he would tell them what is right because he was morally obliged to do so. Mill raised the alarm when he spoke about the tyranny of the majority. Interestingly, there was no universal suffrage in England at the time. The 1832 reform had just opened the door to voters who owned property and paid taxes. The 1867 expansion of voting rights was still in the future, and women were to get the voting right only in the next century. The Modi government professes to support science and technology, though it leaves enough room for social belief systems that are anti-rational. There is also the recognition that what gives India the edge is its science and technological base, though it is on a modest scale compared to the West, China and Japan. Hindutva’s nationalist pride can be satisfied only through achievements in scientific and technological fields whose foundations had been laid in the secular, Nehruvian era. Though Modi is proud of spreading yoga as India’s gift to the world, the justification for yoga is derived from its rational benefits. But Hindutva’s basic thesis of ‘Hindus first’ creates the mood of intolerance, especially against Muslims, the largest religious minority. The Indian State today is under the shadow of Hindutva hegemony, but it is not yet official. (The writer is a New Delhi-based political commentator)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/hindutva-in-all-but-name-1011339.html
22-07-2021||National||'Take govt to court': Opposition's war cry after Centre says no death due to oxygen shortage||Centre's claim in Parliament that nobody died of oxygen shortage kicked off a huge political row with the Opposition accusing the government of "rubbing salt into the wounds of those who have lost their loved ones" and asking people to "take the government to court". Tagging a report of the Centre for Global Development on three new estimates of India's All-Cause Excess Mortality during the Covid-19 Pandemic, Rahul Gandhi tweeted "The Truth. GOI’s wrong decisions during Covid second wave killed 50 lakh of our sisters, brothers, mothers and fathers." Priyanka Gandhi Vadra hit back alleging that the fatalities happened because "the government increased oxygen exports by 700 per cent in the pandemic year, did not arrange tankers to transport it, ignored the advice the empowered group and the Parliamentary Committee and made no arrangement to ensure oxygen supply and showed alertness in setting up oxygen plants in hospitals." The reactions on Wednesday came after Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar in a written reply in Rajya Sabha, said, "Accordingly, all states and UTs report cases and deaths to the Union Health Ministry on a regular basis. However, no deaths due to lack of oxygen have been specifically reported by states and UTs". Referring to a news report about the death of 195 persons due to lack of oxygen, CPI-M's Sitaram Yechury said, " The govt's untruthfulness in Parliament stands completely exposed. Such naked denial of truth is unprecedented. Parliament should hold the government accountable for 'breach of Parliamentary privilege'." AAP-ruled Delhi’s Health Minister Satyendar Jain, said, "It is completely false and wrong to say that no one died due to oxygen shortage... The Centre is rubbing salt into the wounds of those who have lost their loved ones… Tomorrow, they will say there have been no deaths due to Covid-19." Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said, "We all saw what happened in April-May. Media has reported on it, and I was getting messages from officials at hospitals and people requesting for help, complaining about lack of oxygen..... But, now the central government has shamelessly lied in Parliament." “The central government is repeatedly lying by saying that states have not given them any figures. But, when you will not allow the states to investigate the deaths due to lack of oxygen, where will the figures come from," Sisodiya asked.  While Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said people whose relatives died due to oxygen shortage during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic should "take the Union government to court", the Health Minister of MVA government (of Opposition alliance of Congress, Shiv Sena and the NCP) Rajesh Tope in Maharashtra said the state never reported any death due to a shortage of oxygen during the second wave of Covid-19. Independent MLA and convener of the Rashtriya Dalit Adhikar Manch Jignesh Mevani said, "..Every Indian must remember how this government lies through its teeth. Every Indian who lost a loved one due to lack of oxygen, every Indian who was frantically raising SOS on Twitter & verifying leads.... remember this.."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/take-govt-to-court-oppositions-war-cry-after-centre-says-no-death-due-to-oxygen-shortage-1011331.html
22-07-2021||National||Rakesh Tikait asks officials to reopen roads near protest sites, says no farmer will go to Delhi 'secretly'||No farmer from Ghazipur border would go to Delhi "secretly", Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said here on Wednesday, urging authorities to reopen roads near protest sites for the ease of local residents. The peasant leader made the remarks at Ghazipur border as the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of protesting farm unions, got permission to hold a demonstration at the Jantar Mantar near Parliament from Thursday. However, only a maximum of 200 protestors have been allowed till August 9 in the heart of Delhi with heavy security deployment in the area amid the ongoing Monsoon Session of Parliament. Tikait said a total of 200 farmers under the SKM will daily go to the Jantar Mantar in a bus as has been allowed. "The roads near protest sites that have been closed by authorities should be reopened to ease troubles of the local people. No farmer would go to Delhi secretly. We will stick to the permitted protest at Jantar Mantar," he said. He was referring to a key route from Ghazipur border to Dabur chowk in Ghaziabad city that has been affected due to the protest that started at Delhi's borders in November 2020, according to a statement by BKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik. Addressing supporters from the stage, Tikait further said a "country-wide movement" will be held for the "farmers' revolution" over the withdrawal of the contentious three central farm laws. Meanwhile, a batch of farmers from Karnataka led by their leader Chukki Nanjudawamy reached Ghazipur border on Wednesday to show solidarity with the ongoing movement. Homage was also paid to two farmers who were martyred on July 21, 1980 in Karnataka during a farmers' agitation in the state, according to the statement. Hundreds of farmers are encamped at Delhi's Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders since November 2020 with a demand that the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee minimum support price (MSP) for crops. However, the government, which has held 11 rounds of formal dialogue with the protestors, has maintained that the laws are pro-farmer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rakesh-tikait-asks-officials-to-reopen-roads-near-protest-sites-says-no-farmer-will-go-to-delhi-secretly-1011338.html
22-07-2021||National||BJP has become strong in Rajasthan, can win assembly polls if held in state now: C T Ravi||BJP national general secretary C T Ravi on Wednesday said the party has become very strong in Rajasthan and if assembly elections were held in the state now, the saffron party will win with a thumping majority. Ravi told reporters that the party's state unit is doing a good job in taking the welfare schemes of the Modi government to the people. "During my visit to the state, I took feedback from the ground -- from party workers at booth-level, mandal-level and district-level. The party has done good service work during the coronavirus pandemic and it has become clear in my interaction with them that the BJP has become very strong," he said. "The party is firmly in a position to form the government, and if assembly elections are held today, the BJP will have a thumping majority," he said. Targeting the Congress government over farmers' loan waiver, pending recruitments, law and order, and crime graph, he said that women and Dalits are not safe in the state and the Gehlot government has failed to deliver on its promises. The party leader also held a meeting of the media and social media department of the party in Jaipur. Addressing the meeting, he said that the welfare policies of the Modi government, the party's policies, ideas and programs should be publicized through social media platforms. He stressed on making the social media cell more effective and asked party workers to use it to answer the opposition parties assertively with facts. BJP state president Satish Poonia, former state party president Arun Chaturvedi, chief spokesperson Ramlal Sharma also addressed the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-has-become-strong-in-rajasthan-can-win-assembly-polls-if-held-in-state-now-c-t-ravi-1011357.html
22-07-2021||National||DH Toon | 'No deaths due to oxygen shortage'||The Centre told the Rajya Sabha that no deaths due to lack of oxygen were specifically reported by states and UTs during the second Covid-19 wave, triggering outrage from opposition parties. Meanwhile, the Centre's claim has kicked off a huge political row with the Opposition accusing the government of "rubbing salt into the wounds of those who have lost their loved ones" and asking people to "take the government to court".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-no-deaths-due-to-oxygen-shortage-1011371.html
22-07-2021||National||Pegasus, farmers' issues to reverberate in Parliament||The Opposition is gearing up to vociferously raise the Pegasus snooping issue and farmers' issues on Thursday even as the government is learnt to have offered to hold the discussion on the latter in Lok Sabha while insisting that the contentious laws will not be rolled back. MPs from the Opposition benches, including those from the Congress, Trinamool Congress, CPI(M), and CPI among others, are submitting notices in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha on both the issues, signalling that the proceedings of the day are likely to be disrupted. With farmers starting their protest near Parliament on Thursday, several Opposition MPs will be raising the issue inside both the Houses demanding that the contentious laws be repealed. Sources said Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar reached out to the Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and offered to have a discussion on farmers issue in the Lower House on Thursday. However, the Minister has said that the government is in no mood to repeal the laws as demanded by the farmers. On Tuesday, the government had agreed to hold a discussion on the Covid-19 situation in Rajya Sabha before Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a meeting for floor leaders on Covid-19. The Pegasus issue will also continue to trigger Opposition protests in both Houses. Trinamool Congress has already made it clear that it is not going to leave the issue and would hold protests in Parliament every day after its General Secretary Abhishek Banerjee's name surfaced as a potential target for surveillance. Except for the Covid-19 discussion in Rajya Sabha on Tuesday afternoon, no business was transacted in both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha on Monday and Tuesday. The Parliament did not sit on Wednesday owing to Eid. The written response to a question in Rajya Sabha which said that no deaths due to oxygen shortage were reported by states during the second wave of Covid-19 will also have some reverberation in Parliament. Congress MP K C Venugopal has already said that he will submit a privilege notice against the Minister for giving such a response to his question.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pegasus-farmers-issues-to-reverberate-in-parliament-1011363.html
22-07-2021||National||Tremors felt in border areas of Rajasthan||Earthquake tremors were felt in many border areas, including Bikaner, in Rajasthan on Thursday morning, the meteorological department said. The tremors were felt in many border areas of the state at 7.42 am and the epicentre of the earthquake measuring 4.8 was in Pakistan, it said. Police said no loss of life or damage to property has been reported so far. Tremors were felt in Bikaner district on Wednesday morning as well. The magnitude of the earthquake, which occurred at 5.24 am, was 5.3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tremors-felt-in-border-areas-of-rajasthan-1011386.html
22-07-2021||National||India's 41,383 new Covid-19 cases outnumber daily recoveries||India saw a single-day rise of 41,383 coronavirus infections taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,12,57,720, while the active cases registered an increase for the second consecutive day and were recorded at 4,09,394, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The country's Covid-19 death toll rose to 4,18,987 with 507 fresh fatalities. The active cases comprise 1.31 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.35 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. An increase of 2,224 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 17,18,439 tests were conducted on Wednesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 45,09,11,712. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.41 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for 31 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate was recorded at  2.12 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,04,29,339 and the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 41.78 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive.    India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on  November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 507 new fatalities include 165 from Maharashtra and 105 from Kerala. A total of 4,18,987 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,30,918 from Maharashtra, 36,262 from Karnataka, 33,809 from Tamil Nadu, 25,039 from Delhi, 22,739 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,027 from West Bengal and 16,246 from Punjab. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-41383-new-covid-19-cases-outnumber-daily-recoveries-1011397.html
22-07-2021||National||1.19 lakh Indian children lost caregivers to Covid during first 14 months of pandemic: Report||More than 1.5 million children in 21 countries, including 1,19,000 from India, lost their primary and secondary caregivers to Covid-19 during the first 14 months of the pandemic, according to a study published in The Lancet. The study funded in part by the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA), part of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), stated that 25,500 children in India lost their mother to Covid-19 while 90,751 lost their father and 12 lost both their parents. The study estimates that 11,34,000 children lost a parent or custodial grandparent due to Covid-19. Of these, 10,42,000 children lost their mother, father or both. Most lost one, not both parents. Overall, 15,62,000 children are estimated to have experienced the death of at least one parent or a custodial or other co-residing grandparent (or other older relative), the NIH said in a media release. The countries with the highest number of children who lost primary caregivers (parents or custodial grandparents) include South Africa, Peru, United States, India, Brazil, and Mexico, it said. The countries with rates of Covid-associated deaths among primary caregivers (>1/1000 children) include Peru, South Africa, Mexico, Brazil, Colombia, Iran, United States, Argentina, and Russia, it added. "Though the trauma a child experiences after the loss of a parent or caregiver can be devastating, there are evidence-based interventions that can prevent further adverse consequences, such as substance use, and we must ensure that children have access to these interventions," said NIDA Director Nora D Volkow. According to the report, 2,898 Indian children lost either of their custodial grandparents while nine lost both of their custodial grandparents. However, the 0.5 rate of loss of primary and custodial parents per 1,000 children in India is much less than other countries like South Africa (6.4), Peru (14.1), Brazil (3.5), Colombia (3.4), Mexico (5.1), Russia (2.0), and the US (1.8). "When examining how variations by sex and age in deaths and average numbers of children influenced estimates of paternal versus maternal orphans, we found that, with the exception of South Africa, deaths were greater in men than women in every country, particularly in middle-aged and older parents," the report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/119-lakh-indian-children-lost-caregivers-to-covid-during-first-14-months-of-pandemic-report-1011410.html
22-07-2021||National||I-T Dept raids Dainik Bhaskar, Bharat Samachar; Opposition calls it attempt to muzzle media||The Income Tax Department on Thursday conducted raids at the premises of Dainik Bhaskar and Bharat Samachar, whose coverage was critical on Narendra Modi government's Covid-19 management, in multiple cities on charges of tax evasion, with the Opposition calling it an attempt to "scare and muzzle" media. Simultaneous searches in connection with Dainik Bhaskar, which has presence across 12 states of the country and brings out 65 editions and 211 sub-editions in Hindi, Gujarati and Marathi, were conducted in Bhopal, Jaipur, Ahmedabad, Noida and some other locations in the country. It included residences of its promoters in Bhopal. In Ahmedabad where it publishes Gujarati daily 'Divya Bhaskar', the office located on SG Highway at Makarba was raided by over a dozen I-T officers early morning. The group also has 30 radio stations in seven states and has an online presence with six web portals and four mobile phone apps. Dainik Bhaskar said the raids came as it put out the "true picture of the government's inefficiency before the country during the second wave of Covid-19". Bharat Samachar, a Lucknow-based news channel, said raids were conducted at its office, residences of Editor-in-Chief Brijesh Mishra and state head Virendra Singh and employees. Even as the government defended the raids, a number of Opposition leaders -- from Congress, CPI(M), CPI, RJD, Samajwadi Party, Trinamool Congress and AAP among others -- criticised the move while MPs attempted to raise the issue in Rajya Sabha. Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu did not allow it saying he has not received any notice on it. Opposition Chief Ministers like Ashok Gehlot (Rajasthan), Mamata Banerjee (West Bengal) and Arvind Kejriwal (Delhi) among others were vocal against the raids and said the "message was clear" that the government was unhappy with their coverage on the "mishandling" of Covid-19. Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur said the agencies were doing their work and there was no interference in it. "Agencies are doing their own work and there is no interference in them...One should take complete information and sometimes many issues come up that are far from truth," he said. At a press conference, Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge and senior MP Abhishek Manu Singhvi said, "the raids highlights the dangerous, dismissive, and draconian nature of the BJP government. How should we define whatever happened today? There are many words - totalitarianism, tyranny, dictatorship, fascism, authoritarianism, autocracy, despotism, absolutism, caesarism, and so on and so forth." Gehlot said the raids were a "brazen attempt to suppress the voice of the media. The Modi government cannot tolerate even an iota of criticism. Due to its fascist mentality, the BJP doesn't want to see the truth in a democratic setup. By indulging in such actions and gagging the media, the Modi government wants to convey the message that if the media doesn't become Godi-Media then it's voice will be suppressed." Income Tax raid on Dainik Bhaskar newspaper & Bharat Samachar news channel is a brazen attempt to suppress the voice of media. Modi government cannot tolerate even an iota of its criticism. Due to its fascist mentality, the BJP doesn't want to see the truth in a democratic setup. Mamata described the raids as a "brutal attempt to stifle democracy" and that "Dainik Bhaskar bravely reported the way Narendra Modi- ji mishandled the entire Covid-19 crisis and led the country to its most horrifying days amid a raging pandemic." "I strongly condemn this vindictive act that aims to suppress voices that bring out the truth. It's a grave violation that undermines the very principles of democracy. Urging everyone in the Media to stay strong. Together we shall never let the autocratic forces succeed!" she tweeted. Demanding that the raids should be stopped immediately, Kejriwal said it was an "attempt to scare" the media and the message is "clear" that those who "speak against the BJP government will not be spared". He said such thinking is "very dangerous" and everyone should "raise their voice" against it. दैनिक भास्कर और भारत समाचार पर आयकर छापे मीडिया को डराने का प्रयास है। उनका संदेश साफ़ है- जो भाजपा सरकार के ख़िलाफ़ बोलेगा, उसे बख्शेंगे नहीं।ऐसी सोच बेहद ख़तरनाक है।सभी को इसके ख़िलाफ़ आवाज़ उठानी चाहिए ये छापे तुरंत बंद किए जायें और मीडिया को स्वतंत्र रूप से काम करने दिया जाए CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury tweeted, "Modi government's raid raj won't work. Trying to scare and muzzle the truth from surfacing. But like the dead bodies floating in the Ganga, the Modi government cannot hide. The misuse of central agencies for intimidation is condemnable." Congress' Rajya Sabha Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh tweeted, "through its reporting Dainik Bhaskar has exposed the Modi regime’s monumental mismanagement of the Covid-19 pandemic. It is now paying the price. An undeclared emergency as Arun Shourie has said — this is a Modified Emergency." Senior Congress MP Digvijaya Singh said it was "Modi-Shah's attack on journalism" and their "only weapon is IT ED CBI". पत्रकारिता पर मोदीशाह का प्रहार!! मोदीशाह का एक मात्र हथियार IT ED CBI!मुझे विश्वास है अग्रवाल बंधु डरेंगे नहीं। दैनिक भास्कर के विभिन्न ठिकानों पर इनकम टैक्स इन्वेस्टिगेशन विंग की छापामार कार्रवाई शुरू... प्रेस कॉन्प्लेक्स सहित आधा दर्जन स्थानों पर मौजूद है इनकम टैक्स की टीम Senior Congress MP Shashi Tharoor said, "there was a time when frank, free and fearless reporting was admired, and could intimidate wrongdoers in govts. Now the intimidation comes from the government and dissimulation, discretion and defanging are the new watchwords. India needs papers like Dainik Bhaskar to flourish. I stand with them."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-t-dept-raids-dainik-bhaskar-bharat-samachar-opposition-calls-it-attempt-to-muzzle-media-1011412.html
22-07-2021||National||NSO group flagged 'misuse risk' of its spyware before Pegasus row erupted||The disclosure that the phones of over 300 people in India were allegedly targeted using spyware Pegasus, supplied by an Israeli company NSO Group, has raised many serious ethical, political and legal questions. Not just India, but the Pegasus scandal has rocked countries across the world, with reports claiming that phones of world leaders, activists and journalists were hacked. The report also expressed apprehension that the spyware may be used in support of litigation or to obtain information that may cause embarrassment to any individual. “There are a wide variety of additional government-driven risks that could flow from our technologies. These could include rights associated with the legal and judicial process, such as freedom from arbitrary arrest and detention and similar abuses, as well as invasions of freedom of thought, conscience and religion, restrictions on freedom of movement or participation in civic life," the report said. The report admitted that the group cannot do much more because of strict confidentiality restrictions but said that when abuses happen within their jurisdictions, the company cooperates with the states to ensure that those affected have access to an effective remedy. The NSO group claims that it investigated 12 reports of misuse in 2020 and, between May 2020 and April 2021, “approximately 15% of potential new opportunities for Pegasus were rejected for human rights concerns”. As a safeguard, the report said, the company requires, at a minimum, human rights compliance clauses in all customer agreements, along with a commitment from customers “to only use NSO’s systems for legitimate and lawful prevention and the investigation of serious crimes and terrorism”. The report, however, admitted that effective monitoring of customer activity remained a significant challenge in the absence of “immediate insight into the use” of its products. After a media consortium published reports based on what it called the Pegasus Project, NSO, the world's most infamous hacker-for-hire outfit denied the allegations stating that it has no visibility into its customers' data. NSO called the report by Forbidden Stories "full of wrong assumptions and uncorroborated theories," and said it was mulling a defamation lawsuit. "We firmly deny the false allegations made in their report," NSO said. The company reiterated its claim that it only sells to “vetted government agencies” for use against terrorists and major criminals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nso-group-flagged-misuse-risk-of-its-spyware-before-pegasus-row-erupted-1011415.html
22-07-2021||National||US says India ‘remains challenging place' to do business, urges to minimise bureaucratic hurdles||India “remains a challenging place" to do business, the US has said, urging it to foster an attractive and reliable investment climate by reducing barriers to investment and minimising the bureaucratic hurdles. The State Department, in a report '2021 Investment Climate Statements: India' released on Wednesday, said that India “remains a challenging place to do business” and also referred to the removal of the special constitutional status from the state of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) and the passage of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). “New protectionist measures, including increased tariffs, procurement rules that limit competitive choices, sanitary and phytosanitary measures not based on science, and Indian-specific standards not aligned with international standards, effectively closed off producers from global supply chains and restricted the expansion in bilateral trade,” the report said. In its report, the State Department said that the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government’s first 100 days of its second term were marked by two "controversial" decisions. The removal of special constitutional status from J&K and the passage of the CAA, it said. India maintains that the CAA was its "internal matter" and that "no foreign party has any locus standi on issues pertaining to India’s sovereignty". India has categorically told the international community that the scrapping of Article 370 was its internal matter. The State Department report said that protests followed the enactment of the CAA but ended with the onset of Covid-19 in March 2020 and the imposition of a strict national lockdown. “The management of Covid-19 became the dominant issue in 2020, including the drop in economic activity and by December 2020, economic activity started to show signs of positive growth. “The BJP-led government has faced some criticism for its response to the recent surge in Covid-19 cases,” it said. The State Department said that in response to the economic challenges created by the Covid-19 pandemic and the resulting national lockdown, India enacted extensive social welfare and economic stimulus programmes and increased spending on infrastructure and public health. “The government also adopted production linked incentives to promote manufacturing in pharmaceuticals, automobiles, textiles, electronics and other sectors. These measures helped India recover from an approximately eight per cent fall in GDP between April 2020 and March 2021, with positive growth returning by January 2021,” it said. Noting that the Indian government continued to actively court foreign investment, the report said that in the wake of Covid-19, India enacted ambitious structural economic reforms, including new labour codes and landmark agricultural sector reforms, that should help attract private and foreign direct investment. In February 2021, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced plans to raise USD 2.4 billion through an ambitious privatisation programme that would dramatically reduce the government’s role in the economy. In March 2021, Parliament further liberalised India’s insurance sector, increasing the Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) limits to 74 per cent from 49 per cent, though still requiring a majority of the Board of Directors and management personnel to be Indian nationals, the report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-says-india-remains-challenging-place-to-do-business-urges-to-minimise-bureaucratic-hurdles-1011425.html
22-07-2021||National||Plea filed in SC seeking SIT probe into Pegasus snooping allegations||A petition has been filed before the Supreme Court seeking a court-monitored probe by a Special Investigation Team (SIT) into the reports of alleged snooping by government agencies using Israeli spyware Pegasus over journalists, activists, politicians and others. The petition, filed by advocate M L Sharma, said the Pegasus scandal was a matter of grave concern and a serious attack upon Indian democracy, judiciary and country’s security and the “widespread and unaccountable” use of surveillance is “morally disfiguring“. “Privacy is not about the wish to hide, as is often asserted. It is about having a space of one's own where our thoughts and being are not the instrument of someone else's purposes. It is an essential component of dignity and agency,” it said. The plea said the use Pegasus was not just eavesdropping on conversations but can be used to access the entire digital imprint of one's life as it renders helpless not just the owner of the phone hacked but everyone who is in contact with him. The petition, which is likely to come up for hearing in the coming days, said the national security implications of the revelations were “enormous” as the “explosive growth” of surveillance technology vendors is a global security and human rights problem. The PIL claimed that around 50,000 phone numbers were believed to be targeted by clients of the company, NSO Group, since 2016, that was leaked to major news outlets. “Pegasus is not just a surveillance tool. It is a cyber weapon being unleashed on the Indian polity. Even if authorised (which is doubtful), the use of Pegasus poses a national security risk,” it said. It sought a direction to frame an SIT under the supervision of the top court for an investigation into the scandal and to prosecute all accused persons and ministers for buying of Pegasus and alleged snooping of citizens of India, including judges, opposition leaders, political persons, activists, advocates and others, for vested political interests since 2017. The plea further sought to declare buying of Pegasus software for snooping illegal and unconstitutional.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-filed-in-sc-seeking-sit-probe-into-pegasus-snooping-allegations-1011439.html
22-07-2021||National||BJP president Nadda to visit Goa on July 24-25||BJP national president J P Nadda would visit Goa on July 24 and 25, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has said. Talking to reporters on Wednesday evening, Sawant said Nadda will interact with different party wings and leaders during his visit, ahead of the Goa Assembly polls due next year. Nadda was earlier scheduled to arrive on a two-day visit to Goa on July 11, but the visit was cancelled due to his engagements in New Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-president-nadda-to-visit-goa-on-july-24-25-1011440.html
22-07-2021||National||Bengaluru, Mumbai and Delhi set to drive job creation: Survey||The survey, conducted by staffing firm Teamlease Services, has also said on Wednesday that sales and technology jobs, particularly deep tech, are in high demand as companies are looking for business continuity along with growth. As the staffing is expanding, the pay disparity in both permanent and temporary jobs is narrowing. Teamlease Services’s survey has collected data from 618 companies. “High expertise-based job profiles have steadily grown in criticality over the last 12 months and are seen by employers to be indispensable. These attract around 11 per cent salary increment or more as compared with market averages ranging between 1.73 per cent and 14.07 per cent across sectors and cities," the survey noted. The annual jobs trend survey has revealed that IT, e-commerce, healthcare and edtech sectors were unaffected by the pandemic and banking, finance and insurance, telecom, manufacturing and engineering revived quickly too. Fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG) and fast-moving consumer durables will take some more months to revive and retail, lifestyle and hospitality sectors will take longer, according to the report. “The variance between salaries for permanent and temporary job profiles is down to less than 5 per cent in the case of nearly 30 per cent of all profiles across all sectors,” the survey mentioned. Explaining the trend Chakraborty said, “This is because companies are ready to pay for the work an expert does even though employed for a shorter duration.” The survey has also noted that among all the 17 sectors, new job profiles have been created. In case of e-commerce and tech startups ‘merchant relationship executive’ and ‘team lead inside sales’ profiles were created and in case of health and pharma ‘commercial coordinator’ and ‘distribution support’ profiles were added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengaluru-mumbai-and-delhi-set-to-drive-job-creation-survey-1011446.html
22-07-2021||National||Missing out on Covid-19 deaths unlikely: Govt cites 'robust system of reporting'||Amid reports of undercounting of Covid mortality in India, Health Ministry on Thursday said missing out on deaths was unlikely given the robust and statute-based death registration system in the country. The ministry said while some cases could go undetected as per the principles of infectious disease and its management, missing out on the deaths was unlikely. The statement comes against the backdrop of a report by Centre for Global Development (CGD) claiming that the true deaths were likely to be in several millions and not hundreds of thousands as the official count could have missed the deaths that occured in overwhelmed hospitals during the second wave. Opposition parties targeted the Modi government for hiding actual Covid death figures, citing the findings of the CGD report published by Arvind Subramanian and two other researchers. “The extrapolation of deaths has been done on an audacious assumption that the likelihood of any given infected person dying is the same across countries, dismissing the interplay between various direct and indirect factors such as race, ethnicity, genomic constitution of a population, previous exposure levels to other diseases and the associated immunity developed in that population,” the health ministry said. It said the reports assumed that all the excess mortality figures were Covid-19 deaths, which was not based on facts and totally fallacious. “Excess mortality is a term used to describe an all-cause mortality figure and attributing these deaths to Covid-19 is completely misleading,” the ministry said. It said the reporting of daily new cases and deaths in India followed a bottom-up approach, where districts report the number of cases and deaths to the state governments and to the Union Ministry on a continuous basis. As early as May 2020, to avoid inconsistency or confusion in the number of deaths being reported, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) issued 'Guidance for appropriate recording of Covid-19 related deaths in India' for correct recording of all deaths by States/UTs as recommended by the WHO for mortality coding.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/missing-out-on-covid-19-deaths-unlikely-govt-cites-robust-system-of-reporting-1011450.html
22-07-2021||National||Congress MPs protest inside Parliament complex, demand repeal of new agri laws||Congress MPs staged a protest inside the Parliament complex in support of protesting farmers and demanded that the three agriculture laws be withdrawn. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and other leaders of the party participated in the protest. Congress MPs from both houses gathered outside Mahatma Gandhi's statue in Parliament complex and raised slogans against the government and the prime minister. Carrying placards and hoardings, they also raised slogans in support of the farmers and their demands. The Congress has been demanding the repeal of the three farm laws, which the farmers are against alleging that these legislations will end the mandi and MSP procurement systems and leave them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-mps-protest-inside-parliament-complex-demand-repeal-of-new-agri-laws-1011459.html
22-07-2021||National||12 crew members rescued from a merchant vessel||In a daring operation, 12 crew members were rescued from a merchant vessel that started from Umargam off the Maharashtra-Gujarat coast. The Maritime Rescue Coordination Centre (MRCC) of the Indian Coast Guard's Western Region headquarters in Mumbai received information from the Directorate General of Shipping’s communication centre Wednesday afternoon about MV Kanchan stranded off Umargam. Due to contamination in fuel thereby rendering the engine non-operational and no electrical power onboard. The weather in the area was inclement with winds gusting up to 50 knots and waves reaching up to the height of 3 to 2.5 mts.    Later in the evening, the master of the vessel intimated that MV Kanchan, which was carrying steel coils as cargo, had dropped anchor and listing/ tilting towards the starboard (right) side. MRCC Mumbai instantly activated the International Safety Net (ISN) to identify all the vessels in the vicinity to assist stranded vessel MV Kanchan.   MV Hermeez in the vicinity was quick to respond and immediately diverted towards the distressed vessel.  Braving rough seas, MV Hermeez safely evacuated all the 12 crew of MV Kanchan, in a daring night operation. Simultaneously, ETV Water Lilly was deployed by DG Shipping for assisting the stranded vessel and arrived in the area at 0700 hrs on Thursday. Meanwhile, an ICG helicopter from Daman also undertook aerial reconnaissance of the area; however,  the distressed vessel was not sighted and presumably sunk in position. Oil sheen and debris were sighted by the CG helicopter and ETV Water Lilly. The DG Shipping has issued a notice under Sec 356 J of MS Act 1958 to the Master and Owner of MV Kanchan for prevention of oil pollution in the area, ICG officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/12-crew-members-rescued-from-a-merchant-vessel-1011462.html
22-07-2021||National||India can't have parallel legal systems for rich and poor: SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday said India cannot have two parallel legal systems one for the rich and the resourceful and with political power and the other for the small men without capabilities to obtain justice or fight injustice. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and Hrishikesh Roy made the observations while cancelling bail of Govind Singh, husband of BSP MLA Rambai in Madhya Pradesh Assembly in a murder case. The top court ordered the High Court to conduct an inquiry within one month on administrative side into allegations of undue influence made by the trial judge while dealing with the matter as well as charges made against him. Taking a serious view of allegations by the trial judge, the bench said High Court failed in its duty to ensure that the sanctity of the criminal justice process was preserved. The court further said a judiciary that is susceptible to such pressures allows politicians to operate with impunity and incentivises criminality to flourish in the political apparatus of the State. "An independent and impartial judiciary is the cornerstone of democracy. Judicial independence of the district judiciary is cardinal to the integrity of the entire system. The courts comprised in the district judiciary are the first point of interface with citizens. If the faith of the citizen in the administration of justice has to be preserved, it is to the district judiciary that attention must be focused as well as the ‘higher’ judiciary," Justice Chandrachud wrote in 33-page judgement.  The court, however, cautioned judges to be wary of launching into a diatribe against the State authorities without due care and reflection. It also highlighted principle of separation of power to emphasise that compartmentalisation of the judiciary and executive should not be breached by interfering with the personal decision-making of the judges and the conduct of court proceedings under them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-cant-have-parallel-legal-systems-for-rich-and-poor-sc-1011471.html
22-07-2021||National||India's DNA data law seen to harm minorities, hurt privacy||A proposed law on the collection and use of genetic data to tackle crime can violate privacy, and target minorities and marginalised communities disproportionately, according to technology experts and human rights groups. The DNA Technology Regulation Bill allows the profiling of victims, those accused of crimes, and those reported missing, and storing of their DNA information in national and regional data banks. It also aims to set up a DNA Regulatory Board. The bill was tabled in parliament in February and is expected to be passed in the current session that runs until Aug. 31. Privacy advocates say the data can be misused for caste-based or community profiling in a country where minority groups are disproportionately criminalised, and that privacy violations are also likely as there is no law to protect personal data. "The bill creates an umbrella databank for multiple purposes; the main concern is the lack of clarity on what data may be stored," said Shambhavi Naik, a research fellow at Takshashila Institution's technology and policy programme. "There are privacy concerns because DNA discloses information about one's relatives and ancestors, as well," she added. There are some 40,000 unidentified bodies and more than 60,000 children reported missing in India every year, according to official data. The use of DNA technology, while not infallible, will minimise errors in criminal investigations and "improve the justice delivery system," said Jairam Ramesh, head of the parliamentary committee that examined the bill. The bill provides for safeguards "to ensure privacy is not violated wantonly and egregiously. More safeguards should certainly be considered as we gain further experience with the use of technology," said Ramesh, a member of the opposition. A spokesperson for the information technology ministry did not respond to a request for comment. DNA can reveal sensitive information that can be used to criminalise a community or caste, said Asaduddin Owaisi, a member of parliament, noting that a majority of those arrested belong to the Dalit, Muslim or indigenous Adivasi communities. "When the data being collected is as sensitive as DNA, it requires additional protections," he said in a note of dissent against the proposed bill, as "the potential for misuse is high, and the possible harm is so significant." "In the absence of a statutory framework protecting the right to privacy, this bill will cause irreversible damage to individuals' right to privacy, as well as the criminal justice system," he added. With an aim to modernise India's police force and its information gathering and criminal identification processes, authorities are installing facial recognition systems in airports, railways stations and polling booths in the country. If the DNA data bank is linked to other surveillance systems like facial recognition "without accountability or oversight, that's a big problem," said Raman Jit Singh Chima, Asia policy counsel at Access Now, a digital rights group. "A DNA database can be useful, but it needs a regulatory backstop that India does not have. The DNA Tech bill should not come before the personal data protection bill," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-dna-data-law-seen-to-harm-minorities-hurt-privacy-1011472.html
22-07-2021||National||Microsoft in talks with Telangana to set up data centre with investment up to ₹16,700 core||Global techgiantMicrosoft is in discussions with the Telangana government on a proposal for setting up one of its largest data centres with an investment outlay of about $2 to 2.25 billion here (₹14,800 crore to ₹16,700 core), sources close to the development said on Thursday. If the discussions fructify, this would be one of the major investments of Microsoft outside the USA. Telangana Minister for IT and Industries K T Rama Rao kicked off the process of discussions by initiating dialogues with senior management of Microsoft about a few months ago. "The discussions are in the final stage. Certain issues such as whether it would be a single location or multiple and the size of the investment are yet to be finalised. Microsoft appears to be willing to go ahead with setting up a data centre here, though officially not confirmed," sources told P T I. When contacted, a top official of the State IT Department said theRedmond, Washington-based IT bellwether requested the state government not to disclose the details of the discussions. An email sent to the PR agency of Microsoft has not yielded any reply. Microsoft is slated to add data centres in at least 10 more countries this year, and the company is on pace to build between 50 and 100 new data centres each year for the foreseeable future, Noelle Walsh, a Microsoft corporate vice- president who leads the team that builds and operates the company's cloud infrastructure had reportedly said earlier. Set up in 1998 in Hyderabad, Microsoft India Development Centre is one of Microsoft's largest Research and Development centres outside the Redmond headquarters. The centre represents Microsoft's strategy of globally shared development to build products and services. Amazon Web Services (AWS) in November announced setting up of its second data centre region in India in Telangana that will be operational by mid-2022, and will see the tech giant investing about ₹20,761 crore ($2.77 billion).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/microsoft-in-talks-with-telangana-to-set-up-data-centre-with-investment-up-to-16700-core-1011474.html
22-07-2021||National||Covid claimed lives of 56 Air India employees: Centre||As many as 56 Air India employees have died due to Covid-19 till July 14, Minister of State for Civil Aviation V K Singh said on Thursday. "A total of 3,523 employees of Air India Limited have been affected by Covid-19. Out of this, 56 employees succumbed to this pandemic till July 14, 2021," he stated in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha. The minister said the national carrier has taken various measures to safeguard the interests of Covid-affected employees and their families.  He stated that the carrier paid a compensation of Rs 10 lakh to the family of each permanent employee who died due to Covid-19.  When a fixed-term contractual employee died due to Covid-19, Air India paid his or her family a compensation of Rs 5 lakh, he noted. Employees infected with Covid-19 were granted a paid quarantine leave of 17 days, he said. "Reimbursement of vaccination charges are being provided to employees and their families if paid by them," he said. The minister said medical facilities were also being provided to Covid-positive employees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-claimed-lives-of-56-air-india-employees-centre-1011477.html
22-07-2021||National||Financial bids for Air India sale likely to be received by September 15: Govt||In written replies to multiple questions on Air India, Minister of State for Civil Aviation Gen VK Singh (retired) said the financial bids are likely to be received by September 15. Questions were raised by Congress MPs Manish Tewari and Rajmohan Unnithan, BJP MP G S Basavaraj and Trinamool Congress' Mimi Chakraborty.  Singh said the Preliminary Information Memorandum for inviting Expression of Interest (EOI) for strategic disinvestment of government's 100 per cent stake each in Air India and its subsidiary Air India Express, as well as 50 per cent stake in Air India STATS was issued on 27 January, 2020. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the last date of submission of EOI was extended from time to time. While the last date for submission of EOI was December 14 last year, the Transaction Advisor received multiple EOIs. With the disinvestment process, the movable assets are proposed to be transferred to the new owner while immovable assets are being monetised by Air India to offset the debt of Air India Ltd.  A Special Purpose Vehicle — Air India Assets Holding Ltd (AIAHL) — was set up for warehousing non-core assets of Air India. Monetisation proceeds of non-core assets were to be used to offset the debt of Air India transferred to AIAHL. Singh also said reserve prices of 16 properties reduced by 10 per cent by the Oversight Committee after previous attempts to auction it failed. On Cairn Energy and Devas Multimedia's attempt to attach Air India's assets abroad following arbitration cases, Singh said there is no likely impact of the lawsuits on the ongoing disinvestment process. "Air India Ltd is a separate corporate entity with its own management and board. The case is being defended by Air India Ltd. The company has appointed lawyers to defend its interests," Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/financial-bids-for-air-india-sale-likely-to-be-received-by-september-15-govt-1011485.html
22-07-2021||National||Plea in SC seeks court-monitored probe into Pegasus snooping scandal||A PIL has been moved in the Supreme Court seeking a court-monitored SIT probe into the Pegasus snooping scandal, claiming it is the biggest crime committed in the Republic of India by the ruling party for their personal and political vested interests. The plea, filed by advocate M L Sharma, has claimed the snooping scandal is an attack on the Indian democracy. The plea said: "Pegasus scandal is a matter of grave concern and an attack on the Indian democracy, country's security and judiciary. The widespread use of surveillance is morally disfiguring. National security implications of this software are huge”. Insisting for a court-monitored probe, the plea contended that the scandal involved issues concerning national security and judicial independence. "Privacy is not about the wish to hide, as is often asserted. It is about having a space of one’s own where our thoughts and being are not the instrument of someone else’s purposes. It is an essential component of dignity and agency," the plea contended. The plea further argued that it is a question whether buying of Pegasus software by central government violated Articles 266(3), 267(2) and 283(2) of the Constitution and attracted the rigour of 408, 409 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code and other provisions of the Information Technology and the Official Secrets Act. Sharma's present PIL listed Prime Minister Narendra Modi, his cabinet colleagues and the Central Bureau of Investigation as the respondents. The plea asked if the Constitution allowed Prime Minister and his ministers to snoop citizens of India for their vested political interest. Maintaining that Pegasus is not just surveillance tool but a cyber weapon unleashed on Indian polity, it said, "The Supreme Court could force the government to come clean on the narrow issue of the use of Pegasus in India, or the existence of NSO contracts." Earlier, Sharma had PILs in several sensational matters such as Rafale deal, Article 370, Hyderabad police encounter and coal block allocation scam. Pegasus made by the Israeli software firm NSO Group, can infect smartphones without users' knowledge and access virtually all their data. According to a news reports, the woman staffer who made sexual harassment allegations against the former Chief Justice Ranjan Gogoi and some of her family members were on the list, as the potential targets of Pegasus snooping. Besides, several opposition leaders, even Cabinet ministers, activists, and journalists were in the list.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-sc-seeks-court-monitored-probe-into-pegasus-snooping-scandal-1011504.html
22-07-2021||National||Bill in Lok Sabha to prohibit strikes by those engaged in essential defence services||The Government on Thursday introduced a Bill in the Lok Sabha, which will replace the ordinance promulgated on June 30 last to make it illegal for workers engaged in the essential defence services to go on strike or launch an agitation. The government referred to the prevailing situation on the northern front of the country to drive home the point that the proposed legislation was necessary to ensure uninterrupted supply of weapons, ammunition and other military hardware to the armed forces and to maintain the defence preparedness of the nation. It was apparently referring to the 15-month-long military stand-off along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh. Ajay Bhatt, the Minister of State for Defence, introduced the Bill in the lower House of Parliament amid din even as the opposition MPs were agitating against the government over the snooping row and the controversial farm laws. The government made the move to seek parliamentary approval for the Essential Defence Services Bill, 2021 even as several organisations of the employees of the ordnance factories recently condemned the June 30 ordinance, calling it “draconian” and demanded its withdrawal. The ordinance was promulgated as the employees of the 41 ordnance factories were planning to go on an indefinite strike from July 26. The employees were planning to protest the decision of the Union Government to convert the 41 factories of the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) into seven Defence Public Sector Undertakings. The Bill seeks to replace the June 30 ordinance, which was promulgated to define the “essential defence services” and “strike”, empower the Central Government to prohibit strike in essential defence services, provide for disciplinary action, including dismissal against employees participating in strike and to provide for penalties for illegal strikes, instigation thereof, and providing for financial aid to such illegal strikes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bill-in-lok-sabha-to-prohibit-strikes-by-those-engaged-in-essential-defence-services-1011516.html
22-07-2021||National||Lack of uniformity in marking scheme of schools, say Teachers Organisation||Several school teachers organisations in West Bengal have said that lack of uniformity in awarding marks by schools in class 9 examination led to a majority of students securing higher marks in the Madhayamik (Class 10) examination. More than 90 per cent of the students secured first division marks in this year's Madhyamik examination and the pass percentage was a record one hundred per cent. The Madhyamik examination could not be held this year due to the pandemic situation and the evaluation was based on the candidate's performance in the 2019 class examination in Class 9 and internal assessment for every subject in class 10 on a 50:50 basis. The teacher’s organisations also voiced concern that with so many students securing high marks and the pass percentage one hundred per cent there are more pass outs than Class 11 seats. There is reason to believe that many schools were not strict in awarding class 9 exam marks to the students and the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education could do little in such situations as they had to go by the marks sent by the schools, All Bengal Post Graduate Teachers Welfare Association office-bearer Chandan Garai told PTI Wednesday. "Many schools are not that tough in screening students when they are promoted to class 9. The screening becomes tougher in class 10. When the board announced 50:50 ratio in good faith giving equal weightage to class 9 annual exam number and subject wise internal assessment in class 10, we had this fear about each candidate getting numbers not commensurate to their ability and that came to be true," Garai said. He said the emerging situation will lead to lesser number of seats in higher secondary institutions as over 10 lakh students have passed with over 9 lakh getting first division and the students with less merit will benefit. "Also a large number of students will try to enroll themselves in science subjects as they have got 70-80 per cent marks though they would have deserved not more than 40-45 per cent. What would these students do after opting for science," he wondered. Senior teacher and office-bearer of Paschim Bango Sikshak Samity, Naba Kumar Karmakar said around 35,000 students in city and over 10 lakh in the state would not have much problem to get a seat in a higher secondary school but the meritorious ones may not get a school of their choice. "Hence we would ask the higher secondary schools to conduct an entrance test for the students, at least for science streams, so that there is a proper evaluation and the deserving ones are not deprived," the senior teacher said. He said 35,000 students in city won't face a problem to find a seat in Class 11 but again getting the right institution will be. "Also of the 10,79,749 candidates, the number of girls was fairly higher than boys this time. Hence all the girl students may find problem in getting berths in schools many of which are for boys only and several coeducational as well," he said. Both said it was doubtful if the candidates would like to sit for offline exams now as suggested by Board once the Covid-19 situation improved. Tarun Naskar said on behalf of All Bengal Save Education Committee "we had thought the pass percentage could be 100 per cent going by the 50:50 per cent evaluation methodology of the Board. This led to many candidates not getting their favourite subjects while meritorious students will suffer."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lack-of-uniformity-in-marking-scheme-of-schools-say-teachers-organisation-1011523.html
22-07-2021||National||Cyberattacks on four of India's five load despatch units, Centre tells RS||Out of India’s five regional centres that help oversee the country’s critical electricity load management functions, four have faced cyberattacks in recent months, according to Union power and new and renewable energy minister Raj Kumar Singh’s written reply to Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. This comes after a Chinese government-affiliated hacker group, Red Echo, targeted Indian power grids earlier this year. Such cyber attacks have been made on India's transportation sector, too. “For instance, cyber incidents have been reported at Southern Regional Load Despatch Centre (SRLDC), Western Regional Load Despatch Centre (WRLDC), Northern Regional Load Despatch Centre (NRLDC) and North Eastern Regional Load Despatch Centre (NERLDC) of Power System Operation Corporation (POSOCO), NTPC Kudgi and Telangana State Transco. Necessary isolation and other protective measures have been taken by these organisations," Singh’s statement said. "Necessary isolation and other protective measures have been taken by these organizations," it added. A New York Times article had previously claimed that a similar cyberattack by the Chinese hacker group had led to a power failure in Mumbai last year. However, the Union Power Ministry denied claims of cyber attacks linked to the Mumbai power failure. “An incident of power outage occurred in Mumbai on October 12, 2020. As per the direction of the ministry of power, a panel was formed to conduct a fact-finding exercise on the cyber sabotage angle. As per the report of the committee, no conclusive evidence was observed to attribute the Mumbai grid incident of 12.10.2020 to a cyberattack," Singh’s response noted. Taking steps to avoid cyber attacks in future, the ministry has set up six Computer Emergency Response Teams (CERTs) for grid operation, thermal, hydropower, electricity distribution, transmission and renewable energy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyberattacks-on-four-of-indias-five-load-despatch-units-centre-tells-rs-1011531.html
22-07-2021||National||Three died in aerosports accidents in last 10 years: Government||Three persons have died in five accidents during aero sports activities in the last 10 years, Minister of State for Civil Aviation V K Singh said on Thursday. In a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha, Singh said: "As reported by DGCA (Directorate General of Civil Aviation), there have been five accidents involving aero sports in India during the last ten years." The minister said two accidents involving microlight planes have taken place, killing two people during the last 10 years. He added that three accidents involving a glider have taken place, killing one person during the last 10 years. All aero sports activities are not regulated, Singh noted.  "However, DGCA issues certificate of registration for balloons, gliders, powered hang-gliders and microlights," he stated.  Aero sports have considerable potential to boost tourism in the country, he mentioned.  "Aero Sports are largely being undertaken by private entities at Mysuru in Karnataka, Phagwada in Punjab, Mussoorie in Uttarakhand, Lonavala in Maharashtra, Manali in Himachal Pradesh, Shillong in Meghalaya, Panchgani in Madhya Pradesh and Goa," he stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/three-died-in-aerosports-accidents-in-last-10-years-government-1011560.html
22-07-2021||National||'Very shocking incident': India on abduction of Afghan envoy's daughter in Islamabad||India on Thursday described the abduction of the Afghan ambassador's daughter in Islamabad last week as a "very shocking" incident and said Pakistan's denial of the victim's account is "stooping to a new low". Silsila Alikhil, the 26-year-old daughter of Afghan Ambassador Najibullah Alikhil, was abducted and held for several hours by unidentified men in Islamabad last Friday. "This is a very shocking incident," Spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) Arindam Bagchi said at a media briefing, while pointing out that it is a matter involving Afghanistan and Pakistan. "However, since the Pakistan interior minister has dragged India into it, I would only like to say that even by their standards, Pakistan's denial of the victim's account is stooping to a new low," he said. Bagchi was replying to questions on the incident. "As regards the security of the Indian High Commission and our personnel in Pakistan, I would not like to get into specific security-related measures," he said. Pakistan's Interior Minister Sheikh Rashid reiterated the police's claim on Tuesday that Alikhil was not abducted even as he urged her to come forward and join the probe. Two days after the incident, the Afghan government recalled its ambassador and senior diplomats from Islamabad over concerns relating to their safety and security.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/very-shocking-incident-india-on-abduction-of-afghan-envoys-daughter-in-islamabad-1011591.html
22-07-2021||National||No proposal to give another chance to civil service aspirants who missed 2020exam: Centre||There is no proposal under consideration of the government to give another chance to aspirants who could not appear in the civil services examination in 2020, Rajya Sabha was informed on Thursday. The civil services examination is conducted annually by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) in three stages -- preliminary, main and interview -- to select officers of Indian Administrative Service (IAS), Indian Foreign Service (IFS) and Indian Police Service (IPS), among others. "No Sir. No such proposal is under consideration," Minister of State for Personnel Jitendra Singh said in a written reply to a question, "whether the government is considering to provide another chance to all those aspirants of Civil Service Examination who could not appear in the examination in 2020?"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-proposal-to-give-another-chance-to-civil-service-aspirants-who-missed-2020exam-centre-1011621.html
22-07-2021||National||AASU head says not afraid of being spied on, fight against CAA to continue||Student body AASU"s Chief Adviser Samujjal Kumar Bhattacharya on Thursday said that he is not afraid of being targeted by Pegasus phone surveillance and his struggle against the CAA will continue. In its series of expose on the alleged Pegasus phone spying scandal, The Wire news portal published its latest article on Wednesday stating that phone numbers of two prominent Assamese personalities also figured in the list of around 50,000 numbers worldwide. All Assam Students" Union (AASU) Chief Adviser Samujjal Kumar Bhattacharya and ULFA (pro-talk faction) General Secretary Anup Chetia"s numbers are part of the list, which was exposed and analysed by a global alliance of media publications. A day after his name popped up in the spying controversy, Bhattacharya expressed surprise and shock, and termed the entire act of putting scores of Indian citizens under surveillance as "anti-national". "In this situation, if it is thought that we will be scared with taping of our phones, it is wrong. We will not be afraid. If it is thought that we will not continue with our non-violent struggle to protect the interests of the indigenous people of Northeast, that will not happen. "Our zeal to fight for our rights will continue, nobody can stop us. We are working for protection of the interests of the indigenous people of the Northeast. Our high command is the people of the region. We are working under the guardianship of the people," Bhattacharya told PTI in an interview. He said that whatever he or his colleagues talk over phone, everything is transparent and they say the same thing to the people and the media, and there is nothing to hide. The AASU leader asserted that the core issue is very clear and it is the influx of illegal foreigners, which is a threat to the identity of the indigenous people of Assam and the Northeastern region. "Assam Agitation took place because of this and the Assam Accord was signed. But it has not been implemented and the situation became more grave. Northeast was becoming a dumping ground with the imposition of Citizenship (Amendment) Act," he added. The CAA is a violation of the Assam Accord and it is "anti-Constitution, communal, anti-indigenous and anti-Northeast", Bhattacharya said. A six-year agitation demanding identification and deportation of illegal immigrants was launched by the AASU in 1979. It had culminated in the signing of the Assam Accord on August 15, 1985 in the presence of the then prime minister Rajiv Gandhi. "That is why the anti-CAA movement in the Northeast was very strong. Our method of the movement was different from other parts of the country and it was non-violent. It will continue," he added. Talking about the Clause 6 of the Assam Accord, Bhattacharya said the Constitutional safeguard has to be given to the indigenous people of the state. The CAA seeks to provide Indian citizenship to Hindus, Jains, Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists and Parsis entering India on or before December 31, 2014 from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan after five years of residence here. As per Clause 6 of the Assam Accord, Constitutional, legislative and administrative safeguards, as may be appropriate, shall be provided to protect, preserve and promote the culture, social, linguistic identity and heritage of the Assamese people. The bone of contention since the signing of the Accord in 1985 has been the definition of the Assamese people. "That is why a high-powered committee was formed by the Central government. It submitted its report more than a year ago. The Centre had given an assurance to implement it in letter and spirit, but nothing has been done yet," he said. As per the Clause 6 of the Assam Accord, Constitutional, legislative and administrative safeguards, as may be appropriate, shall be provided to protect, preserve and promote the culture, social, linguistic identity and heritage of the Assamese people. On the Pegasus controversy, Bhattacharya said, "Israel is a foreign nation. A foreign nation taking permission of Indian government and spying on Indian citizens, this is just the murder of democracy. It is a dangerous and fascist attack on privacy, against the Constitution and an anti-India act." About the Indian government"s continuous denial of the snooping act, he said if it was done without the knowledge of the Centre, it is more dangerous. "Then the offices of the prime minister, home minister, defence minister, our internal security -- everything can be under surveillance. It is a threat to the integrity, sovereignty and internal security of the country. It is basically a serious threat to the country," Bhattacharya said. The AASU leader also appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah to tell the truth to the people of the nation whether the surveillance has the government"s sanction or it is being done by a foreign nation without its knowledge. ULFA (pro-talk) General Secretary Anup Chetia, the other person whose number was also found in the Pegasus leaked list, said on Wednesday he was not surprised that his phone was allegedly being tapped. "It is natural that the security agencies would tap our phones. We have to see our past also. We fought against the state and declared a war against India. However, I don"t know if Pegasus infected my phone or not," the insurgent leader, who is now part of a dialogue process, said. Like Bhattacharya, Chetia too was vocal about his opposition to the CAA. A global media consortium has recently reported that over 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including of two central ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders besides scores of business persons and activists in India, could have been targeted for hacking using the Israeli spyware Pegasus, which is usually supplied to government agencies. The Indian government and Israeli surveillance company NSO Group, which sells Pegasus spyware worldwide, have refuted the reports.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aasu-head-says-not-afraid-of-being-spied-on-fight-against-caa-to-continue-1011625.html
22-07-2021||National||Twitter non-compliant with IT Rules on May 26, named officials as contingent arrangement later: MoS IT||Twitter was non-compliant with the IT rules on May 26 when the new regulations came into effect but the microblogging platform has subsequently appointed a chief compliance officer and a resident grievance officer as a contingent arrangement, Parliament was informed on Thursday. Twitter has also informed the IT Ministry about its physical contact address in India, and has published a compliance report for June 2021, Minister of State for Electronics and IT Rajeev Chandrasekhar said in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha. Chandrasekhar also said the statement made by Twitter earlier in May expressing concerns over potential threat to freedom of expression and staff safety was possibly an effort to divert attention from its non-compliance to IT Rules and Indian laws at that stage. The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 notified on February 25, 2021 have become fully effective from May 26, 2021, including for additional due diligence to be followed by Significant Social Media Intermediaries (SSMIs), he said. "On that day, Twitter was non-compliant. Subsequently, they have appointed Chief Compliance Officer and a Resident Grievance Officer as a contingent arrangement and have also informed the Ministry about physical contact address in India. They have also published the compliance report of June 2021," he said. The minister went on to add that major digital platforms, including Facebook, Google, Twitter, LinkedIn and WhatsApp, have informed this ministry regarding appointment of chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer as well as their physical contact addresses in India. They have also started publishing a monthly compliance report, he informed the Upper House. "In case of non-compliance with the Rules, the intermediaries including SSMIs shall lose their exemption from liability under section 79 of IT Act and rule 7 of the above said Rules becomes applicable," Chandrasekhar said. On a question about Twitter's statement on May 27 airing concerns over potential threat to freedom of expression and safety of its employees in India, Chandrasekhar asserted that freedom of speech and expression is a constitutionally guaranteed Fundamental Right and the company's statement was "possibly an effort to divert the attention" from the non-compliance to the Information Technology rules. "The statement of Twitter was possibly an effort to divert the attention from the non-compliance to the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 and Indian laws at that stage," he said. The minister emphasised that the government is committed to the growth of a vibrant technology and internet ecosystem in the country. "Government has also assured that representatives of social media platforms, including Twitter, remain safe in India and there is no threat to their personal safety and security," he pointed out. To another question on whether the government would reconsider the guidelines that suggest indirectly the breaking of end-to-end encryption of messages, Chandrasekhar said the rules "do not seek breaking the end-to-end encryption". Neither the IT Act nor the new social media rules contravene freedom of speech and expression or right to privacy, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twitter-non-compliant-with-it-rules-on-may-26-named-officials-as-contingent-arrangement-later-mos-it-1011632.html
22-07-2021||National||Rajya Sabha to discuss economic situation next week||Rajya Sabha will discuss the economic situation in the country, including unemployment and price rise, next week, sources said on Thursday after a meeting chaired by Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu with government and Opposition sides. Sources said the short duration discussion will be four hours long. This will be the second discussion in two weeks as on Tuesday, Rajya Sabha held a five-hour-long discussion on the Covid-19 situation, which included Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya's reply. However, no other business was transacted in the Upper House so far, as the Opposition has been vociferously protesting against the Pegasus scandal and raising farmers' issues. Parties have also raised the hike prices of essential commodities and fuel. Naidu also nudged the government side to sit with Opposition leaders in prioritising legislative business and taking up discussion on issues sought to be raised by the Opposition. He also said there should be consultation on Bills to be referred to Parliamentary Standing Committees or Select Committees for scrutiny. He said this exchange is important given the short time left for Monsoon Session. Sources said both sides agreed to take up Bills to replace ordinances on priority.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-to-discuss-economic-situation-next-week-1011672.html
22-07-2021||National||Dalai Lama's advisers, NSCN leaders listed as potential targets of Pegasus: Reports||The Dalai Lama’s close aides and the top officials of the Tibetan Government-in-Exile based at Dharamshala in India were potential targets of surveillance by one of the clients of the NSO group, a spyware firm based in Israel, The Guardian and The Wire reported on Thursday. The analysis “strongly indicates” that the Government of India “was selecting” the “top ring of advisors around the Dalai Lama” among the potential targets for surveillance through the Pegasus spyware of the NSO Group, The Guardian reported. The former Sikyong (President) of the Tibetan Government-in-Exile (formally known as Central Tibetan Administration), Tempa Tsering, one of the closest aide of the Dalai Lama, and Samdhong Rinpoche, who heads the trust entrusted with the task of selecting the 86-year-old monk’s next incarceration after his death, were among the potential targets for surveillance. Their phones were put on the list of potential targets for surveillance between late 2017 and early 2019, according to The Wire. It was the same period when India was trying to mend fences with China after the bilateral relations were strained over the military stand-off between the two nations at Doklam Plateau in western Bhutan in June-August, 2017. Just two months before Prime Minister Narendra Modi had an “informal summit” with Chinese President Xi Jinping at Wuhan in central China on April 27 and 28, 2018, the Cabinet secretariat of the Government of India issued an advisory in New Delhi asking “senior leaders” and “government functionaries” in the states as well as at the Centre to stay away from events attended by Dalai Lama. The purpose of New Delhi’s move was obviously not to irk Beijing. Modi and Xi had a series of meetings in 2018 and 2019. The second informal summit between the two leaders was held at a seaside resort near Chennai in October 2019. The relations between the two nations, however, again nosedived after China in April-May 2020 deployed a large number of troops along its Line of Actual Control (LAC) with India and sought to unilaterally push the de-facto boundary between the two nations westward. The India-China relations hit a new low over the military stand-off, which started 15 months ago and is still continuing in eastern Ladakh. The 14th Dalai Lama has been living in exile in India following his 1959 escape from Tibet, which had been occupied by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in 1950-51. A staunch advocate for non-violence and freedom and a Nobel Peace Prize awardee, the Buddhist monk has been leading the Tibetans’ struggle for “genuine autonomy” – not independence from the Chinese Government’s rule – for Tibet. Beijing, however, still calls him a “separatist” and accuses him of running a campaign to split China. The phone numbers of the aides of Ogyen Trinley Dorje, who claims to be the 17th Karmapa or the spiritual head of the Karma Kagyu sect of Tibetan Buddhism, were also on the list of potential targets for surveillance. Though the Dalai Lama, the supreme leader of all the sects of Tibetan Buddhists, endorsed Dorje as the Karmapa after he fled from China and arrived in India in 2000, New Delhi never recognised him as such and rather suspected him to be an ‘agent’ of the Chinese Government. He left India in 2017 and accepted the citizenship of Commonwealth of Dominica in 2018. The Guardian and The Wire are among the 16 media outlets, which are participating in the Pegasus Project, a global collaboration of some journalists to bring to public domain what they termed as systematic abuse of the spyware developed by the NSO Group and sold to governments around the world. They have been reporting over the past few days on a database of 50,000 phone numbers, which were accessed by human rights organisation, Amnesty International, and the Forbidden Stories, a non-profit organisation of journalists based in Paris. The phone numbers were allegedly either shortlisted for or actually put under surveillance through the Pegasus, the flagship spyware product of the NSO Group.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dalai-lamas-advisers-nscn-leaders-listed-as-potential-targets-of-pegasus-reports-1011685.html
22-07-2021||National||Former CBI chief Alok Verma, industrialist Anil Ambani targeted using Pegasus: Report||Industrialist Anil Ambani and his close aide Tony Jesudasan figure were added to a list of potential targets for surveillance using controversial Israeli spyware Pegasus at a time the controversial Rafale deal started attracting allegations of corruption involving Narendra Modi government. The names of former CBI chief Alok Verma and his bete noire Rakesh Asthana, an IPS officer who heads BSF, as well as officials of Dassault Aviation, which manufactures Rafale, and Boeing also figure in the list. Their phone numbers were part of the leaked database accessed by the French media non-profit Forbidden Stories and shared with an international media consortium, which include Washington Post, The Guardian and The Wire. The Wire report said the phone numbers of Ambani and Jesudasan and his wife were added to the list for surveillance in 2018 when the Rafale deal come under scanner. Narendra Modi government's decisio to purchase 36 Rafale aircraft came under scrutiny at that time. Interestingly, the phone number of Venkata Rao Posina, the India representative of Dassault Aviation, which makes Rafale also figures in the list. Dassault was in the eye of the controversy following allegations that it chose Anil Ambani's Reliance ADA Group as its offset partner due to pressure from the Indian government. The Wire report said former Saab India head Inderjit Sial and Boeing India boss Pratyush Kumar also figure in the list. According to the report, there are at least two government officials worked in the defence space were also on the leaked list implying that there was a certain focus on the defence sector and perhaps the aircraft deal. One of the two officials is an officer of the Indian Defence Accounts Services while the other is Prashant Sukul, who in 2018 was a bureaucrat handling offsets at the defence ministry, it said. Harmanjit Negi, head of the French firm energy EDF who was a member of Emmanuel Macron’s official delegation during the French president’s visit to India, is also in the list. In former CBI Director Verma's case, his phone was added to the list for surveillance, hours after he was removed as CBI Director on 23 October, 2018. Along with Verma, the report said, the personal numbers of his wife, daughter and son-in-law were also placed on the list, making it a total of eight numbers from this one family. Asthana, who is considered close to Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, and another CBI official AK Sharma were also in the list on the same day Verma's number was added. The report also said, by the second week of February 2019, by which time Verma had finally retired from government service, this entire cluster of persons ceased being of interest to the government agency which had added them to the list. Eight of those phones were forensically confirmed by Amnesty International’s tech lab to have been successfully compromised by Pegasus, while two other phones showed signs of being targeted. According to the report, along with Verma, the personal telephone numbers of his wife, daughter and son-in-law were eventually placed on the list too. In addition, the numbers of two other senior CBI officials, Rakesh Asthana and A K Sharma, were added to the list as well. However, by the time Verma retired from service in February 2019, the persons ceased being of interest to the government agency which had added them to the list, the report added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-cbi-chief-alok-verma-industrialist-anil-ambani-targeted-using-pegasus-report-1011687.html
22-07-2021||National||3,570 Indians died of Covid-19 abroad: Centre||As many as 3,570 Indian citizens died of Covid-19 abroad with the maximum number of 1,154 deaths reported from Saudi Arabia followed by 894 in the United Arab Emirates, the government told Rajya Sabha Thursday. According to the details provided by the Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan, 546 Indians lost their lives due to Covid-19 in Kuwait, 384 died in Oman, 196 in Bahrain and 106 deaths were reported from Qatar. "3570 Indian citizens died abroad, due to Covid-19 as per information provided by our missions/posts abroad," he said. The minister provided a list of 70 countries that reported the deaths of Indians. "We express the deepest sympathy with the families of those who have died abroad due to Covid-19. Missions/Posts abroad maintained contact with the families and extended all possible help for transporting the mortal remains to India or for local burial, as per the wishes of the families," Muraleedharan said, replying to a question. "Financial assistance for transporting the mortal remains to India or for local burial was also provided from Indian Community Welfare Fund, where such requests were received," he said. To a separate question, Muraleedharan said 60,92,264 Indians were brought back from foreign countries in view of the pandemic under the 'Vande Bharat Mission' till April 30. Separately, the newly-inducted Minister of State for External Affairs Rajkumar Ranjan Singh said several foreign diplomats in India were affected by Covid-19. "All possible medical assistance was promptly provided to the diplomatic missions, which requested for such help for their diplomats and family members. The assistance included facilitation in hospitalisation, telemedicine consultations, medicines, vaccination etc," he said. Muraleedharan said India has imported 31.5 lakh units of 'Sputnik Component 1' and 4.5 lakh units of 'Sputnik Component 2' vaccine till date. Muraleedharan said India started external supplies of Made in India Covid-19 vaccines under the 'Vaccine Maitri' initiative on January 20 in the form of grants-in-aid and commercial sales by Indian manufacturers and through GAVI's COVAX facility. "External supplies were undertaken factoring in domestic production, the requirement of the national vaccination programme and requests for the Made in India vaccines from abroad. The current focus of the government is on the domestic vaccination programme," he said.   To a separate question on foreign assistance received by India during the second wave of the pandemic, he said 52 countries provided aid under the framework of 'government-to-government, private to government and private-to-private' initiatives. According to details provided by him, India received 27,116 oxygen cylinders and 29,327 oxygen concentrators and 885 metric tonnes of liquid medical oxygen from abroad. India also received 33,30,187 Favipiravir and 11,06,940 Remdesivir Covid drugs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3570-indians-died-of-covid-19-abroad-centre-1011703.html
22-07-2021||National||SC collegium recommended 80 names for appointment as HC judges in last one year: Kiren Rijiju||The Centre on Thursday said that the Supreme Court collegium recommended 80 names for appointment as judges of various high courts in the last one year, of which 45 judges were appointed and the remaining proposals are under various stages of processing. Law Minister Kiren Rijiju, in a written reply to Rajya Sabha, said that India has 25 high courts with a sanctioned strength of 1,098 judges. The latest working strength stands at 645 -- a shortfall of 453 judges. Between July 1, 2020 and July 15, 2021, the Supreme Court collegium made 80 recommendations for appointment of judges in various high courts and of which 45 judges were appointed. Allahabad High Court has 66 vacancies for judges' posts, which is highest among all high courts, followed by Calcutta with 41 vacancies, and Karnataka High Court with 15 vacancies at present, said the Minister in his reply. Filling up of vacancies in the high courts is a continuous, integrated and collaborative process between the Executive and the Judiciary. It requires consultation and approval from various constitutional authorities both at the state and central-level, he noted. “While every effort is made to fill up the existing vacancies expeditiously, vacancies of judges in high courts do keep on arising on account of retirement, resignation or elevation of judges and also due to increase in the strength of judges," the minister observed. For the Allahabad HC, the collegium recommended 11 names and seven appointments were notified. In case of the Delhi HC, two appointments were notified while the collegium had recommended six names. Eight names were recommended by the SC collegium for the Calcutta High Courts, but no appointment was notified in that one year period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-collegium-recommended-80-names-for-appointment-as-hc-judges-in-last-one-year-kiren-rijiju-1011707.html
22-07-2021||National||13.78 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses given between June 21 and July 22||India administered 13.78 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines within a month of launching the centralised free vaccination drive on June 21. The total number of doses administered as of June 20 was a little over 28 crore, while the number crossed to 41.78 crore on July 21. As on Thursday, India had administered cumulatively 42.28 crore doses of vaccines with 48.86 lakh shots given to beneficiaries by 7:00 pm. The first day of the new vaccination drive on June 21 had witnessed a record number of 86 lakh vaccinations. However, the daily number of vaccine doses administered dipped thereafter, but stabilised around an average of 40 lakh doses every day. Three states – Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh have administered more than one crore cumulative doses of Covid-19 Vaccine in the age group 18-44 years. According to the health ministry, more than 3.20 crore vaccine doses were currently available with states, union territories and private hospitals for inoculation. States and union territories have so far received a total of 43,79,78,900 vaccine doses through all channels and a further 7,00,000 doses are in the pipeline, it said. “Vaccine production is increasing continuously in the country. As production increases, so will the speed of vaccination,” Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1378-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-given-between-june-21-and-july-22-1011716.html
22-07-2021||National||India urges foreign governments to ease travel restrictions for Indians||India on Thursday said that it has been taking up with foreign governments the issue of easing travel restrictions for Indians in view of an improvement in the coronavirus situation in the country. Indian students studying in institutions in China, Italy and several other countries have been stuck in India in view of the travel restrictions. "With the improvement in the Covid situation in India, we have been taking up with foreign countries the issue of easing travel restrictions for Indians. We believe that this is an important element towards economic recovery," external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said at a media briefing. "There have been some positive steps in this direction, and we would hope that more countries take steps to normalise the movement of people from India," he added. Separately, Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan said in Rajya Sabha that the government has been making efforts for easing of travel restrictions for Indian students enrolled in foreign universities. "Our missions abroad have been actively taking up these issues with the respective governments and have been impressing upon those governments to ease the travel restrictions," he said replying to a question. "The issue of travel restrictions has been taken up at the ministerial level with several countries. Consequently, travel restrictions are being eased for Indian students to travel to many countries, including the US, Canada, the UK, Ireland, Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, Georgia, etc," he said. Muraleedharan said more countries are expected to open up when the coronavirus situation improves. To a separate question, he said the government is developing and designing a 'Global Indian Students Portal (GISP)' for those wanting to go abroad for studies. He said the portal will have information regarding courses, foreign universities, nodal officers, accreditation requirements that will guide the prospective students to make informed decisions. Asked about the supply of Covid-19 vaccines by the US to India, Bagchi said the domestic vaccination programme has been continuing at a rapid pace and that New Delhi has been in touch with its partners on the possibility of import of vaccines. To a question on when the World Health Organisation (WHO) is expected to recognise Covaxin vaccine, he said its producer Bharat Biotech Limited has submitted the request along with all necessary documentation to the global body earlier this month. Bagchi also said that more than half of the member states of the European Union have recognised Covishield, the vaccine manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute of India. Asked about reports on a visit to India by US Secretary of State Antony Blinken next week, the spokesperson said details will be shared when updates on it are available. Bagchi also said India received an invitation for the swearing-in ceremony of Iran's President-elect Ebrahim Raisi. The ceremony is scheduled for August 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-urges-foreign-governments-to-ease-travel-restrictions-for-indians-1011732.html
22-07-2021||National||Union Cabinet approves setting up of integrated multi-purpose infra development corp for Ladakh||The Centre on Thursday approved the establishment of an integrated multi-purpose infrastructure development corporation for the Union Territory of Ladakh. The decision has been taken at a meeting of the Union Cabinet, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The establishment of the corporation will result in inclusive and integrated development of the Union Territory of Ladakh, according to an official statement. This will, in turn, ensure socio-economic development of the entire region and the population of the UT. The impact of development will be multi-dimensional and it will help in further development of human resources and better utilisation thereof. It increases domestic production of goods and services and will facilitate their smooth supply. Thus, the approval will help in realising the goal of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat', the statement said. The authorised share capital of the corporation will be Rs 25 crore and recurring expenditure will be around Rs 2.42 crore per year. It is a new establishment.   Presently, there is no such similar organisation within the newly-formed UT of Ladakh.   The approval has an inherent potential for employment generation as the corporation will be undertaking various kinds of developmental activities.  The corporation will work for industry, tourism, transport and marketing of local products and handicraft. It will also work as the main construction agency for infrastructure development in Ladakh, the statement said. The cabinet also approved the creation of one post of managing director for the corporation. Consequent upon reorganisation of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir as per the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019, the UT of Ladakh (without Legislature) came into existence on October 31, 2019. An advisory committee was constituted under section 85 of the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019 for making recommendations regarding the apportionment of the assets and liabilities of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir between the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, and the Union Territory of Ladakh. The said committee recommended for the establishment of an Integrated Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited on the lines of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands Integrated Development Corporation Limited (ANIIDCO), with an appropriate mandate to take up various developmental activities as per the specific needs of Ladakh. Accordingly, the UT of Ladakh sent a proposal to the home ministry for the establishment of the corporation in the UT of Ladakh, which was recommended by the Committee on Establishment Expenditure (CEE), Ministry of Finance in April, 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-cabinet-approves-setting-up-of-integrated-multi-purpose-infra-development-corp-for-ladakh-1011738.html
22-07-2021||National Politics||High political drama in RS on Pegasus as TMC MP snatches papers from IT Minister, tears it||High political drama was witnessed in the in Rajya Sabha on Thursday with the on-going protest by Opposition on the alleged snooping row taking a new shape when TMC MP Shantanu Sen snatched papers from Communications and Information Technology Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw in the Rajya Sabha and tore them, while the minister was making a statement on the issue of using Israeli spyware Pegasus. Deputy Chairman Harivansh's appeal to members not to adhere to this "unparliamentary" practice went unheard. The first week of the Monsoon Session has been a near-washout with Thursday's paper tear event being the focal point. While the Rajya Sabha was adjourned for the day soon after the House re-assembled in the second half after two brief adjournments in the first half, Lok Sabha saw four adjournments amid uproar over Pegasus and farm laws. With Friday being reserved for private members' bills, the washout is effectively for the entire first week of the Session. On the penultimate day of the first week of the Session, the TMC MP Sen in Rajya Sabha tore the papers, while members from TMC, Congress and other Opposition parties rushed into the well of the House, protesting and shouting slogans as the Chair called Vaishnaw to make a statement on the issue. Sensing the mood, the minister laid a copy of the statement on the table of the House. Deputy Chairman Harivansh's repeated pleas to the members to withdraw from the well of the House had no takers, and his efforts to start discussion on the subject were not accepted. Later when Vaishnav tried to read out his statement, nothing was audible in the ruckus. "You do not want a discussion on an issue you have been agitated about...this is undemocratic," the deputy chairman said tersely before adjourning the House for the day. In Lok Sabha also, TMC members gathered near the podium of Speaker Om Birla and raised the Pegasus issue and shouted slogans seeking answers from the Prime Minister. Congress and SAD members were raising farmer issues. In fact, disruption by Opposition during Modi's first and second tenure as a strategy has kept Chairs in both Houses on tenterhooks, leading to deliberations over steps like bringing a new law to check disruptions, evolving a Code of Conduct, carrying out  automatic suspension and debarring from voting any member, who rushes into the Well of the House and disrupts proceedings. However, even group suspension of MPs numbering up to 45 (2019), 18 (2014)  07 (2020) in one go has not solved the problem. Congress frequently cited remarks of BJP leaders Sushma Swaraj and Arun Jaitley (both LoP in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha respectively during UPA's tenure) in the past, who had found "not undemocratic" and "also a form of democracy" in disruptions. A Rajya Sabha panel of former General Secretary of the Upper House V K Agnihotri and former Additional Secretary in the Ministry of Law and Justice Dinesh Bhardwaj had suggested automatic suspension and debarring from voting any member, who rushes into the Well of the House and disrupts proceedings. BJP's Meenakshi Lekhi, however, slammed the TMC saying its conduct in Rajya Sabha was a "new low" in India's parliamentary democracy. Sources in the government meanwhile said it will seek action against some Opposition MPs as they misbehaved with the treasury bench members including a minister in the Rajya Sabha even after the House was adjourned. "We are approaching the Rajya Sabha chairman seeking action against them as their behaviour is a blow to parliamentary decorum," a Union minister said. "I was gheraoed by the BJP MPs," Sen alleged. TMC Chief Whip Sukhendu Sekhar Ray said, "the minister's statement was full of contradictions and white lies. So one of our members snatched and tore it." The party said it would continue to obstruct Parliament proceedings till the government agrees to a "structured discussion" on the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/high-political-drama-in-rs-on-pegasus-as-tmc-mp-snatches-papers-from-it-minister-tears-it-1011487.html
22-07-2021||National Politics||Pegasus row: Congress leaders stopped by police from marching to Raj Bhavan||Haryana Congress leaders, including MLAs, staged a protest here on Thursday in connection with the Pegasus snooping row, but were stopped by police when they tried to march towards the Raj Bhavan on foot. Led by AICC in-charge of Haryana affairs Vivek Bansal and state Congress chief Kumari Selja, the leaders and workers gathered at the party office here. They staged a protest outside the party office, but as they tried to march towards the Raj Bhavan on foot, police detained them. Congress leaders told reporters that the police cited the prohibitory orders in place due to Covid-19 and said they could not allow them to take out the march. "We were holding a peaceful protest, but the police did not allow us to proceed further," Selja said. The opposition party leaders said they wanted to hand over a memorandum to the governor in connection with the snooping row. Selja said the Centre must answer how the alleged use of Israeli spyware Pegasus to snoop on at least 300 phone numbers in the country, including those of opposition leaders, activists and journalists, happened right under its nose. She also claimed that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, whose name is on the list of the possible victims of the snooping row, has become a "target" for the government as he has constantly been raising various issues of public importance. "How can it be that such things are happening right under the nose of this government? How did this spyware come here, who gave permission? The government must answer these questions," the state Congress chief said. Meanwhile, asked why Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda did not join the protest, Bansal told reporters that the former chief minister had communicated that he would not be able to come as doctors had advised him a few days of rest on health grounds. An international media consortium reported on Sunday that more than 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including of two serving Union ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders and a sitting judge, besides scores of businessmen and activists in India could have been targeted for hacking through the Pegasus spyware.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pegasus-row-congress-leaders-stopped-by-police-from-marching-to-raj-bhavan-1011517.html
22-07-2021||National Politics||Kamal Nath terms tax raids on media groups bid to suppress democracy's 'fourth pillar'||Madhya Pradesh Congress chief Kamal Nath on Thursday said the tax raids on Dainik Bhaskar and Bharat Samachar media groups on charges of tax evasion were an attempt by the central government to suppress the "fourth pillar of democracy" and prevent truth from coming out. The searches against Dainik Bhaskar are being conducted in Bhopal, Jaipur, Ahmedabad, Noida and some other locations in the country. The premises of the Uttar Pradesh-based news channel Bharat Samachar and its promoters and staffers were raided in Lucknow, they said. There was no official word from the Income Tax Department or its policy-making body, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), on the raids. Hitting out at the Centre over the raids, Nath in a tweet said, "An attempt to suppress the fourth estate of democracy and to prevent truth from coming out is being made from the beginning during Modi government's rule.” मोदी सरकार में प्रजातंत्र के चौथे स्तंभ को दबाने का, सच को रोकने का काम शुरू से ही किया जा रहा है, अभी पेगासस जासूसी मामले में भी कई मीडिया संस्थान व उससे जुड़े लोग बड़ी संख्या में निशाने पर रहे है और अब सरकार की निरंतर पोल खोल रहे, He pointed out that in the Pegasus snooping case also, many media houses and people associated with them have been targeted in large numbers. "Now the work to suppress the Dainik Bhaskar group, which is publishing truth all over the country and exposing the government continuously, has started?” Nath tweeted. “In order to prevent the truth from coming out, this government is misusing the ED, I-T and other agencies from the beginning and this work is going on even today?” Nath added. “Lekin dhyan rakhen, satya pareshan ho sakta hai, lekin parajit nahin" (but remember, truth can get troubled, but cannot be defeated), he said in another tweet. Congress veteran and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Digvijaya Singh said on Twitter that tax officials "are present" at half-a-dozen premises of the Dainik Bhaskar group, including at its office at the Press Complex in Bhopal. पत्रकारिता पर मोदीशाह का प्रहार!! मोदीशाह का एक मात्र हथियार IT ED CBI!मुझे विश्वास है अग्रवाल बंधु डरेंगे नहीं। दैनिक भास्कर के विभिन्न ठिकानों पर इनकम टैक्स इन्वेस्टिगेशन विंग की छापामार कार्रवाई शुरू... प्रेस कॉन्प्लेक्स सहित आधा दर्जन स्थानों पर मौजूद है इनकम टैक्स की टीम Sources said the action against the Bhaskar group included searches at the residential locations of its promoters in Madhya Pradesh's capital city of Bhopal. Eyewitnesses in the MP Nagar Zone-1 area here, where the Press Complex is located, said security personnel did not allow many employees of the media group (Bhaskar) were not allowed to enter the office premises. The raiding team arrived around 4 am in vehicles, mostly having Maharashtra (MH) registration numbers, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kamal-nath-terms-tax-raids-on-media-groups-bid-to-suppress-democracys-fourth-pillar-1011524.html
22-07-2021||National Politics||Lok Sabha proceedings adjourned till Friday amid Opposition uproar||The Lok Sabha proceedings were repeatedly adjourned on Thursday amid sloganeering by Opposition members over various issues, including three recent farm laws. When the House re-assembled at 4 pm after the repeated adjournments, the uproarious scenes continued even as Bhartruhari Mahtab, who was in the Chair, asked the protesting members to go back to their seats. However, the Opposition members did not relent, forcing the Chair to adjourn the proceedings for the day. The Lok Sabha will meet at 11 am on Friday. Earlier, the proceedings were adjourned thrice and the last adjournment was till 4 pm. The Opposition members raised slogans over a range of issues, including the Pegasus snooping row and demanding a rollback of the three farm fills.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lok-sabha-proceedings-adjourned-till-friday-amid-opposition-uproar-1011570.html
22-07-2021||National Politics||Pegasus snooping worse than Watergate scandal: Mamata Banerjee||Dubbing the Pegasus issue as “worse than the Watergate scandal”, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Thursday that it has created a situation in the country similar to the “imposition of super emergency.” She alleged that not only were the phones of judges, Opposition leaders and Ministers being tapped, but also the phones of some RSS leaders. “Pegasus is worse than the Watergate scandal. The situation in the country is like a super emergency. They (the BJP-led Government at the Centre) don’t even trust their own Ministers and officers. I have heard that they are even tapping the phones of some RSS leaders,” said Mamata. She was speaking to reporters at the state secretariat. The Chief Minister alleged that she was holding a meeting with the Trinamool Congress (TMC) national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, senior leader Subrata Bakshi and poll strategist Prashant Kishor at her south Kolkata party office and whatever was said in the meeting was recorded. “They (Centre) have tapped my phone and also those of Abhishek and Prashant Kishor. We will not be cowed down by such coercive tactics” said Mamata. Lashing out at the BJP for the Income Tax raids on the offices of the media group Dainik Bhaskar, the Chief Minister said that “it was being targeted because it boldly covered the issue of bodies of Covid-19 patients being dumped in the Ganges in Uttar Pradesh.” Mamata said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given her appointment and she will meet him during her trip to Delhi. She also said that she will meet leaders of other Opposition parties. Denying the allegation, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said that it is the Mamata Banerjee Government which uses the Pegasus software to spy on journalists, Opposition leaders and Government officers in the state. “Even the TMC leaders avoid using normal phone calls and SMSes as they know that their phones are being tapped. The BJP does not believe in the culture of phone tapping. It is the culture of the Congress where Mamata Banerjee started her political career,” said Ghosh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pegasus-snooping-worse-than-watergate-scandal-mamata-banerjee-1011578.html
22-07-2021||National Politics||Pegasus snooping story 'concocted, fabricated, evidence-less: BJP||The BJP on Thursday claimed that the story on the alleged snooping through Israeli spyware Pegasus is "concocted, fabricated and evidence-less" and that the new reports based on it call for "defamation". Union minister and BJP leader Meenakshi Lekhi cited reports to claim that Amnesty International, the human rights group associated with Pegasus Project, has denied the existence of a list of potential targets of the alleged snooping. Addressing a press conference at the BJP headquarters here, she alleged that the "fake" list is like a collection of mobile numbers drawn from yellow pages and those have been used for "yellow journalism". She was referring to news reports about the suspected snooping of people, including politicians and journalists, in India and several countries. Amnesty International, however, said in a statement that it "categorically stands" by the findings of the Pegasus Project and asserted that the data is irrefutably linked to potential targets of Israel-based NSO Group's Pegasus spyware. The comments by Amnesty International came after some media reports quoting a few Israeli journalists said that the human rights group has claimed that it never said that the recently leaked phone numbers were specifically a list of numbers targeted by Pegasus spyware. Lekhi told reporters that 10 countries have been named as places where this spyware was used and hit out at opposition parties, including the Congress and TMC, suggesting that rival parties other countries have not behaved the way they have in India. Opposition parties have stalled proceedings in Parliament, alleging the Modi government's involvement in the alleged snooping, following reports that nearly 300 mobile phone numbers including of journalists, activists, opposition leaders and even two ministers from India figured in this list of potential snooping targets by NSO which sells its Pegasus spyware only to "vetted" governments and government agencies. She claimed, "This is not a story. This is a non-starter across the globe because based on a concocted, fabricated, evidence-less story, nobody does story. Because that story itself calls for forgery and defamation. Leaked data is an offence and that leads to further complications for people who base their stories on leaked data. it only happens in India." "The published story is based on a list of numbers available in any directory. Second, Amnesty International has denied this. The company (NSO) which manufactures Pegasus has said that these claims are uncorroborated and do not tally with their customer base," she said.   Claiming that the Pegasus row is linked to the report of a parliamentary committee, which was headed by her and examined the Personal Data Protection Bill, she said it has been submitted to the Lok Sabha Speaker and is ready to be adopted by Parliament. "Data protection is going to become the law of the and. This is directly related to that. This is to undermine Indian institutions that such kinds of stories are being floated," she said. NSO, the Israeli firm behind the spyware, has denied such a list, Amnesty International has "denied" this and yet opposition is disrupting Parliament, she said, claiming that such a narrative is built repeatedly to damage India. The government is creating a "new ecosystem" to secure the data and rights of Indians, and the row is meant to damage it, she added.   "These kinds of stories are floated to undermine Indian institutions and stop data protection that is set to become the law of the land. This is to desensitize the public about the credibility of the structures and to malign the image of our country," Lekhi alleged. Asked about the opposition's query if the government has used the spyware, she said any such security information is classified as the government has to deal with terrorists and Maoists. "I cannot tell you about what software I am working with. It will amount to assisting terrorists. The Congress should first clarify if it is with terrorists," she said. Asked if the previous government might have bought it, she said these things are "beyond her pay grade". The onus to prove is on those who have created such a list, she said in reply to another question. The BJP leader also condemned the opposition for snatching papers from Communications and Information Technology Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw in Rajya Sabha and tearing them when he was about to make a statement on the alleged snooping row. The Congress and the TMC have "stooped" to a new low, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pegasus-snooping-story-concocted-fabricated-evidence-less-bjp-1011590.html
22-07-2021||National Politics||Govt to seek action against opposition members over 'misbehaviour' in RS: Sources||The government will seek action against some Opposition MPs who allegedly misbehaved with the treasury bench members in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday after a TMC MP snatched papers from Information Technology Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw and tore those as he was about to make a statement on the alleged snooping row. Government sources said some Opposition MPs "misbehaved" with the treasury bench members, including a minister, even after the House was adjourned. "We are approaching the Rajya Sabha chairman seeking action against them as their behaviour is a blow to parliamentary decorum," a Union minister, who did not wish to be named, said. Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Shantanu Sen snatched papers from Vaishnaw after TMC, Congress and other opposition party members, who had earlier forced two adjournments of the proceedings in the Rajya Sabha, rushed into the well of the House as the minister was called to make a statement on the Pegasus snooping row. Government sources said Leader of the House in Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal and his deputy Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi reached out to the Opposition members and assured them that the minister will reply to their queries after he makes his statement, but in vain. With Vaishnaw not able to read out the complete statement, it was laid on the table and the House was adjourned. However, the situation remained tense in the House as the two sides engaged in heated exchanges. Sen alleged that Union minister Hardeep Puri verbally abused him in the Upper House of Parliament and was on the verge of physically assaulting him before he was rescued by his colleagues. Puri has so far not commented on the issue. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has described the opposition conduct as a "new low" in Parliament.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-to-seek-action-against-opposition-members-over-misbehaviour-in-rs-sources-1011624.html
22-07-2021||National Politics||TMC MP Shantanu Sen accuses Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri of verbally abusing him in Rajya Sabha||Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Shantanu Sen on Thursday alleged that Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri abused him in the Rajya Sabha and was on the verge of physically assaulting him before he was rescued by colleagues. Sen, who snatched papers from Communications and Information Technology Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw in the Rajya Sabha and tore them as he was making a statement on the snooping issue, claimed that Puri even rudely gesticulated at him. Puri has so far not reacted on the issue. "The union minister (Puri) threatened and abused me. He was about to assault me when my other colleagues came to my rescue," alleged Sen at a press conference. Narrating the sequence of events as it unfolded in the Rajya Sabha, TMC Chief Whip Sukhendu Sekhar Ray alleged that the Union communications and information technology minister's statement was full of lies. He said minutes after Sen snatched the paper from the minister's hands, Vaishnaw was handed over another copy and he continued to read. Soon after, the House was adjourned but not before the statement was tabled and considered as read. "The minister's statement was full of contradictions and white lies. So one of our members snatched and tore it," TMC Chief Whip Sukhendu Sekhar Ray said. The TMC alleged that after the House was adjourned and the live transmission was stopped, Union Minister Puri gesticulated at Sen ordering him to approach him. "I was gheraoed by the BJP MPs," Sen alleged.   Union Minister Meenakshi Lekhi condemned the conduct of opposition members in the Rajya Sabha and said it was a "new low" in India's parliamentary democracy. Meanwhile, the TMC maintained that it would continue to obstruct Parliament proceedings till the government agrees to a "structured discussion" on the issue of snooping using Israeli spyware Pegasus. TMC's Parliamentary party leader Derek O'Brien said not the Union IT minister, but Prime Minister Narendra Modi should reply to the opposition's questions. "Our straightforward question is, did you or did you not use the Pegasus spyware? We will not allow them to sweep the issue under the carpet," he said. TMC Chairperson and West Bengal Chief Minister, Mamata Banerjee is expected to be in Delhi by the evening of July 26 and is scheduled to meet opposition leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-mp-shantanu-sen-accuses-union-minister-hardeep-singh-puri-of-verbally-abusing-him-in-rajya-sabha-1011627.html
22-07-2021||National Politics||Making noise, tearing papers in Parliament TMC culture: J P Nadda||BJP president J P Nadda on Thursday slammed TMC members for snatching papers from Union minister Ashwini Vaishnaw in Rajya Sabha and tearing them, saying their conduct was against democratic values and condemnable. "TMC has a long history of working against the dignity of Parliament. Making noise, tearing papers are their culture. The BJP strongly opposes this," he tweeted. A Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP snatched papers from Communications and Information Technology Minister Vaishnaw in Rajya Sabha on Thursday and tore those as the minister was about to make a statement on the alleged snooping row using Israeli spyware Pegasus. Nadda also accused the opposition of creating "obstacles" in the country's development journey by disrupting Parliament to "save" its political existence. "Indian Parliament is a great temple of democracy whose every moment is dedicated to the service and development of the people of the country. But the opposition is creating obstacles in the development journey of the country by continuously disrupting Parliament's functioning just to save its political existence. This is an insult to democracy," he tweeted. Parliament's Monsoon session has been little transaction of business due to relentless protests by opposition parties over a host of issues, including the Pegasus snooping row and price rise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/making-noise-tearing-papers-in-parliament-tmc-culture-j-p-nadda-1011686.html
22-07-2021||National Politics||No substance in Pegasus snooping allegation: IT Minister Vaishnaw||IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on Thursday said there is no substance behind the sensationalism of alleged use of spyware Pegasus to compromise phone data and privacy of important personalities including journalists and activists. In a statement which laid in Rajya Sabha on “Alleged use of spyware Pegasus to compromise phone data of some persons as reported in Media on 18th July 2021,” the Minister said, “when we look at this issue through the prism of logic, it clearly emerges that there is no substance behind this sensationalism.” “The publisher of the report states that it cannot say if the numbers in the published list were under surveillance. The company whose technology was allegedly used has denied these claims outrightly,” he said. “The time-tested processes in our country are well-established to ensure that unauthorised surveillance does not occur,” he said. In the past, similar claims were made regarding the use of Pegasus on WhatsApp. Those reports had no factual basis and were categorically denied by all parties, including in the Supreme Court. The press reports of 18th July, 2021 also appear to be an attempt to malign the Indian democracy and its well established institutions, he said. The minister also said “NSO has also said that the list of countries shown using Pegasus is incorrect and many countries mentioned are not even our clients. It also said that most of its clients are western countries. It is evident that NSO has also clearly rubbished the claims in the report."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-substance-in-pegasus-snooping-allegation-it-minister-vaishnaw-1011717.html
22-07-2021||National Politics||Rahul became a target as he raised issues uncomfortable to Centre: Congress||Pegasus is the new Congress 'astra' to corner the government even as the BJP said the story on the alleged snooping through Israeli spyware Pegasus is "concocted, fabricated and evidence-less". With Rahul Gandhi's name among those having been potentially snooped on, the grand old party is portraying that he is a "target" for raising issues uncomfortable to the government. Pradesh Congress Committees in over a dozen states held a protest march to Raj Bhavans, seeking an impartial Supreme Court-monitored enquiry into the episode and demanding the resignation of Home Minister Amit Shah over the alleged illegal phone surveillance. Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee (DPCC) president Chaudhary Anil Kumar on Wednesday demanded a Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) probe into the matter while claiming that Rahul became a "target" of the ruling government as he has been constantly "raising uncomfortable issues" such as corruption in the Rafale deal, ongoing farmers' agitation and mismanagement of the Covid pandemic. Haryana PCC chief Kumari Selja also made the same claim. UP Congress attempted to take out a silent march and submit a memorandum against the alleged spying on Gandhi. Marches and protests were held at Jammu, Jaipur, Kolkata, Vijayawada, Patna, Ranchi, Bengaluru, Chandigarh, Mumbai,  Hyderabad, Chennai, Thiruvananthapuram, Raipur, Lucknow and Dehradun. The party has also been organising press conferences in all PCCs to register protest and highlight the issue in the media in the last two days. Gandhi himself sought to amplify the message of the alleged snooping with tweets like, "We know what he’s been reading- everything on your phone! #Pegasus". A gleaning of the statements of agitating Congress leaders give an inkling of how Congress is seeking to build a nationwide campaign around it and also use it to burnish the image of its leader, Rahul. "There is tremendous outrage amongst Congress leaders and workers against the report of the tapping of phones of former Congress President Rahul Gandhi," the AICC said. The party, which has frequently been targeted by the BJP dispensation on clamping the rights of the Press during Emergency, has also highlighted how journalists are also on the snooping list and also hit out at the government on the issue of the IT raid on Dainik Bhaskar. Rahul also tweeted with the hashtag #RaidOnFreePress saying that "writing the truth on paper with ink is enough to frighten a weak government".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-became-a-target-as-he-raised-issues-uncomfortable-to-centre-congress-1011718.html
22-07-2021||National Politics||Do you expect me to tell what tech I'm using against terrorists: Meenakshi Lekhi on Pegasus row||Amid demands from the opposition to come clear on the Pegasus revelations, BJP on Thursday wondered how the opposition expected the Modi government to place classified documents in the public domain. “When I have to deal with terrorists, leftists and maoists, do you expect me to tell you what software I am using,” BJP spokesperson and Union Minister Meenakshi Lekhi said responding to a question at a press conference. “These are classified documents. Will classified documents be placed in the public domain with a sticker on it so that people can find a way around it,” Lekhi asked. The BJP spokesperson said that the onus of proving the veracity of the Pegasus revelations was with those levelling them and not the government. “How can we give evidence? Onus is on the person who made the list. Onus is not on me,” she said. Lekhi claimed that the story on the alleged snooping through Israeli spyware Pegasus was “concocted, fabricated and evidence-less” and that the news reports based on it call for "defamation". She cited reports to claim that Amnesty International, the human rights group associated with Pegasus Project, has denied the existence of a list of potential targets of the alleged snooping. The “fake” list is like a collection of mobile numbers drawn from yellow pages and those have been used for “yellow journalism”, Lekhi said. Amnesty International, however, said in a statement that it “categorically stands” by the findings of the Pegasus Project and asserted that the data is irrefutably linked to potential targets of Israel-based NSO Group's Pegasus spyware. Lekhi claimed that the Pegasus row was linked to the Personal Data Protection Bill, which was set to become the law of the land soon. “Data protection is going to become the law of the and this is directly related to that. This is to undermine Indian institutions that such kinds of stories are being floated,” she said. The government is creating a “new ecosystem” to secure the data and rights of Indians, and the row is meant to damage it, she added. “These kinds of stories are floated to undermine Indian institutions and stop data protection that is set to become the law of the land. This is to desensitize the public about the credibility of the structures and to malign the image of our country," Lekhi alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/do-you-expect-me-to-tell-what-tech-im-using-against-terrorists-meenakshi-lekhi-on-pegasus-row-1011725.html
22-07-2021||National Politics||Congress rejigs Uttarakhand unit: Harish Rawat to be CM face, Ganesh Godiyal new party chief||After anointing Navjot Sidhu as Punjab PCC chief, Congress on Thursday carried out a re-haul of its party unit in poll-bound Uttarakhand, naming Ganesh Godiyal as PCC president, outgoing state chief Pritam Singh as CLP leader and appointing Harish Rawat as Chairperson of the Campaign Committee, making it clear that the former Chief Minister is the CM face of the party. While in Punjab, Sidhu's appointment was done ignoring the objections of Captain Amarinder Singh, Rawat has, by and large, got a team of his choice in the dissension-ridden party unit of Uttarakhand.  Post-Covid health complications, there was dithering in the party on whether to give Rawat the sole leadership role in the state. Rawat was reportedly against Pritam Singh or Kishore Upadhyaye becoming PCC chief and he had his way.  The party feels that Rawat is still the best bet to take on the BJP in the state. Another Thakur leader Pritam Singh, a four-term MLA has been given the CLP leader's post, which was lying vacant after the death of Indira Hridayesh, a prominent Brahmin leader in the state. Her son Sumit Hridayesh has now been appointed chairman of the Publicity Committee. In the Brahmin Thakur dominated Uttarakhand politics, the party has tried to do a balancing act by representing both by naming Rawat, a Thakur as CM face, and Godiyal a Brahmin leader from the Garhwal region as PCC chief. Rawat hails from Kumaon region, which the BJP has targeted this time by appointing Pushkar Singh Dhami from the same region as Chief Minister and making Ajay Bhatt a Union Minister. Of the 70 assembly seats in the state Garhwal has 41 and Kumaon has 29. In the last state polls, BJP had won 57 seats-34 from Garhwal and 23 from Kumaon. Hence both Godiyal and Rawat have a tough challenge this time. Congress President Sonia Gandhi also constituted the Campaign Committee, Coordination Committee, Manifesto Committee and Core Committee for the poll-bound states. Senior party leader Pradeep Tamta has been made Vice President of the Campaign Committee while Dinesh Agrawal has been named its convenor. On the pattern of recent appointments in Punjab and Andhra Pradesh, the party appointed four Working Presidents-- former MLA Jeet Ram, Bhuwan Kapri, Tilak Raj Behar and Ranjit Rawat, giving representation to different social groups in the BJP-ruled state that goes to polls in nine months. Aryendra Sharma has been made party treasurer. The Uttarakhand Congress Core Committee will be chaired by AICC in-charge Devendra Yadav, and will have 16 members, including newly-appointed state party chief Dinesh Godiyal, Pritam Singh and Harish Rawat. Former Uttarakhand PCC chief Kishore Upadhyay has been appointed chairman of the Uttarakhand Coordination Committee of the Congress, while former minister Navprabhat will be chairman of the Manifesto Committee. Former MP Mahendra Pal will be its vice chairman. Several senior leaders have found a place in the 11-member committee, while former AICC secretary Prakash Joshi has been appointed as the new chairman of Uttarakhand PCC Election Management Committee and Rajinder Bhandari its vice chairman. Sarojani Kainthura as its vice chairperson. Uttarakhand PCC vice president Dhirendra Pratap Singh has been made the chairman of the Outreach Committee, while Vijay Saraswat will be the new chairman of the Training Programme Committee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-rejigs-uttarakhand-unit-harish-rawat-to-be-cm-face-ganesh-godiyal-new-party-chief-1011729.html
22-07-2021||North and Central||DPCC chief demands JPC probe into 'snooping' row||Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee (DPCC) President Anil Kumar Chaudhary on Wednesday demanded a Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) probe into the alleged use of Israeli spyware, Pegasus, to snoop on at least 300 phone numbers, including those of opposition leaders, activists and journalists. He also claimed that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, whose name is also in the list of possible targets of surveillance, became a "target" of the ruling government as he has been constantly "raising uncomfortable issues" such as corruption in the Rafale deal, ongoing farmers' agitation and mismanagement of the Covid pandemic. "The Modi government should come clean on the issue through a JPC probe," said Kumar during a press conference at the DPCC office. Kumar also questioned the silence of Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on the alleged snooping of phones of opposition leaders and other prominent citizens. "The Kejriwal-led government's survival depends on BJP government's gratuitousness, whether it is for getting free oxygen supply, free Covid vaccine doses, hospital beds, managing the pandemic, and other aspects of governance," he claimed. An international media consortium reported Sunday that over 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including of two ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders and one sitting judge besides scores of businesspersons and activists in India could have been targeted for hacking through the spyware.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dpcc-chief-demands-jpc-probe-into-snooping-row-1011345.html
22-07-2021||North and Central||Security beefed up at Jantar Mantar in view of farmers' protest||Security at Jantar Mantar in central Delhi has been tightened in view of a protest by farmers against the Centre's agri laws on Thursday amid the Monsoon Session of Parliament, officials said. Adequate security arrangements have been made and police and paramilitary personnel deployed, they said. Jantar Mantar is a few metres away from the Parliament House where the Monsoon Session is underway. A group of 200 farmers will travel to Jantar Mantar from their Singhu border demonstration site in buses with a police escort and hold protest there from 11 am to 5 pm. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions which has been spearheading the protest against the three farm laws, has been asked to give an undertaking that all Covid-19 norms would be followed and the stir would be peaceful. This is the first time since the violence in the national capital during a tractor rally on January 26 that the authorities have granted permission to the protesting farmer unions to hold a demonstration in the city. Thousands of farmers from across the country have been agitating at three Delhi border points -- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur -- against the three farm laws that they claim will do away with the minimum support price system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations. Over 10 rounds of talks with the government, which has been projecting the laws at major agricultural reforms, have failed to break the deadlock between the two sides.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/security-beefed-up-at-jantar-mantar-in-view-of-farmers-protest-1011398.html
22-07-2021||North and Central||SC cancels bail to Madhya Pradesh BSP MLA Rambai Singh's husband in murder case||The Supreme Court on Thursday cancelled the bail granted to a Madhya Pradesh BSP MLA's husband in the murder case of Congress leader Devendra Chourasia. Observing that an effort was being made to shield the accused from the administration of justice, the apex court directed transfer of the BSP MLA Rambai Singh's husband Govind Singh to another jail under directions of the DGP to ensure fair criminal proceedings. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah set aside the order of the Madhya Pradesh High Court granting bail and said the HC misapplied legal principles. The bench said a clear cancellation of bail was established and the high court committed a grievous error in granting bail to the accused. The top court also directed that an enquiry into the apprehension expressed by the Additional Session Judge be conducted within a month. The judge had noted in his February 8 order that he was “pressured” by the Damoh SP and his subordinates.   On March 28, Singh, who was absconding, was arrested by the police after the top court had given a deadline to the Madhya Pradesh Director General of Police on April 5 to arrest him or face coercive action. On March 26, the top court had observed that an effort was made to shield the accused after the DGP had said that despite the order of the court, police were not able to apprehend or arrest him. The apex court's judgment came on pleas by Somesh, son of Chaurasia, and the state government seeking cancellation of bail granted to Singh. The pleas claimed he was involved in several murder cases while on bail. Chaurasia was killed in March 2019 after he joined the Congress. The police had then registered a murder case against Singh and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-cancels-bail-to-madhya-pradesh-bsp-mla-rambai-singhs-husband-in-murder-case-1011447.html
22-07-2021||North and Central||Smog tower to help Delhi breathe but experts sceptical||A new attempt at purifying New Delhi's notoriously polluted air will see forty giant fans push out filtered air in the heart of the Indian capital's posh downtown shopping district. But the $2 million (more than Rs 14 cr) "smog tower" has no shortage of doubters who say it will not help a city notorious for some of the world's dirtiest air. The 25-metre (82 foot) high tower is meant to filter air over a one square kilometre radius around the swanky shops and cafes in Connaught Place. The neighbourhood's British colonial-era buildings are hit by a grey-yellow smog every winter. "Smog is an annual phenomenon because of particulate matter. So we are (trying) to contain this," said Anwar Ali Khan, who is in charge of the project. The engineer added the objective is to eliminate up to 50 percent of the most deadly PM2.5 particles from the air. The city has said more towers could be built if this experiment works. Delhi's chief minister Arvind Kejriwal once called the Indian capital a "gas chamber" because of its intense pollution. Experts say that while smog towers may work they are just a pinprick against the relentless foe of car and truck fumes, construction dirt, industrial emissions and the agricultural stubble burning that engulf the city of more than 20 million. "Installing smog towers has never been, and will never be a solution," Sunil Dahiya, an analyst with the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air, told AFP. "If we really, really want to address pollution, it has to be addressed at the source." Dahiya added the tower will be powered by regular grid-based electricity with more than 70 percent of India's electricity coming from coal. "So we will only be adding to pollution elsewhere in the country." China built a 60-metre high smog tower in the badly polluted city of Xian, but the experiment has not spread to other cities. Delhi's attempts to halve the number of cars allowed on the city's roads have not had much success. "Every government claims that they're working to reduce pollution but we don't see the results," Delhi resident Pradeep Kumar told AFP. Engineers hope to complete the smog tower by August 15, when India celebrates its independence day. More mega purifiers are already in the works in Delhi and Bangalore. "The objective is not to clear entire Delhi's air, it is to create special zones where people can breathe," Ali, the engineer, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/smog-tower-to-help-delhi-breathe-but-experts-sceptical-1011449.html
22-07-2021||North and Central||200 farmers reach Jantar Mantar to protest farm laws amid Parliament session; BJP calls them 'rowdies'||Farmers, protesting against three agriculture laws, on Thursday started a sit-in protest near parliament, renewing their push for repeal of the laws, even as Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar made a fresh bid for restarting talks. A group of 200 farmers were escorted in buses from their protest sites on Delhi's borders to the heart of the capital even as opposition leader raised their demands for rollback of the agricultural reforms in Parliament. While Tomar made the customary offer for talks for amending the farm laws to address the concerns of farmers, the BJP launched a sharp attack on the protestors calling them “rowdies”. Farmers have rejected the offer for amending the three laws and insisted on repeal. “Please stop calling them farmers. The real farmers are tilling their fields. These are people acting on behalf of conspirators. Farmers do not have time to protest at Jantar Mantar. These are people instigated by middlemen. They are 'mawali' (rowdies),” BJP spokesperson and Union Minister of State for Culture Meenakshi Lekhi said. The 200 farmers, wearing identification badges and carrying flags of their unions, travelled to Jantar Mantar from their border protest sites in four buses with a police escort. Upon reaching Jantar Mantar, the farmers raised slogans, pumping their fists in the air, and demanded that the government scrap the three laws. However, they were restricted to a small section of Jantar Mantar with police putting up barricades on both sides. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the umbrella organisation coordinating the farmers' protests, said 20 MPs from Kerala visited the farmers' parliament and expressed solidarity with them. Farmer leaders say 200 farmers will come to the protest site everyday till August 13 to discuss the three laws clause by clause at the 'Kisan Sansad' at Jantar Mantar. Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal had given special permission for the protests by a maximum of 200 farmers at Jantar Mantar, a few metres from the Parliament Complex, till August 9. This is the first time since the violence in the national capital during a tractor rally on January 26 that the authorities have granted permission to the protesting farmer unions to hold a demonstration in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/200-farmers-reach-jantar-mantar-to-protest-farm-laws-amid-parliament-session-bjp-calls-them-rowdies-1011465.html
22-07-2021||North and Central||Protesting farmer leaders say they suspect govt snooping on them||Farmer leaders protesting against the Centre's contentious farm laws on Thursday said they suspect that they were being snooped on by the government using Israeli software Pegasus. "It is an unethical government. We suspect that our numbers are also on list of those being snooped on," farmer leader Shiv Kumar Kakka said. "The government is behind the snooping. That's clear and the issue is gaining traction. We know that they are keeping an eye on us too," he alleged. Swaraj India president Yogendra Yadav said the phone numbers of farmer leaders will figure in the data of the year 2020-21. "When this data will be made public, our numbers will be there, of course," he told PTI. The protesting farmers have come to Jantar Mantar to prove to the government that they are not fools, Yadav said, adding that the UK parliament debated their issues but not the Indian Parliament. Addressing a press conference, Yadav pressed for a debate on the issues raised by the farmers protesting against the central legislations. Another farmer union leader, Hannan Mollah, said they had written to all MPs to raise their demands, but alleged that Parliament was not taking up their issues. A group of 200 farmers reached Jantar Mantar in central Delhi on Thursday to protest against the Centre's three contentious farm laws as the Monsoon session of Parliament was underway. Police threw a ring of security around central Delhi and kept a tight vigil on the movement of vehicles. Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal has given special permission for demonstration by a maximum of 200 farmers at Jantar Mantar, a few metres from the Parliament Complex, till August 9.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/protesting-farmer-leaders-say-they-suspect-govt-snooping-on-them-1011509.html
22-07-2021||North and Central||I-T department raids Uttar Pradesh news channel 'Bharat Samachar'||Income tax sleuths on Thursday raided the offices of 'Bharat Samachar', an Uttar Pradesh-based news channel. According to sources, the I-T sleuths also raided the residences of the channel's chief editor Brijesh Mishra, its state head Virendra Singh and other employees. Sources said that raids were also conducted on members of the channel's board, in Jaunpur and Basti districts in the state. The Channel said that I-T teams raided its office at Hazratganj area in Lucknow in the morning. Simultaneous raids were conducted on Mishra's residence at Vipul Khand in Gomti Nagar area and its state head Virendra Singh's residence at Janakipuram area in the city. While Mishra termed the raids 'persecution', several opposition leaders also slammed the IT raids and termed them an attempt to muzzle the voices which 'exposed' the alleged misdeeds of the BJP governments at the Centre and in the state. ''The channel is being punished for showing the truth and exposing the BJP,'' said former UP minister and president of the Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP) Om Prakash Rajbhar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/i-t-department-raids-uttar-pradesh-news-channel-bharat-samachar-1011529.html
22-07-2021||North and Central||Agencies doing their job without interference: Anurag Thakur on media house raids||As the Income Tax department carried out multi-city raids against two media organisations on Thursday, Union minister Anurag Thakur said the agencies are doing their work and there is no interference in it. He also asserted that "one should take complete information and in its absence sometimes many issues come up that are far from the truth..." The Information and Broadcasting Minister was responding to a question on the opposition Congress' charge that the raids were intended to throttle the voice of democracy. "Agencies are doing their own work and there is no interference...One should take complete information and in its absence sometimes many issues come up that are far from the truth..," he told reporters at a cabinet briefing. The Income Tax department conducted multi-city raids against two prominent media groups -- Dainik Bhaskar and Bharat Samachar -- on charges of tax evasion, official sources said. The searches against Dainik Bhaskar are being conducted in Bhopal, Jaipur, Ahmedabad, Noida and some other locations in the country. The premises of the Uttar Pradesh-based news channel Bharat Samachar and its promoters and staffers were raided in Lucknow, they said. There was no official word from the Income Tax Department or its policy-making body, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), on the raids. These raids triggered a widespread criticism, including from the opposition parties with Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala earlier accusing the government of attacking the freedom of the press and throttling the voice of democracy through these raids. "Raid-jeevi ji, Cowardly attack on the freedom of the Press! Income tax raids on Dainik Bhaskar's Bhopal, Jaipur and Ahmedabad offices now. You cannot suppress the voice of democracy with "Raid Raj"," he tweeted in Hindi using the hashtag "#RaidOnFreePress". कितना और गला घोटेंगे मीडिया का ? कितनी और दबिश मानेगा मीडिया ? कब तक सच पर सत्ता की बेड़ियाँ रहेंगी ? आज यह देख अथाह दुःख हुआ कि TV के साथी आज भी दैनिक भास्कर-भारत समाचार पर “रेड राज” के ख़िलाफ़ डिबेट नही करवा रहे ? "How much more will you strangle the media? How much more pressure will the media accept? How long will the powers-that-be fetter the truth," he also said in another tweet, questioning why the TV is still not debating the issue. "No pressures...now the flood of truth will come," Surjewala said. Another Congress leader Kapil Sibal tweeted, "Bhaskar Group published two days ago scathing piece on phone tapping and snooping and also referred to a past incident in Gujarat. IT raids in Ahmadabad , Bhopal etc. Aap chronology samajhiye."  Bhaskar Group Published two days ago scathing piece on phone tapping and snooping and also referred to a past incident in Gujarat IT raids in Ahmadabad , Bhopal etc Aap chronology samajhiye !||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/agencies-doing-their-job-without-interference-anurag-thakur-on-media-house-raids-1011536.html
22-07-2021||North and Central||Unlikely to cancel bail of students activists: SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday indicated that it was very unlikely that it would be persuaded on both, cancellation of bail to student activists and the interpretation of UAPA provisions by the Delhi High Court. The court also noted that it is troubled by the lengthy judgment of the High Court discussing the provisions of law and giving its interpretation, which was unwarranted. The student activists, Devangana Kalita, Natasha Narwal and Asif Iqbal Tanha were arrested in a case of larger conspiracy related to the northeast Delhi riots last year, which claimed the lives of 53 people and left hundreds injured. Holding that prima facie, no offence was made out against the activists under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, the High Court on June 15 said there cannot be blurring of line between the right to protest and terrorist activity by the State in its anxiety to suppress dissent. On June 18, the top court directed the HC's judgement can't be treated as a precedent but declined to interfere with the release of accused. On Thursday, taking up a plea by the Delhi government against the bail order, a bench presided over by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, "One is the issue of bail, and one is the interpretation done in the bail proceeding. This is the question I am seeking to propose... you want them in custody?" "We are on both the issues. We will try to convince you on both the points," Mehta replied. The bench said, "Very unlikely, but you can try." The top court also made it clear that it won't grant several hours, during hearing, to complete arguments in the matter. During the hearing, the bench said one is the issue of bail, and another is the issue of observations, and we don't understand this political matter. Mehta replied, "This is not a political matter." Justice Kaul responded, "Don't make me lose my patience. You are not letting me speak. I am only trying to segregate the matter...Should I adjourn the hearing for 6 months?" Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, representing the student activists, sought time to file response in the matter. "The charge sheet runs into 20,000 pages. In the meantime, allow the pen drive to be filed. Otherwise, we will not be able to argue the matter," Sibal said. After hearing arguments, the top court adjourned the matter by four weeks. On June 18, the top court had expressed dissatisfaction with Delhi High Court's 100-page judgment granting bail to three student-activists. The court had then directed that the Delhi High Court orders on bail won't be treated as a precedent and won't be relied upon by any parties before any court, and also declined to interfere with the release of the three accused in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/unlikely-to-cancel-bail-of-students-activists-sc-1011545.html
22-07-2021||North and Central||One killed, 35 hurt as Delhi-bound bus overturns in UP||One passenger was killed and 35 others injured when a private bus, travelling from Patna to Delhi, overturned after hitting the divider on the Agra-Lucknow expressway in the early hours of Thursday, an official said. The accident took place on the expressway in Saifai area apparently after the bus driver dozed off at the wheel and lost control of the vehicle, Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) N Ram said. The injured have been admitted to the trauma centre of the Saifai Medical College, the SDM said, adding all the passengers on the bus originally hail from Bihar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-killed-35-hurt-as-delhi-bound-bus-overturns-in-up-1011563.html
22-07-2021||North and Central||Dip in locals joining terror groups, more efforts needed to check unfortunate trend: J&K DGP||Director General of Police of Jammu and Kashmir Dilbag Singh has said that though the number of local youths joining terror groups has fallen from 85 to 69 this year, the "unfortunate trend" continues to a certain extent and that more efforts from the society and agencies are needed to check it. Singh highlighted the efforts of the police force to combat militancy and said Jammu and Kashmir has seen an overall decline in terrorism after the police cracked down on the network of Over Ground Workers (OGWs) by detaining 417 of them over a period of time. "That is an unfortunate trend as I see some amount of recruitment is taking place. It is 69 to be precise. But then if you compare it with the same period of previous year it was 85. You see a declining trend here but the fact is that certain recruitment is taking place. We are trying to address this problem by targeting the people who are responsible for luring the youth and radicalization of the youth,” he told PTI here. Singh, a 1987-batch IPS officer, said the police have succeeded to an extent in targeting "such elements" who were responsible for luring the youth into terrorism. "But much more is required to be done from within the society and some other agencies which must be dealing with THE youth to see that they are away from the path of destruction and they are brought back to the positive activity and engagement. So, therefore, all concerned agencies of the government have to engage our vulnerable youth positively (and) more efforts are required to be put in," he said. Without sharing details, Singh said there have been some heartening developments in this regard when a "very sizable number" of youths who had left their homes to join terrorist groups were brought back. "Their number is 30 and they have since joined their families back...public faith in police is very heartening, anybody missing, public is reporting to police, especially parents reporting to police simultaneously to help them get their wards back is a very healthy trend," he said. "I assure that if they come back, there will be no harm done to them, they will be happily reunited with their families," he said. He said surrender appeals have even been made during live encounters. "That experiment has also been very successful...over a dozen people came out...the boys were grateful especially when they came out and told their stories...how they were lured into and made to be part of the terror outfits which they never wanted to. They were actually coerced into joining terror activities," he said. On recent attacks in Srinagar city, Singh admitted that terrorists have been trying to gain their foothold in the city "but we have been able to decimate their plans. Whosoever comes and sets up his base in the city, he is targeted sooner or later." He said police carried out 17 encounters last year within the city and this year also nearly 3 to 4 encounters have taken place. "So, we are getting information about people and we are going after them. Very soon you will be hearing about another solid operation in Srinagar city," he said. The police chief said the number of terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir has fallen from 300-plus to nearly 200. "Within the 200, there are some foreign elements. So, the figure stands at 190-195 out of which we have 60 to 70 foreign terrorists," he said. "As I see, the situation is much better as compared to the previous years". Only 84 incidents have taken place as compared to 120 in the corresponding period last year. It shows a decline of 30 per cent. "Similarly, when we talk of law-and-order situation, 48 incidents have taken place as compared to 100 incidents in the period of last year which shows a decline of 52 per cent for which we feel much satisfied with it," he said. "I am glad to say that there is no single casualty during the course of our operations. Our counter-terror operations have been very neat and clean," he said. Singh said the anti-terror operations were to strengthen "our efforts to augment an environment of peace and get rid of the fear from the minds of people that has been created by terrorists and their stooges and associates." "We are trying to keep the pace...despite the Covid challenges, we have tried to carry out a large number of operations. Over 34 operations have been carried out during the current year while 83 terrorists have been killed during this year which included around half-a-dozen foreign terrorists." He said apart from this, security forces have have been able "to strike at their terror network, OGW network, and the network which sustains the ecosystem of militancy, of terror funding by various means."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dip-in-locals-joining-terror-groups-more-efforts-needed-to-check-unfortunate-trend-jk-dgp-1011568.html
22-07-2021||North and Central||UP govt clears illegal Rohingya camps from its land in Delhi||The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday got a piece of its land allegedly encroached by Rohingya refugees in Delhi cleared, according to officials. The 2.10 hectare land estimated worth Rs 97 crore lies in Madan Khadar area of the national capital near Noida and belongs to the Irrigation Department of UP, the officials said. UP Jal Shakti Minister Mahendra Singh, who instructed the removal of the encroachment, shared a video of the early morning action on social media. "Illegal Rohingya camps removed from the land belonging to the Irrigation Department in Madanpur Khadar at 4 am. Illegal occupants removed from the 2.10 hectare land of the UP Irrigation Department," Singh tweeted. दिल्ली में फिर से चला योगी का बुल्डोजर, योगी सरकार की दिल्ली में बड़ी कार्यवाही, मदनपुर खादर में सुबह 4 बजे ही कार्यवाही कर सिंचाई विभाग की भूमि पर अवैध कब्जे से रोहंगिया केम्पों को हटाया गया एवं अवैध कब्जे तोड़े गए Officials involved in Thursday's anti-encroachment drive said a team of the UP government had held a meeting with the Delhi administration on July 20 during which this action was planned. PTI KIS CK||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-govt-clears-illegal-rohingya-camps-from-its-land-in-delhi-1011569.html
22-07-2021||North and Central||No urgency on pleas against WhatsApp privacy policy as it won't transfer data to Facebook says Delhi HC||There is no urgency now in hearing pleas challenging WhatsApp's new privacy policy as the instant messaging platform has already made a statement that it would “not transfer data” to Facebook till the personal data protection bill is finalised, the Delhi High Court said on Thursday. The US-based firm also informed the high court that for the time being it would not block the accounts of those not accepting the privacy policy. A Bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh said that in view of the firm's stand it would hear the pleas on August 27. “They have made a statement that till the personal data protection bill is not finalised, they will not transfer. There is another matter before this court in which they have made the statement. This is not so urgent now,” the court said. Senior Advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for WhatsApp, told the court that as per his client's stand the accounts of those not accepting the new policy will not be deleted for the time being. “We said we will not block,” Sibal stated. Senior Advocate Vivek Sood, appearing for one of the petitioners - Harsha Gupta, highlighted that even if the 2021 policy is kept on hold, data can still be transferred under the pre-2021 policy. “Let them make a statement that they will not transfer data,” Sood asked the court. Advocate Manohar Lal, appearing for another petitioner – Chaitanya Rohilla - submitted that his grievance did not pertain to the personal messages sent over the platform but the meta data which is shared with Facebook. Meghan, a lawyer who has challenged the policy along with two other persons, also raised issues with respect to the privacy of users. “All right, we are considering. There is no use of (WhatsApp) making statement again and again,” the court stated. On July 9, when the court was hearing a plea by WhatsApp and Facebook against probe by Competition Commission of India into its privacy policy, the instant messaging platform had told the court that till the data protection bill came into force, it would not compel users to opt for its new privacy policy as it has been put on hold. "Commitment is that I will do nothing till the Parliament's law comes in. If Parliament allows it, I will have it. If it doesn't, bad luck... I've taken it off till the Parliament makes a law. Either we fit in or we don't," Senior Advocate Harish Salve, appearing for WhatsApp had said. The Personal Data Protection Bill seeks to regulate the use of individual's data by the government and private companies. The Joint Committee of Parliament examining the Bill has been given extension till the monsoon session to submit its report. Rohilla, who was the first to challenge the privacy policy, has contended that the updated privacy policy violates users' right to privacy under the Constitution and they can either accept it or exit the app, but they cannot opt not to share their data with other Facebook-owned or third party apps. The plea has claimed that the new privacy policy of WhatsApp allowed full access into a user's online activity without there being any supervision by the government. In its response, WhatsApp claimed that the new policy did not affect a user's privacy as personal messages continued to be protected by end-to-end encryption. WhatsApp has also challenged the maintainability of the writ petitions against it. Central government, on the other hand, had earlier contended that the platform was trying to force its users to consent to the new privacy policy before the data protection bill becomes the law and was obtaining "trick consent" and urged the court to restrain WhatsApp from implementing its new privacy policy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-urgency-on-pleas-against-whatsapp-privacy-policy-as-it-wont-transfer-data-to-facebook-says-delhi-hc-1011572.html
22-07-2021||North and Central||Mayawati seeks to revive 'social engineering' formula to capture power in Uttar Pradesh||Battling desertions and expulsions, and striving hard to remain politically relevant in Uttar Pradesh, BSP supremo Mayawati has returned to her tested success formula of ''social engineering'', which sought to bring Brahmins, Dalits and Muslims together, in the forthcoming Assembly polls in the state, which are due to be held early next year. Mayawati's decision to hold statewide 'Brahmin Sammelans' in different parts of the state, starting from Friday, was primarily aimed at bringing back the electorally influential community to her fold in the polls. It was this 'social engineering' formula, which had catapulted Mayawati to power in the 2007 Assembly elections in UP. Mayawati has been attacking the BJP government in the state for what she alleges 'persecuting' the Brahmins and has appealed to them to support the BSP this time. In fact, BSP has decided to provide legal help to Khushi Dubey, a close relative of slain gangster Vikas Dubey. Khushi Dubey is currently in jail after being arrested soon after Vikas was killed in an 'encounter' while he was being brought to Kanpur from Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh. Mayawati's decision to woo the Brahmins came in the wake of criticism of the UP government by several Brahmin leaders and MLAs of the BJP, who have accused the saffron party of 'persecuting' the community. BJP has rubbished the charges. BSP has been reduced almost to a 'non-entity' in the 403-member House owing to large-scale desertions and expulsions of leaders by the party supremo Mayawati within a span of ten years. BSP had won 19 seats in the last Assembly polls in UP but its strength has now reduced to seven. As many as 12 BSP legislators had either deserted the party and joined rivals or were expelled by Mayawati on some or the other grounds. Almost all old-timers, barring a few, have either left the BSP or been shown the door by Mayawati. As many as seven BSP MLAs had joined the SP a few months back.  Mayawati has made it clear that her party will not forge electoral alliances in the future and would contest the next UP Assembly poll on its own. BSP had contested the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in alliance with the SP and had managed to win ten seats in UP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mayawati-seeks-to-revive-social-engineering-formula-to-capture-power-in-uttar-pradesh-1011573.html
22-07-2021||North and Central||UP girl killed by family over 'modern lifestyle', body found hanging from bridge||In a shocking incident, a 17-year-old girl was killed, allegedly by her uncles and grandfather, who did not like her "modern lifestyle", in Uttar Pradesh's Deoria town. The body of the girl was found hanging from a bridge on a river on Deoria-Kasaya road, a few kilometres from the town on Tuesday. The matter came to light after a video, showing the body of the teen being stuck up in the railing of the bridge and the cops trying to retrieve it with the help of some people, went viral on social media sites on Thursday. Police said that the teen got seriously injured after being hit by her uncles and grandfather following an argument and died on way to the hospital. "The teen died in the auto in which she was being taken to the hospital...panicky accused persons tried to dump the body in a river but it got stuck up in the railings," said a police official in Deoria. Sources, however, said that the argument was over her wearing jeans and remaining outside for long hours. "The teen wore jeans and often went out for several hours....the uncles and her grandfather did not like her lifestyle," said one of the relatives. He said that the uncles and the grandfather scolded her again on Monday and asked her to mend her ways but this time she protested and refused to follow their diktats. Angry over her refusal, they thrashed her, as a result of which, she sustained serious injuries and succumbed to them later. Police said that a case was lodged against ten persons on the complaint of her mother. Three accused persons have been arrested and a hunt was launched to nab the others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-girl-killed-by-family-over-modern-lifestyle-body-found-hanging-from-bridge-1011580.html
22-07-2021||North and Central||14 post-Covid patients in Delhi suffer large abscesses in liver, one dies||Fourteen post-Covid patients, eight of whom had received steroids during treatment, were diagnosed with "unusually large" and multiple liver abscesses, and one of them died due to massive bleeding in abdomen, authorities at a leading private hospital in Delhi said on Thursday. Liver abscess (pus formation in liver) is commonly caused by a parasite known as entamoeba histolytica which is transmitted through contaminated food and water, doctors said. These patients, ten men and four women in the age group of 28-74, were brought to the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital in the last two months with "unusual manifestations", doctors said. "We saw for the first time in last two months unusually large and multiple liver abscesses in fourteen patients after recovery from Covid-19 infection," a spokesperson of the facility said. Doctors suspect that poor nutrition and use of steroids could have led to pus formation and compromised their livers. "What we found unusual was that after recovery from Covid, patients who were otherwise immunocompetent, within 22 days had large areas of both lobes of liver filled with pus at multiple locations, requiring drainage and hospitalisation," according to Dr Anil Arora, chairman, institute of liver gastroenterology and pancreaticobiliary sciences, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. While lives if 13 of these patients could be saved, one patient with large multiple abscesses died due to massive bleeding in abdomen after rupture of abscess in the abdominal cavity, he said, adding the rest are stable and have been discharged. Doctors said all the patients had "fever and upper abdominal pain and three of them also had associated lower GI (gastrointestinal) bleeding with black-coloured stool". Eight of these patients had received steroids for the management of Covid-19 symptoms, Arora said. Six patients had multiple large abscesses in both lobes of liver of which five patients had unusually large abscess (more than 8 cm), the largest being 19 cm in size, the doctor said. "Three patients who had blood during stool discharge, showed ulcers in large intestine, which were detected by colonoscopy. Median duration between Covid-19 symptoms and diagnosis of liver abscess was 22 days. Thirteen out of fourteen patients were successfully treated with antibiotics, Metronidazole medications and drainage of pus from the liver," Arora added. In this pandemic time, a high index of suspicion of such infections in the form of fever and pain in right abdomen merits a timely intervention in the form of an early diagnosis and effective medical therapy can effectively save uncalled misery and avoidable hospitalization in these patients, said Dr Praveen Sharma, senior consultant, gastroenterology, at the hospital. "We believe that suppression of immunity by Covid-19 infection along with use of steroids to treat Covid infection per se, low index of suspicion for liver abscess and delay in treatment in patients recuperating from coronavirus infection probably led to development of multiple and large abscesses in liver," Arora said. Entamoeba histolytica is a common parasite in countries with poor sanitation services. This parasite causes amoebiasis, an intestinal infection that is also called amoebic dysentery, the doctors said. After an infection has occurred, the parasite may be carried by the bloodstream from the intestines to the liver and causes liver abscess. Normally these abscesses are single and not very large and picked up early on routine ultrasonography of the abdomen as a part of work-up for fever and associated symptoms in immunocompetent patients, they said. Poor nutrition, immunocompromised status (like in HIV and cancer patients) and steroid use predisposes patients to these infections by amoeba causing liver abscesses, doctors said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/14-post-covid-patients-in-delhi-suffer-large-abscesses-in-liver-one-dies-1011581.html
22-07-2021||North and Central||Amarinder to attend Sidhu's installation ceremony on July 23||Signs of a thaw emerged in the frosty political scenario in Punjab Congress with Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh deciding to attend an event on Friday where newly-appointed PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu will formally take over. Singh has, however, also invited all Congress Punjab MLAs, MPs and senior party functionaries at Punjab Bhawan for tea at 10 am on Friday, a day after nearly 60 of 80 MLAs of the state had gathered at the new residence of Sidhu in Amritsar on Wednesday, from where they went together to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple. Sidhu's gathering was interpreted as a show of strength. The Captain's team meet is likely to be attended by most MLAs and later, all of them will go to Punjab Bhawan to attend the event the installation of the new PPCC team, which will also be attended by AICC general secretary in-charge for Punjab, Harish Rawat. The decision by the Chief Minister announced by his media advisor indicates a serious reach-out exercise by Sidhu and the central leadership of the party. This is to placate the CM, who was adamant not to meet Sidhu till he apologised for his previous critical comments of his government. Kuljit Singh Nagra and Sangat Singh Gilzian, two of the four newly appointed working presidents for the state party unit, went to meet the CM at his farmhouse in Mohali to extend a formal invitation to him for the event. On July 20, the CM's media advisor had put out a tweet saying the reports of Sidhu seeking time to meet the CM are completely false. "No time has been sought whatsoever. No change in stance... CM won’t meet Navjot Singh Sidhu till latter publicly apologises for his personally derogatory social media attacks against him," he had tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amarinder-to-attend-sidhus-installation-ceremony-on-july-23-1011598.html
22-07-2021||North and Central||Cabinet nod for setting up central university in Ladakh||The Union Cabinet on Thursday gave its nod to the setting up of a central university in the union territory of Ladakh. The decision was taken at the meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with an aim of addressing regional imbalances at higher education level and stimulating the intellectual current within the broader society of Ladakh. "Cabinet approves establishment of a Central University in the Union Territory of #Ladakh," Principal Director General of the Press Information Bureau (PIB), Jaideep Bhatnagar, tweeted. According to sources, a bill will be introduced for amending the Central Universities Act, 2009. "The Cabinet also approved the introduction of a bill, namely, 'The Central Universities (Amendment) Bill, 2021' in Parliament. This would increase access and quality of higher education and also act as pacesetter for other educational institutions in the region by promoting the avenues of higher education and research facilities for the people of the Union Territory. "The university will address the regional imbalances at the higher education level and stimulate the intellectual current within the broader society of Ladakh. This will also be instrumental in strengthening democratic values and promoting overall growth and development of Ladakh," a source said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his address to the nation on last Independence Day had announced that a new university would be established in Ladakh. The Union finance Minister had also announced about it in the Budget Speech 2021-22.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cabinet-nod-for-setting-up-central-university-in-ladakh-1011604.html
22-07-2021||North and Central||CM can't break promise made in press conference: Delhi HC||In an important judgement, the Delhi High Court held that a promise made by Chief Minister in a press conference is enforceable in law and cannot be broken without valid or justifiable reason. A bench of Justice Pratibha M Singh directed the Delhi government to take a decision within six weeks on an assurance given by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on March 29, 2020 to pay the rent of migrant workers in view of Covid-19 pandemic. "The promise/assurance/representation given by the CM clearly amounts to an enforceable promise, the implementation of which ought to be considered by the government. Good governance requires that promises made to citizens, by those who govern, are not broken, without valid and justifiable reasons," the court said. It held that the assurance or promise given by the CM is enforceable, both on the basis of the doctrines of promissory estoppel and legitimate expectation. The court said surely there must have been a large number of tenants and landlords, who would have believed the assurance made by the CM. The court passed its 89-page judgement on a writ petition filed by a group of tenants and landlords led by Nazma, who sought recovery, payment or refund of the monthly rental amount, as per the promise made by the CM.    Kejriwal had then said if any tenant is unable to pay the rent due to poverty, the government would pay his or her rent on their behalf. Delhi government, led by senior advocate Rahul Mehra, opposed the plea, saying the doctrine of legitimate expectation can only be based on actual governmental policy or a notification or an executive decision, and not on a mere political statement. The petitioners said the promise was made by the CM as the head of a government. It was not a political statement but rather a statement made in the context of Covid-19, to prevent migration of workers. "A statement given in a consciously held press conference, in the background of the lockdown announced due to the pandemic and the mass exodus of migrant labourers, cannot be simply overlooked. Proper governance requires the Government to take a decision on the assurance given by the CM, and inaction on the same cannot be the answer," the court said. The court pointed out the assurance was not a political promise, or made as a part of an election rally but was a statement by the CM who knew the background, and also the financial implications of such a promise. "The said promise was to act as a balm on the wounds of landlords and tenants, who were severely affected as a class of citizens in Delhi," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cm-cant-break-promise-made-in-press-conference-delhi-hc-1011671.html
22-07-2021||Oasis||It's never too late to have a happy childhood||Childhood is often perceived to be a time from birth to a certain age. However, it is simply not what it is perceived to be. Childhood is an empire, a state of mind, a wild garden where everything is a burst of celebration. When a child grows up, he/she is expected to put away childish things. However, it is these very things, this childlike essence that children must carry with them as they step into the world of the grownups.  Children seldom think of the future and this innocence, this living in the present leaves them free to enjoy the tiny miracles of life. They are able to take pleasure in small things, even when greater things around them don't seem to be in the best shape. They inherently know that although they cannot control the world around them, cannot walk away from things or people or moments that threaten to hurt, they can always find magic if they go looking for it. My nephew, like every other child this past year, has been stuck at home. His childlike innocence, however, has helped him find joy in the littlest thing, even as Covid reigns devastation around him. While speaking to me he excitedly told me about a kite that had miraculously found its way to his bedside table. Due to the restrictions imposed by Covid, no one had braved going out to buy a kite for him. However, a kite, unable to fly as it was cut from the blue sky, lightly floated into the branches of a tree next to the veranda. My father patched up the kite, the best he could and left it for my nephew as a surprise when he woke up. Naturally, he was delighted as he told me of the colourful kite and his plans for the evening. Not caring that the kite was mended with tape, he could not wait for the sun to go down so that he could take the kite to the terrace for a jaunt with the sky.  Imagination, they say is the highest kite that one can fly. If we are able to find joy in little things, our childhood, just like the kite, will find a way to enthral us once again.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/its-never-too-late-to-have-a-happy-childhood-1011349.html
22-07-2021||Opinion||India's trans and queer people should demand better health care||After almost three decades of fighting, queer people in India won a long overdue battle when the Supreme Court of India decriminalized same-sex sexual acts among consenting adults in 2018. Since then, I have often been asked where I see India’s queer movements going. Is it going to be marriage equality? Something else?  With recent celebrations of Pride Month in mind, I argue for the need of queer people to demand a better, more inclusive and more affordable public health care system. Honestly, this shouldn’t come as a surprise. We know that queer people have been disproportionately affected by the current Covid-19 pandemic and the lack of a robust public health care system. During the pandemic, working-class transgender people in India have lost major sources of income (sex work and ceremonial begging) and are at a risk of being evicted from their rented houses. Many queer people have had to stay at their homes with abusive family members for an extended period of time during the lockdowns, and this has had a severe effect on their mental health. Many working-class queer and transgender people live in communes with a large number of other people, which makes maintaining physical distancing quite a task, increasing the chance of Covid transmission. Also, queer and transgender people who are living with HIV are at a higher risk of severe illness from the coronavirus. Moreover, many queer and transgender people are refused health care at public hospitals, and many cannot afford expensive private hospitals. Even when health care is available at an affordable price, queer people are met with infrastructural issues. For example, most public hospitals are not equipped with specific wards for transgender people, or do not allow transgender people to be accommodated in wards of the gender that they identify with. The medical and nonmedical staffs in these hospitals are rarely sensitized and trained to handle issues specific to queer and transgender people. While stigma and discrimination make it very difficult for most queer and transgender people in India to access health care, even during the pandemic, the situation is compounded by the government’s apathy, non-implementation of policies, and a systemic and systematic breakdown of the public health system. Both the 2013 NALSA vs. Union of India judgment from the Supreme Court and the Transgender Person’s (Protection of Rights Act) 2019 mention that the government should work towards providing affordable and accessible health care to transgender individuals, while also training health care staff to be sensitive towards issues faced by transgender persons. Similar provisions are also suggested by the 2018 judgment of the Court. However, these provisions have not been implemented. Moreover, the public health infrastructure in India is terribly understaffed. To compound the issues of access further, the public health system in India is being increasingly privatized. This privatization limits the access of health care for those who cannot afford private health care. Decision-making about health care has become increasingly centralized, with the Prime Minister’s Office and the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare making most of the decisions, while voices from the margins and the grassroots are increasingly being ignored. The irony in not asking for an affordable and accessible health care system is the fact that there is a huge intersection between various Indian public health movements and queer-rights movements. An example of this is the queer and trans mobilizations that happened around the HIV/AIDS pandemic in the late 1980s, 1990s and 2000s. As HIV/AIDS was recognized as an epidemic in the country and the various phases of the National AIDS Control Program were being implemented, certain queer and transgender communities ( “men who have sex with men” and “transgender”) were identified as high-risk groups. Various public health and civil rights groups, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) and community-based organizations (CBOs) not only received international and government funding for targeted intervention in these “MSM” and “TG” groups, but also used these funds to build solidarity and awareness, as well as employing queer-trans people as outreach workers. During a time when it was the state’s and the society’s firm belief that both homosexuality and HIV/AIDS are foreign imports because the moralistic Indian society has no space for them, the queer movement could articulate itself publicly through the HIV/AIDS narrative. In fact, the first few petitions asking for the decriminalization of same-sex sexual acts between consenting adults were filed by NGOs and civil-rights groups whose focus was HIV/AIDS intervention. Of course, this almost solitary focus on HIV/AIDS is not without critique. The intervention approach was biologically essentialist and reduced queer and transgender people to the kinds of sex they were having rather than engaging with larger questions of identity and politics. Public articulations of queerness became primarily focused on gay men and some transfeminine identities, while leaving out lesbian and bisexual women, and many transmasculine and nonbinary identities. The focus on HIV/AIDS has also limited what demands queer and transgender people can make from the public health system; the demands have gotten restricted to accessible antiretroviral therapy (ART), hormone replacement therapy (HRT) and sex-reassignment surgeries (SRS).  There are various problems with NGOization of the queer movement in India as well. Some of these NGOs have been called out for corruption. Moreover, most of the NGOs that gained prominence through the HIV/AIDS intervention movement were led by elite, metropolitan queer- (and sometimes) trans people, which alienated NGOs and CBOs from rural and suburban places. These NGOs also did not engage with caste-class dynamics, therefore leading to the queer-trans mobilizations losing out on intersectional nuances. These NGOs often also functioned in an exploitative manner. Outreach workers, who primarily consisted of working-class queer and transgender people, were paid meager salaries while putting in most of the effort at the ground. Moreover, there was hardly any push for a better public health care system from these NGOs barring calls for an increased number of HIV-testing centers and ART centers. In moves that further affect queer people negatively, the Indian government has also canceled the registration of many NGOs that were working for the rights of queer and transgender people. Along with this, according to the current regulations of the Indian government, any NGO participating in “political activities” cannot accept foreign or transnational funding. Moreover, despite India having the third-highest number of people living with HIV/AIDS in the world (2018 data), the broadcasting of condom ads has been prohibited from 6 A.M. to 10 P.M.. In these moments, it is crucial that queer people mobilize and call for a robust, affordable and accessible public health system—a public health system that does not just intend to intervene, but that involves queer and transgender people in the decision-making process. We need a public health system where queer and transgender people are not discriminated against, and a public health system that not only promises free ART, HRT and SRS, but also engages with sexual and mental-health care needs, has sensitized staff in public hospitals and does not harm the dignity of queer and transgender people. Not all of us will benefit from rainbow-dyed hair, free offers from corporate businesses, and marriage equality, but all of us will benefit from a kind, supportive and accessible public health care system.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/indias-trans-and-queer-people-should-demand-better-health-care-1011366.html
22-07-2021||Opinion||Pegasus spyware: Has national security been compromised?||While it is par for the course for governments in India to put political opponents, media persons and diplomats under surveillance, the recent use of Israeli-origin Pegasus software may be particularly egregious. Its plug-and-play spyware converts a mobile phone into a surveillance device. The latest Pegasus leaks leave little doubt that its use has undermined India's democratic institutions. This includes the judiciary, Election Commission, the Parliamentary Opposition, Cabinet of ministers, and media. However, an important ramification of the Pegasus spyware seems to have escaped the debate: The possibility that national security could be compromised if the intelligence gathered by Pegasus were available to a third country. If the Narendra Modi government has used Pegasus, has it then opened itself to strategic blackmail? Would not the organisation that has the list of target phones in its repository also have access to the information gathered from them? One must ask where did the leak of the 50,000 mobile phones ostensibly compromised by Pegasus take place. It clearly did not originate in India or any country named in the leaks. So, where is the central repository located, and who controls it? The prime suspect would be the NSO Group, which owns and sells Pegasus spyware, despite claiming that it has no knowledge of how its clients use it for investigating terrorism and serious crime. If this were true, then the NSO would be in no position to give a clean chit to its clients or assure critics that it can block clients' access to the spyware if misused. It is proven that the phones of assassinated Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi, his wife, son and associates were compromised using Pegasus. It was also deployed to break into the phones of his fiancé and the Turkish Chief Prosecutor after his murder. The NSO Group gave itself a clean chit saying it "can confirm that our technology was not used to listen, monitor, track, or collect information regarding him (Khashoggi) or his family members." Could the company have done this without direct "insight" into how its spyware was used? The NSO Group claims that if misuse of its technology is established, it can take appropriate action. "This includes shutting down a customers' system, something NSO has proven its ability and willingness to do… (has) done multiple times in the past, and will not hesitate to do again." A shutdown done remotely would require the existence of backdoor access to the Pegasus spyware programme. Pegasus clients may not have full knowledge of how much information is let in or let out through this backdoor. The NSO Group is closely linked to the Israeli government. Sales to foreign clients are subject to the Israeli Defence Ministry's approval. It is also linked to Israel's defence establishment through its recruitment of staff. According to OCCRP (Organised Crime and Corruption Reporting Project), many of the 700 employees of the NSO Group are young Israeli veterans – not surprising in a country with compulsory military service. Moreover, it also points out, "Veterans from Unit 8200 of the Israeli Defence Forces, which is responsible for communications intelligence and has been described as 'the foremost technical intelligence agency in the world', are known to have helped develop its (NSO Group's) technology." The company's spokesperson, Ariella Ben-Avraham, a former brigadier general, was Israel's "State Censor" earlier. Given these overlaps, the Israeli government's claim that it "does not have access to the information gathered by NSO's clients" leaves niggling suspicions about the firewall, if any, between NSO and the Israeli state. It is tempting to speculate that Israeli state intelligence agencies might have access to the strategic intelligence gathered by Pegasus for NSO Group's clients. The NSO Group claims that its product cannot be used to penetrate US phones. Was this a conscious decision taken by those who designed the spyware and, if so, why? The Washington Post found that the dozen phone numbers of Americans working overseas on the leaked list, were all, except one, registered with foreign cellular networks. It is also difficult to ignore that the phone numbers of public figures leaked in the list are overwhelmingly from countries where Israel and the US have strategic interests. Assuming for the moment hypothetically that a foreign country has access to data and intelligence gathered using Pegasus, what happens then? Can stealthily-procured intelligence be used by the third party for geopolitical ends? One might witness that unfolding in the region soon. Given its history of being economical with the truth even before Parliament, unless the government categorically states that none of its intelligence agencies purchased or used Pegasus against Indian citizens, it will be presumed to be guilty. As India has good relations with Israel, Prime Minister Modi can easily follow his party MP Subramanian Swamy's advice – ask Israel, who paid for Pegasus and put his fellow citizens under surveillance. (The writer is a journalist based in Delhi) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/pegasus-spyware-has-national-security-been-compromised-1011476.html
22-07-2021||Panorama||How nations are learning to 'let it go' and live with Covid-19||By Sui-Lee Wee England has removed nearly all coronavirus restrictions. Germany is allowing vaccinated people to travel without quarantines. Mask mandates are gone in Italy. Shopping malls remain open in Singapore. Eighteen months after the coronavirus first emerged, several governments in Asia and Europe are encouraging people to return to their daily rhythms and transition to a new normal in which subways, offices, restaurants and airports are once again full. Increasingly, the mantra is the same: We have to learn to live with the virus. Yet scientists warn that the pandemic exit strategies may be premature. The emergence of more transmissible variants means that even wealthy nations with abundant vaccines remain vulnerable. Places like Australia, which shut down its border, are learning that they cannot keep the virus out. So rather than abandon their road maps, officials are beginning to accept that rolling lockdowns and restrictions are a necessary part of recovery. People are being encouraged to shift their pandemic perspective and focus on avoiding severe illness and death instead of infections, which are unavoidable. And countries with zero-Covid ambitions are rethinking those policies. “You need to tell people: We’re going to get a lot of cases,” said Dale Fisher, a professor of medicine at the National University of Singapore who heads the National Infection Prevention and Control Committee of Singapore’s Health Ministry. “And that’s part of the plan — we have to let it go.” For months, many residents in Singapore pored over the details of each new Covid case. There was a palpable sense of dread when infections reached double digits for the first time. And with borders closed, there was also a feeling of defeat, since even the most diligent measures were not enough to prevent infection. “Our people are battle-weary,” a group of Singapore ministers wrote in an opinion essay in the Straits Times newspaper in June. “All are asking: When and how will the pandemic end?” Officials in Singapore announced plans to gradually ease restrictions and chart a path to the other side of the pandemic. The plans included switching to monitoring the number of people who fall very ill, how many require intensive care and how many need to be intubated, instead of infections. Those measures are already being put to the test. Outbreaks have spread through several karaoke lounges and a large fishery port, and on Tuesday, Singapore announced a tightening of measures, including banning all dine-in service. The trade minister, Gan Kim Yong, said the country was still on the right track, comparing the latest restrictions to “roadblocks” toward the final goal. Singapore has fully vaccinated 49 per cent of its population and has cited Israel, which is further ahead at 58 per cent, as a model. Israel has pivoted to focusing on severe illness, a tactic that officials have called “soft suppression.” It is also facing its own sharp rise in cases, up from single digits a month ago to hundreds of new cases a day. The country recently reimposed an indoor mask mandate. “It’s important, but it’s quite annoying,” said Danny Levy, 56, an Israeli civil servant who was waiting to see a movie in Jerusalem last week. Levy said that he would wear his mask inside the theatre, but that he found it frustrating that restrictions were being reimposed while new virus variants were entering the country because of weak testing and supervision of incoming travellers. Michael Baker, an epidemiologist at the University of Otago in New Zealand, said that countries taking shortcuts on their way to reopening were putting unvaccinated people at risk and gambling with lives. “At this point in time, I actually find it quite surprising that governments would necessarily decide they know enough about how this virus will behave in populations to choose, ‘Yes, we are going to live with it,’” said Baker, who helped devise New Zealand’s Covid elimination strategy. New Zealanders seem to have accepted the possibility of longer-term restrictions. In a recent government-commissioned survey of more than 1,800 people, 90 per cent of respondents said they did not expect life to return to normal after they were vaccinated, partly because of the lingering questions about the virus. Much of the developing world is also still facing rising infections, giving the virus a greater opportunity to rapidly replicate, which then increases the risks of more mutations and spread. Only 1 per cent of people in low-income countries have received a vaccine dose, according to the Our World in Data project. In Australia, several state lawmakers suggested this month that the country had reached “a fork in the road” at which it needed to decide between persistent restrictions and learning to live with infections. They said that Australia might need to follow much of the world and give up on its Covid-zero approach. Gladys Berejiklian, the leader of the Australian state of New South Wales, immediately knocked the proposal down. “No state or nation or any country on the planet can live with the delta variant when our vaccination rates are so low,” she said. Only about 11 per cent of Australians over age 16 are fully vaccinated against Covid-19. Prime Minister Scott Morrison also backed away from calls for a shift in the country’s Covid protocols. After announcing a four-phase plan for returning to regular life on July 2, he has insisted that the strength of the delta variant requires an indefinite postponement. In places where vaccine shots have been widely available for months, such as Europe, countries have bet big on their inoculation programs as a ticket out of the pandemic and the key to keeping hospitalisations and deaths low. Germans who have been fully immunized in the past six months can dine indoors in restaurants without showing proof of a negative rapid test. They are allowed to meet up in private without any limits and to travel without a 14-day quarantine. In Italy, masks are required only when entering stores or crowded spaces, but many people continue to wear them, even if only as a chin guard. England, which has vaccinated nearly all of its most vulnerable residents, has taken the most drastic approach. On Monday, the country eliminated virtually all Covid-19 restrictions despite the rise of delta-variant infections, particularly among young people. On “Freedom Day,” as the tabloids called it, pubs, restaurants and nightclubs flung their doors wide open. Curbs on gatherings and mask requirements were also lifted. People were seen dining al-fresco and sunbathing, cheek to jowl. In the absence of most rules, the government is urging people to use “personal responsibility” to maintain safety. Sajid Javid, Britain’s health secretary — who tested positive for the coronavirus last week — said last month that the country needed to “learn to live” with the virus. That is despite polls suggesting that the English public prefers a more gradual approach to reopening. Officials in Singapore, which reported a year-high 182 locally transmitted infections on Tuesday, say the number of cases is likely to rise in the coming days. The outbreak appears to have delayed but not scuttled plans for a phased reopening. “You give people a sense of progression,” Ong Ye Kung, Singapore’s health minister, said this month, “rather than waiting for that big day when everything opens and then you go crazy.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/how-nations-are-learning-to-let-it-go-and-live-with-covid-19-1011352.html
22-07-2021||Panorama||Covid-19: England is ‘free’ and in total chaos||By Tanya Gold England, we are told, is free. On Monday the government lifted the country’s remaining Covid restrictions — on social distancing, face masks, limits on numbers for gatherings, the lot — effectively leaving protection from the coronavirus to vaccinations and, er, the goddess of chance. (Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, the devolved nations, have sensibly chosen to retain some restrictions.) The timing was immaculate: Over the previous week, 3,32,170 people tested positive for the coronavirus — the most since January — as the Delta variant courses around the country. New Covid-19 cases are expected to rise, perhaps reaching the dizzying figure of 1,00,000 a day later in the summer. The number hospitalised, much lower than in previous waves of infections because of the vaccination program, is steadily increasing. Deaths are creeping up. Details, details. This was Freedom Day, as the government and the right-wing press insistently reminded us. The time when Britons, after more than a year of sacrifices, could let it all out — drink in a crowded room, go clubbing, have everyone over. No need for masks. But really, it was Confusion Day, a monument to chaos, anxiety and the unknown. We have no plan. Fittingly, Prime Minister Boris Johnson, lover of liberty (especially his own) and architect of the “plan,” couldn’t celebrate; he was self-isolating. He had been in contact with Sajid Javid, the health minister, who was double-vaccinated and tested positive for the coronavirus on Saturday. (Britons are discovering, to their alarm, that vaccines are not invincible.) Mr Javid is new to the job: He was installed last month after the previous health minister, Matt Hancock, was photographed kissing an adviser in his office. He had to resign for breaking social distancing guidelines with his tongue. Confined to his countryside residence, Mr Johnson emitted the cracked bonhomie, the halting obfuscation, that is his trademark. The act, successful for a season, is wearing thin. In the first week of July, more than 5,00,000 people were contacted by the country’s tracking service and told to self-isolate for 10 days, creating chaos for businesses and individuals alike. (The situation has been called a pingdemic, for the sound the alert makes on people’s phones) Mr Johnson’s response was to airily excuse some key workers from self-isolating. Nevertheless, he said, “we do need to stick to the system as is” — ignoring the fact that the day before, he himself tried to avoid self-isolation. In Mr Johnson’s Britain, after all, yesterday is a lifetime ago. Perhaps this is a strategy to achieve hybrid immunity, in which the great majority of the population is vaccinated or was recently infected by the coronavirus (or both), by winter — a more up-to-date version of what seemed to be the government’s initial, much-maligned approach to the pandemic. But the government denies it. Instead, ministers insist a third wave of cases is inevitable, so why not have some sunshine along the way? Or perhaps this is what happens when you elect a charismatic performer with interesting hair and no thought beyond winning the highest office. I used to think the hair fluctuated according to the stock market. Now I think it responds to polling. It is currently big hair to match big polling, with the Conservative lead, against the backdrop of a successful vaccination campaign and an ineffective opposition, stretching to nine percentage points. Whatever the hair means — and it’s terrifying to think we still do not know — we’re likely to have a few more years to scrutinise it. No matter what Mr Johnson says, nothing can dispel the sense that we are a country in decline, segueing to crisis. This is clear not just from obvious markers of malaise — like the fact that 30% of British children, in the fifth-largest economy in the world, live in poverty — but also from small things. Last week, for example, London filled quite suddenly with water during a rainstorm; some people swam in it happily, despite its possibly being filled with sewage. In Cornwall in southwestern Britain, a man, the heat perhaps having gone to his head, allegedly beat a seagull to death with a plastic spade. If you love metaphor, Britain used to be the spade. Now it is the seagull. The omens are all bad. We almost won, but then crushingly lost, the European football championship, a fable about the British national character we cannot yet bear to untangle for what it might mean. And this loss was not even the gaudiest fact of the day. That was a man who told a newspaper he woke up, did three grams of cocaine — who says we can’t trade globally? — drank 20 ciders, lit a flare in his bottom and then invaded Wembley Stadium without a ticket, like D-Day in reverse. “There were no rules that day,” he said. “I was off my face, and I loved every minute.” “Bum flare man,” as he is inevitably known, is interesting because he is an archetype: a typical subject of Mr Johnson’s experiment with freedom. What happens next, we can’t know. But it’s sure to be gruesome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/covid-19-england-is-free-and-in-total-chaos-1011353.html
22-07-2021||Right in the Middle||Indispensable articles||I set to my task, determined to devote an hour delving into a couple of  6-pack can carry-cases brought back from New York in the mid-eighties and discard at least 50% of whatever would be the treasures I’d stumble upon... Five minutes passed as my wobbly-knobbly arthritic fingers wrestled with the zip to ‘open sesame’ each bag. Nestled in the top one was a Canon camera, which a good pal had presented me on my 60th birthday in 2009. A dinky little canon, which I could handle comfortably despite a not too firm grip, got me interested in photographing much within sight, as limited mobility didn’t afford me the luxury of manoeuvring my body to catch a more appropriate view of the subject. However, this camera called for the use of 2 Double-A batteries and ran through them as though in a time-bound clicking competition. Now that I’ve moved on to a rechargeable battery operated Canon, plus photography at times with my smartphone, am ready to pass on the original possession, but it finds no takers. Even the teeniest of kids seems more adept at smartphone shoots with ‘ready to pass on clicks’ through social media. Despite, therefore, my best intentions to dispense with the item, it is back in the case. In the next case, I discover the precious possessions. Medals of honour and badges that I earned for prowess at the hockey field and academic pursuits. Gold and silver-plated perhaps, now tarnished with age, attached to faded ribbons of various hues. Indispensable. Even more collected from participating twelve years in a row from 2008, at the TCS 10K World Bengaluru Run under the ‘Champions with Disability’ category. Now, who would be interested in these I wonder, so back in the bag they go. Dive on, and I’m greeted by a couple of carefully preserved autograph books that did the rounds of classmates, family, friends to write in a special message. A peek into these as I attempt to visualise the then familiar faces to connect with their names, leave alone the messages, sketches appended that engulf me in a sublime emotional stupor of memories. I carried them to a reunion of a few schoolmates once, and we giggled our guts out at the contents. The books too are back in the bag. Re-zipped and restored to the stowaway shelf as throw away would’ve been too traumatic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/indispensable-articles-1011342.html
22-07-2021||Second Edit||UAPA is draconian, it must go||Justice D Y Chandrachud’s caution against the pervasive misuse of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act has again drawn attention to the draconian law, soon after Father Stan Swamy, who was charged under it, died in custody without getting bail. Justice Chandrachud was speaking at a public function last week, but his words, along with some orders and pronouncements made by the higher courts and similar observations from other judges, reflect a rising concern over the use of draconian laws to curb citizens’ rights. The Supreme Court last week decided to review the sedition law, which also has been widely and grossly misused by governments. The judge’s observations and some decisions and comments made by courts in some UAPA cases make a case for a review of the UAPA, as in the case of the sedition law. Justice Chandrachud specifically said that criminal law, including anti-terror legislations like the UAPA, “should not be misused for quelling dissent or harassment of citizens.’’ He quoted from his judgement granting bail to journalist Arnab Goswami last year which said that “deprivation of liberty even for a single day is one day too many,” and that “we must always be mindful of the deeper systemic implications of our decisions.” Under the UAPA, bail is extremely difficult, almost impossible, to get as Stan Swamy and many others found out. There are a number of people who are in jail under the law, including 14 in the case under which Stan Swamy was charged. Some detainees, like Assam MLA Akhil Gogoi, and some student activists managed to get bail. But these are exceptions, and jail is the normal rule in all UAPA cases. Under the UAPA, there is a longer period for investigation of the case and an accused is eligible to apply for bail only after six months. No bail is given unless the court decides that there is no prima facie case, but there is no assessment of evidence at the bail stage to decide this. The right to a speedy trial is also violated. The Supreme Court has noted this and has said that the bar against bail would melt down if there is no speedy trial. The Delhi High Court recently raised the question of how long a trial under the UAPA could be. This is relevant because there are many who have been acquitted after they spent many years in jail. All this calls for a relook not only at the bail provisions of the UAPA but at the law itself as such. Justice Chandrachud’s words are reassuring in that respect.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/uapa-is-draconian-it-must-go-1011351.html
22-07-2021||South||No deaths due to oxygen shortage in Tamil Nadu: Minister||Tamil Nadu recorded no deaths due to oxygen shortage during the second wave of Covid-19, wave, State Minister for Health Ma Subramanian said on Wednesday. Chief Minister M K Stalin took anti-Covid measures to ensure no such deaths, the Minister said. "In Tamil Nadu, no one succumbed to the virus due to shortage of oxygen. That is the truth. There was a strong (Covid-19) regulation in place," the Medical and Family Welfare Minister told reporters at the Secretariat. Subramanian was responding to a query on whether there were Covid-19 deaths for want of oxygen. "There was shortage of oxygen in the State at the time when the Chief Minister assumed office on May 7. The oxygen available on that day was 230 metric tonne while the daily Covid-19 cases were 26,465," he said. "Gradually, the cases rose to (the highest of) 36,184 cases on May 21 and the requirement for oxygen was over 500 metric tonne. At that time, efforts were made by the Chief Minister (M K Stalin) and we brought oxygen from Rourkela and Jamshedpur (via trains to meet the requirement)," he said. "He (Chief Minister) took various measures and ensured there was no huge impact nor loss of lives due to oxygen shortage," he said. On the vaccines, Subramanian said there would not be any shortage of doses over the next three days as the State received 5.42 lakh doses today. "Already, we have 6,27,470 doses in stock. This evening, we received 5,42,780 doses and we will be able to vaccinate people without any hurdles for the next three days," he said. He said the Centre has increased the allotment of doses to the State by another five lakh for this month. "For July, the Centre allotted 72 lakh doses to Tamil Nadu and 17 lakh vaccines to private hospitals. It has planned to send five lakh more doses to the State. That is satisfying news," he said. Subramanian said the State government has planned to expand to other districts the free vaccination drive through private hospitals by utilising the corporate social responsibility funds of private companies. "We launched the drive in Coimbatore yesterday (July 20)," he said. "We will hold another meeting of private hospitals and companies from districts of Chennai, Kancheepuram, Vellore and Tiruvallur over the next two days", he said. "There are also plans to take the vaccination programme to Tiruchirappalli, Tirunelveli and other districts. It is a big initiative," he said. The Minister said the Health Department in the State has so far received nearly two crore vaccines till date. "Till date, 1,96,43,859 people have been vaccinated. We need 12 crore doses to provide the double-shot for six crore people in the State. We have received nearly two crore doses till date. We need 10 crore more of them," he said. The Centre has told the Rajya Sabha that no deaths occurred due to lack of oxygen during the second wave of Covid-19 in the country. Following this, the Opposition Congress accused the Union Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar of misleading Parliament of giving false information by stating there were no such fatalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-deaths-due-to-oxygen-shortage-in-tamil-nadu-minister-1011336.html
22-07-2021||South||Official transferred for his ‘prepare for RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat's visit to Tamil Nadu’ circular||Tamil Nadu government has shunted out an Assistant Commissioner of the Madurai Corporation for issuing a circular that asked Zonal Officers to take up road repair and other works on the route to be taken by RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat during his five-day visit to the city. Shanmugham, who was working as Assistant Commissioner (Personnel) with the Madurai Corporation was removed from his post and placed on the waiting list after an uproar by DMK allies like the Congress and CPI-M. Madurai MP Su Venkatesan and Virudhunagar MP Manickam Tagore took to Twitter demanding action against the official for “rolling out a red carpet” to the RSS chief, who does not hold any public office.   Shanmugham, who is a sub-collector rank officer, issued a circular on July 20 asking all Zonal Officers of the Madurai Corporation to take up repair and cleaning works on the route Bhagwat will take during his visit to Madurai beginning Thursday. The officer wrote in the circular asking officials to ensure that roads on the route be kept clean, streetlights are checked, and no repair work is taken up on the route during his visit. Bhagwat will be in the temple town for five days beginning Thursday to participate in various programmes in Satyasai Nagar in the city. The circular created a political storm after it went viral. The DMK government, which has taken a strident anti-BJP stance, acted swiftly to avoid political controversy. Madurai Corporation Commissioner K P Karthikeyan said in a press release that the circular was issued as part of “routine arrangements” taken up for any VVIP with Z-plus security cover. However, an hour later, the Commissioner signed the marching orders for Shanmugham, saying he has been relieved from the post with effect from Wednesday afternoon. The circular by the officer drew instant criticism from netizens on Twitter with even DMK supporters opposing the move. After the officer was shunted out, Tagore and Venkatesan thanked the government for acting promptly. “A message has been sent out to everybody in the government,” Venkatesan tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/official-transferred-for-his-prepare-for-rss-chief-mohan-bhagwats-visit-to-tamil-nadu-circular-1011411.html
22-07-2021||South||Majority of prisoners in Kerala have received first jab of vaccine, state government tells HC||Majority of the prisoners in Kerala prisons have received the first dose of vaccine and special initiatives have been taken to immunise the inmates of all age groups, the state government has told the High Court here. The submission by the Kerala government was made before a bench of Chief Justice S Manikumar and Justice Anu Sivaraman during hearing of a PIL initiated by it with regard to vaccination status of prisoners in the prisons in the state. The government told the bench that there are only around 4,808 prisoners in prisons in Kerala and a majority of them have been given the first dose of the vaccine. It also told the court that special initiatives have been taken to vaccinate the prisoners in different age groups. The court, thereafter, directed the state government to file a statement or an affidavit, along with supporting documents, with regard to the submissions made by it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/majority-of-prisoners-in-kerala-have-received-first-jab-of-vaccine-state-government-tells-hc-1011454.html
22-07-2021||South||Ex-AIADMK minister raided by DVAC||Sleuths from the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) on Thursday swooped down on the premises belonging to former Transport Minister M R Vijayabhaskar in his native Karur district and in Chennai. The raids are related to alleged corruption in the Transport Department during the AIADMK’s tenure from 2016 to 2021. The raids were being conducted at 20 places in Karur district and at Vijayabhaskar’s residence in Chennai, sources told DH. The raids began at 7 am. After four hours of the raid at Vijayabhaskar’s apartment in Chennai, his lawyer Selvam said they were cooperating with the DVAC sleuths. “They asked for accounts, and we have given them. We are cooperating with them,” he told reporters. Sources said the raids are in connection with alleged corruption in the department when Vijayabhaskar was the minister for transport. The raids by DVAC assume significance as sources said this is the beginning of an operation to “unearth corruption” in the erstwhile AIADMK regime. Chief Minister M K Stalin had, during his election campaign, promised to set up a special court to try all cases of corruption against AIADMK ministers. He had also submitted a “chargesheet” against half-a-dozen then ministers to Governor Banwarilal Purohit. Vijayabhaskar lost the 2021 Assembly elections to his archrival V Senthil Balaji, now the electricity minister in the DMK government. Both were in AIADMK before Balaji jumped the ship in 2018. DVAC is now headed by seasoned IPS officer P Kandaswamy, who shot into fame after he headed the team that arrested Amit Shah when he was Gujarat minister for his alleged involvement in the Sohrabuddin encounter case. Kandaswamy, who was DIG with the CBI when he probed the case in which Shah was named first and later discharged, holds the rank of Director General of Police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ex-aiadmk-minister-raided-by-dvac-1011532.html
22-07-2021||South||SC allows Andhra Pradesh government to withdraw plea against HC in Amravati land scam case||The Supreme Court on Thursday allowed the Andhra Pradesh government to withdraw its petition against the stay imposed by the high court in the probe into the Amravati land scam case. Advocate Mahfooz Ahsan Nazki, representing the Andhra Pradesh government, informed a bench presided over by Justice Vineet Saran that the State sought to withdraw the special leave petition, and it would file the counter affidavit before the high court, together with the application to vacate the stay. Senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, representing respondents, submitted the state came to the top court at an early stage.  "They have had the benefit of a stay for almost eight months. Let the matter be called here and be decided once and for all," he said. The court, however, said that the High Court should decide the matter. The bench, also comprising Justice Dinesh Maheshwari, declined to set a deadline for deciding the matter at the High Court. The Andhra Pradesh government had ordered an SIT probe into the allegations of a scam in the sale of land near Amravati, in anticipation of the establishment of new state capital after the bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh in 2014.  The High court, on September 15, 2020, had stayed the SIT probe on a plea by the former advocate general Dammalapati Srinivas. On July 19, in a major blow to Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jagan Mohan Reddy, the top court dismissed the state's plea against quashing of criminal cases filed in connection with land transaction deal at Amravati. The top court had noted that private sale transactions cannot be criminalised and that the concept of the offence of "insider trading", cannot be read into Section 420, IPC or into any provisions in the scheme of IPC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sc-allows-andhra-pradesh-government-to-withdraw-plea-against-hc-in-amravati-land-scam-case-1011553.html
22-07-2021||South||Kerala CM gives clean chit to minister accused of trying to settle molestation complaint||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday gave a clean chit to Forest Minister and NCP leader A K Saseendran who was accused of trying to settle a molestation complaint by a woman in Kollam district. While the Opposition party -- Congress-led United Democratic Front -- staged a walkout from the Kerala Assembly over the issue, various political outfits staged demonstrations demanding Saseendran's ouster from the cabinet. Vijayan told the Assembly that Saseendran, who is also an NCP leader, only enquired about the matter as he thought that it was an issue between two-party workers -- the father of the woman complainant and the accused. The minister did nothing wrong in this, he said. Replying to an adjournment motion notice given by Congress MLA P C Vishnunath, the chief minister also said that the police probe into the molestation complaint would progress, and if there was any deliberate delay in the police probe, action would be taken. Opposition leader V D Satheesan subsequently gave a call for a walkout from the House accusing the Chief Minister of trying to protect the minister even as it was very evident that the minister tried to settle the case. The Opposition alleged the state government was initiating safety campaigns for women on one side and on the other side, protecting the accused. Meanwhile, the BJP state president called on the woman complainant, who is a BJP worker. The Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha and Mahila Morcha activists staged demonstrations in front of the Assembly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-gives-clean-chit-to-minister-accused-of-trying-to-settle-molestation-complaint-1011566.html
22-07-2021||South||Afghan youth worked at Cochin Shipyard using fake ID proofs||A youth from Afghanistan worked at the Cochin Shipyard at Kochi in Kerala for more than one year by using fake ID proof showing that he was a native of Assam. The matter has raised security concerns as India's first indigenous aircraft carrier INS Vikrant is in the final stages of making at the Cochin Shipyard. Even last year, hard disks were stolen from INS Vikrant and two migrants were held in this connection. Idgul alias Abas Khan, 23, who was born and brought up in Afghanistan, worked at the Shipyard after being employed by a sub-contract firm. He was held by the police from Kolkata the other day. According to the police, Idgul's father was suspected to be an Afghan national and his mother is from Assam. He was born and brought up in Afghanistan. He came to his mother's native place in 2018 and to Kochi in 2020 along with some of his relatives who were working at the Cochin Shipyard. Sources at the Shipyard said that he was working under a sub-contract firm and was neither involved in any key work nor had access to any key areas. Certain discrepancies regarding his name came to the notice of authorities last month. After verifying the matter, it was reported to the police. Khan was absconding by that time and the police nabbed him from Kolkata by tracing his mobile phone location. He was holding an Afghan passport and came down using a medical visa. He was produced before the court and remanded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/afghan-youth-worked-at-cochin-shipyard-using-fake-id-proofs-1011571.html
22-07-2021||South||DMK ropes in ex-AIADMK ministers to make a mark in Tamil Nadu's Kongu region||For long, the Kongu Mandalam or Western Region has remained an impregnable bastion for Tamil Nadu’s ruling DMK. The 2021 April assembly election was no different – the alliance led by DMK won just 17 of the 50 seats in the region, while it almost swept all other regions in the state. The party’s poor performance in the western belt has prompted the DMK to start focusing on the region with elections to local bodies expected to be held by the end of this year. DMK’s past efforts to strengthen the organisation at the grassroots in the region have not borne fruits owing to a slew of reasons including the lack of local leaders who have their ears to the ground. In the seven districts of the western region – Salem, Karur, Erode, Tiruppur, Namakkal, Coimbatore, and Nilgiris – DMK performed well only in the Karur district where it won all four seats. The victory is largely credited to the organisational skills of Electricity Minister V Senthil Balaji, who jumped ship from T T V Dhinakaran’s AMMK to DMK in 2018.  With an eye on making inroads into the region, the DMK inducted three MLAs from Western Tamil Nadu into the Cabinet. R Sakkarapani, who is from Dindigul district in south TN, but belongs to the dominant Gounders of the western region, was also accommodated in the cabinet.  The party has now roped in two influential leaders – former AIADMK ministers – from the region who have a considerable following. Both belong to the Gounder community, which has always put its weight behind the AIADMK in assembly elections.  It is with the aim of expanding its base in Coimbatore, the party inducted R Mahendran, who was the vice-president of actor Kamal Hassan’s Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM).  Mahendran is quite influential, and he scored over 1.40 lakh votes in Coimbatore in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls – in fact, Chief Minister and DMK chief M K Stalin said the party would have won a few more seats in the Kongu region if people like Mahendran were with the DMK during elections.  DMK feels the need to focus on the region not just because AIADMK is strong here, but this is the region that the BJP also considers as the perfect launchpad for its larger political role in the state. Of the four seats the BJP won, two are from the western region. The new BJP chief K Annamalai, a former Karnataka-cadre IPS officer, also hails from Kongu region. “The election results have reiterated that we need to work hard in the Kongu region. The DMK was way ahead of the AIADMK alliance in all other regions of the state except in Kongu. As a responsible political party, we need to correct our mistakes and that is what we are doing now. We are getting ready for local body polls,” a senior DMK leader told DH. Senior journalist R Bhagwan Singh told DH it was only natural for any political party to identify weak spots and take remedial steps after elections.  “Kongu has proved to be DMK’s weakest spot this election. The party has made the first move by getting Mahendran into its fold. Mahendran enjoys goodwill among people, and he can be helpful for the DMK. I see many more leaders from AIADMK in the west joining the DMK in the coming months,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-ropes-in-ex-aiadmk-ministers-to-make-a-mark-in-tamil-nadus-kongu-region-1011641.html
22-07-2021||South||TN minorities panel demands Bharat Ratna for Karunanidhi||The newly reconstituted State Minorities Commission on Thursday demanded that late Tamil Nadu chief minister M Karunanidhi be conferred with Bharat Ratna posthumously for his contributions to “national unity”, maintaining “religious harmony”, and overall progress of the state. The commission headed by its Chairman S Peter Alphonse, a senior Congress leader, passed seven resolutions in its first meeting here on Thursday. Briefing reporters after the meeting along with Minorities Welfare Minister K S Masthan, Alphonse asked district administrations to ensure that people get required permission to build places of worship in private lands owned by them while pointing out that such sanctions were not accorded during the previous AIADMK regime. To a question, Alphonse said the commission would request Chief Minister M K Stalin not to show “any leniency” towards anyone who spreads false and misinformation against other religions. “These people whichever community they belong to should be taken to task without any doubt. Whoever acts against social harmony should be dealt with by law. We will request the chief minister not to show any leniency towards anyone,” he said. The SMC chairman was asked about incidents of members from the minority communities indulging in false propaganda against other faith. At the briefing, Alphonse said the SMC will request the government to include Vanniyar Christians in the Most Backward Class (MBC) like their Hindu counterparts. Alphonse said the SMC wanted the Union government to confer Bharat Ratna on late DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi. “He is one of the tallest leaders of the country, and we feel it is fitting that he is bestowed with the country’s highest civilian award Bharat Ratna. His contributions to national unity, religious harmony, Tamil language and overall development of the state are extraordinary,” Alphonse said. The SMC consists of members from religious and linguistic minorities in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-minorities-panel-demands-bharat-ratna-for-karunanidhi-1011644.html
22-07-2021||South||Pondicherry University offers courses in Lakshadweep||Pondicherry University will offer new three-year undergraduate vocational and one-year diploma courses in Lakshadweep, Kadmat and Minicoy Islands for the current academic year 2021-2022. Based on the proposal by the Union Territory of Lakshadweep, the Pondicherry University has issued a no objection certificate (NOC) for affiliation of new three-year undergraduate vocational courses in tourism & service industry and software development and one-year diploma courses in catering and hospitality, marine, electrical and electronics and mechanical engineering.  Professor Gurmeet Singh, Vice Chancellor, Pondicherry University presented the NOC to Vijendra Singh Rawat, Secretary, Department of Technical Education & Skill Development, Lakshadweep Administration. “This is a great step towards the development of the Lakshadweep lslands which need a great deal of attention on Higher Education as well as Job oriented courses,” Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pondicherry-university-offers-courses-in-lakshadweep-1011667.html
22-07-2021||South||North Telangana pounded by heavy rains||The Southwest Monsoon's effect is severe on Telangana where several areas, especially in northern districts like Nirmal, Nizamabad and Adilabad, which received heavy to extremely heavy rainfall, were inundated with flood waters. Dilawarpur in Nirmal district has recorded the highest rainfall in the state on Thursday at 23.4 cm. A rainfall of over 10 cm was recorded in over 20 weather stations, almost all of them in these three districts. While rivers and streams are in spate, lakes and other water bodies are swollen all over the state. Officials opened the gates of Sri Ram Sagar, Manair etc projects and the people in low lying areas are cautioned not to venture out of their homes. Flood waters have entered the Bhainsa and Nirmal towns and the state government machinery, NDRF teams are involved in rescue efforts there. Some people trapped in their houses sent out SOS tweets to the TRS ministers, district officials. The Meteorological department has predicted more rains in the coming 2-3 days. Heavy to extremely heavy rains are expected in Adilabad, Komaram Bheem, Nirmal, and Nizamabad districts on Friday. Reviewing the rain-floods situation on Thursday, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has asked all the departments to take precautionary measures, especially in the Krishna-Godavari areas as the rains would continue for two more days. Rao has asked for the deployment of more NDRF teams and setting up of shelters with food, clothes etc provisions for the affected people. Officials are put on alert as huge inflows are expected into the Krishna river projects because of the heavy rainfall in Maharashtra, Karnataka. Rao has called for the constitution of a permanent Flood Management Team in the state, with seven experts from the related fields. Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has also directed the district collectors to be on alert to tackle the possible flood like situations, as per the IMD predictions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/north-telangana-pounded-by-heavy-rains-1011713.html
22-07-2021||State||Panel to propose phased reopening of schools||The state government is likely to resume in-person classes from the first week of August in a phased manner, according to sources in the Education Department. This follows a report by the education minister-appointed experts’ committee, headed by the commissioner of the department of public instruction. Confirming the decision to DH, an official said the report will be submitted to the government either on Thursday or Friday. “The committee has members from the health department, paediatricians, parents’ associations, private school managements and academicians, who have unanimously resolved to recommend phased resumption of offline classes,” the official said. “The recommendation is to start classes from grade 8 and above,” the source clarified. However, parents and students can choose online or offline classes. The committee may also insist on vaccination of parents, teaching and non-teaching staff.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/panel-to-propose-phased-reopening-of-schools-1011330.html
22-07-2021||State||190 students from Alva's PU College score full marks||As many as 190 students of Alva’s PU College in Moodbidri have secured full marks in the II PUC examination. Alva’s Education Foundation Chairman Dr M Mohan Alva said that 445 students in Dakshina Kannada had scored full marks. Of these, 190 are from Alva’s College, he added. Forty students have scored 599 marks while 385 students have scored more than 590 marks. A total of 1,637 students have passed with distinction, Alva added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/190-students-from-alvas-pu-college-score-full-marks-1011432.html
22-07-2021||State||Initiate measures to include Tulu script in Unicode: Arvind Limbavali||Minister for Forest, Kannada and Culture Arvind Limbavali has said that the department has asked the Karnataka Tulu Sahitya Academy to initiate steps to include Tulu script developed by it in the Unicode mapping list. Limbavali said that several rounds of discussions were held in the last 10 years on framing a Tulu script. The academy has now accepted the script prepared in consultation with experts in Tulu language and script. The government has approved the proposal to include the script in the Unicode map, he said. After the department requested the Central Institute of Indian Languages in Mysuru to examine the script and give its opinion, the institute had constituted a committee of language experts which discussed the proposal in detail and had recommended submitting the script to the Unicode Consortium. Following this, the department has asked the academy to go ahead with it, Limbavali said. Efforts to framing Tulu script will get a boost if the script comes to be used on digital platforms, literature and publicity material. Limbavali said that he will be happy when the Tulu language which has history of several centuries, gets included in the Unicode map. Karnataka Tulu Sahithya Academy president Dayanand Kathalsar said the direction of the government to the academy to initiate steps to include Tulu script in Unicode is a historic decision. Tulu has a history of over 2,000 years. Tulu should be taught from class one in the district, he said and urged the state government to declare Tulu as an official language.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/initiate-measures-to-include-tulu-script-in-unicode-arvind-limbavali-1011479.html
22-07-2021||State||Day-long rain cripples normal life in north Karnataka||Incessant showers have crippled normal life in Belagavi, Dharwad, Gadag, Bagalkot, Vijayapura and Kalyana Karnataka districts on Thursday. Khanapur taluk in Belagavi experienced 18 cm of rain on Thursday. Traffic movement on the inundated Pune-Bengaluru national highway was hit near Bhutaramanhatti village. Heavy rains and poor visibility in Belagavi forced the Mumbai-Belagavi flight to be diverted to Bengaluru. However, the Hyderabad-Kolhapur flight landed at the Belagavi airport during a brief rain break in the city. Unrelenting rain in Konkan belt and heavy discharges from dams in Maharashtra have swelled Krishna river and its tributaries posing flood threats to the basin villages the district.  A portion of a 40-year-old government school building at Murkatti in Dharwad taluk collapsed on Thursday due to extreme weather. Hubballi-Dharwad twin cities received spells of sharp showers throughout the day. Meanwhile, Kalyana Karnataka continued to receive rain, albeit with low intensity. North Karnataka districts are likely to receive thundershowers for next two days, according to the weather department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/day-long-rain-cripples-normal-life-in-north-karnataka-1011696.html
22-07-2021||State||Students to get help to crack competitive exams||The Department of Collegiate Education has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Unacademy to train students pursing final year and pre-final year undergraduate and postgraduate courses to take up various competitive examinations. As per the MoU, around 1,500 students will be trained every year, for next three years, by conducting online entrance test to screen the students' ability twice a year. The department will provide free scholarship for the students who get selected for coaching.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/students-to-get-help-to-crack-competitive-exams-1011697.html
22-07-2021||State||Relentless rain leaves trail of destruction in Malnad||Unyielding showers have caused massive damage to crops, buildings and the road infrastructure in Malnad region. The Malnad areas of Uttara Kannada district bore the maximum brunt of rain fury on Thursday. A government primary school building at Kumbarwad in Joida taluk crumbled due to a prolonged wet weather while the roof of the government higher primary school Hanumapur in Mundgod collapsed. Several villages in the district have been cut off owing to the overflowing Kali, Gangavali, Pandari, Kaneri, Gundbaal, Badagani and Bhaskeri rivers/rivulets. Unrelenting showers, coupled with strong winds, have hit normal life in Joida and Mundgod taluks and brought the farming activities in the region to a halt. Jagalbet in Joida taluk recorded a spine-chilling 190 mm (19 cm) of rain, the highest in the state, on Thursday. Kadra reservoir across Kali has reached the full reservoir level. As much as 40,000 cusec of water was discharged downstream as the villages on either side of the river face imminent threat of flooding. The vehicular movement on NH 63 was hit near Sunkasaal, Ankola taluk after a bridge went under the overflowing Gangavali river. Also, the stretch between Ankola and Yellapur is out of bounds for traffic after heaps of mud caved in from a hill near Arabail in Yellapur taluk. Traffic on NH 75 diverted  The traffic on the Shiradi Ghat stretch of the Bengaluru-Mangaluru highway (NH 75) has been closed for four days following a landslide near Donigal, Sakaleshpur taluk, on Thursday. Light vehicles heading towards Mangaluru/Bengaluru to ply via Bisle Ghat while heavy vehicles have been diverted to Charmadi Ghat or Madikeri-Puttur route. Uprooting of electricity poles and tree fall incidents have been reported from Sakaleshpur and Hettur areas. Power supply in the region has been badly hit. Kodagu district continued to receive heavy showers on Thursday too. The swollen Cauvery river has submerged the low-lying Balamuri bridge. Inflow into Harangi reservoir has gone up considerably. Triveni Sangama is full to the brim following heavy downpour in Bhagamandala. Parts of Chikkamagaluru, Hassan and Shivamogga have also been receiving heavy showers. Vast tracts of arecanut and coffee plantations and paddy fields have gone under water in the region. Inflow into Hemavathi reservoir in Gorur clocked 10,786 cusec on Thursday. With the catchment areas experiencing downpour, the dam level is expected to rise further up in the next few days. Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts continued to witness sharp spells of rain. The swollen rivers in the twin districts have been pumping in huge quantum of water into the reservoirs/minor dams. There’s no let-up in rain for the coastal districts till July 27. The India Meteorological Department has sounded red alert in Uttara Kannada, Udupi and Dakshina Kannada for Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/relentless-rain-leaves-trail-of-destruction-in-malnad-1011698.html
22-07-2021||State||KSRTC introduces weekend Jog Falls tour package from Bengaluru||Jog Falls in Sagar taluk is the most sought after tourist spot during the rainy season. Tourists from various parts of the state in general and Bengaluru, in particular, visit the place to see picturesque waterfalls and thick woods in the Malnad region. Now, KSRTC has introduced a tour package from Bengaluru to Jog Falls in a 30-seater non-AC sleeper bus for tourists. The bus would leave for Jog Falls from Bengaluru at 10.30 am on July 23. As of now, this tour package is available only during the weekend. If the response from people is good, KSRTC has plans to run the buses under the tour package scheme during the weekdays. This is for the first time that KSRTC has introduced a tour package from Bengaluru to Jog Falls.  KSRTC Shivamogga divisional traffic officer Satish V told DH that the bus would arrive at Sagar at 5.30 am and the tourists can use the hotel rooms booked for them for morning ablutions, including bath. Later, they would be taken to Sridhara Ashrama at Varadahalli, Varadamoola, Ikkeri and Keladi and Jog Falls in Sagar taluk. Lunch would be served to them in a hotel in the city. They can do shopping in the evening. Later, the bus would leave for Bengaluru from Sagar, he added. About the fare, he said KSRTC has fixed Rs 2,000 for an adult and Rs 1,800 per child and this includes lunch and breakfast. He also made it clear that this is only for tourists from Bengaluru.  According to Jog Management Authority, 8,000 tourists are visiting the Jog Falls during weekends and around 4,000 tourists visit during the weekdays.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ksrtc-introduces-weekend-jog-falls-tour-package-from-bengaluru-1011699.html
22-07-2021||State||Night shelters in cities a shocking state of affairs: HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday directed the district legal services authorities to make surprise visits in different cities to verify the conditions and the facilities provided at the existing night shelters. A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, passed this direction after perusing the statement submitted by the government on the night shelters across the cities in the state. The state government informed the court that a total 166 night shelters are required in the cities with the population of over one lakh. However, presently only 46 night shelters are functioning in different cities as against the approved number of 64 shelters. The bench observed that the prevailing situation of number of night shelters reveals a shocking state of affairs. The statistics provided by the state government revealed that for a population of 84.18 lakh (2011 census), there are only 10 night shelters as against the approved number of 15 shelters. According to the government, Bengaluru city requires 84 night shelters. Similarly, while the required shelters are nine, only one shelter is functioning in Mysuru, and in Hubballi-Dharwad as against the requirement of 9 shelters, only two are functioning. The bench directed the government to provide 42 night shelters in the city of Bengaluru within a period of three months and also to set up the remaining shelters in other cities within the period of next three months. The court is hearing a PIL filed by People’s Union of Civil Liberties (PUCL) challenging the constitutional validity of certain provisions of Karnataka Prohibition of Beggary Act, 1975, as well as the Prohibition of Beggary Rules, 1975. The petitioner has prayed for direction for conduct of an audit regarding the expenditure of beggary cess collected and also implementation of operational guidelines for Urban Homeless Shelters issued on May 29, 2014.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/night-shelters-in-cities-a-shocking-state-of-affairs-hc-1011704.html
22-07-2021||State||HDK questions govt's haste in sanctioning works worth Rs 12K crore||JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy on Thursday asked what was the need to sanction projects worth Rs 12,000 crore in a hurry in the last few days amid speculations that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will tender resignation on Saturday. Speaking to reporters, Kumaraswamy wanted to know the intention behind sanctioning projects worth thousands of crores when there is a possible leadership change in a couple of days. "Was it done to loot taxpayer's money of the state?" he asked. Kumaraswamy said the chief minister has sanctioned works worth Rs 12,000 crore for four corporations of the Water Resources department. "Out of this, Cauvery Neeravari Nigam has been given just Rs 1,000 crore. What has the people of the Mysuru region done to you? Do you really have the intention of providing water to them? The projects are to loot money," he said. He said, "Yediyurappa tendering resignation is the internal matter of the BJP. People are observing this for two years. I will not interfere in their matters. While the people are suffering from various problems, they have wasted time on the leadership issue. They should sort out the issue at the earliest and provide good administration". "I will not attach any importance to the seers of various mutts extending support to the chief minister. I am not identified by any particular caste. People have liked my soft nature. There is no need to seek protection on the pretext of caste. There is a difference between myself and other politicians. I will not organise the party in the name of caste," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hdk-questions-govts-haste-in-sanctioning-works-worth-rs-12k-crore-1011709.html
22-07-2021||State||SSLC exam: 99.65% student turnout on concluding day||The two-day Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) exam concluded on Thursday on a smooth note with 99.65% of the registered students, braving rain and the pandemic, turned up for the board exams. The results are expected in August second week. The Malnad districts saw huge turnout of students despite the challenges posed by incessant rain and landslides. At some rain-hit places, the department officials arranged vehicles to ferry students to exam centre and back home.  "Upon receiving the information a road in Chikkodi was blocked due to a tree fall, we immediately alerted the police and fire and emergency services. They rushed to the spot and cleared the road. All the 44 students attended the exams," said an official from Chikkodi Deputy Director of Public Instructions office. A few ailing students wrote the exams from the hospital beds. This included a student from Bengaluru, who's down with jaundice, wrote his exams from the KC General hospital bed. A student with special abilities was accompanied by a nurse to the examination centre in Bengaluru while a student suffering from a rare disease wrote the exam lying on the floor of an examination centre at Bengaluru. As many as 62 Covid-infected students appeared for the exams from the Covid Care Centres. A total of 152 candidates with Covid-like symptoms wrote the exams from the isolated rooms of the exam centres Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said: "We must appreciate students, parents and all the stakeholders and volunteers who extended their support... It (holding exams) was one of the best decisions taken in the interest of students." 12L seats available at PU colleges Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said about 12 lakh seats were available at pre-university colleges across the state. "In case any college needs an additional section, they can approach the pre-university education department and the same will be considered," he said. Reopening decision soon The decision on resumption of schools for offline classes will be taken in a couple of days. According to the Education minister, the government is waiting for the decision of the expert committee chaired by the Commissioner of the Department of Public Instruction. "The plan is to start offline classes first for higher grades. We will take a call once we receive the report," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sslc-exam-9965-student-turnout-on-concluding-day-1011711.html
22-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka teachers to be vaccinated to facilitate reopening of schools||Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Wednesday said the teachers of government and private schools would be vaccinated against Covid-19 so that schools could be re-opened without the children getting the infection from the faculty. In tweets, Sudhakar said the State government wants early re-opening of schools. "The corona vaccine will be given on a priority basis to teachers and non-teaching staff of all government, aided and unaided private schools in the State for the early re-opening of schools keeping the future of children in mind," the Minister said. The schools were shut this academic year in view of the Covid-19 scare though online classes were on. As health experts have expressed apprehension over children getting infected if and when the third wave of Covid-19 strikes, the government intensified the vaccination of adults to ensure they do not pass on the infection to the young. Currently, there is no vaccine for those below 18 years of age.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-teachers-to-be-vaccinated-to-facilitate-reopening-of-schools-1011354.html
22-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||New govt will also be corrupt like Yediyurappa: Siddaramaiah||Karnataka Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Thursday said the new government that will come after Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s exit will also be “corrupt” because “the BJP itself is a corrupt party”.  Siddaramaiah was speaking to reporters at Vidhana Soudha after chairing a meeting of the Congress’ legislators.  “B S Yediyurappa gave a bad government in Karnataka. It was not a pro-development government; it was a government filled with corruption,” he said. “By removing Yediyurappa, I don’t think an honest CM will come. The BJP itself is a corrupt party. Their ministers are corrupt. So whoever comes, it will be a corrupt government,” he said.  The Congress leader recalled that he had predicted Yediyurappa’s exit several months ago. “I've been saying for 6-7 months that Yediyurappa will be changed. I had credible information. Nobody believed me, but it has come true now,” he said, adding that this was the BJP’s internal affair.  The Congress staged a protest against the alleged Pegasus spyware snooping. Congress leaders took out a march from Vidhana Soudha till Raj Bhavan, but they were detained by the police on the way.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/new-govt-will-also-be-corrupt-like-yediyurappa-siddaramaiah-1011469.html
22-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Vehicles from Mangaluru to Bengaluru stranded due to landslide||Following landslides, vehicles plying from Mangaluru to Bengaluru were stranded in Shirady Ghats on Thursday afternoon. Vehicles heading from Sakleshpura to Mangaluru were diverted via Belur and Charmady ghats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/vehicles-from-mangaluru-to-bengaluru-stranded-due-to-landslide-1011520.html
22-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka BJP in charge Arun Singh ducks questions on leadership change||Even as Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa hinted about his possible exit, BJP national general secretary Arun Singh, the party's Karnataka in charge on Thursday ducked questions on leadership change in the state. "My Namaskar to you all. We will sit together someday and discuss. We will also sit together and have tea," Singh told reporters in Delhi, who sought his reaction on the matter. Amid the heightened pitch by a section of dissident MLAs seeking Yediyurappa's removal, Singh had visited the state and consulted party leaders, ministers and MLAs in June. He had later appreciated the work done by Yediyurappa, saying that the Karnataka government was doing a good job under his leadership. "All our party workers, ministers and legislators are united and there are no differences of any kind," Singh said. Though there was a buzz about his replacement, Yediyurappa on Thursday for the first time hinted that he is on his way out, saying that the party high command would give an instruction on July 25, which he would abide by. He also said he is among those trusted persons in the party who was given the task to lead the state even after completing 75 years of age.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-bjp-in-charge-arun-singh-ducks-questions-on-leadership-change-1011577.html
22-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt orders Covid-19 vaccination of school staff on a priority basis||A day after the experts' panel resolving to recommend the state government on the phased reopening of schools across Karnataka, the National Health Mission (NHM) on Thursday directed all the DCs to vaccinate the entire aided and unaided school teaching and non-teaching staff.  In its communication to all the district administration, NHM Director Dr Arundhati Chandrashekar has directed the officials to compile an authorised list of names of all the aided and unaided schools' teaching and non-teaching staff. "Principal or any other member shall be appointed as a nodal officer for coordination with the health officials for vaccination," the note said. Besides, the officials must inform the beneficiaries about the vaccination date and time, keeping in mind the vaccine stocks at their level.  All the eligible candidates must then participate in the 'model vaccination drive', in their school/college campus as per the availability. This is a part of 'workplace vaccination site SOP'. School headmaster/headmistress or principal must ensure that 100 per cent of their staff have participated in the initiative. Health Minister Dr K Sudhkar said, "If not today, we have to reopen the schools someday. Children cannot sit in online classes all the time as it will have a negative impact on the minds of the kids. Hence, we have decided to vaccinate employees of all the schools on a priority basis."  Dr Sudhakar also revealed that the government is in constant touch with the experts, academicians and are obtaining suggestions before deciding on reopening of schools.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-orders-covid-19-vaccination-of-school-staff-on-a-priority-basis-1011660.html
22-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 1,653 Covid-19 cases, 31 deaths||Karnataka reported 1,653 new cases of Covid-19 and 31 deaths, taking the caseload to 28,89,994 and death toll to 36,293, the health department said on Thursday. Active cases were now at 24,695. The day also saw 2,572 discharges, pushing the total number of recoveries to 28,28,983. Bengaluru Urban recorded 418 new cases, as the city saw 1,162 discharges and 3 deaths. Belagavi and Kolar recorded four deaths each, Bengaluru Urban and Dakshina Kannada (3), Bagalkote, Chamarajanagara, Dharwad, Hassan and Shivamogga (2), followed by others. After Bengaluru Urban, Dakshina Kannada accounted for the most number of fresh cases with 229, Mysuru 134, Kodagu 107 and Tumakuru 104. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with 12,23,644, followed by Mysuru 1,71,686 and Tumakuru 1,17,253. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 11,99,078, followed by Mysuru 1,67,621 and Tumakuru 1,14,820. Cumulatively 3,74,26,194 samples have been tested, of which 1,40,343 were tested on Thursday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-1653-covid-19-cases-31-deaths-1011665.html
22-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government cuts stamp duty on registration of low-cost apartments||The Karnataka Cabinet on Thursday decided to slash stamp duty on registration of apartments that cost Rs 35-45 lakh from 5 per cent to 3 per cent, providing relief to home buyers looking for affordability. This will be applicable for the first registration of these apartments. There is also a proposal for upward revision of guidance value. "This will be examined by the specific committee constituted for it," Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai said, briefing reporters. The Cabinet also approved the construction of four lakh houses in rural areas under various schemes including Basava Housing Scheme, Dr BR Ambedkar Housing Scheme and Devaraj Urs Housing Scheme and one lakh houses in urban areas under Vajapayee City Scheme and BR Ambedkar Housing Scheme (Urban). This will cost the government Rs 8,000 crore over the next two years and the Finance Department has already given its sanction, Bommai said. Also, in Bengaluru, the government had earlier approved construction of one lakh apartments for which there was a requirement of Rs 500 crore to provide basic infrastructure. This, too, was approved by the Cabinet. That apart, the state government will soon set up Centres of Innovation and Development in Smart Agriculture (CIDSA) in coordination with Hexagon Manufacturing Intelligence India, in all the agriculture universities in the state. These centres will help employ technology in agriculture for smart assessment of crop pattern, crop survey among other activities. The cost of these centres would be Rs 110 crore per varsity, of which Rs 85 crore will be borne by the company and the rest by the state government, Bommai said. In other decisions, the Cabinet approved the implementation of the Karnataka Arogya Sanjeevini Scheme to provide cashless medical treatment for state government employees and their families. It was also decided to issue income and asset certificates to beneficiaries of the 10 per cent EWS quota from castes other than those in the existing reservation categories. And, the Cabinet accorded administrative approval for the detailed project report (DPR) to upgrade the existing 248 MLD water treatment plants at KC Valley at an estimated cost of Rs 718 crore as per the standard stipulated by the National Green Tribunal. Ayush varsity in Shivamogga The Cabinet granted administrative approval for Ayush University to be established in Shivamogga, which is Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa's home district. The Cabinet also approved a peripheral cancer centre in the Shimoga Institute of Medical Sciences at a cost of Rs 50 crore. These decisions involving Shivamogga come at a time when Yediyurappa's exit looks imminent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-cuts-stamp-duty-on-registration-of-low-cost-apartments-1011680.html
22-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||My father will abide by party leaders' decision: BYR||MP B Y Raghavendra stated that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa would abide by the party high command's instruction.  Speaking to media persons in Shikaripur on Thursday, the three-time MP Raghavendra, the son of the chief minister, said age is not the criteria to head the top post. Many senior leaders of BJP including L K Advani have stayed away from active politics for many reasons. But the BJP top brass made Yediyurappa CM without considering his age. He said, "My father climbed the ladder of power through struggle. Yediyurappa has been loyal to the party which gave him everything. The party gave him guidance and culture so he was able to work for the welfare of people all these years." Recalling the past, he said, "My father used to tell me that veteran BJP leader Atal Bihari Vajpayee often said that no position is permanent in politics except party worker."  The MP also exuded confidence that his father would take the right decision as he devoted his life to bring BJP to power in Karnataka. "Yediyurappa has no hunger for power and we will also abide by his decision."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/my-father-will-abide-by-party-leaders-decision-byr-1011692.html
22-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka ministers who had defected to BJP 'not quitting'||As their meeting with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday sparked speculations that they were set to quit, the ministers, who had joined the BJP after quitting the Congress-JD(S) coalition in 2019, clarified that the meet had nothing do with resignations and that they would abide by the high command's decision on the leadership change issue. As at least six of these ministers went into the Chief Minister's cabin after the cabinet meeting with some papers, local channels were abuzz with speculation that they are about to tender their resignation, either as part of pressure tactics to force the high command to continue with Yediyurappa at the helm or worried about their future if the CM is replaced. However, emerging from the meeting, Health Minister K Sudhakar, responding to reporters queries, asked "Why should we resign? We have come to BJP accepting Yediyurappa's leadership and party's principles and ideology, and we will abide by the party high command's decision." "After the cabinet meeting my colleagues and I, as usual, met the Chief Minister at his chamber and came out.I inquired with the Chief Minister about the ongoing developments (about his exit), to which he said- he will abide by the direction the high command will give him on July 25 and let's build the party together," he said. Rubbishing reports that they are worried about their future in BJP without Yediyurappa at the helm, Sudhakar, flanked by Urban Development Minister Byrathi Basavaraj, said "We have worked with the Chief Minister so long, it is being humane to stay with him for as long as he is there." Asked if they will be going to Delhi to meet the high command, he said, if necessary they will go. Agriculture Minister B C Patil, who was also part of the group that met the Chief Minister, showing the letter in his hand, asked "is this the resignation? It is false and baseless information.No one has resigned and there is no need for it." He also said that they are in no worry about losing the Ministership, if Yediyurappa steps down as the Chief Minister. Municipal Administration Minister MTB Nagaraj said they had not taken any resignation letters to the CM as being reported by sections of media, and only discussed with him on some cabinet decisions, regarding some transfers, and release of funds for developmental works. To a question whether the leadership change issue was discussed at the meeting, he said, "no...we will abide by the high command's decision. If they ask for our resignation we are ready for it." Seventeen MLAs had quit the Congress-JD(S) coalition which had led to the collapse of the H D Kumaraswamy-led government in 2019, and had paved the way for the BJP to come to power. Sixteen of them had subsequently joined the BJP. Most of them had won the bypolls in December that year on a BJP ticket, and 12 are currently Ministers in Yediyurappa's cabinet. There seems to be nervousness among most of these Ministers as they had come to BJP trusting Yediyurappa's leadership, and without him they fear uncertainty about their future, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-ministers-who-had-defected-to-bjp-not-quitting-1011694.html
22-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Visitors throng Karnataka CM probables' offices||An unprecedented number of visitors meeting BJP National General Secretary C T Ravi here on Thursday has raised speculation that he would be front runner for the Chief Minister's post in Karnataka. Though who will succeed Yediyurappa as Chief Minister is not clear, Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi and Bengaluru South Lok Sabha member Tejasvi Surya's names are also doing rounds. Several Karnataka leaders including Arvind Bellad, Kolar Lok Sabha member S Muniswamy, former MLA N L Narendra Babu, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's political Secretary M P Renukacharya, and some religious leaders also met Ravi at his office in BJP Headquarters. Even Joshi witnessed a stream of visitors from Karnataka for the past two days in Delhi. With the MPs from Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha in Delhi to attend the ongoing Parliament session, Central Hall witnessed discussion on who will be next Chief Minister of Karnataka, said an MP from Karnataka. "Though MPs discussed Ravi and Joshi as strong probables, many leaders also said if the high command wanted to give surprise, they may appoint Tejasvi Surya as the CM," said an MP, who was also part of the discussion in Central Hall. "Many MPs from other states were seen enquiring with Karnataka MPs about the next CM," said an MP. While refusing to talk about who will be the next CM, Ravi said the party top leaders will take a decision considering their loyalty and experience. “I am not dreaming of the CM post. I am a loyal worker and work as per the party leaders instructions,” Ravi, Chikkamagaluru MLA, said when asked whether he is also in the CM race. Praising the contribution of the Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa for the party, Ravi said the party has given a number of posts and Yediyurappa should not regret demitting the office. “The BJP also benefited due to Yediyurappa as he built the party. Same time, the party also gave him a number of posts recognising his contribution,” Ravi, former Minister, said. “Perhaps for the first time, the party made a leader as the CM despite him quitting the party and forming his own outfit,”Ravi said. BJP national general secretary Arun Singh, the party's Karnataka in charge on Thursday ducked questions on leadership change in the state. "My Namaskar to you all. We will sit together someday and discuss," Singh told reporters in Delhi, who sought his reaction on the matter. He had later appreciated the work done by Yediyurappa, saying that the Karnataka government was doing a good job under his leadership. "All our party workers, ministers and legislators are united and there are no differences of any kind," Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/visitors-throng-karnataka-cm-probables-offices-1011714.html
22-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt orders resumption of non-Covid treatment in all govt hospitals||Buoyed by the considerable fall in the daily Covid cases across Karnataka in the past few days, the state government on Thursday ordered the resumption of non-Covid treatments in all government hospitals that were converted as Covid hospitals. The government has also directed that no person suffering from non-covid ailments shall be diverted to private hospitals citing the Covid-19 situation.  In a circular to all the DHOs and District Surgeons, Dr KV Trilok Chandra, Commissioner, Health and Family Welfare directed that the hospitals shall revert to the treatment of Covid cases if the daily dose of Covid cases shoot up considerably and all personnel and facilities shall be kept ready at all times for such emergency. Hospitals have been told to maintain separate arrangements or facilities for diagnosis and treatment of Covid and non-covid patients including OPD, lab, radiology, discharge and counselling.  Dr Ramesh Krishna K, Medical Superintendent, Victoria Hospital, told DH, "All non-Covid services including OPDs, wards, ICUs and Emergency Operation Theatres have resumed functioning at Victoria Hospital from Thursday. Elective Operatives will also resume soon, as we are awaiting fungal culture reports of OTs." The government's decision comes in the wake of a sense of nervousness pervading the public that several non-Covid ailment treatment facilities have taken a back seat due to the pandemic. As per the order, all facilities ranging from Primary Health Care Centres to District Hospitals and Medical College Hospitals shall ensure treatment of non-covid cases with immediate effect.  However, the department has also sounded caution while pointing to rising incidents of Covid infection in the neighbouring states. "Retain Covid treatment facilities at an optimal level until further notification while being cautious about the sudden rise in cases of neighbouring states," the circular said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-orders-resumption-of-non-covid-treatment-in-all-govt-hospitals-1011733.html
22-07-2021||West||Central, Konkan Railway services affected due to heavy rains||A series of landslides, breaching of tracks and water-logging completely paralysed the train traffic on the Central Railway (CR) and Konkan Railway (KR) on Thursday as heavy rains continued to lash parts of Maharashtra.  The Western Railway (WR) traffic was, however, normal.  Nearly 40 trains on CR and KR were cancelled, rescheduled or short-terminated, reports said. The CR’s traffic on the Mumbai-Pune and Mumbai-Nashik route was badly affected. The traffic between Mumbai and Karnataka stations also bore the burnt of the monsoon situation.  The Gadag-CSMT short-terminated in Pune, Hubli-Dadar special short-terminated in Pune, while the Dadar-Mysore special will originate from Pune Minister of State for Railways Raosaheb Patil Danve reviewed the situation during which Ashok Kansal, the General Manager of CR and WR, apprised him of the ground situation and steps taken to normalise the traffic.  On the CR’s Kasara-Igatpuri mountainous route, there were several incidents of landslides blocking the traffic.  “But evening, the Kalyan-Kasara/Igatpuri section was made fit for traffic. The most challenging work was at Ghat sections and Umbermali track-wash locations,” a CR spokesperson said.  State Transport buses were arranged by CR’s Mumbai division for passengers who were stranded in trains from Umbermali/Kasara to Kalyan because of boulders and trees falling on the tracks.  The CR’s Ambernath-Lonavala section that connects Mumbai to Pune was also affected and restoration work is currently underway.  The KR services too were disrupted as water level at the Vashishti river bridge between Chiplun and Kamathe stations in Ratnagiri crossed the danger mark after the heavy overnight rainfall.  "In view of the safety of passengers, train services in this section are suspended temporarily," a KR spokesperson said.  The Konkan Railway has a 756-km-long track from Roha near Mumbai to Thokur, located close to Mangalore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/central-konkan-railway-services-affected-due-to-heavy-rains-1011380.html
22-07-2021||West||Maharashtra: Heavy rains wash out rail tracks near Kasara Ghat; train services hampered||Heavy overnight rains in Mumbai and neighbouring areas led to flooding and washing out of some rail tracks in the Kasara Ghat near here and other areas and also caused mudslides and boulder crashes, severely affecting long-distance and local train services, officials said on Thursday. According to railway officials, some long-distance trains were held up at various locations and special buses were being arranged for the stranded train passengers. The suburban train services of the Central Railway were being operated only up to Titwala and Ambernath stations in neighbouring Thane district from the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) in south Mumbai since Wednesday night, CR's chief spokesperson Shivaji Sutar said. Train operations from Titwala to Igatpuri (in Nashik district adjoining Thane) and from Ambernath to Lonavala in neighbouring Pune district were suspended after tracks were washed out, boulders crashed, and inundation and mudslides occurred at multiple locations in the section due to the heavy overnight downpour, he said. Because of the problems in tracks, upcountry train movement between Mumbai-Pune and Mumbai-Nashik was affected. Mumbai and adjoining districts of Thane, Palghar and Raigad are experiencing heavy rainfall. Around 10.15 pm on Wednesday, the Central Railway suspended the traffic between Titwala and Igatpuri rail section following heavy water-logging on tracks near Umbermali station close to Kasara, located about 120 km from here, and due to incidents of boulder crash at the Kasara Ghat, according to rail officials. Later, at 12.20 am, the CR suspended traffic between Ambernath and Lonavala section as flooding took place near Vangani station, located about 90 km from Mumbai, and some boulders fall in the Khandala Ghat section, they said. The CR said heavy downpour for a few hours caused damage to railway tracks and other equipment. It said Kasara recorded around 138 mm rainfall in four hours from 9 pm on Wednesday, while Lonavala and Karjat recorded 142 mm and 129.1 mm rainfall, respectively, from midnight till 7 am on Thursday. Sutar said efforts were on to restore train movement in both sections. "Special boulder trains, various machines, and labourers are working at the damaged spots," Sutar said, adding that the Central Railway's general manager was continuously monitoring and guiding officers and staff for quick restoration from his camp office. The Central Railway has set up help desks at Kalyan, Kasara, and Igatpuri stations for passengers, he said. The CR's suburban services on the Harbour line, Trans-Harbour line and Belapur-Kharkopar line were running as per schedule, officials added. Local train services on the Western Railway route were also affected due to track changing point failure at Churchgate in south Mumbai early Thursday morning, a spokesperson said. The problem was rectified around 7.30 am and since then the services were running normal, he said. Meanwhile, the Tansa and Modak Sagar dams, the two huge water reservoirs, that supply drinking water to Mumbai are close to the overflow mark. KS Hosalikar, Head SID, Climate & Research Services, Pune, has asked citizens to be on alert. (With DHNS inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-heavy-rains-wash-out-rail-tracks-near-kasara-ghat-train-services-hampered-1011408.html
22-07-2021||West||Rains flood Maharashtra's Chiplun town||Chiplun town and neighbouring areas were flooded as the twin South Konkan districts of Ratnagiri-Sindhudurg continued to receive heavy rains on Thursday. The flooding in Chiplun was worse than the mega floods of 2005. The Mumbai-Goa road traffic and the Konkan Railway train services were badly affected. Chiplun is the business and industrial hub of the South Konkan belt of Maharashtra. NDRF teams from Pune have been rushed while a SDRF team has moved form Kolhapur even as rescue teams are being sent to Chiplun. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray spoke to Ratnagiri Collector Dr BN Patil and Superintendent of Police Dr Mohan Kumar Garg and reviewed the situation. The Vaishasti river is overflowing at several places inundating the town and neighbouring villages. Ratnagiri-Sindhudurg  MP and senior Shiv Sena MLA Vinayak Raut  spoke to Thackeray and requested him to mobilise the Indian Coast Guard for rescue of stranded people. "The flooding is very severe," said Raut. Three-term MLA form Guhagar and Shiv Sena leader Bhaskar Jadhav said that the geography of Chiplun is like a saucer and there is no escape route for water. "The adminstration is doing whatever possible," he said. Several ground and first floor flats were flooded with rain water. Ratnagiri's Guadian Minister Anil Parab said he himself is trying to reach Chiplun town. "The Vashistha river is flooded," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rains-flood-maharashtras-chiplun-town-1011460.html
22-07-2021||West||Traffic on Konkan Railway route disrupted after river overflows in Ratnagiri||Train services on the Konkan Railway route in Maharashtra's Ratnagiri district were suspended on Thursday morning after a river overflowed following heavy rains in the area, an official said. "Eight trains have been regulated due to the disruption of the route," Konkan Railway Corporation Limited's Deputy General Manager (Public Relations) Baban Ghatge told PTI. Regulating trains means they have been either rerouted, short-terminated or cancelled. Water level at the Vashishti river bridge between Chiplun and Kamathe stations in Ratnagiri has risen above the danger mark after the heavy downpour, the official said. "In view of the safety of passengers, train services in this section are suspended temporarily," he said. This is the second disruption on the Konkan Railway route in the last few days. On July 19, train services on the route were suspended for a day due to seepage of water in the Old Goa tunnel near Panaji. The Konkan Railway has a 756-km-long track from Roha near Mumbai to Thokur, located close to Mangaluru. The route, spread across three states -- Maharashtra, Goa and Karnataka -- is one of the challenging terrains, as it consists of many rivers, gorges and mountains. On Thursday, train services of the Central Railway in the Kasara Ghat section of Maharashtra's Thane district and near Lonavala hill town in Pune district adjoining Mumbai were also severely affected after heavy rains caused flooding, washing out of tracks, boulder crashes and mudslides in that region, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/traffic-on-konkan-railway-route-disrupted-after-river-overflows-in-ratnagiri-1011438.html
22-07-2021||West||NDRF deploys 9 rescue teams in Maharashtra after heavy rains||The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has deployed nine rescue teams in Maharashtra, including four in Mumbai, after heavy rains caused flooding in some coastal areas of the state on Thursday. Mumbai, its neighbouring Thane and Palghar and other districts in the Konkan region have been witnessing heavy downpour since the last few days, leading to inundation at several places and disruption of rail and road transport services. Water level of many rivers has risen and crossed the danger mark at some places. An official statement issued by the NDRF said four of its teams have been deployed in Mumbai, and one each in Thane and Palghar districts. One team will reach Chiplun town in Ratnagiri district by late afternoon. Besides, two teams have been sent to Kolhapur district. One of it will undertake rescue or preventive evacuation in the flood-prone Shirol tehsil, while the other one will conduct rescue work in Kolhapur city, the NDRF said. Some villages in the Sahapur taluka of Thane were marooned, a local official earlier said, adding that authorities with the help of the NDRF rescued hundreds of people from those places. Incidents of water-logging leaving people stranded were also reported from Mumbra, Bhiwandi, Titwala and Kasara areas of Thane district. Various places in Vasai, Virar and other locations in Palghar also witnessed flooding, but no loss of life was reported so far, officials said. The Modak Sagar dam at Sahapur in Thane started overflowing in the early hours of Thursday and two of its gates were opened to release the water, the district administration said. Train services of the Central Railway in the Kasara Ghat section of Thane and near Lonavala hill town in Pune district adjoining Mumbai were severely affected after heavy rains caused flooding, washing out of tracks, boulder crashes and mudslides in that region, officials said. Besides, train services on the Konkan Railway route in Ratnagiri were also suspended in the morning after a river overflowed following heavy rains in the area, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ndrf-deploys-9-rescue-teams-in-maharashtra-after-heavy-rains-1011482.html
22-07-2021||West||HC refuses to quash CBI FIR on corruption charges against Anil Deshmukh||The attempts of beleaguered former Maharashtra Home Minister and senior NCP leader Anil Deshmukh to secure relief were dashed when the Bombay High Court refused to quash the FIR of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) against him. “Deserved to be dismissed,” noted Justice SS Shinde and Justice NJ Jamadar, who comprised the division bench of the Bombay High Court hearing the plea.   The FIR was registered against Deshmukh and some unidentified persons on April 24 on allegations of corruption and misconduct following a preliminary inquiry (PE) that the CBI conducted in compliance with the high court's order. Senior counsel Amit Desai, who represented Deshmukh, sought that the FIR be quashed.  The bench also refused Deshmukh's request to stay its judgment to give him time to file an appeal against the same. The CBI as well as the Enforcement Directorate (ED) are carrying out investigations against Deshmukh. Former Mumbai Police Commissioner and now Commandant General of Home Guards Param Bir Singh has alleged that Deshmukh had fixed a collection target of Rs 100 crore per month for now dismissed Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze. Deshmukh had alleged that the ongoing CBI inquiry against him was illegal since the central agency had not taken prior sanction from the Maharashtra government to prosecute him. However, Additional Solicitor Generals Aman Lekhi and Anil Singh, who appeared for the CBI, had told the High Court that no sanction was required, as by indulging in corruption and misconduct, Deshmukh hadn't been discharging his official duties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hc-refuses-to-quash-cbi-fir-on-corruption-charges-against-anil-deshmukh-1011508.html
22-07-2021||West||Maharashtra: Kolhapur sees incessant rains; several roads shut for traffic||Several roads in Maharashtra’s Kolhapur, including a few state highways, have been shut for traffic as some of the stretches have gone under water as a result of incessant rains in the district over the past two days, officials said on Thursday. In the 24-hour period that ended at 8 am on Thursday, this western Maharashtra district recorded 93 mm rainfall, they said. The water level of Kolhapur’s Panchganga river recorded at the Rajaram weir has crossed the “warning level”, the district disaster management cell said. "Till 2 pm, the water level of the river measured at the Rajaram weir near Kolhapur was 38.10 feet," an official of the cell said. The danger level of the Panchganga at the weir is 43 feet, he said, adding that 81 bunds in the district have gone under water following the rains. “There are three district roads that have seen closure as the rainwater has submerged of the stretches. In several rural areas, the bridges have gone under water, due to the traffic movement has been shut. A few state highways going through the district have also been affected,” he said. The road near Jadhavwadi Nile in Shahuwadi tehsil, the Kolhapur- Ratnagiri road were closed for vehicular movement as water came onto the road, the official said. As the bund at Khochi Dudhgaon got submerged, the traffic going towards the Sangli district from that route was diverted. “The vehicular traffic was diverted through the alternative routes,” he added. The catchment areas of several dams in the region witnessed heavy rainfall in the last 48 hours, which led to rise in the water level of these reservoirs. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has earlier said that it has deployed nine rescue teams in Maharashtra and two of them have been sent to Kolhapur district. One of it will undertake rescue or preventive evacuation in the flood-prone Shirol tehsil, while the other one will conduct rescue work in Kolhapur city, it has said. In August 2019, unprecedented rains had wreaked havoc in western Maharashtra, especially in Kolhapur and Sangli districts, leaving at least 60 people and causing serious losses to property.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-kolhapur-sees-incessant-rains-several-roads-shut-for-traffic-1011514.html
22-07-2021||West||FIR against Param Bir Singh, 5 other cops on charges of extortion||In a major development, controversial IPS officer Param Bir Singh and seven others, including police officers, have been booked in a case of extortion and criminal breach of trust. Singh, an officer of the 1988 batch of the IPS, had served as Commissioner of Police in Mumbai and Thane cities and is the current Commandant General of Home Guards. According to a complaint made by a local builder, Singh had allegedly demanded Rs 15 crore to withdraw cases against him.  Besides Singh, others named in the complaint are Deputy Commissioner of Police Akbar Pathan, Assistant Commissioner of Police Shrikant Shinde, Assistant Commissioner of Police Sanjay Patil, Police Inspector Asha Korke and Police Inspector Nandkumar Gopale. Two of the builder's partners, Sunil Jain and Sanjay Punamia, have also been arrested in the case, he said. According to the complainant, Jain and Punamia had conspired with police officials and demanded Rs 15 crore from the builder to withdraw some cases against him, he said. The FIR was registered in the Marine Drive police station under India Penal Code sections 387, 387, 389 for extortion, Section 403 for dishonest misappropriation of converts to his own use, 409 for criminal breach of trust by a public servant, 420 for cheating, 423 for fraudulent execution of deed of transfer. Singh is also facing a case under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act registered April this year on a complaint lodged by Police Inspector BR Ghadge, who is currently serving in Akola.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fir-against-param-bir-singh-5-other-cops-on-charges-of-extortion-1011541.html
22-07-2021||West||Only one lakh people have not been vaccinated with first dose yet: Goa CM||Out of Goa's 15 lakh population, only one lakh are yet to have taken the first Covid vaccine jab, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said on Thursday, adding that the state government was committed to complete 100 per cent vaccination (first jab) by July 31. Sawant also said that schools may be opened for one day, on August 15, for independence day celebrations, where Class X and XII students may be permitted to attend. "Our objective is to complete 100 per cent vaccination by July 31. We appeal to everyone to take the first dose at the vaccination centres. 80 per cent vaccination of the first dose has been completed. Approximately one lakh persons have been left out for now. If they come forward we will complete 100 per cent coverage of the first dose by July 31," the Chief Minister told reporters here on Thursday. Sawant also said that the state government was completing its end of the preparations to reopen schools, by facilitating quicker vaccination of the teacher community and that the Centre had been requested to reduce the gap in vaccination for teachers. "We have requested the central government to allow faster vaccination of teachers. If the request is granted, we will facilitate (vaccination) within 30 days. Teachers will be fully vaccinated and safe for teaching purposes. If we eventually decide to re-open schools, it will be in a safe environment," Sawant said. No specific date has been finalised for re-opening of schools, he also said. "We are thinking about opening schools on August 15, so that students from Class X and XII can attend independence day celebrations. But a decision has not been taken yet," Sawant said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/only-one-lakh-people-have-not-been-vaccinated-with-first-dose-yet-goa-cm-1011582.html
22-07-2021||West||Chiplun town under water as rain batters Konkan coastal belt||The Chiplun town and neighbouring areas went under floodwaters with more than 5,000 to 6,000 residents on the edge as the Konkan coastal belt and western Maharashtra was pounded by heavy rains on Thursday. Teams of Indian Navy are on standby and teams of NDRF have reached near Chiplun, which has a geography of a saucer — trapping the ingress of water from the overflowing Vashishti river, that snakes into the Arabian Sea. Besides Chiplun, which is the business and financial hub of South Konkan, other places like Khed and Mangaon, all in Ratnagiri district, are witnessing flooding. The Mahad town in Raigad district and some places in the Sindhudurg district have also witnessed waterlogging. The Jawhar town in Palghar and parts of Thane also saw flooding as Tansa and Modak Sagar dams started overflowing as the Ulhas and Kalu rivers swelled. The Panchganga river in Kolhapur district was flowing over the danger mark in several places even as the Koyna catchment area of Satara district received heavy downpour. The hill station of Mahabaleshwar received a record 480 mm rainfall. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray directed authorities to ensure relief to the people. Thackeray spoke to Ratnagiri Collector Dr BN Patil and Superintendent of Police Dr Mohan Kumar Garg and reviewed the situation. NDRF Commandant Anupam Srivastava said that teams will undertake rescue and relief operations. "We are told that some 5,000 to 6,000 people are stranded in Chiplun and Khed...we will work through the night," he said, adding that according to IMD forecast, rainfall will reduce in next 24 hours and flood situation will improve.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/chiplun-town-under-water-as-rain-batters-konkan-coastal-belt-1011628.html
22-07-2021||West||12 BJP MLAs of Maharashtra Assembly move SC against suspension||Twelve Maharashtra BJP MLAs have approached the Supreme Court against their one-year suspension from the Assembly on July 5 for “abusing and misbehaving” with the presiding officer, Bhaskar Jadhav.  The MLAs contended the action against them was motivated, mala fide and an attempt to stifle voice of the opposition. They said the presiding officer ought to have granted them an opportunity to offer their explanation and the suspension for one year was highly disproportionate.     The suspended MLAs are: Girish Mahajan, Jaykumar Rawal, Ashish Shelar, Atul Bhatkalkar, Yogesh Sagar, Parag Alvani, Ram Satpute, Sanjay Kute, Abhimanyu Pawar, Narayan Kuche, Shirish Pimple and Kirtikumar Bagadia. Their plea contended that all the 12 legislators were at different places and some of them were not even in the chamber. Some of them were not in the well, but were merely spectators. They also pointed out that heated exchanges between the ruling party and Opposition formed the very essence of democracy.  The action against the MLAs was taken after the chaos that began when senior NCP minister Chhagan Bhujbul stood up to introduce a resolution in the state legislative Assembly seeking the release of empirical data on the Other Backward Classes (OBCs) by Centre for providing political reservation to the community in the state's local bodies. At least three former ministers were among the 12 legislators suspended for one year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/12-bjp-mlas-of-maharashtra-assembly-move-sc-against-suspension-1011652.html
22-07-2021||West||Baidyanath launches India’s first private LNG station||India’s 104-year-old Ayurvedic brand Baidyanath Group has launched the country’s first private liquefied natural gas (LNG) station in Nagpur.  The B-LNG station is located at Pandhurna village near Oriental Structure Engineering, Outer Ring Road, Nagpur.  Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari, who is the MP from Nagpur,  formally inaugurated the station, with MD Suresh Sharma and directors of the company also present.  “Already, we are spending Rs 8 lakh crore on import of petrol, diesel and petroleum products which is a big challenge. LNG has many benefits as it is a cost-effective, pollution-free and alternate bio-fuel which will lower the country’s carbon footprint and also reduce the dependence on crude oil imports,” said Gadkari. He said that the Ministry had formulated a policy in 2009 to allow the making of bio-ethanol from molasses. Currently, ethanol is being made from surplus rice, corn and sugar preventing the waste of the agri-commodities.  The Minister added that the use of LNG in trucks and buses will provide huge benefits to the transport industry. Currently, diesel is priced at Rs 94/litre and the price of LNG is Rs 61 per kg. The price of the LNG kit (Rs 10 lakh) can be recovered in the first year of operations.  LNG offers 60 to 65 per cent saving compared to diesel.  Talking about flex engines, Gadkari said, “Decision will be taken in three months making it mandatory for automobile manufacturers particularly the four-wheelers and two-wheelers to make flex engines. Several countries like the USA, Canada and Brazil already have them. The cost of the vehicle remains the same whether it is petrol or Flex engine.” Customers will be able to choose flex-fuel vehicles which are designed to run on more than one type of fuel like a mixture of petrol and ethanol. Gadkari said it is his "dream to make LNG from bio-molasses”. Pranav Sharma, Managing Director, B-LNG, said that the foray into natural gas has been Baidyanath’s long-standing dream. B-LNG plans to set up more LNG stations in Vidarbha and convert diesel to LNG trucks and buses in the first phase.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/baidyanath-launches-india-s-first-private-lng-station-1011690.html
22-07-2021||West||Armed forces deployed in flood-hit districts of Raigad and Ratnagiri||Armed forces have been deployed to aid civil authorities in Raigad and Ratnagiri districts of coastal Konkan region which has been hit by mega-floods following incessant rainfall. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to review the situation. Thackeray apprised him of the ground situation and the measures being undertaken by his government. Units of Navy, Army and Air Force have been deployed to assist in the rescue and relief operations, officials of the Chief Minister's Office said. Latest reports said that NDRF has reached the two neighboring Konkan belt districts. NDRF units are also being deployed in Satara, Sangli and Kolhapur districts of Western Maharashtra in view of a possible flood situation in the Pune division. IAF helicopters are carrying out relief and rescue operations in Ratnagiri district, the CMO said. The Disaster Management Department (DMU) informed that the state government has taken immediate measures to rescue the flood situation and provide help.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/armed-forces-deployed-in-flood-hit-districts-of-raigad-and-ratnagiri-1011719.html
22-07-2021||West||Residents take to Twitter to seek help as rains flood Maharashtra's Chiplun town||As the picturesque Chiplun tehsil in Ratnagiri district was ravaged by floods — far worse than the ones witnessed in 2005 and way back in 1967 — residents took to social media for help. Micro-blogging platform Twitter was flooded with requests – tagging authorities including Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray – for help. The image of the bus depot under floodwater has gone viral on social media. “My parents are stuck in a flooded home at Chiplun since last night. Home is flooded due to heavy rains and Kolkedwadi dam water in Chiplun, Maharashtra. Phone call done to Chiplun Municipal Corporation is not received,” wrote Vaibhav Shetkar. "Situation getting worse in Chiplun. Flood breaking all the records from 2005. A lot of people are still stuck and need urgent help,” said Jiten Pimputkar. Vikram Ghanekar posted a photo and wrote: “Almost hitting the roof now. Floating refrigerator on the right. No sign of any help from authorities. No boats. Number of people must have been trapped in lower lying areas. Chiplun, right now.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/residents-take-to-twitter-to-seek-help-as-rains-flood-maharashtras-chiplun-town-1011731.html
22-07-2021||West||Charges to be framed against 2 former Goa CMs in money laundering case||In a setback to Opposition parties Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), a Goa special court on Thursday cleared the way for framing of charges against two former Chief Ministers Digambar Kamat and Churchill Alemao in connection with a 2015 money laundering case filed by the Enforcement Directorate. While Kamat is currently the Leader of Opposition in the state legislative assembly, Alemao, also a former CM, is the NCP's only MLA in Goa, which is headed for assembly polls in early 2022.  In her order on Thursday, Special Judge Sherin Paul has said that the charges should be framed against the duo, while also directing both Kamat and Alemao to remain present in court on July 26. According to the charge-sheet filed by the Crime Branch of the Goa Police, Kamat was heading a Congress-led coalition government when he is alleged to have accepted a part of a $976,630 worth bribe from Louis Berger officials, in order to award the consultancy company a contract to oversee the implementation of a Rs 1,031-crore sewerage and drinking water augmentation project funded by the Japan International Co-operation Agency (JICA). Former Public Works Department minister Churchill Alemao, who served in the Kamat cabinet, has already been arrested and charge-sheeted by the Crime Branch in the same case, in which several senior officials of the state government, top management personnel of Louis Berger, a hawala operator and a close political aide of Kamat have also been arrested. Both Kamat and Alemao have denied any wrongdoing in the awarding of the consultancy contract to Louis Berger.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/charges-to-be-framed-against-2-former-goa-cms-in-money-laundering-case-1011735.html
22-07-2021||West||Goa CM welcomes extension of Mahadayi Tribunal by one year||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday welcomed the central government's decision to extend the term of the Mahadayi Water Disputes Tribunal. "Extension of term of Mhadei Water Disputes Tribunal is a welcome step. Goa's application for clarification is pending before Tribunal. Hence it was necessary to have such extensive," Sawant tweeted a day after a notification extending the term by a year was issued by the central government. Extention of term of Mhadei water disputes Tribunal is a welcome step. Goa's application for clarification is pending before Tribunal. Hence it was necessary to have such extension. Sawant said that the extension was "important from Goa's perspective". The Goa government has appealed against the 2018 award of the Tribunal, which had permitted Karnataka to draw 13.42 tmc of water. The awards were later notified by the central government in 2020. Sawant said that the award was not in the interest of Goa, which was why his government had challenged it in the Supreme Court. "We have appealed against it in SC because its award was unjust as far as Goa is concerned," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-cm-welcomes-extension-of-mahadayi-tribunal-by-one-year-1011737.html
