23-07-2021||Comment||An attempt to rewrite history||Ashutosh Kaushik, a former Bigg Boss 2.0 winner, has approached the Delhi High Court to avail his "right to be forgotten". In his petition, Kaushik has sought the court's permission to remove posts, videos and articles from the internet relating to his drunken driving case of 2009 and altercation at a cafe in 2013. The petition comes in the wake of the recent Madras High Court observation that an accused person who is eventually acquitted should be entitled to have his name redacted from all court orders to uphold his right to privacy. The debate around the right to be forgotten has revolved around ideas of individual freedom, liberty, informational self-determination and upholding constitutional freedoms in a democracy. It has been argued that any individual must not be perpetually reminded of their unfortunate past. The right to be forgotten stems from the understanding that the internet today can act as a permanent record of an individual's past life, thereby exerting undue influence on their present life. It sounds reasonable to have one's publicly available personal information removed from internet search databases once it's no longer relevant, is out of date, serves no sufficient legitimate interest to the users of the search engine or, if the information, in the first place, was obtained without consent. However, the above has not considered the pitfalls of recognising such a right. Recognising the right to be forgotten as a fundamental right will have ramifications for the right to access information and meaningful discourse in deliberative democracies. It could be abused to regulate the mind, memory and thoughts of citizens, to eventually rewrite history, create ill-informed citizens and disproportionately benefit the influential. There are three problems with the idea. First, it grants too much power to the executive and is prone to severe abuse. Second, it is akin to censorship, and finally, it lacks a scientific rationale. We need to understand that individual requests to take down information from the internet will be assessed based on subjective terminologies such as "information being no more relevant" or "not serving any legitimate interest". Weighing an individual's right to privacy against a citizen's right to know and then subsequently deciding whether the publicly available information is 'inadequate, irrelevant or excessive' grants disproportionate power to the executive. It will increase executive control, and governments could use this to take down uncomfortable facts, thereby curbing dissent and reducing counter-narratives. Taking away the ability to access information is akin to censorship and is based on infantilising the human brain as incapable of distinguishing between right and wrong. It also inevitably increases information asymmetry among the citizens. Censorship in a democracy must always qualify a very high bar and should be an exception instead of a norm. The right to be forgotten institutionalises censorship on the web and makes it a norm. The idea that specific published material might have no social value and should therefore be censored is misplaced and misconstrued. It ignores several other stakeholders and overlooks their prospective interest in the information in question. Furthermore, there are limits to controlling one's life and what is said or published about oneself. The internet gives all of us a right to respond and ensure that a counter-narrative exists. A right to obscurity by way of censorship should therefore be the last choice in a democracy. Most importantly, humans are conditioned to want to remember. The right to memory is a basic right of every individual and cannot be stifled. Granting people the right to take down information about themselves from public platforms downplays this human behaviour. It trivialises emotions and attempts to regulate our minds, thoughts, and, maybe even worse, our memory. What binds the three problems identified above is that they all fall within the larger umbrella of a recent trend to rewrite history. Rewriting history not just by adopting manipulative and unscientific means but also by a slow yet conscious effort to discourage discourse, shrink spaces for constructive criticism and limit avenues for historical research. Kaushik's past might not be relevant for him anymore, but it is for legal researchers, policy analysts, police personnel, prospective employers, partners, etc. Through the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), the European Union has already recognised the right to be forgotten wherein the controller of the data is now subject to statutory erasure obligations and is supposed to comply with the data subject's right to erasure. The Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019, proposed by the Indian Parliament, also recognises this right. Although Parliament is yet to pass the bill, several High Courts have started to acknowledge the growing debate around recognising this right. It will be interesting to see the courts constructively address these concerns. (The writer is an Impact Fellow at Global Governance Initiative and is from the National Law University, Visakhapatnam) Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/an-attempt-to-rewrite-history-1012022.html
23-07-2021||First Edit||Climate change impact is getting bigger||The extreme climate events in Europe, North America and China in the last two months have not left any doubt about the fact that the earth is well into the time of climate change. The time for evidence is well past and now we are witnessing the manifestations of climate change on scales that are getting bigger and bigger. Global temperatures soared in June, which was the warmest June on record in North America and the fourth warmest for the world overall. Unusually severe heat conditions were experienced in parts of Europe and the Russian Arctic also, which had an impact on a continent which is mostly the colder part of the globe. But after the hotter months came the more disastrous rains and floods which have devastated many areas of Europe, especially in Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg. About 200 people have lost their lives, thousands have been displaced and a lot of property has been destroyed. Heat waves and wildfires on one side and rains and floods on the other may seem to be natural events that are opposed to each other, but they reflect the same reality about climate change. There is now widespread scepticism about meteorological predictions, not because the systems have changed but because they are unable to understand the changes that are happening now. Changes in weather and other natural phenomena have been taking place for many decades, first imperceptibly and then on small scales. But they are now growing into big extreme events that are impacting lives in a big way. If the same events that are happening in the US and Europe happened in Asia or Africa, the loss of lives and property would be many times more. This has been seen from the extreme climate phenomena and freak events like changes in rainfall patterns, cyclones and the rise in sea levels that happen more frequently now. China, which has implemented vast water management schemes across the country and tamed its rivers, has seen record rains and devastating floods this year. India, too, is witnessing irregular rainfall and floods in many places, including in Mumbai and Gurugram. These are annual and even daily reminders of our failure to take climate action which will reverse the damage done or at least arrest it where it is now. There is still no agreement on the implementation of the Paris Agreement. All the governments, civil society and all organisations have to come together to address the challenge which is worsening by the day. The coronavirus will go away sooner or later, and life will limp back to normal. But climate change will cause irreversible loss and damage and life might become unsustainable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/climate-change-impact-is-getting-bigger-1011789.html
23-07-2021||Kalaburagi||Kalaburagi, Bidar districts receive rainfall||Several parts of the Kalaburagi and Bidar districts received rainfall on Friday evening. Excess water is being released into the river from Karanja dam following the incessant downpour in the Godavari river basin. As a huge quantity of water is being released into the Krishna river from Narayanapur reservoir, a bridge near Kollur (M) of Shahapur taluk in Yadgir district and the Hoovinahedagi bridge in Devadurga taluk of Raichur district are likely to be submerged. About 13,500 cusec water is being released from Sannati bridge-cum-barrage into the river. Kalaburagi city, parts of Chincholi, Aland, Chittapur, Jewargi taluks of the district received moderate rains on Friday evening. As Nagaral Reservoir located in Chincholi taluk is receiving a good inflow, a total of 1,500 cusec water is being let into Mullamari river. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/kalaburagi-bidar-districts-receive-rainfall-1012139.html
23-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Traffic on Pune-Bengaluru national highway diverted with river Vedganga overflowing||Traffic movement on the Pune-Bengaluru national highway has been diverted as river Vedganga, one of the tributaries of river Krishna has been overflowing on road at Yamgarni in Nippani taluk from the early hours of Friday. Police said that traffic movement on the road has been temporarily closed. Vehicles coming from Tumkur, Chitradurga, Davangere, Haveri, Dharwad and other places going towards Maharashtra and other north Indian states have been asked to divert to other routes. Chitradurga and Hubballi being the important points, vehicles will be diverted via Hosapet-Vijayspur and Hubballi-Vijayapur route. District Police have posted personnel at Hitebagewadi and Hattargi toll plazas to divert traffic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/traffic-on-pune-bengaluru-national-highway-diverted-with-river-vedganga-overflowing-1011816.html
23-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Incessant rains flood Malnad region; Tunga dam made to release water after heavy inflow||Following copious rains in the district, many areas in Malnad region have been flooded, sending normal life out of gear. After the release of water from Tunga dam at Gajanur near Shivamogga, many houses in low-lying areas were waterlogged. The inflow of water into the dam was 48,323 cusecs at 11:00 am and is increasing every hour. The dam released 65,000 cusecs of water into the river Tunga at 1:00 pm due to heavy inflow. Agriculture fields in various parts of Sagar and Thirthahalli taluk were inundated due to incessant rains. Some residential areas in Sagar town including Srirampura layout were also waterlogged. Residents were shifted to safer locations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/incessant-rains-flood-malnad-region-tunga-dam-made-to-release-water-after-heavy-inflow-1011895.html
23-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Over 100 people rescued from flood-hit Uttara Kannada||The Indian Coast Guard in Karnataka conducted a day-long rescue operation in the flood-hit Uttara Kannada district, rescuing 90 people from Khargejoog village and 10 people from Bodojoog island. Indian Coast Guard District No 3 Karnataka, Mangaluru Commander DIG Venkatesh said that the personnel are engaged in disaster relief operations supporting the district administration in Uttara Kannada.   Earlier, in the morning, the ICG personnel had carried out rescue operations using two rubberised inflatable boats, life jackets and lifebuoys and rescued 23 stranded personnel from the flooded villages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/over-100-people-rescued-from-flood-hit-uttara-kannada-1011957.html
23-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Incessant rains flood low-lying areas in Belagavi||Heavy downpour for over 24 hours led to low-lying areas in Belgagavi flooded as water gushed inside houses on Friday. Areas like Maratha Colony, Cariappa Colony, Nanawsdi and Shivaji Nagar witnessed flooding. People were finding it difficult to save household articles and flush out the water. Storm waters not cleared before the Monsoon and encroachments made in the 'nallahs' created an obstruction to water flow leading to the situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/incessant-rains-flood-low-lying-areas-in-belagavi-1011964.html
23-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||KCCI writes to PMO, Nitin Gadkari on collapse of Shiradi Ghat||The Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) has appealed to the PMO and Union Minister of Road Transport and Highway Nitin Gadkari to initiate immediate measures to temporarily restore the connectivity on Shiradi Ghat to avoid the mounting chaos and hardships. The damage to the Shiradi Ghat on NH 75 at Donigal in Sakleshpura of Hassan district has disrupted the movement of vehicles including bulk goods carriers. KCCI president Isaac Vas stressed the need for a long-term plan to concretise and restore the ghat section of Shiradi Ghat. Stating that Dakshina Kannada district is located on the west coast of India, having the New Mangalore Port and the only major port located in Karnataka, he said the port plays a significant role in economic activities and caters to the country’s critical needs. Along with the districts of Uttara Kannada and Udupi, the Dakshina Kannada district is connected to Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh by NH 75 which winds its way east through the Shiradi Ghats. This highway is most critical, and it serves as a lifeline to the economic activities of the three coastal districts and EXIM trade. EXIM shipments in containers and bulk from across the hinterlands, right from Bengaluru to Tumakuru, Kunigal, Hassan, Chikkamagaluru, Kushalnagar and Mysuru use the New Mangalore Port travel on this stretch to reach the port. In addition, since the New Mangalore Port is one of the largest LPG import ports, the LPG is transported to the hinterland daily.  Approximately 150 bullet tankers supply LPG to Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, and Andhra Pradesh through this route. If this road is disconnected, it disrupts the entire supply chain of the LPG, explained the KCCI president.   The NH 75 is also of strategic importance to India’s interests due to the presence of Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited (MRPL), Indian Strategic Petroleum Reserves Limited (ISPRL), Naval Base at Karwar, upcoming Indian Coast Guard Academy and other important assets in the region.The disruption in the movement of traffic on Shiradi Ghat has caused significant disruptions to trade and commerce. As a result, there will be a shortage of LPG and agricultural products, the KCCI president said.  Consequently, farmers' livelihood will be affected. Furthermore, the total industry of EXIM shipments will also be disrupted, resulting in loss to the country and hardship to the common man, he added in the appeal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kcci-writes-to-pmo-nitin-gadkari-on-collapse-of-shiradi-ghat-1011989.html
23-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka SSLC results by August 10: Suresh Kumar||Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S Suresh Kumar said that SSLC results will be declared by August 10. Speaking to reporters here, the Minister said reopening of schools for the academic year 2021-2022 will be decided after a meeting convened on Monday. The matter of private school fee is before the high court and the case will be taken up for hearing on August 2, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-sslc-results-by-august-10-suresh-kumar-1012001.html
23-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Over 80,000 cusecs of water released from Tunga dam in Shivamogga||Some areas in old Shivamogga city are at risk of flooding as the river Tunga is flowing above the danger level due to the release of more than 80,000 cusecs of water from Tunga dam at Gajanur to the river. District administration has instructed residents of areas close to the river Tunga to move to safer places. Houses in low-lying areas including Tipunagar collapsed in Shivamogga city while many houses in Ambedkar Nagar at Basavanagangur village were flooded and cattle sheds were damaged. The movement of vehicles between Shikaripur and Shiralakoppa was suspended as stream is flowing on the road. Many paddy fields, areca plantations and some residential areas in Sagar taluk were inundated to heavy rains. The major rivers-Tunga, Bhadra, Varada, Sharavathy, Kumudwathi, streams are flowing in full spate. Sagar recorded rainfall of 228.60mm, Hosanagar-210mm, Thirthahalli-171.80mm, Sorab-190mm, Shikaripur-120.20mm, Shivamogga-57mm and Bhadravathi-50.20mm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/over-80000-cusecs-of-water-released-from-tunga-dam-in-shivamogga-1012019.html
23-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah says no entry for defectors in Congress, DKS says let them apply||Karnataka Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said that there is no question of giving entry to defectors in the Congress. “I have already clarified on it in the Legislature party meeting, and I am committed to keeping my word. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has given instructions to replace the corrupt government in Karnataka. I had spoken on change in leadership in Karnataka four months ago. I had credible information on the exit of the CM. However, I do not know, who will replace B S Yediyurappa,” he told media persons in Mangaluru. He also challenged BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel to announce the name of a Dalit leader as the next chief minister. Kateel had recently challenged Congress to announce the name of a Dalit leader as the CM candidate. “We had Dalit CM in the past.  Now, let Kateel announce a Dalit leader as CM,” he said. “Kateel has love for Dalits. So let him announce a Dalit candidate as CM and then speak on social justice,” said Siddaramaiah. “The BJP has no concern for the people. The flood victims of 2019 are still waiting for compensation. Now, once again rain has caused vast destruction in Karanataka. Several houses have collapsed. Instead of taking up rescue operations on a war- foot basis, the BJP is engaged in changing the CM,” he charged. He said seers should not interfere in politics. "Here people’s opinion is important. None should interfere in the internal affairs of a party," he said. On Pegasus spyware snooping, Opposition leader Siddaramaiah said that phone tapping is not a new issue. The BJP was involved in it in the past as well. “My PA Venkatesh’s phone was tapped in 2019. The phones of Kumaraswamy, G Parameshwara, and others were tapped. They had done everything possible for the removal of the coalition government. I demand a Supreme Court judge to probe into the issue. It is the murder of democracy. The tapping the phones of judges of the Supreme Court and High Court is anti-national in nature. The BJP has no capability to run the government.” Apply to Congress Meanwhile, KPCC president D K Shivakumar in Mangaluru reiterated his stand that those who want to come back to the Congress may submit applications. “Let us discuss it after they apply. There are many who wish to come to the party fold. I do not wish to name them,” he said. On change in leadership in Karnataka, Shivakumar said that “I had already told that I will speak on July 26. The BJP has failed to give good administration in Karnataka. Hence, now they are changing the chief minister. Inspite of having a double-engine government, they failed to give good administration. Where is the respect for this government? What has happened to the administration? Whether officials are listening to anyone. The files are being signed in a hurry. Several files are being cleared in the irrigation department. I will speak on the issue with documents in the assembly,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-says-no-entry-for-defectors-in-congress-dks-says-let-them-apply-1011941.html
23-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah challenges BJP to name SC leader as next Karnataka CM||Senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah on Friday challenged the ruling BJP in Karnataka to name a leader from the Scheduled Caste community as its next Chief Minister amid speculations that the incumbent B S Yediyurappa will step down. "Nalin Kumar Kateel (state BJP President) had challenged me stating that- let Siddaramaiah announce a Dalit as a CM (candidate). From our party 4 SC leaders had been the Chief Ministers in the past like- Shinde (Sushilkumar Shinde) in Maharashtra, Jagannath Pahadia- Rajasthan, Damodaram Sanjeevaiah-Andhra Pradesh," Siddaramaiah said. Speaking to reporters here, he said now there is an opportunity, let Kateel make a person from Schedule Caste as the Chief Minister. "Anyways, Yediyurappa will be removed (from CM post), now there is an opportunity for them (BJP), let them do it. Anyways the seat (CM seat) will get vacant after Yediyurappa's exit, let them do so if they have love towards SCs. They (BJP) don't respect social justice, but question others," he added. Amid heightened buzz about leadership change, Yediyurappa on Thursday had indicated that his exit from the CM post was imminent. Reacting to Siddaramaiah, while accusing him of orchestrating the defeat of senior Congress leader G Parameshwara, a Dalit, in the 2013 assembly polls, to stop him becoming the CM, the state BJP said, "Siddaramaiah speaking on Dalit CM issue is same as Gandhi family (Sonia and Rajeev Gandhi) preaching about family politics." Challenging Siddaramaiah, who is a CM aspirant for 2023, to announce a Dalit leader as the Congress' Chief Ministerial candidate, the BJP in a tweet called him a "traitor" of Dalits. Responding to a question on pontiffs of various mutts, coming out in support of Yediyurappa and demanding for his continuation as the chief minister, Siddaramaiah opined that it was not right on the part of pontiffs to interfere in the internal affairs of any party. "Pontiffs, from whichever community they may be, they should not meddle in politics. Sharing their opinion is a different matter...the mandate and the opinion of the people is most important in democracy," he said. Hitting out at the BJP government, he said, at the time when they should be working on a war-footing, to help people in distress due to floods and when damage has been caused to life and property, they are going for a change of Chief Minister. "Whoever may replace Yediyurappa, as the BJP itself is a corrupt party and it is a corrupt government, the new Chief Minister who will come will also be corrupt. As early as this government goes, it is good for the state," he added. Responding to a question on his recent visit to Delhi and meeting with former Congress President Rahul Gandhi, Siddaramaiah said he has advised us to work unitedly to overthrow this corrupt BJP government in the state and bring back Congress to power by strengthening it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-challenges-bjp-to-name-sc-leader-as-next-karnataka-cm-1011992.html
23-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Yediyurappa, BJP high-command to decide next Karnataka CM: Eshwarappa||Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa stated that a prominent BJP leader of Karnataka would become the next chief minister.  Speaking to media persons here on Thursday, he said Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and BJP high-command would decide the next chief minister. Media is debating that the next chief minister would be either from Lingayat or Non-Lingayat community.   Eshwarappa also said he had no idea of any discussion held between Yediyurappa and the party high command. He also made it clear that a Cabinet reshuffle is certain and his portfolio will be changed. The state may witness anything in six days. "I would like to continue as a minister in the same portfolio. But I would come back to this after six months."  He said young leaders were given preference in the recent Union Cabinet reshuffle and it may repeat in the state cabinet as well. On Halumatha community's demand to the BJP top brass to make him as the next chief minister, he said "they have proposed my name for the chief minister post out of love and affection towards me. I am happy about it. But I appeal to them not to drag my name for the top post."   When questioned if he would accept it if the party high command takes a call, he remarked "Won't you marry a girl like Aishwarya Rai if you get a chance?"||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/yediyurappa-bjp-high-command-to-decide-next-karnataka-cm-eshwarappa-1012142.html
23-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Vijayendra rushes to Delhi to mollify BJP high command after Yediyurappa's meeting with seers||With Lingayat seers rallying behind Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, his younger son B Y Vijayendra rushed to Delhi to convince the party top brass that the meetings of the religious heads were not orchestrated by the CM or his loyalists. Vijayendra, who arrived at the national capital on Thursday night, met party national president J P Nadda on Friday.  Though there was no official word on what transpired at the meeting between Vijayendra and Nadda, sources said that the party top brass told him to ensure religious leaders meeting with the chief minister does not turn into a show of strength.  The BJP high command was learnt to have been upset with the chief minister's meetings with religious leaders.  As a row broke out over religious leaders extending support to the beleaguered chief minister, Yediyurappa on Wednesday clarified that he would abide by the party decision on stepping down from the CM's post.  However, party leaders in Delhi were of the view that the Lingayat leader was flexing muscles.   During Yediyurappa's meeting with BJP top brass including Home Minister Amit Shah and Nadda last week, the chief minister was believed to have agreed to step down from the post. Yediyurappa had sought elevation of Vijayendra, the state BJP vice president, either in the party or in the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/vijayendra-rushes-to-delhi-to-mollify-bjp-high-command-after-yediyurappas-meeting-with-seers-1012160.html
23-07-2021||Main Article||Children need live interaction||Although Covid has unfathomable impact over people all over the world, the most affected are children. Ever since public education through institutions such as ‘schools’ and ‘colleges’ became popular, there has been an immense responsibility on these institutions to not only facilitate learning, but also impart socially desirable behaviour and skills. Families are largely idiosyncratic spaces, trying to groom the children within the limited confines of ‘righteous behaviour’ in the light of not only their socio-economic and cultural background, but also personal caprices. Perspectives flourish when children are exposed to the wider society, and schools as ‘social spaces’ are well-versed in bridging the vacuum created by families in terms of what is appropriate and rightful not only for self, but for others, too. Schools assist and harmonise the behaviour of children with divergent personalities and backgrounds. A child reluctantly steps out of home for the first time to attend school, lest the strange space outside be not as secure as home. The same child, after years of schooling, considers the peer group as more valuable than family in sharing psycho-social issues. This is an unintended consequence of schooling, which is compromised with the pandemic distancing the inter-relations among children. The classroom is only a part of a social space, though a critical one, where both learning and socialisation happen simultaneously. Apart from this, from the time a child leaves home for school, the transit space, the time spent before the classes begin, during intervals and play and the whole-school interactions, etc., provide a significant opportunity for learners to actively engage with others in a productive way, which is not often acknowledged. The richness of interaction is accentuated by the diversity of the pupils’ backgrounds in the schools as they represent a microcosm of society and provide scope for comprehending a broad spectrum of social realities. These important social spaces invigorate children to develop wide-ranging social skills that enable them to survive, co-exist and further overcome new and unforeseen challenges. These are more important for the children of the present generation, wherein mobility, both physical and virtual, is the watchword for a better future. They are hindered in these pandemic times with children glued to homes, and online classes, due to inevitable circumstances. The voices of children are muted in online classes, with interaction among children being meagre or absent. The sole motive is to only transact academic aspects, or rather deliver the content. Meaningful interaction involves alternative ways of transaction rather than simply delivering the offline content in online mode. Being at home all the time without attending school places a huge burden on the child as a least empowered entity at home. It is not only the child but all others, too, are at home for most of the time, and for many, the house is not a cozy place to accommodate all of them during the day, without causing inconvenience to each other. For instance, when an online class is being conducted, other siblings and parents find it difficult to cope with the noise or to conduct their own chores. For a child, too, the social space has to be shared with those who do not have common stakes during learning, and that not only distracts oneself but also others. The nuclear families and infrequent interaction with the outside world during these pandemic times allow parents either to pamper the children or snub them or do both, too often in enclosed spaces, since everyone is out of routine and has enough time to engage with each other. Either way, children don’t receive their due, which is available in the outside space, where their actions are viewed much more dispassionately. While parental observations are largely judgemental, peers often brush aside many of the behavioural aspects as frivolous and contribute to the development of a broader perspective. This is not to rule out the emotional support provided by families at home, but to highlight the absence of scope for interacting with larger groups. Added to this are skirmishes among family members, which directly or indirectly influence the children. There are other dimensions, like competitiveness, cooperativeness, observation and spontaneous and subsequent responses, which are all possible when children gather physically at one place and interact with each other. Although competition is viewed as an extraneous motivation, it plays a vital role in achieving excellence. The potential to outperform others, and the gratification that one gets through the reactions of the teacher and other children are valuable in making progress. Equally important is the spirit of cooperativeness, which is apparent through performing group tasks, supporting and helping each other, sometimes even unsolicited. Children learn through observation and even a complex language structure that is often alien to family members is quickly learnt by children by observing and associating with other children. The virtual mode of interaction hardly provides a substitute to live interaction. The pandemic has forced children and our systems to venture into a new framework of relationships that no way matches the traditional one. The nature and unpredictability of the virus, with its mutations threatening any guaranteed timeframe for reopening of schools for the normal course of events, it is inevitable for us to find ways through which we can engage children. Parental awareness and appreciation of providing ‘space’ to children to unwind themselves in productive ways needs to be explored. Workshops could be held for parents and older siblings to orient them towards a changed learning environment. Communities need to play a vibrant role in engaging children physically and mentally, observing safety measures. This will enable an extended support to nuclear families and relieve stress not only of children but also of families. Online classes could also be conducted for small groups of students who assemble at different homes on rotation. Children could be asked to conduct discussions among themselves before reaching out to the teacher for an online class, wherein rather than delivering the content, interaction is encouraged and doubts clarified. Finally, staggered conduct of classes for students could be started, so that schools are not cluttered at any point of time. There can be many other ways through which we can mitigate the lack of live interaction, and for that we need to think out of the box. (The writer is Professor & Principal, Regional Institute of Education, NCERT)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/children-need-live-interaction-1011785.html
23-07-2021||National||After removal as CBI chief, 8 phones of Alok Verma, kin listed for Pegasus snooping, claims report||Eight phones of the then CBI director Alok Verma and his family members were put in the list of devices targeted for snooping using Pegasus spyware by an unknown Indian agency soon after he was divested of the coveted charge on October 23, 2018, The Wire reported on Thursday. Along with Verma, phones of his second-in-command Special Director Rakesh Asthana, against whom he had registered a corruption case on October 21, 2018, and the then Joint Director A K Sharma were also put on the list for surveillance using sophisticated malware, it said. According to the report, eight phones belonging to Verma family, including three of him along with those of his wife, daughter and son-in-law were put in the list of persons of interest targeted by the Israeli snooping malware. All these numbers, including that of Asthana and Sharma, remained in the list for a short period till Verma retired from service on January 31, 2019. They were taken off the list in February, 2019, it said. Israeli group NSO insists the leaked database accessed by French non-profit media organisation Forbidden Stories has nothing to do with it or its software Pegasus which is being used by "vetted governments". The government and the ruling BJP have dismissed the Pegasus Project reports as concocted and evidence-less. Law and IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw, whose own phone number was among those listed as compromised, said in a statement in Parliament on Thursday that the reports are "attempt to malign the Indian democracy and its well-established institutions". According to The Wire, which is one of the 15 international media organisations with whom the database was shared, Verma declined to participate in the story hence forensic examination of his phones, the only way to establish if they were successfully infected with the snooping malware, could not be carried out. Questions seeking reactions of Verma, Asthana and Sharma remained unanswered. While Verma and Sharma have retired from the service, Asthana is the chief of Border Security Force which guards the sensitive borders with Pakistan and Bangladesh. Verma and Asthana were sent on forced leave in an unprecedented order of the Centre in late night of October 23, 2018. The order divesting Verma of CBI director's post, which has a two-years fixed tenure, was issued nearly three months before he was scheduled to complete his tenure on January 31, 2019. The controversial directive which was reversed by the Supreme Court later was issued two days after Verma booked Asthana in corruption charges and conducted searches. Later, Asthana was cleared of all charges by the CBI which probed allegations against him. On Sunday, an international media consortium reported that over 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including of two ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders and one sitting judge besides scores of businesspersons and activists in India could have been targeted for hacking through the spyware. A French non-profit media group Forbidden Stories accessed a leaked database comprising 50,000 numbers believed to be linked to potential targets of Pegasus. The database was shared with 15 other media partners across the globe including The Wire in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-removal-as-cbi-chief-8-phones-of-alok-verma-kin-listed-for-pegasus-snooping-claims-report-1011757.html
23-07-2021||National||Indian Army bikers begin Ladakh-J&K expedition to commemorate Kargil Vijay Diwas||Set to traverse the icy heights of the Karakoram Range through the strategic Daulat Beg Oldi (DBO), an Indian Army motorcycle team led by Northern Army Commander Lt Gen Y K Joshi on Thursday began its expedition of the twin union territories of Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir to mark the 22nd anniversary of India's victory over Pakistan in the Kargil war. The Kargil war was declared over on July 26, 1999, after Indian soldiers pushed back Pakistani troops, a bulk of them drawn from the neighbouring country's Northern Light Infantry, from the captured peaks in Kargil. The day is observed as 'Kargil Vijay Diwas' to commemorate India's victory. The “Dhruva Kargil ride” comprises 75 bikes and was flagged off from Udhampur-based Dhruva war memorial by Param Vir Chakra awardee Subedar Sanjay Kumar. Sponsored by Jawa Classics motorcycle company in the honour of 22nd Kargil Vijay Diwas and 75 years of India’s independence to immortalise the supreme sacrifice made by soldiers, the bike rally comprises four segments, Lt Col Abhinav Navneet told PTI here. The main segment with 25 bike riders was flagged off from Udhampur on Thursday and is being led by Lt Gen Joshi, who is a Kargil war hero. There will be subsidiary rides launched from Naushera, Srinagar and Karakoram Pass totaling 75 bikes to mark 75 years of India's Independence, Lt Col Navneet said. The segments starting from Naushera with 15 bikes and Udhampur with 25 bikes will be joined by Srinagar segment with 20 bikes at Srinagar, he added. The segment covering the Karakoram Range will travel through DBO, Darbuk Leh and Kargil to converge with the main segment at Kargil War memorial in Drass on Friday, where the entire ride is culminating. Lt Gen Y K Joshi, during his address at the time of the flag off said, “In spite of challenges, the soldier will always stand steadfast in his vigil to protect the nation and will go beyond the duty to make the supreme sacrifice without batting an eyelid". Lt Gen Joshi said that the operation Vijay may have ended 22 years ago but the battle in Jammu and Kashmir still rages on. “Operation Vijay is testimony to the fact that there has never been and there will never be a compromise on the territorial integrity of the nation and any such farfetched idea will remain a pipe dream," he said. The Indian armed forces will defeat any nefarious design of the adversary with resolve, courage and bravery unparalleled in history, he said. "Challenges of weather, high altitude and long distances can be overcome with grit and determination," he told reporters here. Lt Gen Joshi said the motive behind the bike rally is to “remember the fallen heroes during operation Vijay” and “revive, rekindle and invigorate the spirit of patriotism among the youth". In a message to youth of the nation, he said: “Do not follow the beaten track, go into the unknown… make your own path and let others follow.” This bike ride is an excellent and unique initiative by the Army alongwith Jawa bikes to honour the brave hearts and immortalise their memory in the minds of everyone, he said. The Army Commander will be joined by Lieutenant General P G K Menon, Lieutenant General D P Pandey, Lieutenant General M V Suchindra Kumar -- three corps commanders of 14, 15 and 16 corps respectively. In addition, two major generals, four brigadiers, sixty two officers, six ladies, four wards, three civilians, one JCO and fifteen other ranks will also participate in the rally. Having joined the expedition for the first time, Major Kajal said it is a moment of privilege for her to remember the martyrs of the Kargil war. "I feel honoured. I will be paying tribute to the martyrs by taking part in this expedition for two days from Udhampur to Drass," she said. Fellow participant Major Vivek too was excited and said the rally is a tribute to the brave soldiers who fought for the nation without fear.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-army-bikers-begin-ladakh-jk-expedition-to-commemorate-kargil-vijay-diwas-1011758.html
23-07-2021||National||Gehlot writes to PM on rising fuel prices, seeks relief for common man||Expressing deep concern over rising fuel prices and the Centre's move to end subsidy on LPG cylinders, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking immediate relief for people suffering from inflation. Gehlot said the Centre had started the Ujjwala Yojana to provide clean fuel to the below poverty line (BPL) families, but due to the increase in the price of LPG, this scheme is proving to be unsuccessful. "Poor people facing livelihood crisis due to Covid have been unable to pay the price of cylinders as the government has ended subsidy on LPG cylinder. Due to this, the percentage of consumers who get cylinders refilled is continuously decreasing, which is a matter of serious concern," he said in the letter. Gehlot mentioned that in January 2013, the price of petrol was Rs 70.81 per litre and Rs 49.33 per litre for diesel, which has now gone up to Rs 108.21 and Rs 99 per litre, respectively.  Similarly, he said, the price of a domestic gas cylinder was Rs 865, on which subsidy of Rs 477 was being given. Therefore, the consumer had to spend only Rs 388 for one cylinder.  "Subsidy is not being given to the consumers since last 18 months which has forced women from poor and middle-class families to use wood and other traditional fuels for cooking. This is adversely affecting their health and the environment," he said. Gehlot further said rising fuel prices have disturbed the budget of the common man who is facing hardships.  "With the increase in transportation cost, the rate of goods and services has also increased. Retail inflation has been over 6 per cent in the recent past, mainly due to the rising prices of petrol and diesel," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gehlot-writes-to-pm-on-rising-fuel-prices-seeks-relief-for-common-man-1011759.html
23-07-2021||National||Medical entrance exam NEET to have centre in Dubai this year||The Ministry of Education has decided to add a centre in Dubai for the medical entrance exam NEET this year, officials said Thursday. Earlier this month, the ministry had announced that for the first time the exam will be conducted in Kuwait to facilitate the Indian student community in the Middle East. "The National Testing Agency (NTA) has decided to create one more centre city in Dubai in addition to the one already created at Kuwait city during the year 2021," HRD Secretary Amit Khare said in a letter to Foreign Secretary, Ministry for External Affairs. "The Indian community in the Gulf countries may appropriately be informed about this. I would also be grateful if the Indian embassies in Kuwait and Dubai are advised to extend their full cooperation to the NTA in conduct of the exam in fair and secured manner," he added. The 13 languages in which the test will be conducted this year are Hindi, Punjabi, Assamese, Bengali, Odia, Gujarati, Marathi, Telugu, Malayalam, Kannada, Tamil, Urdu and English. Among the languages, Punjabi and Malyalam are the new additions. The NEET which was earlier scheduled on August 1 was postponed to September 12. The number of cities where examination is conducted will be increased from 155 to 198. The number of examination centres will also be increased from 3,862 used in the 2020. Last year, it was conducted on September 13 amid strict precautions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. A total of 13.66 lakh candidates had appeared in the exam of whom 7,71,500 qualified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/medical-entrance-exam-neet-to-have-centre-in-dubai-this-year-1011760.html
23-07-2021||National||Akshay Kumar donated Rs 50 lakh to help artistes hit by Covid-19 pandemic, says RSS affiliate||Bollywood actor Akshay Kumar donated Rs 50 lakh to help artistes struggling to make ends meet amid the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak, the RSS affiliate Sanskar Bharati said on Thursday. Noted voiceover artiste Harish Bhimani also contributed Rs 5 lakh to help the artistes in need, the outfit said in a statement. Sanskar Bharati is raising funds to provide financial support to artistes facing a tough time due to the pandemic. For this, a committee under BJP MP and singer Hans Raj Hans was recently constituted. "Actor Akshay Kumar has come forward and contributed Rs 50 lakh to help the artistes, who are facing financial crisis due to coronavirus outbreak, and appealed to all other personalities in the art world to come forward to help the artistes in need," the RSS’s cultural wing said. "Harish Bhimani, the voice of TV series Mahabharata's 'Main Samay Hoon', has also come forward and contributed Rs 5 lakh, appealing to all others in the art world to come forward to support the artistes who are facing financial crisis due to the pandemic," it said. The Sanskar Bharati had recently organised a virtual concert as part of its initiative to raise funds to provide financial assistance to the artistes. Pandit Birju Maharaj, Amjad Ali Khan, Sonal Mansingh, Sonu Nigam, Akshay Kumar were among several other eminent personalities who had participated in the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/akshay-kumar-donated-rs-50-lakh-to-help-artistes-hit-by-covid-19-pandemic-says-rss-affiliate-1011762.html
23-07-2021||National||India, UK conduct mega wargame in Bay of Bengal||The Indian Navy and the UK's largest warship HMS Queen Elizabeth and its strike task group carried out a mega wargame featuring a range of complex drills in the Bay of Bengal, signalling a resolve to deepen military cooperation in critical sea lanes. The Indian Navy said the military exercise on July 21 and 22 was designed to hone the ability of the two navies to operate together in the maritime domain.  The UK's aircraft carrier was deployed in the Indian Ocean region as part of its 40-nation tour aimed at demonstrating the country's commitment to an open and inclusive Indo-Pacific. "The maiden exercise between Indian Navy and the Royal Navy's latest aircraft carrier, HMS Queen Elizabeth, included the participation of carrier strike group-21 comprising type 23 frigates and an Astute-class submarine in addition to the other surface combatants," the Indian Navy said. The Indian Navy was represented by ships Satpura, Ranvir, Jyoti, Kavaratti, Kulish and a submarine. A fleet of anti-submarine and long-range maritime reconnaissance aircraft P-8I was also deployed for the exercise. A carrier battle group or carrier strike group is a mega naval fleet comprising an aircraft carrier, accompanied by a large number of destroyers, frigates and other ships. "With the presence of the CSG-21 in the Indian Ocean, the ongoing exercise has afforded excellent opportunity to engage over the entire spectrum of maritime operations including anti-submarine warfare, anti-air and anti-surface warfare," Indian Navy spokesperson Commander Vivek Madhwal said. The exercise also witnessed the maiden participation of the F-35 B stealth fighter jets which operated from the deck of HMS Queen Elizabeth. "The inter-operability achieved by the two sides over the years has ensured a quantum jump in the complexity and scale of professional exchanges which is being further enhanced by the presence of the Royal Navy's Carrier Strike Group in the Indian Ocean," Madhwal said. The British High Commission in India said the UK's Carrier Strike Group (CSG) 2021, led by HMS Queen Elizabeth has met up with the Indian Navy in the Bay of Bengal for three days of complex maritime interactions. It said both the UK and India are in the midst of a "carrier renaissance", with the CSG spearheading the UK's joint expeditionary capability. "The joint endeavour provides tangible security to our friends and a credible deterrence to those who seek to undermine global security. An Indian warship will also exercise with the Royal Navy off the coast of the UK in August," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-uk-conduct-mega-wargame-in-bay-of-bengal-1011763.html
23-07-2021||National||Bhaskar is independent, readers' will is supreme, media group says amid IT raids||Unfazed by the Income Tax department's raids on its properties in multiple cities over alleged tax evasion, media group Dainik Bhaskar on Thursday said it was "independent" and the readers' will was supreme for it. "I am independent because I am Bhaskar. Only readers' will prevails at Bhaskar," a message in Hindi on the group's digital news website under the headline "Swatantra Bhaskar" said. The IT department's teams had reached its offices in Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Rajasthan and this action came only after the group brought to light the government's lapses during the second wave of coronavirus, the statement on the web site said. It claimed that the IT department teams also raided the houses of its employees, seized their mobile phones and did not allow them to leave. Even night-shift staff were not allowed to leave the offices, it said. Income Tax officials said it was part of the procedure, and the staff were allowed to leave after legal formalities, it said. The group's digital media team was allowed to go home at 12.30 pm on Thursday, it added. The group's digital news site had put out reports, along with pictures, on dead bodies of suspected coronavirus patients floating down the river Ganga in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar which had led to nationwide consternation. As the Income Tax raids unfolded, Dainik Bhaskar also ran a readers survey on social media, asking “Are you with the fearless journalism of Dainik Bhaskar? Answer 1 Yes, 2 No." When contacted, Principal Chief Commissioner of Income Tax for MP and Chhattisgarh Lekha Kumar said, “No comments, please.” Attempts to contact Parneet Sachdev, Director General of IT, Bihar and Jharkhand who has additional charge of MP and Chhattisgarh for comment failed. Meanwhile, Madhya Pradesh Congress chief Kamal Nath said the tax raids on Dainik Bhaskar and Bharat Samachar media groups on charges of tax evasion were an attempt by the Union government to suppress the "fourth pillar of democracy" and prevent truth from coming out. Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh said on Twitter that tax officials "are present" at half a dozen premises of the group, including at its office at Press Complex in state capital Bhopal where it is headquartered. State CPM secretary Jaswinder Singh said the raids were not only an attack on the freedom of expression but a clear sign of a situation worse than the Emergency. The action came at a time when the government was in a tight spot in Parliament over the Pegasus snooping case and coronavirus deaths, he said. It also proved that the Narendra Modi government was trying to stifle the voice of democracy, the CPM leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bhaskar-is-independent-readers-will-is-supreme-media-group-says-amid-it-raids-1011764.html
23-07-2021||National||Looked at only financial transactions of Dainik Bhaskar group, not editorial content: I-T Dept||The Income Tax Department on Thursday rejected allegations that its officials "suggested changes" in news stories while they conducted raids at multiple offices of the Dainik Bhaskar media group on tax evasion charges. The department issued a series of three tweets, saying its teams only looked into financial documents during the searches. "Certain allegations have appeared in some sections of media that I-T Dept officials were suggesting changes in stories & taking editorial decisions during their search on offices of a certain publication. "These allegations are absolutely false & are categorically denied by I-T Dept," the I-T Department tweeted. In keeping with the department's protocol, it said, the investigation team "only looked into the financial transactions of the group related to tax evasion". Certain allegations have appeared in some sections of media that ITDept officials were suggesting changes in stories &taking editorial decisions during their search on offices of a certain publication.These allegations are absolutely false &are categorically denied by ITDept(1/3) The tweets by the tax department also referred to the comments made in this context by one of the national editors of the group to some television news channels. "Shri Om Gaur is based in Lucknow as per his interview to media. It is emphasised that Lucknow office of the publication was not searched by the Income Tax team." "Sh Om Gaur was not even questioned. The allegations being made have no basis & in fact seem to be highly motivated," the department said. The IT Department conducted raids across several states against the Dainik Bhaskar group as well as Uttar Pradesh-based TV channel Bharat Samachar for alleged tax evasion, drawing a sharp response from several quarters, including an uproar in Rajya Sabha. The raids against the multi-media Dainik Bhaskar group, which has a presence in 12 states and runs newspapers as well as operates radio stations, web portals and mobile phone applications, were taking place in 30 locations, including Bhopal, Indore, Jaipur, Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Noida, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/looked-at-only-financial-transactions-of-dainik-bhaskar-group-not-editorial-content-i-t-dept-1011766.html
23-07-2021||National||Afghan President calls Danish Siddiqui's father||Afghan President Ashraf Ghani on Thursday called Mohammad Akhtar Siddiqui, the father of Indian photojournalist Danish Siddiqui, who was recently killed during an exchange of fire between soldiers of Afghan National Defence and Security Forces (ANDSF) and the militants of the Taliban at Spin Boldak in the Kandahar district of Afghanistan. Ghani extended his “deep condolences” to the father of the slain photojournalist during the phone-call, a spokesperson of his office said. The Afghan President said that his death was a great loss for the journalism fraternity. Siddiqui was covering the war between the ANDSF and the Taliban in Afghanistan for Reuters over the past few weeks. He was embedded with the special forces of the ANDSF.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/afghan-president-calls-danish-siddiquis-father-1011768.html
23-07-2021||National||DH Toon | Blast off to space for some privacy||After snooping allegations emerged from all over the world, Israeli group NSO has insisted the leaked database accessed by French non-profit media organisation Forbidden Stories has nothing to do with it or its software Pegasus which is being used by "vetted governments". The government and the ruling BJP have dismissed the Pegasus Project reports as concocted and evidence-less. Law and IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw, whose own phone number was among those listed as compromised, said in a statement in Parliament on Thursday that the reports are "attempt to malign the Indian democracy and its well-established institutions".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-blast-off-to-space-for-some-privacy-1011778.html
23-07-2021||National||US-based media body condemns tax raids on Dainik Bhaskar, Bharat Samachar||A US-based media body has condemned the raids on India's prominent media group Dainik Bhaskar and TV channel Bharat Samachar by the Income Tax Department and said New Delhi should drop these investigations aimed at "intimidating" news outlets critical of its government. The Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ) said India must revive its long tradition of press freedom and "allow journalists to report freely on matters of public interest". The Income Tax Department conducted raids across several states against Dainik Bhaskar as well as Bharat Samachar for alleged tax evasion. The raids against Dainik Bhaskar, which has presence in 12 states and runs newspapers as well as operates radio stations, web portals and mobile phone apps, started around 5:30 am on Thursday and were going on till late in the evening. They were taking place in 30 locations in different states. The premises of Bharat Samachar and its promoters and staffers were raided in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh. "The use of tax raids against media properties like Dainik Bhaskar and Bharat Samachar is a vile tactic transparently aimed at intimidating news outlets that report critically on India's government, and it needs to stop, now," Steven Butler, Asia program coordinator for CPJ, said on Thursday. "India must revive its long tradition of press freedom, drop these investigations, and allow journalists to report freely on matters of public interest," he said. "Indian authorities should immediately stop occupying the offices of the media group Dainik Bhaskar and the home of its managing director, and cease harassing Dainik Bhaskar, the news channel Bharat Samachar, and the outlets' staff," he added. Both Dainik Bhaskar and Bharat Samachar have been critical of the Covid-19 management in the country and have done numerous stories highlighting the failings of authorities and the distress of people during the second wave of the pandemic. The raids drew sharp reactions from several quarters in the country, including opposition parties, whose leaders raised the issue in Parliament. Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Anurag Thakur denied any government interference in the action by the Income Tax Department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-based-media-body-condemns-tax-raids-on-dainik-bhaskar-bharat-samachar-1011813.html
23-07-2021||National||India's daily Covid-19 cases decline to 35,342; 483 more deaths||With a single-day rise of 35,342 cases, India's Covid-19 tally climbed to 3,12,93,062 on Friday, while 483 more fatalities pushed the death toll due to the viral disease to 4,19,470, according to the Union Health Ministry.  The number of active cases has declined to 4,05,513, accounting for 1.3 per cent of the total caseload and the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.36 per cent, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. A decline of 3,881 cases was recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 16,68,561 tests to detect the infection were carried out on Thursday, taking the total number of such tests conducted so far in the country to 45,29,39,545, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.12 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for 32 consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.14 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 3,04,68,079, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. The cumulative number of Covid vaccine doses administered so far in the country has reached 42.34 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30-lakh mark on August 23, 40-lakh mark on September 5 and 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28 last year, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore Covid cases on May 4 this year and the three-crore mark on June 23. The 487 new fatalities include 122 from Kerala and 120 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,19,470 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,31,038 from Maharashtra, 36,293 from Karnataka, 33,838 from Tamil Nadu, 25,040  from Delhi, 22,743 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,040 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-daily-covid-19-cases-decline-to-35342-483-more-deaths-1011819.html
23-07-2021||National||US welcomes PM Modi's clean energy transformation in India, says an official||The United States welcomes the continued focus of India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi on driving a clean energy transformation in his country despite the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic, a senior official has said. Testifying before a Congressional committee on Thursday, Jonathan Pershing, a senior advisor to the Special Envoy on Climate Change John Kerry said the US and India are committed partners on climate. "We welcome Prime Minister Modi's continued focus on driving a clean energy transformation in India, notwithstanding the extreme challenges posed by the Covid crisis there," Pershing told lawmakers. In April, the two governments signed the "US-India Climate and Clean Energy Agenda 2030 Partnership". Under the partnership, the two sides identified a 2030 agenda for clean technologies and climate action, Pershing said. "A key focus will be cooperation to create regulatory and market conditions to spur the required investment to achieve India's goal to deploy 450 GW of renewable energy. If achieved, India would realise transformative changes in both its energy security and GHG emissions trajectory," he said. Sherri Goodman, secretary general of the International Military Council on Climate and Security told lawmakers that climate factors are also consequential in the tense relations between nuclear-armed neighbours India, Pakistan and China. A joint study published earlier this year by the Council on Strategic Risks and the Woodwell Climate Research Centre projects a strong warming trend near the disputed border between India and China, where approximately 1,00,000 Indian and Chinese troops are deployed at altitudes reaching up to 15,000 feet, she said. Military patrols, which are not viable today, may become more frequent, setting the conditions for potential violent clashes, she added. "Meanwhile China, partly due to its transition to renewable energy, is planning the world's largest hydroelectric facility just north of where the Brahmaputra river crosses into India. Three times the size of Three Gorges Dam, this new dam project is also located in a seismically sensitive zone," Goodman noted. "This has caused major concerns for downstream India, which is also worried that the new Chinese dam could be used to either withhold water from or flood parts of India. In truth, it will be difficult to tell if a future flood is the result of Chinese manipulation of the dam, or climate-related factors. China's lack of transparency on dam projects affecting its neighbours only increases India's distrust," she said. China is also constructing a series of dams in Pakistan-held Kashmir, to which India objects, due to its territorial claims there. These dams, when built, will be viable until the end of the century, due to projected glacial melt patterns, Goodman said. "Such construction will contribute to further strengthening the China-Pakistan partnership while exacerbating both countries' tensions with India. In each of these disputes, universally trusted data sources and institutions capable of managing resource-related disputes are lacking," she said. Craig Hart, deputy assistant administrator of the Bureau of Asia at the United States Agency for International Development, said the USAID, in partnership with the government of India, is improving the rehabilitation and management of more than 1 million hectares of India's forests to increase carbon sequestration, enhance water yields from forests, and strengthen the livelihoods of forest-dependent communities in three states, refining techniques that New Delhi will scale nationwide. "USAID/India's new program, Trees Outside Forests in India, will incentivise more tree cover on private lands at scales from household to commercial," he said. "USAID helped India launch a national program for retrofitting commercial buildings to enhance energy efficiency and improve air quality and in doing so, opened up tremendous business opportunities for US companies in a country whose air conditioner market is growing at 15 per cent a year," he said. For example, USAID's support prompted India's lead implementer of energy efficient programs to solicit a $10 million contract (more than Rs 74 crore), ultimately awarded to the United States-based Carrier Global Corporation, to install and maintain filtration systems and monitors in the existing air conditioning systems in buildings in and around New Delhi, Hart said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-welcomes-pm-modis-clean-energy-transformation-in-india-says-an-official-1011823.html
23-07-2021||National||Chhattisgarh to become first state to probe Pegasus row?||As the Pegasus spyware report, which the government of India has vehemently dismissed as fabricated, gains ground, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel claimed that NSO Group members had visited the state when it was under BJP rule.  The NSO Group is the firm that manufactures the Pegasus spyware. “Raman Singh [former CM] has to explain what the deal was about and whom they met," Baghel said. If Chhattisgarh actually carries out a probe, it will be the first state in the country to do so. Even in 2019, a 3-member committee was set-up when several Dalit rights lawyers and activists in the state were told that their phones had been infected with Pegasus via WhatsApp. The committee is yet to submit its report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-to-become-first-state-to-probe-pegasus-row-1011832.html
23-07-2021||National||PM Modi pays tributes to Tilak, Azad on birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid rich tributes to noted freedom fighters Bal Gangadhar Tilak and Chandra Shekhar Azad on their birth anniversary on Friday and recalled their contributions to the country. Modi tweeted that Tilak was a firm believer in Indian values and ethos, and his views on education and women empowerment continue to motivate several people. He was an institution builder, nurturing many top-quality institutions that have done pioneering work over the years, the prime minister said. He said, "I bow to the great Lokmanya Tilak on his Jayanti. His thoughts and principles are more relevant than ever before in the present circumstances, when 130 crore Indians have decided to build an Aatmanirbhar Bharat that is economically prosperous and socially progressive." I bow to the great Lokmanya Tilak on his Jayanti. His thoughts and principles are more relevant than ever before in the present circumstances, when 130 crore Indians have decided to build an Aatmanirbhar Bharat that is economically prosperous and socially progressive. Fondly remembering the revolutionary freedom fighter Azad, Modi said he was a valiant son of "Bharat Mata" and a remarkable man. "During the prime of his youth he immersed himself in freeing India from the clutches of imperialism. He was also a futuristic thinker, and dreamt of a strong and just India," he said. Remembering the valiant son of Bharat Mata, the remarkable Chandra Shekhar Azad on his Jayanti. During the prime of his youth he immersed himself in freeing India from the clutches of imperialism. He was also a futuristic thinker, and dreamt of a strong and just India. Associated with a string of revolutionary incidents to target the colonial British regime, Azad had vowed never to be captured by police and remain "azad" (free). After being surrounded by police following an encounter, he shot himself and died at an young age of 24 years in 1931. Born in 1856, Tilak was a pioneering leader of the Indian freedom movement and his concept of "swaraj" (self-rule) caught people's imagination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-pays-tributes-to-tilak-azad-on-birth-anniversary-1011838.html
23-07-2021||National||SC dismisses pleas of telecom majors for recalculation of AGR||The Supreme Court has said telecom companies can't be provided any relief in the guise of rectification of arithmetical errors in computation of AGR (adjusted gross revenue), which has already been rejected by the top court last year. The companies asked the court to allow the Union government to verify their accounts and rectify the defects and if it was not allowed, it could threaten some of them in a highly competitive sector. A bench presided over by Justice L Nageswara Rao on Friday rejected the plea.  “Though these applications appear to be innocuous at first blush, the end result of the relief sought by the applicants in the guise of correction or rectification of the defects or arithmetical errors in calculation of AGR dues, would be recalculation which would amount to the AGR dues, as specified in the order of this court dated July 20, 2020, being altered,” the bench said. The top court pronounced the order on applications filed by the Telecom companies on Friday. However, the eight-page order was uploaded on its website on Saturday afternoon. The bench, also comprising justices S Abdul Nazeer and M R Shah, pointed out that even at the time of passing of the July 20, 2020, order an attempt was made to seek recalculation and reassessment, which was rejected by this court.  “The dispute relating to AGR dues had remained pending in courts for a very long period of time and bearing this in mind, this court was at pains to emphasise, at the cost of repetition, that the AGR dues payable by TSPs (telecom service providers) cannot be the subject matter of any future litigation," the bench said. The court made it clear that any application for altering the AGR dues cannot be entertained.  The companies ---Airtel, Vodafone-Idea and Tatas-- claimed that the accounts pertaining to several years had to be scrutinised to arrive at the amounts payable by them towards AGR dues. They contended that a scrutiny of the accounts revealed that certain arithmetical errors have arisen due to inadvertence on the part of the Department of Telecommunications. A note submitted by the DoT in the top court last year, stated that Vodafone Idea owed Rs 58,254 crores, out of which it has paid around Rs 7850 crore; Bharti Airtel owed Rs 43,980 crore and it has paid over Rs 18,000 crore; and Tata Telecom owed Rs 16, 798 crores, out of which it has paid Rs 4,197 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-dismisses-pleas-of-telecom-majors-for-recalculation-of-agr-1011849.html
23-07-2021||National||ISC, ICSE classes 10, 12 Board results to be out on Saturday||The results of ICSE and ISC Class 10 and Class 12 Board examinations 2021 will be released on Saturday, July 24 at 3 pm, the Council for the Indian School Certificate said on Friday. Rechecking of marks will not be applicable this year since the students were awarded imputed marks, CISCE Chief Secy Gerry Arathoon said in a statement. The board had cancelled the exams for both the classes this year in view of the aggressive second wave of Covid-19. The result will be announced on basis of an alternate assessment policy decided by the board.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isc-icse-classes-10-12-board-results-to-be-out-on-saturday-1011877.html
23-07-2021||National||UP ex-CM Kalyan Singh critical, on life support: Hospital||The health condition of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh is critical and he is on life support, the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) said on Friday. He is under close monitoring of senior doctors of critical care medicine (CCM), cardiology, nephrology, neurology and endocrinology departments, the statement said. "Former UP chief minister and former governor of Rajasthan Kalyan Singh ji's health status is critical. He is on life saving support system (ventilator)," a release issued by the hospital said. Director of the institute Prof R K Dhiman is also keeping a close watch on all the aspects related to his health, it added. The 89-year-old BJP veteran was admitted to the ICU of the hospital on the evening of July 4 due to an infection and reduced consciousness level. Earlier, he was undergoing treatment at Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-ex-cm-kalyan-singh-critical-on-life-support-hospital-1011885.html
23-07-2021||National||Any attempt of booth capturing, bogus voting should be dealt with iron hands: SC||Any attempt of booth capturing or bogus voting should be dealt with iron hands because it ultimately affects the rule of law and democracy, the Supreme Court said on Friday while dismissing an appeal of a man convicted for rioting at a poll booth in Jharkhand. Referring to its earlier verdicts, a bench of Justice D Y Chandrachud and Justice M R Shah said freedom of voting is part of freedom of expression. "The essence of the electoral system should be to ensure freedom of voters to exercise their free choice. Therefore, any attempt of booth capturing or bogus voting should be dealt with iron hands because it ultimately affects rule of law and democracy," the bench said. The apex court said the secrecy of casting votes is necessary for strengthening democracy. Observing that in elections to the Lok Sabha and state legislatures maintenance of secrecy is a must, the bench said in democracies where direct elections take place it is important to ensure that voter casts his vote without fear and being victimised if his vote is disclosed. "Democracy and free elections are part of the basic structure of the Constitution. An election is a mechanism that ultimately represents the will of the people. Nobody can be permitted to dilute the right to free and fair elections," the bench said. The top court dismissed the appeal filed by Lakshman Singh who was convicted under sections 323 (voluntary causing hurt) and 147 (rioting) of the Indian Penal Code. It said that since the state has not preferred the appeal against six-month imprisonment awarded to Singh, it rests the matter there. The apex court said the use of force even by one member of the assembly is established as rioting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/any-attempt-of-booth-capturing-bogus-voting-should-be-dealt-with-iron-hands-sc-1011890.html
23-07-2021||National||Central University of Karnataka, 11 other varsities get new vice chancellors||President Ram Nath Kovind has appointed Battu Satyanarayana as the Vice Chancellor of the Central University of Karnataka, more than a year after the post fell vacant following the superannuation of H M Maheshwariah. Kovind also named vice chancellors to 11 other central universities, while the top academic and administrative posts remain vacant in 10 other central universities, including Delhi University. Satyanarayana, a retired Chemistry Professor from Osmania University, Hyderabad, has published 31 research papers in international peer-reviewed journals. A profile on the Osmania University website stated that Satyanarayana had also served as the President of the Osmania University Teachers Association and Chairman of Andhra Pradesh Federation of University Teachers' Associations. The announcement came a day after Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan told the Rajya Sabha that 22 posts of vice chancellors of central universities were vacant. Jawaharlal Nehru University vice chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar too has completed his tenure in office and is on extension till fresh appointment is made. The newly appointed vice chancellors include Tankeshwar Kumar (Central University of Haryana), Prakash Bansal (Central university of Himachal Pradesh), Sanjeev Jain (Central university of Jammu), Kshitij Bhusan Das (Central university of Jharkhand), Muthukalingan Krishnan (Central University of Tamil Nadu) and Basuthkar J Rao (Central University of Hyderabad). Kameshwar Nath Singh (Central University of South Bihar); Prabha Shankar Shukla, North-Eastern Hill University (NEHU), Shillong; Alok Kumar Chakrawal (Guru Ghasidas University, Bilaspur); Syed Ainul Hasan, Maulana Azad National Urdu University (MANUU) and Lokender Singh, Manipur University. Responding to questions on delay in appointment of vice chancellors, the Education Minister had told the Rajya Sabha that no time frame could be mentioned for filling up the vacancies as the process of making such appointments was a time-consuming exercise. It involved getting Executive Council/ Court’s nominations of the concerned Central University, constitution of Search-cum-Selection Committee, advertisement of posts, scrutiny of applications, interaction with the shortlisted candidates, getting vigilance clearances, approval of the competent authority.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-university-of-karnataka-11-other-varsities-get-new-vice-chancellors-1011892.html
23-07-2021||National||Fifth extension for JCP on Data Protection Bill, report submission in Winter Session||The Joint Committee of Parliament (JCP) examining the Personal Data Protection Bill was on Friday given an extension till the Winter Session to submit its report. The JCP was constituted in the Lok Sabha in December 2019 and was expected to submit its report in the Budget Session. P P Chaudhary of the ruling BJP on Friday moved a motion seeking extension up to the Winter Session of Parliament for the 30-member panel to submit its report. "That this House do extend up to the first week of Winter session of Parliament, 2021, the time for the presentation of the report of the Joint Committee on the Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019," the motion read. It was passed by a voice vote. This is for the fifth time the committee's tenure has been extended. The Personal Data Protection Bill seeks to regulate the use of individual's data by the government and private companies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fifth-extension-for-jcp-on-data-protection-bill-report-submission-in-winter-session-1011896.html
23-07-2021||National||We look forward to season of incredible performances: PM Modi wishes Japanese counterpart for Olympics||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday wished his Japanese counterpart Yoshihide Suga ahead of the Olympics opening ceremony and said, "We look forward to a season of incredible performances by the world's best sportspersons." The Olympics, postponed for a year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, are set to open in Tokyo on Friday. Wishing PM Suga and Japan the very best for Tokyo Olympics and Paralympics, Modi tweeted, "We look forward to a season of incredible performances by the world's best sportspersons!" India is being represented by its largest-ever contingent of 127 athletes at the Tokyo Olympics, which also includes the highest female representation of 56 sportspersons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-look-forward-to-season-of-incredible-performances-pm-modi-wishes-japanese-counterpart-for-olympics-1011901.html
23-07-2021||National||Lok Sabha adjourns for the day amid opposition uproar||The Lok Sabha was adjourned for the day on Friday after opposition members continued to raise slogans against the Government on various issues. As the House reassembled at 12 noon, Kirit Solanki, who was in the Chair, asked protesting members to take their respective seats. During the brief period for which the House functioned, resolutions were passed to appoint and elect new members in various Parliamentary panels as some of the members have become Ministers in the recent reshuffle of the Union Council of Ministers. As opposition uproar continued, Solanki said that such behaviour does not suit senior elected members of the House and adjourned the proceedings for the day. Opposition members have been protesting over various issues for the fourth straight sitting of the Monsoon session. Similar scenes were witnessed when the House met in the morning, forcing Speaker Om Birla to adjourn the House till 12 noon.   The Lok Sabha will meet on July 26 after a routine weekend break. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-adjourns-for-the-day-amid-opposition-uproar-1011907.html
23-07-2021||National||Pakistan voices 'serious concern' over India's alleged use of Pegasus spyware||Pakistan on Friday voiced "serious concern" over media reports about India allegedly eavesdropping on foreigners, including Prime Minister Imran Khan, using Israeli spyware Pegasus and urged the UN to thoroughly investigate the matter. According to reports, Khan was a potential target of the Israeli-made Pegasus spyware programme by clients of the NSO Group cyberespionage firm. The Foreign Office (FO) through a statement responded to the media queries related to India’s alleged use of the Israeli spyware. “We have noted with serious concern recent international media reports exposing Indian government’s organised spying operations against its own citizens, foreigners as well as Prime Minister Imran Khan, using an Israeli origin spyware,” the FO said. The statement also condemned what it called "India’s state-sponsored, continuing and widespread surveillance and spying operations in clear breach of global norms of responsible state behaviour”. “We are closely following these revelations and will bring the Indian abuses to the attention of appropriate global platforms,” said the FO. Pakistan also called on the relevant UN bodies to thoroughly investigate the matter, "bring the facts to light, and hold the Indian perpetrators to account". India on Monday categorically rejected allegations linked to the Pegasus snooping row, saying attempts were being made to "malign" Indian democracy. Information Technology Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw asserted that illegal surveillance was not possible with checks and balances in the country's laws. "The press reports of 18th July 2021 also appear to be an attempt to malign the Indian democracy and its well-established institutions," Vaishnaw said in Parliament India, the minister said, has an "established protocol when it comes to surveillance... any form of illegal surveillance is not possible with the checks and balances in our laws and our robust institutions." Minister of state for external affairs Meenakshi Lekhi on Thursday said that the story on the alleged snooping through Israeli spyware Pegasus is "concocted, fabricated and evidence-less" and that the news reports based on it call for "defamation".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-voices-serious-concern-over-indias-alleged-use-of-pegasus-spyware-1011910.html
23-07-2021||National||Covid-19 Vaccine Matters: Vaccination drive gathers pace but 'jab politics' takes centrestage||As the fear of third Covid-19 wave looms large, the Centre has been stressing on rapid vaccination and continuation of appropriate behaviour. The government has also been trying to address concerns on vaccine availability and distribution as Opposition parties continue to charge it with mismanagement. The first day of the new vaccination drive on June 21 had witnessed a record number of 86 lakh vaccinations. The daily number of vaccine doses administered dipped thereafter but stabilised around an average of 40 lakh doses every day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-matters-vaccination-drive-gathers-pace-but-jab-politics-takes-centrestage-1011913.html
23-07-2021||National||67.6% Indians above 6 years found to have Covid antibodies in 4th national serosurvey, Lok Sabha told||Of India's population above the age of six, 67.6 per cent have developed antibodies against Covid-19, found the Indian Council of Medical Research's (ICMR) fourth national serosurvey done between June 14 and July 6, the Lok Sabha was informed on Friday. Also, 85.2 per cent of the surveyed healthcare workers had antibodies against Covid-19. Asked whether the government is planning a nationwide Covid serosurvey to determine the prevalence of coronavirus antibodies in the community, Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar, in a written reply, said four rounds of Covid-19 national serosurveys have been conducted by the ICMR. The fourth round of the survey covered 36,227 individuals to estimate seroprevalence among children aged 6-17 years, adults and healthcare workers. It was conducted in the same 70 districts from 20 states and a Union Territory selected during the previous three serosurveys. "The seroprevalence estimates from the surveys has helped to track the extent of spread of infection in age groups and geographical locations (such as districts, rural/urban areas) over time as well as guide the response. The results of the serosurvey were widely disseminated to the respective state and district authorities," Pawar said in the reply. On whether the government has also asked states to carry out their own localised surveillance exercises to assess the prevalence and spread of infection, she said many states and cities have conducted serosurveys. Metropolitan cities such as Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Chennai, Ahmedabad and Hyderabad have reported seroprevalence ranging between 17.6 per cent and 56 per cent at different time points, the minister said.   On the other steps taken by the Centre to stop the spread of coronavirus in the country, Pawar said health is a state subject but the Government of India has provided the required technical support and also supported the states through logistic and financial support to further strengthen the existing health infrastructure.  Elaborating on some of the initiatives, she said the government, to supplement hospital facilities has roped in tertiary care hospitals under ESIC, Defence, Railways, paramilitary forces, Steel Ministry and others. Many large temporary treatment facilities were established by the DRDO to manage the surge in Covid-19 cases in the country.  "Due to concerted actions of central and state Governments, isolation bed capacity and ICU bed capacity which was only 10,180 and 2,168 before the first lockdown (as on March 23, 2020) is being enhanced continuously and is currently at 18,21,845 isolation beds and 1,22,035 ICU beds (as on July 20 July 2021)," the reply stated. Pawar said the daily liquid medical oxygen production, which was about 5700 MTs daily in August 2020, has been increased to 9,690 MTs as of May 13, 2021. This was done by enhancement of liquid medical oxygen production in steel plants as well as in other liquid medical oxygen plants. A system for real-time monitoring of oxygen production in steel plants and distribution of oxygen to states and UTs was also put in place. Restrictions were imposed on the industrial use of oxygen. Besides, a dynamic and transparent framework for allocation of medical oxygen in consultation with states and Union Territories and all the stakeholders such as relevant ministries, manufacturers and suppliers of liquid oxygen has been prepared, the minister told the Lok Sabha Online digital solutions such as an oxygen demand aggregation system and an oxygen digital tracking system have been developed to ascertain the demand for medical oxygen from all medical facilities and to track their transportation, she said.  In order to avoid wastage of medical oxygen, guidelines on rational use of oxygen were issued on September 25, 2020, and further revised and disseminated to states on April 25, 2021, the minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/676-indians-above-6-years-found-to-have-covid-antibodies-in-4th-national-serosurvey-lok-sabha-told-1011928.html
23-07-2021||National||Karnataka HC quashes UP Police notice to Twitter India MD Manish Maheshwari||The Karnataka High Court on Friday quashed a notice issued by the Uttar Pradesh Police to Twitter India Managing Director Manish Maheshwari under section 41A of CrPC. The notice was in relation to the FIR registered over a video posted on Twitter. Justice G Narendar observed that the notice under section 41A was a mala fide act on the part of the police considering the fact that the petitioner was not arrayed as an accused in the FIR. The alleged video showed that a Muslim man was forced to chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’ and ‘Vande Mataram’. The police claimed the attack was personal and the alleged attackers were both Hindus and Muslims. According to the police, the video was doctored and Twitter did not act to stop the spreading of the content. The court further said the notice under section 41A shall be read as a notice under section 160 of CrPC and it is open for the police to secure the statement or information by interacting with the petitioner either on virtual mode or by meeting him at the official or residential address. Manish Maheshwari, a resident of Bengaluru, had moved the Karnataka High Court seeking setting aside the notice issued to him by the Loni Border Police station in Ghaziabad district of Uttar Pradesh under section 41A of CrPC. The petition said that the police had initially issued a notice under section 160 and when the petitioner offered to appear through video conferencing, the police issued the notice under section 41A of CrPC. The petitioner said as per clause 3 of section 41A the investigating officer can arrest the person after recording reasons for the same. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karnataka-hc-quashes-up-police-notice-to-twitter-india-md-manish-maheshwari-1011940.html
23-07-2021||National||'Centre never sought oxygen death data from states'||While the Centre recently argued in the Rajya Sabha that no states or UTs have specifically reported on deaths due to the shortage of oxygen, two Congress-ruled states have rejected the claims. Hospitals pleading for oxygen, social media platforms flooded with SOS calls, and Covid positive patients standing in queues to fill their cylinders -- the second coronavirus wave wreaked havoc in the country. However, the recently-appointed Minister of State for Health, Bharati Pawar, argued that "no deaths due to lack of oxygen has been specifically reported by states/UTs" The question remained whether the Centre asked states and UTs to submit relevant data on oxygen-related deaths. In a series of tweets, Chhattisgarh Health Minister TS Singh Deo referring to the "gory visuals can't be forgotten" alleged that the central government never sought data on deaths due to lack of oxygen from states. "They asked for the number of deaths on a day, deaths with comorbidity, deaths without comorbidity, type of comorbidity... GOI deliberately MISLEAD THE PARLIAMENT without checking with states," Deo tweeted. The Central Govt has never sought data on deaths due to lack of Oxygen from states. They ask for: ▪️Number of deaths on a day▪️Deaths with Comorbidity▪️Deaths without Comorbidity▪️Type of Comorbidity GOI deliberately MISLEAD THE PARLIAMENT without checking with states. (6/6) 'Oxygen crisis' Delhi resident Padam Kalla, who lost his father to the virus, recounting the horrors of the oxygen crisis in the national capital said that he had to arrange four to five cylinders per day, which cost him Rs 40,000-50,000 per cylinder in the black market. "Delhi faced an acute shortage of oxygen.. being Covid-19 positive myself, I stood for over 14 hours to refill an oxygen cylinder, there was no help available," Kalla told DH. In Karnataka's Chamarajanagar, where 36 Covid-19 patients died due to oxygen shortage in early May triggering sharp reactions from the Opposition, the family members of the deceased persons are still waiting to receive the promised compensation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-never-sought-oxygen-death-data-from-states-1011943.html
23-07-2021||National||'Do you need IIT to understand?': SC junks plea against ban on firecrackers in Delhi-NCR||The Supreme Court on Friday declined to entertain a plea challenging the National Green Tribunal (NGT) order, which imposed a complete ban on the sale and use of firecrackers amid the Covid-19 pandemic in Delhi-NCR and other cities, having poor air quality index (AQI). A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna noted that authorities are permitted to allow the sale and use of firecrackers depending on the AQI in the city.  The NGT order was clear and there was no need for further deliberation on the matter, the bench added.  The court also emphasised that the residents of Delhi are aware of the effects of the use of firecrackers, especially during Diwali when pollution levels spike.  Advocate Sai Deepak J, representing a seller of firecrackers, submitted that according to an IIT Kanpur report, a firecracker is not even on the list of top 15 factors, which contributed towards air pollution.  "Do you need IIT to understand that firecrackers impact your health? Ask someone staying in Delhi what happens during Diwali," the bench told him. Senior Advocate P S Narasimha, appearing for firecracker sellers/dealers, submitted that a total ban has been imposed on firecrackers during the Covid-19 pandemic.  "Ban is only dependant on air quality. If it is severe, it will not be allowed. Ban is only where quality is poor. When the air quality is moderate green crackers are allowed," the bench pointed out. Narasimha said there is a ban on sales too. The bench responded there has to be a ban on sales too in areas where AQI is poor. The court dismissed the appeals filed against the NGT's order passed in December, last year. If air quality improved, the authorities might permit the sale and use of firecrackers, the bench said, referring to the graded approach of the tribunal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/do-you-need-iit-to-understand-sc-junks-plea-against-ban-on-firecrackers-in-delhi-ncr-1011951.html
23-07-2021||National||Bharat Biotech commits to supply 50 crore Covaxin doses to Centre for immunisation programme||Bharat Biotech on Friday said it has committed to supply over 50 crore doses of its Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin to the Centre under the countrywide immunisation programme. Speaking at a virtual conference organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry, Suchitra Ella, joint Managing Director of the city-based vaccine maker, said the companys facilities in four cities - Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Pune and Ankaleshwar - are currently producing Covaxin. "In a nutshell if I have to tell you, this is the journey of Covaxin from April 2020 until June 2021. And it is still ongoing as we continue to manufacture, taking a commitment of more than 50 crore (500 million) of doses to be submitted to the government of India for its immunisation programme," she said narrating the journey of Covaxin. Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar had said in Parliament on Tuesday that from January to July 16, 5.45 crore (54.5 million) doses of Covaxin by Bharat Biotech and 36.01 (360 million) crore doses of Covishield have been supplied by the Serum Institute of India to the Centre. Suchitra Ella said the data of Phase 3 trials has been submitted to the Drug Controller General of India for its perusal and efficacy of the vaccine against many of the coronavirus variants was also tested. Covaxin demonstrated 77.8 per cent effectiveness against symptomatic Covid-19 and 65.2 per cent protection against the B.1.617.2 Delta variant, Bharat Biotech said recently, while announcing the final analysis of the jab. It had said the Efficacy Analysis demonstrates Covaxin to be 93.4 per cent effective against severe symptomatic Covid-19 cases. The MD further said that when it comes to vaccines not only for Covid-19, India, when compared to some other countries, has more capacity to produce vaccines in large numbers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotech-commits-to-supply-50-crore-covaxin-doses-to-centre-for-immunisation-programme-1011979.html
23-07-2021||National||Premature to conclude health complications due to Covid-19 rising: Govt||In a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha, Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar said the Indian Medical Association (IMA), in a letter dated June 7 addressed to the prime minister, mentioned that post-Covid complications such as lung fibrosis, thrombotic events and fungal infections are on the rise and there is a need to prepare for the same. It also urged the government to set up a separate research cell to study post-Covid complications and come out with multi-faceted treatment guidelines in all disciplines of medicine, following which expert group consultations under the director-general of health services are going on to review the emerging evidence on organ system-specific (respiratory system, renal system, cardiovascular and gastro-intestinal) sequelae of Covid-19. Pawar further said the ICMR has established a National Clinical Registry on Covid with an objective to collect data regarding clinical and laboratory features, treatments and outcomes of hospitalised Covid patients in the country and to study the frequency, clinical and laboratory features, treatments and outcomes of Covid-related multi-system inflammatory disorder in children and adolescents by analysing the registry. The objective is to utilise the data to answer research questions on Covid-19, including the natural course of the disease, the spectrum of the disease, prognostic factors, outcome data, medications, health systems and context-specific questions such as Covid-19 in tuberculosis, malnutrition etc. The National Clinical Registry on Covid-19 has been established to serve as a platform for additional clinical research studies in selected sites and to collect follow-up data of discharged Covid patients, if possible. The registry follows a hub-and-spoke model with primary data being collected in the electronic data capture form by satellite centres (dedicated Covid-19 hospitals), which are being trained, mentored and supervised by medical institutes of national repute chosen region-wise. In the first phase, 50 satellite centres and 14 registry sites have been included. In addition, all AIIMS-like institutions have been requested to undertake research to study the long-term impact of Covid-19, Pawar said. "It may be premature to conclude that complications like lung fibrosis and increased thrombotic events directly due to Covid-19 infection are on rise. However, a larger number of cases of fungal infections have been noted linked with Covid-19 during the recent surge," she added. Responding to a question on whether the drugs needed for the mucormycosis fungal disease are not available with ease, Pawar said although mucormycosis is not a new disease, its true incidence was unknown as it was not a notifiable disease. The health ministry urged the states in May to declare mucormycosis a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 to get an objective assessment of the disease in the community. Since early May, the details of production, stock, supplies made and purchase orders were obtained from the manufacturers and their co-operation was sought to overcome the gap between supply and demand. Both first and second-line drugs used for managing mucormycosis cases -- Amphotericin B Deoxycholate and Posaconazole -- are amply available in the Indian markets. The government has taken various measures to improve the availability of Amphotericin B (Liposomal) through a multi-pronged approach of augmenting production and import and ensure equitable distribution among the states. Elaborating on the measures initiated, Pawar said the Centre is continuously engaging with the manufacturers to resolve their issues related to raw materials, and the Department of Pharmaceuticals and the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) have actively coordinated with the industry for the identification of manufacturers, alternate drugs and expeditious approvals of new manufacturing facilities. The five existing manufacturers have also been called upon to increase the production of Liposomal Amphotericin-B. The DCGI, after consultations with the association of drugs manufacturers, has issued manufacturing or marketing permission for the Amphotericin B Liposomal injection to six additional firms. Various concerns of the manufacturers and importers, including those related to licensing and availability of raw material and import licence, are being speedily addressed, Pawar said. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) is reaching out to various manufacturers abroad to identify new sources of Amphotericin B or Liposomal Amphotericin B injections and alternative drugs for the treatment of mucormycosis. It has also been actively working on ensuring supplies of key excipients from sources abroad for the production of Liposomal Amphotericin B in India. For equitable distribution, allotments are being made to the states and Union territories in accordance with the proportion of their reported caseload in respect of the entire country and the supply arrangements are being monitored by the National Pharmaceuticals Pricing Authority (NPPA) to ensure expeditious availability of the drug, the reply stated. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/premature-to-conclude-health-complications-due-to-covid-19-rising-govt-1011981.html
23-07-2021||National||No timeline can be indicated now on completing Covid-19 vaccination: Centre in Lok Sabha||No fixed timeline can be indicated for the completion of vaccination drive but the government expects that all those above 18 years will be vaccinated by year-end, Lok Sabha was informed on Friday. This was disclosed by Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare Dr Bharati Pravin Pawar in a written reply to questions raised by Congress MP Rahul Gandhi and Trinamool Congress' Mala Roy. The Minister also said between August 2021 and December 2021, a total of 135 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine are expected to be available. "In view of the dynamic and evolving nature of Covid-19 pandemic, no fixed timeline at present can be indicated for the completion of vaccination drive, however, it is expected that beneficiaries aged 18 years and above will be vaccinated by December 2021," Pawar said. Asked whether the government has taken note of a significant delay in entering into advance purchase agreements with vaccine manufacturers thereby adversely affecting the pace of vaccine rollout, the Minister said there has been no delay in entering into purchase agreements with the domestic vaccine manufacturers. Advance payments have also been made to manufacturers for the supply orders placed with them, she said. The Minister also said Rs 9725.15 crore have been spent so far on the Covid-19 vaccination programme including procurement of vaccines and operational cost for vaccination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-fixed-timeline-for-completion-of-covid-19-vaccination-centre-in-lok-sabha-1011984.html
23-07-2021||National||Akash-NG missile put to test again with RF seeker developed by DRDO lab in Hyderabad||The Radio Frequency Seeker developed at a laboratory of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) in Hyderabad can successfully make the new generation surface-to-air missiles, Akash NG, lock onto any enemy aircraft till it is destroyed. The DRDO on Friday once again put the Akash-NG missiles on a flight-test from the Integrated Test Range in Chandipur off the coast of Odisha – this time with the indigenously developed RF Seeker fitted to it. The RF Seeker successfully helped the Akash-NG lock onto a high-speed unmanned aerial target and guided it continuously till the target was destroyed. The Akash-NG weapon system was developed for use by the Indian Air Force to intercept advanced fighter aircraft with high maneuvering capability and low Radar Cross-Section (RCS). It was first launched a day before the Republic Day this year. The DRDO successfully fight-tested the missile last Wednesday, but without the seeker. It was again put to test on Friday, this time with the RF seeker indigenously developed by the Research Centre Imarat in Hyderabad. The RF seeker helps the Akash-NG lock onto the target and thus makes it difficult for enemy fighter jets to evade incoming missiles. The Ministry of Defence stated in New Delhi that the latest flight-test of the Akash-NG on Friday had validated the functioning of complete weapon system consisting of the missile with indigenously developed RF seeker, Launcher, Multi-Function Radar and Command, Control and Communication System. The test was carried out amidst inclement weather conditions proving the all-weather capability of the weapon system, a spokesperson of the MoD stated. The Akash-NG is the improved version of the old Akash surface-to-air missiles. The RF seeker is one of the two key improvements the new generation missile has over the old version, the other being replacing old ramjet with new two-pulse rocket motor. The system performance was validated through the data captured by a number of Radar, Telemetry and Electro Optical Tracking systems deployed by ITR, Chandipur. A team of Indian Air Force Officers witnessed the test on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/akash-ng-missile-put-to-test-again-with-rf-seeker-developed-by-drdo-lab-in-hyderabad-1012003.html
23-07-2021||National||35 new seismological observatories to be operational by December: Centre||The National Center for Seismology (NCS) will commission 35 new stations by December, taking the strength of seismological network to 150, Lok Sabha was informed on Friday. In a written response to a question, Earth Sciences Minister Jitendra Singh said additional 100 new stations will be installed by March 2026. The NCS, under the Ministry of Earth Science, is the nodal agency of the government for monitoring and to study earthquakes in and around the country. For this purpose, the NCS maintains a National Seismological Network (NSN) consisting of 115 observatories spread across the country. The network is capable of recording any event of magnitude 5 and above in and around Delhi, magnitude 3 and above for northeast region, magnitude 3.5 in and above in peninsular, magnitude 4 and above in the Andaman region and magnitude 4.5 and above in border regions. In order to spatially densify the gap areas and to improve the magnitude detection threshold down to magnitude 3 in the country, 35 new stations have been planned in the country and installation is already in progress. It is also planned to strengthen the National Seismological Network (NSN) further by adding 100 seismic stations in the next 5 years to increase the detection capability of earthquake up to magnitude 2.5 throughout the country. "All the 35 new stations shall be commissioned and will start functioning by December 2021. Thus, the strength of National Seismological Network (NSN) will increase to 150 by December 2021. Subsequently, additional 100 new stations will be installed by March 2026," Singh said. Responding to a separate question on prediction of earthquakes, he said as on today, there is no proven scientific technique available, anywhere in the world, to predict or forecast in advance the occurrence of earthquakes with the reasonable degree of accuracy with regard to space, time and magnitude. No country has the capability of predicting the occurrence of earthquakes in advance. However, research efforts are made in India and elsewhere for developing an Earthquake Early Warning (EEW) System, to alert people once an earthquake occurs based on the arrival time of P-wave of the Earthquake. The warning time, however, is much shorter and of the order of a few seconds. The robustness and success rate of such warning system are to be assessed thoroughly before the system can be considered for real time operations, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/35-new-seismological-observatories-to-be-operational-by-december-centre-1012010.html
23-07-2021||National||11% of total Covid-19 cases reported in persons aged below 20: Govt||The minister was responding to a question on the number of children up to 18 years of age who have contracted Covid-19 as of July 2021. Giving details of Covid-19 vaccines for children which are in the pipeline/trial stage, Pawar, in a written reply, said the national regulator -- CDSCO -- has granted permission to conduct clinical trials of Covid-19 vaccines in children to Bharat Biotech, Hyderabad (in age group 2 to 18) for phase-II/III of Whole-Virion Inactivated SARS-CoV-2 Vaccine and to Cadila Healthcare Ltd, Ahmedabad (in age group ≥12 yrs and above) for Phase-III clinical trial of DNA-based vaccine. The outcome of these trials will depend on data emerging from the trial for the purpose of its approval and availability in the country, the minister said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/11-of-total-covid-19-cases-reported-in-persons-aged-below-20-govt-1012011.html
23-07-2021||National||External Affairs Minister Jaishankar meets top Afghan peace negotiator Abdullah Abdullah||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Friday held talks with top Afghan peace negotiator Abdullah Abdullah on the overall situation in Afghanistan amid a rise in violence there in the wake of quick withdrawal of the US troops. Abdullah, the chairman of the powerful High Council for National Reconciliation, has been playing a key role in negotiating with all the stakeholders to bring lasting peace and stability in Afghanistan. It is learnt that the influential Afghan leader is in India on a private visit. "Always good to meet Chairman HCNR @DrabdullahCE. Appreciate his sentiments and support for our relationship.Value his insights on the region," Jaishankar tweeted. Afghanistan has been witnessing a series of terror attacks since the US began withdrawing its troops on May 1. The US has already pulled back the majority of its forces and is looking to complete the drawdown by August 31, ending nearly two-decade of its military presence in the country. With the situation deteriorating in Afghanistan in the last few weeks, India has been in touch with leading international players as well as the Afghan government on the overall developments in that country. A day ahead of Jaishankar-Abdullah meeting, External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi on Thursday said that India supports the government and the people of Afghanistan in realising their aspirations for a peaceful, democratic and prosperous future that protects the interest of all sections. India has been a major stakeholder in the peace and stability of Afghanistan. It has already invested nearly $3 billion in aid and reconstruction activities in the country. India has been supporting a national peace and reconciliation process which is Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/external-affairs-minister-jaishankar-meets-top-afghan-peace-negotiator-abdullah-abdullah-1012013.html
23-07-2021||National||Indian Railways' total traffic revenue decreased by Rs 34,145 cr in 2020-21: Govt||The Railways' total traffic revenue decreased by Rs 34,145 crore in 2020-21, compared to 2019-20, Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw told Parliament on Friday. In a written reply in Rajya Sabha, the minister also said that the decrease in passenger and other coaching revenue was Rs 35,421 crore and Rs 2,544 crore respectively. "This decrease was partly offset by increase in freight and sundry other revenues," he said. Vaishnaw also said that the railways has not cut incentives or other allowances given to employees. However, additional dearness allowance and dearness relief instalments due from January-2020 to June-2021 were frozen according to government of India guidelines, the minister said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-total-traffic-revenue-decreased-by-rs-34145-cr-in-2020-21-govt-1012014.html
23-07-2021||National||Major fire at SAIL's Bokaro Steel Plant; no casualty||A major fire that broke out at SAIL's Bokaro Steel Plant Friday morning could be controlled without any casualty, a SAIL official said. The fire broke out at about 8.40 am, due to a leakage in the Torpedo Ladle in Blast Furnace 2, a Steel Authority of India spokesperson said. The official said hot metal spilled over on the tracks and caught fire during the morning shift with about 100 contract and regular workers on duty. "However, no personnel were affected in this incident," the official said. Fire tenders were immediately pressed into service and in about one and a half hour, the flames were completely doused, he added. A portion of the cables in the cable gallery were affected by the fire, the spokesperson said adding, normal operations resumed within two hours of the incident. Asked about the estimate of the losses caused due to fire, the official said it is being assessed. Bokaro Steel Plant - the fourth integrated plant in the Public Sector - started taking shape in 1965 in collaboration with the Soviet Union. It was originally incorporated as a limited company on 29th January 1964, and was later merged with SAIL, first as a subsidiary and then as a unit, through the Public Sector Iron and Steel Companies (Restructuring and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1978.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/major-fire-at-sails-bokaro-steel-plant-no-casualty-1012021.html
23-07-2021||National||There has been no vaccine shortage, providing free jabs to states, UTs: Centre to Lok Sabha ||There has been no shortage of vaccines and the Government of India has been supplying the jabs to states and Union Territories for free to be given to prioritized beneficiaries as recommended by NEGVAC, Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar informed the Lok Sabha on Friday. Advance visibility of vaccine allocation -- total doses that would be available for states and UTs -- are provided 15 days in advance to enable them to plan for acceleration of vaccination coverage while being cognizant of the available vaccines, she said in a written reply. Asked whether the government is aware that many inoculation sites got closed down due to non-availability of vaccines there, Pawar said, "There has been no shortage of vaccines and the Government of India has been providing free supply of vaccines to states and UTs for administration to prioritised beneficiaries as recommended by NEGVAC (National Empowered Group on Vaccine Administration against Covid-19)." On whether the government is aware that less than 10 per cent of Indians have got single dose of Covid vaccine despite India being the world's leading vaccine manufacturer, the minister said as of July 20, around 34.5 per cent of the estimated population aged 18 years and above has received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine. As of July 20, 2021, a total of 32.64 crore first doses and 8.55 crore second doses have been administered across the country. A total of 2.15 lakh Covid-19 Vaccination Centres have been operational across the country, Pawar said. The Government of India has taken many steps to augment the domestic manufacturing capacity of Covid-19 vaccines. These include support to M/s Bharat Biotech and three Public Sector Enterprises under 'Mission Covid Suraksha-the Indian Covid-19 Vaccine Development Mission', technology transfer of Covaxin production, financial assistance to one of the domestic vaccine manufacturers for 'at-risk manufacturing', advance payment against the supply orders placed with M/s Serum Institute of India and M/s Bharat Biotech, and streamlining of regulatory norms for approval of vaccines, the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/there-has-been-no-vaccine-shortage-providing-free-jabs-to-states-uts-centre-to-lok-sabha-1012023.html
23-07-2021||National||Can't permit anybody to dilute free and fair polls: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday said any attempt of booth capturing and bogus voting should be dealt with an iron fist because it ultimately affected the rule of law and democracy. "The essence of the electoral system should be to ensure freedom of voters to exercise their free choice. Nobody can be permitted to dilute the right to free and fair election," a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said. The court made the observations, while dismissing an appeal filed by Lakshman Singh and others against the Jharkhand High Court's judgement which upheld their conviction and six-month jail for rioting and scuffle on the eve of 1989 general elections. It said the trial court has rightly convicted all the accused were the members of the unlawful assembly in prosecution of the common object, namely, “to snatch the voters list and to cast bogus voting”. The bench, however, did not interfere with the quantum of sentence as the state government did not file an appeal.  Taking a grim view of election-related offences, the court referred to its previous judgement in case of 'People’s Union for Civil Liberties Vs Union of India' (2013) which stated that freedom of voting is a part of the freedom of expression. "Secrecy of casting vote is necessary for strengthening democracy...and to ensure that a voter casts his vote without any fear or being victimised. Democracy and free elections are a part of the basic structure of the Constitution. The election is a mechanism which ultimately represents the will of the people," the bench said, citing the judgement. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cant-permit-anybody-to-dilute-free-and-fair-polls-supreme-court-1012045.html
23-07-2021||National||NSCS fund used for buying Pegasus, alleges Prashant Bhushan||The budget allocation for National Security Council Secretariat (NSCS) rose 10 times to Rs 333.58 crore in 2017-18 from the previous fiscal with activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan on Friday claiming that it was the year in which Rs 100s of crores was paid to Israeli company NSO which makes the controversial spyware Pegasus. The NSCS advices the Prime Minister on key strategic and security issues and reports to the National Security Adviser. Bhushan's remarks came as the country is rocked by the revelation of a leaked database, which claimed that Opposition leaders, journalists activists, law enforcement officials and Constitutional authorities among others were potential targets for surveillance using Pegasus. "In 2016-17, NSA’s budget was Rs 33.17 crore. Next year the budget increased 10 times to Rs 333 crore because Rs 300 crore was added under new head 'cyber security R&D'. This is the year when NSO was paid Rs 100s of crore for cyber hacking of Opposition, journalists, judges, Election Commissioner, activists using Pegasus! Wow," Bhushan tweeted. It appears that Bhushan is referring to NSCS as the NSA's budget comes under it. The allocation for 2016-17 was Rs 33.17 crore, which was later revised to Rs 81.03 crore. However, the actual spending was Rs 39.09 crore. The allocation rose to Rs 333.58 crore in the next fiscal which was further revised to Rs 168 crore. However, the actual expenditure was only Rs 61.18 crore. In 2018-19 fiscal, which preceeded the April-May Lok Sabha elections, the NSCS budget allocation was Rs 303.83 crore, which was revised to Rs 841.73 crore while the actual spending was Rs 812.32 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nscs-fund-used-for-buying-pegasus-alleges-prashant-bhushan-1012046.html
23-07-2021||National||Award-winning Kannada biography of Chandrashekhar Azad to be released in English||Noted Kannada author Babu Krishnamurthy's award-winning "Ajeya", biographical novel on the life of revolutionary Chandrashekhar Azad, will be released in English in the first week of August, announced publishing house Garuda Prakashan Friday on the freedom fighter's 115th birth anniversary. The book, "Azad: The Invincible", is translated into English by Manjula Tekal. It builds a comprehensive portrait of the revolutionary through anecdotes, letters, his contemporaries’ biographical references, and news sources from pre-Independence India. "'Azad: The Invincible' is the exciting, thrilling and ever inspiring saga of Chandrashekhar Azad, the embodiment of courage, conviction and heroism of Indian freedom movement which is ‘stranger than fiction’. It keeps the reader on tenterhooks from first page to last page,” said Krishnamurthy. Originally published in Kannada in 1974, the book, which has seen numerous re-prints, also won Krishnamurthy the Karnataka Sahitya Academy Award. According to the publishers, the book details Azad’s life and times, "from being born in a small village to poverty-stricken parents, running away from home as a young boy, becoming a coolie in Mumbai, learning Sanskrit in Varanasi to his beginnings in the freedom struggle through participation in the non-cooperation movement". "It also details the politics at that time and looks into the questions like how and why he moved from being a Gandhian to a revolutionary, choosing the path of armed revolution instead as the means of combating the British colonial rule," they said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/award-winning-kannada-biography-of-chandrashekhar-azad-to-be-released-in-english-1012053.html
23-07-2021||National||Health, education did not keep up with economic progress: Manmohan on 30th anniversary of liberalisation||On the 30th anniversary of economic reforms initiated by his government, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh voiced anguish over the "devastation caused by the Covid-19 pandemic and the loss of millions of fellow Indians." "The social sectors of health and education have lagged behind and not kept pace with our economic progress. Too many lives and livelihoods have been lost that should not have been," Singh said while flagging that the road ahead on economic prosperity is even more daunting than during the 1991 economic crisis and the nation would need to recalibrate its priorities to ensure a dignified life for all Indians. The economic liberalisation process in 1991 was triggered by an economic crisis that confronted our nation then, but it was not limited to crisis management. The edifice of India's economic reforms was built on the desire to prosper, the belief in our capabilities, and the confidence to relinquish control of the economy by the government, Singh said. "Over the last three decades, successive governments have followed this path to catapult the nation to a $3 trillion economy and into the league of the world's largest economies. More importantly, nearly 300 million fellow Indians have been lifted out of poverty in this period and hundreds of millions of new jobs have been provided for the youth," the former PM said. He insisted that the reforms process had unleashed the spirit of free enterprise which has helped produce world-class companies and help India emerge as a global power in many sectors. Singh said he was fortunate to play a role in this reform process along with several of his colleagues in the Congress party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-education-did-not-keep-up-with-economic-progress-manmohan-on-30th-anniversary-of-liberalisation-1012059.html
23-07-2021||National||SC cautions Delhi govt to refrain from filing repeated pleas against Haryana on water supply||The Supreme Court on Friday told the Delhi government to refrain from filing one petition after another in connection with its dispute with Haryana government on supply of water to the national capital. A bench presided over by Justice L Nageswara Rao dismissed a contempt petition filed by the Delhi Jal Board against the Haryana government for alleged wilful disobedience of the February 1996 order. The court asked Delhi to engage and negotiate with the Haryana on the issue. As senior advocate Vikas Singh, representing the DJB, read out an earlier order of the top court, the bench asked him, “please, tell us what is the contempt?” Singh said the water level at Wazirabad should be kept at full. "This is your fourth petition. We are warning you, please advise the government to refrain the government from filing petitions after petitions," the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian told Singh. Singh, for his part, said why should he not file petitions, when Haryana was not supplying the required water.  Delhi is heavily dependent on water from Yamuna River, however Haryana is saying, we will use water for agriculture but not give to Delhi for drinking purposes, Singh said. "We don’t want to get into all this. You tell us how is there a contempt," the bench again asked Singh, who said 80 Cusecs was supposed to come through the river, and not a single cusec reached. Senior advocate Shyam Divan, representing the Haryana government, termed the plea as complete abuse of the process. He said that Haryana was releasing more than 1000 cusecs of water, as per the Yamuna River Allocation Board.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-cautions-delhi-govt-to-refrain-from-filing-repeated-pleas-against-haryana-on-water-supply-1012069.html
23-07-2021||National||Centre disburses Rs 746 crore from Agri Infra Fund so far, most to projects in Madhya Pradesh||The Centre has disbursed Rs 746 crore so far from the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund, a debt financing facility, for 1,186 projects with maximum outlay going to those in Madhya Pradesh, Parliament was informed on Friday. Out of total funds disbursed, maximum of Rs 427 crore was given to 759 projects coming up in Madhya Pradesh, followed by Rs 84.4 crore to 145 projects in Rajasthan, Rs 66.4 crore to 84 projects in Maharashtra and Rs 62.2 crore to 62 projects in Gujarat, it said. This data was placed before the Rajya Sabha as part of a written reply by Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar. As per the data, the Agriculture Ministry has sanctioned a total of Rs 4,389 crore from the Agri-Infra Fund for 6,403 projects to come up across the country so far. Out of which, a maximum fund of Rs 1,446.7 crore has been sanctioned for 1,318 projects in Andhra Pradesh. However, the ministry has disbursed only Rs 7.5 crore for 11 projects to this southern state. In case of Tamil Nadu, the ministry has disbursed Rs 3.2 crore for 12 projects, against the sanctioned amount of Rs 313.9 crore for 208 projects so far. For Karnataka, Rs 8.4 crore has been disbursed for 12 projects, against the sanctioned amount of Rs 295.6 crore for 812 projects. In case of Kerala, Rs 1.4 crore has been disbursed for 2 projects, against the sanctioned amount of Rs 145.9 crore for 75 projects. A similar pattern of disbursement was made for projects to be implemented in other states. However in case of Madhya Pradesh, the ministry has disbursed Rs 427 crore for 759 projects, against the sanctioned amount of Rs 957.3 crore for 1,237 projects to the state, the data showed. The Agriculture Infrastructure Fund is a medium - long term debt financing facility for investment in viable projects for post-harvest management infrastructure and community farming assets through interest subvention and credit guarantee. The duration of the scheme is 10 years till FY'2029. Under the scheme, Rs 1 lakh crore is provided by banks and financial institutions as loans with interest subvention of 3 per cent per annum and credit guarantee coverage up to Rs 2 crore. Eligible beneficiaries include farmers, Farmer producer organisations (FPOs), Primary Agricultural Cooperatives, Marketing Cooperative Societies, Self Help Groups, Joint Liability Groups (JLG), Multipurpose Cooperative Societies, Agri-entrepreneurs, start-ups, and central/state agency or local body-sponsored public-private partnership projects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-disburses-rs-746-crore-from-agri-infra-fund-so-far-most-to-projects-in-madhya-pradesh-1012072.html
23-07-2021||National||Centre expects to vaccinate all above the age of 18 against Covid by December||The pace of Covid-19 vaccination across India is amongst the fastest in the world and in view of the evolving nature of the pandemic, it is expected that all beneficiaries aged 18 years and above will be vaccinated by December 2021, the Lok Sabha was informed on Friday. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, in a written reply, said while there have been instances of vaccine wastage in states and Union territories (UTs), but extra doses have also been extracted from a given vial according to the Co-WIN portal. “The vaccine doses wasted and maximum possible doses extracted beyond the labelled quantity are taken into account to arrive at vaccine wastage figures for a state,” he noted. The minister was responding to a question on whether the states/UTs are not keeping up the pace of the vaccination and wasting the doses. “Between May 1, 2021 to July 13, 2021, a total of 2.49 lakh doses were wasted, while 41.12 lakh extra doses were extracted beyond the labelled quantity,” he said. Mandaviya underlined that regular review meetings are held with states and UTs to review all aspects of the vaccination drive, including vaccine wastage, and they are advised to keep the wastage to the minimum. Regular advice in this regard is also communicated to them through regular letters from the Ministry of Health, he said. Asked if the government has decided to administer the Covid-19 vaccine to the entire population free of cost on priority basis and if so, the target fixed to administer the doses, the health minister said according to Revised Guidelines for Implementation of National Covid Vaccination Program, which came into effect from June 21, all citizens aged 18 years and above, irrespective of their income status, are entitled to free vaccination at all government vaccination centres. The Covid-19 vaccination is an ongoing and dynamic process, which is being guided by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) on the basis of concurrent scientific evidence. "In view of the dynamic and evolving nature of Covid-19 pandemic, no fixed timeline at present can be indicated for the completion of the vaccination drive, however, it is expected that all beneficiaries aged 18 years and above will be vaccinated by December 2021," he said. Mandaviya further informed that in accordance with the 'Revised Guidelines for Implementation of National Covid Vaccination Program', the Centre is procuring 75 per cent of the vaccines being produced by vaccine manufacturers in the country. These vaccines are provided free of cost to states/UTs on the basis of their pro rata target population, consumption pattern and vaccine wastage. As on July 20, 2021, a total of 34.83 crore doses have been supplied free of cost by the Government of India to states and UTs, he told the House. Two vaccines, namely Covishield manufactured by the Serum Institute of India and Covaxin manufactured by Bharat Biotech, that have been granted permission for restricted use in emergency situation by the national regulator are being procured by the central government for free supply to states/UTs, the minister said. Apart from these two vaccines, Sputnik V marketed in India by Dr Reddy's Laboratories and Moderna vaccine have also received permission for restricted use in emergency situation by the national regulator. Sputnik V is being used in private hospitals for Covid vaccination, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-expects-to-vaccinate-all-above-the-age-of-18-against-covid-by-december-1012076.html
23-07-2021||National||No record of farmers' deaths during protests: Government tells Lok Sabha||The government has no record of farmers who have died during the agitation at Delhi's borders against three new farm laws since 2020, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar informed Parliament on Friday.       Tomar also said the government has not undertaken any study to ascertain the apprehensions in the minds of farmers about the three farm laws. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi's borders since eight months in protest against the three laws. Out of them, a small group of 200 farmers are now staging a protest at Jantar Mantar in central Delhi after getting special permission.       Asked if the government was aware of the total number of farmers who have died during farm protest since 2020, Tomar said: "The Government of India has no such record."       However, the Central government during discussions with farmers' unions had appealed to them that children and elders, especially women, should be allowed to go home in view of the cold prevailing at that time and the Covid-19 situation, he said in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha. Further, in a separate reply, Tomar said, "No study has been undertaken to ascertain the reasons for apprehensions created in the mind of farmers on account of these farm laws."       However, the Centre has proactively undertaken efforts to reach out the farmers to remove their apprehensions, he added.           Asserting that the government is serious and sensitive towards farmers issues, the minister said the Centre has been engaged in active discussions with the farmers' unions.       So far, 11 rounds of negotiations have been held between the government and agitating farmers' unions to resolve the issues, he added.     In all the rounds of discussions, the government has stressed that instead of insisting on repealing the laws, the farmer unions should discuss about their concerns on specific clauses so that their issues can be resolved, he added.     "During various rounds of discussions, the government continuously requested the farmers unions to discuss the provisions of the farm laws, so that if there is an objection to any provision, the advancement can be made towards resolution of those. But the farmers' unions insisted only on the repeal of the farm laws," he said.       The last round of talks between the government and unions was held on January 22. Talks have not resumed following widespread violence during a tractor rally by protesting farmers on January 26.       The Supreme Court has put on hold the implementation of the three laws till further orders and set up a committee to find solutions. The committee has already submitted its report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-record-of-farmers-deaths-during-protests-government-tells-lok-sabha-1012078.html
23-07-2021||National||Medical oxygen demand peaked to nearly 9,000 MT in 2nd Covid wave: Govt||The demand for medical oxygen in the country peaked to nearly 9,000 MT in the second Covid wave as compared to the peak requirement of 3,095 MT during the first wave, Lok Sabha was informed on Friday. "However, due to an unprecedented surge in demand of medical oxygen across the country during the second wave of Covid-19 -- the demand in the country peaked to nearly 9,000 MT (metric tonnes) as compared to the peak requirement of 3,095 MT during the first wave," she said in a written reply. It was in this context that the central government stepped in and took all possible measures to increase production and to facilitate equitable distribution to states, the minister of state for health said. The daily liquid medical oxygen (LMO) production, which was about 5,700 MT a day in August last year, was increased to a high of 9,690 MT as on May 13, Pawar said. On May 28, the central government was able to allocate 10,250 MT to states, the minister said. She said that as an urgent measure, a total of 1,385 MT of LMO in several consignments was imported from the UAE, Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar, Singapore, among others, and was made available to states and union territories (UTs), Pawar said. Oxygen Express services of the Indian Railways delivered 35,500 MT of LMO, as on June 30, while the Indian Air Force conducted 1,630 domestic sorties and 229 international sorties to airlift tankers, the minister said. Besides, 1,222 Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen generation plants with capacity of 1771.76 MT have been sanctioned, she said. Out of these, as on July 20, 245 plants have been commissioned. Apart from this, 351 PSA plants are being installed by different ministries in different public health facilities, Pawar said. The National Medical Commission has amended regulations to make a PSA plant compulsory for every medical college. States have also been asked to install oxygen generation plants in all requisite public health facilities and also facilitate their installation in private health facilities, she said. Pawar said according to data uploaded by states on the portal concerned, states are setting up 1023 PSA plants with their own funds. She said that as of July 15, 1,244 LMO tankers are available in the country. Out of which, 225 tankers were added after March 2020, the minister said. During 2019-20, Rs 1113.21 crore was released to states and UTs under the National Health Mission towards management and containment of Covid-19 pandemic, according to the reply. In addition, the Covid-19 Emergency Response and Health System Preparedness package of Rs 15,000 crore was approved in April last year. Under this package, so far Rs 13,719.22 crore has been spent. She said that Rs 8,147.29 crore have been released to states and UTs and supply of essential materials -- to the tune of Rs 3,389.7 crore -- such as PPEs, N95 masks, ventilators, etc has been made to states and UTs. The minister said that an additional package ‘India Covid-19 Emergency Response and Health System Preparedness Package: Phase II’ of Rs. 23,123 crore has been approved by the government in July to strengthen district and sub-district capacity for an effective and rapid response to the pandemic. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/medical-oxygen-demand-peaked-to-nearly-9000-mt-in-2nd-covid-wave-govt-1012079.html
23-07-2021||National||Govt buys wheat worth Rs 85,581 cr, paddy worth Rs 1.64 lakh cr this marketing year so far||The government on Friday said it has procured a record 433.32 lakh tonnes of wheat so far this marketing year at minimum support price (MSP) for Rs 85,581 crore. "Current marketing season RMS 2021-22 has concluded in most of wheat procuring States and till now (up to July 22) a quantity of 433.32 lakh tonnes of wheat has been procured," an official statement said. The procurement is an all-time high, as it has exceeded the previous record of 389.92 lakh tonnes achieved in Rabi Marketing Season (RMS) 2020-21 (April-March). Bulk of the wheat procurement is done during April-June period. "About 49.14 lakh farmers have already been benefitted from the ongoing RMS procurement operations with MSP value of Rs 85,581.35 crore," the food ministry said. Paddy procurement in the ongoing Kharif Marketing Season (KMS) 2020-21 (October to September) is continuing smoothly in the procuring states. The Centre has purchased a record 869.76 lakh tonnes of paddy (includes Kharif crop of 707.69 lakh tonnes and rabi crop of 162.07 lakh tonnes) up to July 22, 2021, as against 759.24 lakh tonnes procured in the corresponding period of the previous year. "About 128.37 lakh farmers have already been benefitted from the ongoing KMS procurement operations with MSP value of Rs 1,64,211.54 crore," the ministry said. Paddy procurement too has surpassed the previous high of 773.45 lakh tonnes in KMS 2019-20. Record procurement of wheat and paddy has been achieved amid farmers' protest at Delhi borders since late November last year. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting against the three new farm laws. Farmer unions are demanding a repeal of the three legislations and a legal guarantee of the minimum support price (MSP). Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-buys-wheat-worth-rs-85581-cr-paddy-worth-rs-164-lakh-cr-this-marketing-year-so-far-1012080.html
23-07-2021||National||Blinken to meet PM Modi, Jaishankar during India trip next week||In addition to his trip to New Delhi, Blinken will also travel to Kuwait City during his foreign trip from July 26 to 29, which State Department Spokesperson Ned Price said is to reaffirm America’s commitment to strengthening partnerships and underscore cooperation on their shared priorities. “In New Delhi on July 28, Secretary Blinken will meet External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss a wide range of issues, including continued cooperation on Covid-19 response efforts, Indo-Pacific engagement, shared regional security interests, shared democratic values and addressing the climate crisis,” Price said. “Blinken will travel on July 28 to Kuwait City where he will meet with senior Kuwaiti officials to continue discussions of key bilateral issues that underscore the importance of our 60 years of diplomatic ties,” he said. The top American diplomat would return to Washington, DC. on July 29. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/blinken-to-meet-pm-modi-jaishankar-during-india-trip-next-week-1012089.html
23-07-2021||National||UN General Assembly president-elect Abdulla Shahid calls on PM Modi||UNGA president-elect Abdulla Shahid Friday called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi who emphasised the importance of reforming the multilateral system to reflect the current realities and the aspirations of a vast majority of the world's population, an official statement said. Shahid, also the Maldives' Foreign Minister, is visiting India in his capacity as the president-elect of the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) following the election held in New York on July 7. Modi congratulated Shahid on his resounding victory in the election, noting that this reflects the Maldives' growing stature on the world stage. The statement said, "Prime Minister felicitated the President-elect on his Vision Statement for a 'Presidency of Hope' and assured him of India's full support and cooperation during his Presidency. He emphasised the importance of reforming the multilateral system, including the United Nations organs, to reflect the current realities of the world and the aspirations of a vast majority of the world's population." Both leaders also discussed the rapid growth in the India-Maldives bilateral relationship in recent years. Modi expressed satisfaction that bilateral projects are progressing well despite the constraints of the Covid-19 pandemic. He emphasised the importance of the Maldives as a key pillar of India’s "Neighbourhood First policy" and the vision of SAGAR (Security and Growth for All in the Region), it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/un-general-assembly-president-elect-abdulla-shahid-calls-on-pm-modi-1012108.html
23-07-2021||National||No plan to suspend NEET, other common entrance exams, Centre tells Lok Sabha||The Union government does not have any plans to suspend NEET and other common entrance examinations, Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar informed Lok Sabha on Friday. The National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (Postgraduate) and NEET (Undergraduate) 2021 examinations are scheduled to be held this year on September 11 and 12, respectively, she said in a written reply. The examination shall be conducted with all due precautions and following all protocols, including maintaining Covid-appropriate behaviour, Pawar said. Further, the additional protective measures for candidates and examination personnel are proposed towards the safe conduct of the exam, she stated. The number of examination centers have been increased across the country to avoid crowding and long travel by candidates. Admit cards being issued to candidates will bear a Covid e-pass for facilitating their easy movement and there will be staggered entry and exit of candidates from exam centers, the minister said. All candidates will be checked at entry point for recording of temperature. Candidates detected with above normal temperature will be allowed to take the examination in a separate isolation lab created for this purpose, Pawar informed. Use of mask shall be compulsory for the candidates and they will be provided with a protective gear safety kit comprising a face shield, a mask and hand sanitizer, the minister said, adding that measures will be taken to control crowd outside examination centers. The domain of exams in respect of arts and science lies with the concerned universities or states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-plan-to-suspend-neet-other-common-entrance-exams-centre-tells-lok-sabha-1012113.html
23-07-2021||National||Nine states still have over 10,000 active Covid-19 cases: Government||Nine states still have over 10,000 active coronavirus cases, the government said, noting that it is critical to strictly follow Covid-appropriate behaviour as the second wave is still not over. The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in partnership with UNICEF, on Friday, hosted an orientation-cum-interaction session for officers and field reporters. Addressing the event, Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Union Health Ministry, said Covid-19 is a long-drawn battle and there is no scope of complacency.   He underscored that all those who engage with media and media persons are major influencers of the society as they can encourage people to vaccinate through positive reporting.  Agarwal acknowledged that the media plays a constructive role in overcoming vaccine hesitancy by busting myths and fake news that is shared on ubiquitous social media platforms. Through a detailed and comprehensive presentation, he gave a snapshot of the Covid situation in the country. He said that focus on containment and clinical management aided in higher recovery and lower total active number of cases. He highlighted nine states that still have more than 10,000 active cases. During his address, he underlined the need to remind citizens through evidence-based reporting that it is critical to strictly follow Covid-appropriate behaviour as the second wave is still not over and that the virus can strike back as soon as society ignores adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour. He also emphasised on the issue of mental health during Covid and requested media persons to address it through their messaging by engaging with subject experts from state and at national-level. Agarwal urged to highlight community-led positive initiatives and role models so that positive messages linked to vaccines and vaccination can reach a larger population and contribute to addressing issues of vaccine hesitancy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nine-states-still-have-over-10000-active-covid-19-cases-government-1012114.html
23-07-2021||National||3rd Covid wave may occur either due to mutations in virus or pool of susceptible population: Govt||The third Covid wave may occur either because of mutations in the virus or due to the available pool of susceptible population, and is also dependent on various pharmaceutical and non-pharmaceutical interventions for management of the pandemic, Lok Sabha was informed on Friday. In a written reply, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said vaccination protects from severe manifestation of the disease and improves herd immunity, and is accordingly likely to mitigate the impact Covid-19 may have with any future resurgence. Vaccines currently being utilised for immunisation offer substantial protection against the infection, besides reducing severity of the disease, hospitalisation and deaths, he said. On warnings by health experts and authorities about a probable advent of a third wave of the coronavirus in the form of its Delta variant, which is likely to affect children, Mandaviya clarified there is no scientific evidence either in India or globally to show that children get disproportionately infected with Covid-19, including its Delta variant. He said multiple waves have been noticed across the world. "The (third) wave may occur either due to mutations in the virus or due to the available pool of susceptible population, which in turn is also dependent on various pharmaceutical and non-pharmaceutical interventions for management of the pandemic," he said. According to the World Health Organization, the Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2 has shown higher transmissibility than other mutant variants of concern (VOCs) identified to date. "There is however no scientific evidence either from India or globally, to show that children get disproportionately infected with Covid-19 including the Delta variant. Children, if infected, generally remain asymptomatic or exhibit mild symptoms and do not get severe disease," Mandaviya stated. However, the health ministry has issued specific guidelines and has advised states to upgrade health infrastructure with respect to paediatric case management, he said. On preparedness to combat the intensity of the third wave, he said the ministry monitors the trajectory of Covid as per details provided by states. The public health approach and clinical management protocol for Delta variant remain the same, he said. Health is a state subject, the Centre provides required technical support to states and has supported them towards strengthening health infrastructure to ensure sufficient beds, drugs, medical oxygen and other consumables to aid proper clinical care of Covid-19 patients, the minister said. Due to concerted actions of the Centre and state governments, isolation bed capacity and ICU bed capacity, which was 10,180 and 2,168 before the first lockdown (as on March 23, 2020) is being increased and is currently at 18,21,845 isolation beds and 1,22,035 ICU beds, as on July 20, he said. States, union territories and central government institutions have been allocated 56,218 ventilators with 48,446 already supplied, as on July 19, he said. On medical oxygen supplies, he said liquid medical oxygen (LMO) production was increased to a high of 9,690 MT, as on May 13. This was done by increasing production in steel plants and other LMO plants, the minister said. He said a system for real-time monitoring of oxygen production in steel plants and distribution to states and UTs was put in place and restrictions were imposed on its industrial use. He said a dynamic and transparent framework for allocation of oxygen in consultation with states and UTs and all stakeholders was prepared. Oxygen Demand Aggregation System and Oxygen Digital Tracking System were developed to ascertain the demand from medical facilities and track transportation, he said. The minister said 1,02,400 oxygen cylinders were procured in April and May last year and distributed to states. Orders for additional 1,27,000 cylinders have been placed on April 21 -- 54,000 jumbo cylinders (D-type) and 73,000 regular cylinders (B-type). Deliveries have started and 24,207 -- 24,511 B-type and 8,893 D-type -- cylinders were delivered as on July 7. In addition, around 4,962 B-type and 1,895 D-type cylinders are in-transit, he said. To generate oxygen at the health facility level, PSA plants are being installed, especially in far-flung areas, to enable hospitals to become self-sufficient in oxygen generation and thereby, reduce the burden on the medical oxygen supply grid across the country, the minister said. To improve vaccine accessibility, manufacturers are being provided requisite handholding to increase production and newer vaccines are also being planned to be included in Covid-19 immunisation activities which will further improve availability, he said. On whether the government is preparing a scheme to administer nasal vaccine or using imported injectable vaccine for children, the minister said the Central Drugs Standard Control Organization (CDSCO) granted permission to conduct of phase-I clinical trial of intranasal adenoviral vector Covid-19 vaccine (BBV154) -- in the age group of 18 years and above – to Bharat Biotech on February 12. So far, as injectable vaccine for children is concerned, CDSCO granted on May 12 permission to conduct clinical trials of vaccines in children -- phase II/ III clinical trial-- to Bharat Biotech in the age group two to 18 years for whole-virion inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine; and on January 4, permission for --- phase III clinical trial -- to Cadila Healthcare Ltd in the age group of 12 years and above for DNA based vaccine, the he said The outcome of the clinical trials depend on data emerging from the trial for the purpose of its approval for launch in the country. Further, CDSCO has not granted permission to conduct clinical trial of any imported Covid-19 vaccine on children in the country, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3rd-covid-wave-may-occur-either-due-to-mutations-in-virus-or-pool-of-susceptible-population-govt-1012115.html
23-07-2021||National||Discussing indemnity, other issues with foreign Covid vaccine manufactures: Govt||A team of central government officials is in continuous dialogue with foreign Covid vaccine manufactures like Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson and Johnson to discuss and address various issues, including indemnity, the Lok Sabha was informed on Friday. Providing the present status of discussions with pharma companies like Pfizer and Moderna over giving them indemnity against cost of compensation for adverse effects due to vaccination, Union Minister Bharati Pravin Pawar in a written reply said the government constituted the team on June 11 to deal with various issues related to procurement of Covid-19 vaccine from foreign manufacturers. "This team is in continuous dialogue with Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson and Johnson to discuss and address various issues including the issue of indemnity," , the minister of state for health said. She clarified that no domestic manufacturer of Covid vaccines has demanded indemnity against adverse effects of vaccination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/discussing-indemnity-other-issues-with-foreign-covid-vaccine-manufactures-govt-1012117.html
23-07-2021||National||Shilpa Shetty asks fans to watch 'Hungama 2', says film should not suffer amid Kundra's arrest||Actor Shilpa Shetty Kundra on Friday urged to her fans to watch her latest comedy Hungama 2 and not let the film "suffer" in the wake of her husband, businessman Raj Kundra, who was arrested in a porn films case.  Kundra, 45, was arrested by the crime branch on Monday night in a case, which it said, related to the alleged creation of pornographic films and publishing them through some apps. On Friday, a court in Mumbai extended Kundra's police custody till July 27. Shetty, whose comeback film Hungama 2 was released on the streaming platform Disney + Hotstar on Friday, said the Priyadarshan-directed comedy is a result of "relentless" hard work of the entire team and should not suffer.  "I believe and practice the teachings of Yoga. 'The only place where life exists is the present moment, now. Hungama 2  involves the relentless efforts of an entire team that's worked very hard to make a good film, and the film shouldn't suffer… ever," Shetty tweeted.  (2/2) So today, I request you all to watch Hungama 2 with your families to put a smile on your face and for the sake of every single person attached to the film.Thank you🙏😇 With gratitude,Shilpa Shetty Kundra 🙏🏻🧿 In another tweet, the 46-year-old actor requested her fans to watch the film and honour the contribution of those involved with the project.  "So today, I request you all to watch Hungama 2 with your families to put a smile on your face and for the sake of every single person attached to the film. Thank you."  The tweets come a day after Shetty made her first post on social media since Kundra's arrest. Taking to the Instagram story late Thursday night, the actor posted a quote by American author James Thurber that read, "Do not look back in anger; or forward in fear but around in awareness." "I take a deep breath, knowing that I'm lucky to be alive. I have survived challenges in the past and will survive challenges in the future. Nothing need distract me from living my life today,"  the quote that she shared read. According to the police, there were several WhatsApp chats that revealed that Kundra was involved in the financial dealings of an app and its contents. The police also said three women have come forward with complaints in the case, saying they were "forced to act in pornographic movies". The accused persons took advantage of struggling models, actors and other workers and made them work in these movies, the police added. Kundra was taken into custody on Monday night by the city police's crime branch after being booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shilpa-shetty-asks-fans-to-watch-hungama-2-says-film-should-not-suffer-amid-kundras-arrest-1012120.html
23-07-2021||National||Indian Railways lost 2,903 employees due to Covid-19: Ashwini Vaishnaw||Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on Friday said 2,903 railway employees died due to Covid-19. Settlement of dues has been made with families of deceased railway employees in 2,782 cases, the Minister informed Rajya Sabha. Out of a total of 2,903 cases of deaths due to Covid-19, compassionate appointments have been provided in 1,732 cases, he said in a written reply. A total of 8,63,868 Railway employees have been given the first dose of vaccine and 2,34,184 the second dose. "A sufficient number of vaccination centres have been established and staff has been deployed for vaccination drive in Railways,”he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-lost-2903-employees-due-to-covid-19-ashwini-vaishnaw-1012123.html
23-07-2021||National||Cumulative Covid vaccine doses administered in India exceed 42.75 core: Health ministry||The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has exceeded 42.75 crore, the Union health ministry said on Friday. Nearly 38,87,028 vaccine doses have been administered on Friday, according to the 7 pm provisional report. The ministry said 18,09,954 vaccine doses were administered as first dose and 1,92,363 vaccine doses given as second dose in the age group 18-44 years on Friday. Cumulatively, 13,52,21,119 persons in the age group 18-44 years across states and union territories have received their first dose and total 57,54,908 have received their second dose since the start of phase-3 of the vaccination drive. Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh have administered more than 1 crore cumulative doses of Covid-19 vaccine in the age group 18-44 years. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated over 10 lakh beneficiaries of the age group 18-44 years for the first dose of Covid vaccine, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cumulative-covid-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-exceed-4275-core-health-ministry-1012128.html
23-07-2021||National||PM Modi to share message on Dhamma Chakra Day on Saturday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will share his message on Dhamma Chakra Day on Saturday morning. The Dhamma Chakra day is observed on Asadha Poornima. It is celebrated all over the world to commemorate the first sermon that Gautama Buddha gave to his five ascetic disciples. "At around 8:30 AM tomorrow, 24th July, will be sharing my message at the Ashadha Purnima-Dhamma Chakra Day programme," Modi tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-share-message-on-dhamma-chakra-day-on-saturday-1012129.html
23-07-2021||National||SC refuses to interfere with NGT order banning firecrackers during Covid-19||The Supreme Court Friday refused to interfere with an order of NGT imposing a total ban on the sale and use of firecrackers during Covid-19 pandemic in areas where the ambient air quality falls under the "poor" and above category. A bench comprising Justices A M Khanwilkar and and Sanjiv Khanna observed that scientific studies are not needed to ascertain the side-effects of firecrackers on health of citizens. The observation came after the advocate appearing for a seller of firecrackers referred to a report of IIT Kanpur stating that firecracker is not even in the list of top 15 factors which contributes to air pollution. Responding to the submission, the bench said, "Do you need IIT report to understand that fire crackers impact your health? You just ask anyone staying in Delhi what happens during Diwali." Senior advocate P S Narasimha, appearing for firecracker sellers, told the top court that a total ban has been imposed on firecrackers during Covid. The bench, however, clarified that the ban is in place only in places where air quality is poor and the NGT ban is only on sales and not on manufacture. "Ban is only dependent on air category. If its severe it will not be allowed. Ban is only where quality is poor. When the air quality is moderate green crackers are allowed. In other areas it is allowed," the top court said. The NGT on December 2, 2020 had directed that there would be a total ban on the sale and use of all kinds of firecrackers during Covid-19 pandemic in the NCR and all cities/towns in the country where the ambient air quality falls under the "poor" and above category. The green panel had said its direction to restrict the use of firecrackers in cities/towns where air quality is ''moderate'' or below to green crackers and for the duration of not more than two hours will continue. It had directed all District Magistrates to ensure that banned firecrackers are not sold and asked them to recover compensation from violators. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-to-interfere-with-ngt-order-banning-firecrackers-during-covid-19-1012144.html
23-07-2021||National||AYUSH-64 can be used as supplement in treatment for mild, asymptomatic Covid-19 cases: Government||Scientists of reputed research institutions of the country have found AYUSH-64, a polyherbal formulation, helpful in the treatment of asymptomatic, mild and moderate Covid-19 infection as an adjunct to standard care, the government said on Friday. In a written response to a question in Lok Sabha, Minister of State for AYUSH Dr Mahendra Munjapara said the Ministry of Ayush-Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) collaboration has recently completed a robust multi-centre clinical trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of AYUSH-64 in the management of mild to moderate Covid-19 patients. He said AYUSH-64 has been repurposed for the management of asymptomatic and mild to moderate cases of Covid-19 and has been recommended in the National Clinical Management Protocol based on Ayurveda and Yoga for the management of Covid-19. "Further, Kabasur Kudineer, a Siddha preparation was also subjected to clinical trials to study the efficacy in Covid-19 patients by Central Council for Research in Siddha (CCRS) under Ministry of AYUSH also found useful in the treatment of mild to moderate Covid-19 infection," he said in his reply. The minister said in order to provide the maximum benefits of Ayush systems of medicine, a nationwide campaign for distribution of AYUSH-64 and Kabasura Kudineer has been started. "The scientists of reputed research institutions of the country have found that AYUSH-64, a polyherbal formulation developed by the Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences (CCRAS), Ministry of AYUSH, is helpful in the treatment of asymptomatic, mild and moderate Covid-19 infection as an adjunct to standard care," he said. Responding to another question, he said during the second outbreak of Covid-19 in India, the Ministry of AYUSH has also launched a nationwide campaign through its research councils and national institute for mass distribution of AYUSH-64 to asymptomatic and mild to moderate Covid-19 patients in home isolation. "Further, the technology of Ayush-64 has been transferred to 29 Ayush pharmaceutical manufacturing units for repurposing for Covid-19," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ayush-64-can-be-used-as-supplement-in-treatment-for-mild-asymptomatic-covid-19-cases-government-1012185.html
23-07-2021||National||Set up mechanism to avoid delay in filing appeals, SC tells CBI||The Supreme Court on Friday castigated the CBI for the delay in filing an appeal in corruption cases, saying it seemed the modus operandi of the officers was to collude with the accused in a bid to save them. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah made the sharp remark while telling the CBI director to set up a monitoring mechanism to ensure that appeals are filed without delays. The court dismissed an appeal filed after 647 days against a Chhattisgarh HC's judgement, which reversed conviction and sentence of three years awarded to an accused in a forgery and embezzlement case. It rejected the contention by the CBI that the delay in filing an appeal was due to the Covid-19 pandemic, saying this was not acceptable. "CBI must take all necessary steps to ensure that these kinds of delays do not occur in the future. Delays are liable to cause grave misgivings on reasons for the delay. We direct Director CBI to take necessary administrative steps to monitor the filing of appeals on an ICT platform so that delays don't take place,” the bench said. Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati tried to refer to clinching evidence in the case. "If it was such a serious matter, why was a prompt action not taken in filing this appeal? This is the modus operandi, your officers connived with the accused not to file the appeal," the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/set-up-mechanism-to-avoid-delay-in-filing-appeals-sc-tells-cbi-1012186.html
23-07-2021||National Politics||Pvt member Bill to regulate intel agencies to be introduced in Lok Sabha on July 23||Senior Congress MP Manish Tewari is all set to move a private members bill in the Lok Sabha on Friday to bring intelligence agencies under a regulatory framework and oversight mechanism as well as prevent them furthering interests of the ruling party at a time the country is rocked by the Pegasus snooping scandal. The Bill prevents the officials of the agencies -- Research and Analysis Wing (RAW), Intelligence Bureau (IB) and National Technical Research Organisation (NTRO) -- from entering a property or intercepting any form of communication without a warrant obtained from a designated officer not below the rank of Secretary. The Intelligence Service (Powers and Regulation) Bill 2019, which has been listed for introduction in Lok Sabha on Friday afternoon, also aims to set up a Tribunal to provide citizens a mechanism to lodge complaints against the agencies for what the complainant believes has wrongfully done to him and an Ombudsman to address personnel's grievances. The Bill, which could not be introduced in the past two years, is aimed at providing a proper legal framework to regulate surveillance using different technologies as well. Emphasising the "urgent need" to balance the demands of security and privacy of individuals by ensuring safeguards against the "misuse of surveillance powers", the Bill seeks to regulate the "possible infringement of privacy of citizens while giving credence to security concerns". In the Bill, Tewari proposes a nine-member National Intelligence and Security Oversight Committee with Rajya Sabha Chairman as the head and Lok Sabha Speaker, Prime Minister, Home Minister, Leaders of Oppositions in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, one each MP from both the Houses and Cabinet Secretariat. The oversight panel will examine the administration and compliance of the policy laid down under the law and it should submit annual report on their functioning to the Prime Minister, who can decide on removing information prejudicial to the working of the agencies. The Prime Minister is also tasked with laying copies of annual reports of RAW, IB and NTRO in Parliament. The Centre should also set up a three member National Intelligence Tribunal headed by a sitting or retired Supreme Court judge for investigating complaints against RAW, IB and NTRO. The two other members should be a High Court judge and a former agency chief. If the Tribunal finds merit in a complainant's case, the agencies should destroy all records related to it and stop operations against him. It could also award compensation to the complainant, restitution of property damaged by actions of agencies and take action against people responsible for targeting the complainant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pvt-member-bill-to-regulate-intel-agencies-to-be-introduced-in-lok-sabha-on-july-23-1011804.html
23-07-2021||National Politics||TMC leader Santanu Sen suspended from Rajya Sabha for rest of Monsoon Session||Trinamool Congress MP Dr Santanu Sen was on Friday suspended from Rajya Sabha for the remaining period of Parliament's Monsoon Session, a day after he snatched papers from Information Technology Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw and tore those in the House. No business was transacted in the House during the day, as Opposition parties demanded an immediate discussion on Pegasus snooping episode and trooped to the Well of the House at regular intervals leading to three adjournments before the Chair called it a day in the afternoon. Lok Sabha also witnessed similar scenes on Pegasus and adjourned for the day at noon. The motion to suspend Sen was moved by Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs V Muraleedharan soon after Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu said that the proceedings of the House "hit a new low" with the episode and it "did not cover the world’s largest democracy with glory". "Should the members of Parliament be a party to degrading the country’s standing on the world stage?" he asked just before Muraleedharan moved the motion, which was passed by voice vote. Trinamool Congress MPs objected to it, saying the motion was not listed in the agenda and Sen or his party colleagues did not get an opportunity to present their version. However, Naidu said he had approved it to be added to the list and it was a "question of dignity of the House". Trinamool Rajya Sabha floor leader Derek O'Brien raised the issue of Sen being threatened by a minister, but Naidu pointed out that it happened after the House was adjourned. As Trinamool Congress continued to raise the issue, Congress and other Opposition parties raised the Pegasus issue with several members rushing to the Well of the House, prompting Naidu to adjourn the House till 12 noon. According to a convention, sources said, no business is transacted in the Rajya Sabha if a suspended member continues to be present in the House. When the House re-assembled, Sen refused to leave the House despite repeated appeals from Deputy Chairman Harivansh. This again led to the adjournment of proceedings till 12:30 pm. Similar scenes were witnessed when the House proceedings began again, leading to adjournment till 2:30 pm. At 2:30 pm, when the House re-assembled, Sen was not in the House while Opposition MPs raised the Pegasus issue. Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge said he has given a notice for suspending the business of the House but Vice Chairman Bhubaneswar Kalita refused permission saying a statement has already been made. As Opposition MPs rushed to the Well of the House, Kalita adjourned the House till Monday 11 pm. Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha floor leader Derek O'Brien tweeted, "BJP have learnt little about Trinamool even after being thrashed in elections. We are a pro-people party. Unlike you, we fight for people’s rights from the roadside to Parliament. You can't scare us. We don’t hack the phones of colleagues and opponents. BJ(P) now the Pegasus party."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-leader-santanu-sen-suspended-from-rajya-sabha-for-rest-of-monsoon-session-1011843.html
23-07-2021||National Politics||Chidambaram slams Modi govt on not probing Pegasus like Israel, France||Slamming the Centre over the Pegasus snooping issue, Congress leader P Chidambaram on Friday compared India's response to the matter with that of France and Israel, saying while those countries are examining the allegations, India has denied any unauthorised surveillance and refused to debate it. The Congress on Thursday held protest marches at many places across the country demanding a Supreme Court-monitored judicial enquiry into the alleged snooping of phones using Israeli Pegasus spyware and the resignation of Home Minister Amit Shah over the matter. The government and the ruling BJP have dismissed the Pegasus Project reports as concocted and evidence-less. On Friday, Chidambaram took to Twitter to say, "On the scale of freedom, rank India against a liberal democracy like France and a stern democracy like Israel." "France orders an investigation and calls a meeting of its National Security Council. Israel established a commission to review the allegations of phone surveillance. India denied that there was any unauthorised surveillance and refused to even debate the matter," the former Union home minister said on the microblogging site. Israel established a Commission to review the allegations of phone surveillance India DENIED that there was any UNAUTHORISED surveillance and refused to even DEBATE the matter On Sunday, an international media consortium reported that over 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including of two ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders and one sitting judge besides scores of businesspersons and activists in India could have been targeted for hacking through the spyware. The reports have been published by The Wire in collaboration with 16 other international publications including The Washington Post, The Guardian and Le Monde, as media partners to an investigation conducted by Paris-based media non-profit organisation Forbidden Stories and rights group Amnesty International. The investigation focuses on a leaked list of more than 50,000 phone numbers from across the world that are believed to have been the target of surveillance through the Pegasus software of Israeli surveillance company NSO Group.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/chidambaram-slams-modi-govt-on-not-probing-pegasus-like-israel-france-1011857.html
23-07-2021||National Politics||Navjot Singh Sidhu meets Amarinder Singh at Punjab Bhawan before taking charge as state Congress chief||Ahead of taking charge of the state Congress, Navjot Singh Sidhu met Chief Minister Amarinder Singh at the Punjab Bhawan here on Friday. According to a Congress leader, the meeting between Sidhu and Singh, who have been at loggerheads with each other for some time, was "cordial". Speaking to reporters outside the Punjab Bhawan, Congress MLA Pargat Singh said Sidhu met the chief minister over tea in the presence of AICC in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat. The two leaders sat next to each other and the meeting between them was cordial, he added. Senior Congress leaders Manish Tewari, Partap Singh Bajwa and Lal Singh were also present. This was the first time in nearly four months that Sidhu and Singh met each other. The chief minister's media adviser tweeted pictures of the two leaders having a chat. The Congress leaders will head to another venue where Sidhu will assume charge as the party's new state unit chief. Four working presidents of the Punjab Congress will also assume charge at the ceremony at the party's state headquarters here. Singh, who reached here from his farmhouse in Siswan, had invited party leaders for tea at the Punjab Bhawan. Sidhu came from Patiala and went to the Punjab Bhawan shortly before Singh's arrival. Media was not allowed entry inside the Punjab Bhawan. Ministers, Congress MLAs and other senior party leaders were also present at the Punjab Bhawan. Kuljit Singh Nagra and Sangat Singh Gilzian, two of the four newly-appointed working presidents of the state Congress, had on Thursday extended a formal invite to the chief minister at his farmhouse in Mohali's Siswan for the installation ceremony. The invitation letter was signed by over 55 legislators. In an apparent bid to bury the differences with the chief minister, Sidhu had separately requested Singh to come for the installation ceremony and said he had "no personal agenda". Sidhu and Singh have been at loggerheads for some time, with the Amritsar (East) MLA recently attacking the chief minister over desecration cases. Singh had earlier opposed Sidhu's appointment as the state Congress chief and said he would not meet him until the cricketer-turned-politician apologised for his "derogatory" tweets against him. On Thursday, after the Congress leaders met the chief minister, the latter's media adviser had tweeted, "Punjab CM @capt_amarinder has invited all @INCPunjab MLAs, MPs and senior party functionaries at Punjab Bhawan for tea at 10 am on Friday. They will all then go to Punjab Congress Bhawan together from there for the installation of the new PPCC team." Congress president Sonia Gandhi appointed Sidhu as the new president of the party's Punjab unit on Sunday, notwithstanding the strong opposition from Singh. She also appointed four working presidents in the Punjab Congress -- Sangat Singh Gilzian, Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Pawan Goel and Kuljit Singh Nagra -- to assist Sidhu in the run-up to the state Assembly polls next year. On Wednesday, several legislators backing Sidhu had said there was no need for him to tender an apology to the chief minister. Tensions between Singh and Sidhu flared up in April after the Punjab and Haryana High Court quashed a probe report into the 2015 Kotkapura police firing incident. Sidhu attacked the chief minister through his tweets over the issue of alleged delay in justice in the 2015 sacrilege and subsequent police-firing incidents. The Amritsar legislator had resigned as a state minister in 2019 after he was divested of his local bodies portfolio. Sidhu had switched sides from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to the Congress before the 2017 state Assembly polls||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/navjot-singh-sidhu-meets-amarinder-singh-at-punjab-bhawan-before-taking-charge-as-state-congress-chief-1011858.html
23-07-2021||National Politics||Pegasus snooping row: Opposition MPs protest in Parliament complex; demand SC-monitored probe||Several Opposition MPs, including Congress' Rahul Gandhi, on Friday protested against the government inside Parliament complex over the Pegasus snooping issue and demanded a Supreme Court-monitored judicial probe into the matter. Besides Gandhi, a host of senior Congress MPs like Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, party's leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, K C Venugopal and Shashi Tharoor, DMK's Kanimozhi and Shiv Sena's Priyanka Chaturvedi, were present during the protest in front of Mahatma Gandhi's statue inside Parliament complex. Carrying a banner which read "#PegasusSnoopGate We demand Supreme Court Monitored Judicial Probe", the MPs raised slogans like "ye jasoosi bandh karo (stop this spying)". "Pegasus is classified by the Israeli state as a weapon and that weapon is supposed to be used against terrorists. The prime minister and the home minister have used this weapon against the Indian state and our institutions. They have used it politically, they have used it in Karnataka..," Rahul Gandhi told reporters. "The only word for this is treason,” he said. The matter has to be investigated, the former Congress president said. “A judicial inquiry monitored by the Supreme Court should be conducted and the home minister must resign," he said. Opposition parties have stalled proceedings in Parliament alleging the union government's involvement in the alleged snooping following reports that nearly 300 mobile phone numbers including of journalists, activists, opposition leaders from India and even of union ministers figured in a list of potential snooping targets by Israel's NSO group which sells its Pegasus spyware only to "vetted" governments and government agencies. The government and the ruling BJP have dismissed the Pegasus Project reports as concocted and evidence-less. The media reports have been published by The Wire in collaboration with 16 other international publications including the Washington Post, The Guardian and Le Monde, as media partners to an investigation conducted by Paris-based media non-profit organisation Forbidden Stories and rights group Amnesty International. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pegasus-snooping-row-opposition-mps-protest-in-parliament-complex-demand-sc-monitored-probe-1011869.html
23-07-2021||National Politics||Suvendu Adhikari files petition before Calcutta HC seeking transfer of criminal cases against him to CBI||Alleging that he is subjected to "political vendetta", Leader of Opposition in West Bengal Assembly and BJP MLA Suvendu Adhikari has filed a petition before the Calcutta High Court seeking transfer of all criminal cases registered against him by the state police to the CBI. Adhikari also prayed for an order of quashing of FIRs registered against him by the state police. The BJP MLA filed the writ petition on Thursday seeking transfer of the criminal cases against him to the CBI for an "impartial investigation". Alleging that he is being subjected to "political vendetta" since he is an opposition party leader and the cases were registered against him with "false claims", Adhikari also sought an order of the high court directing quashing of the FIRs against him. The state police and its Criminal Investigation Department (CID) are probing a number of cases that relate to Adhikari. Amid the nationwide row over alleged snooping activities with Pegasus spyware, the BJP leader stoked a controversy when he said that he got access to call details of Purba Medinipur district SP Amarnath K, prompting the police on Tuesday to file suo motu cases against him. Adhikari, during a party meeting in the district's Tamluk area on Monday, had also publicly advised the local police chief to "refrain from doing anything that might lead to his transfer to Kashmir". The Nandigram MLA narrowly defeated Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in assembly elections held earlier this year. The district police is also probing a case of alleged pilferage of relief material in Purba Medinipur. The state CID is investigating an unnatural death of a police constable, who was part of Adhikari's security team three years ago when he was a minister in the previous TMC government. A case of murder was instituted recently on the basis of a complaint of the constable's widow and the probe was handed over to the CID by the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/suvendu-adhikari-files-petition-before-calcutta-hc-seeking-transfer-of-criminal-cases-against-him-to-cbi-1011880.html
23-07-2021||National Politics||Navjot Singh Sidhu takes over as Punjab Congress chief||Warring leaders of Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu finally called truce with both sharing the dais and speaking of "working together" on Friday as the new Punjab Congress chief took charge at a party event. While the Chief Minister congratulated Sidhu and the latter got up from his chair in respect and greeted him when Captain Amarinder Singh arrived at the podium, the real test of how long this bonhomie lasts will be seen when the ticket distribution exercise begins for the state polls likely in February-March next year. The Congress high command, that appointed Sidhu as Punjab Congress chief, ignoring the objections of Amarinder Singh, will be keen to see that a Rajsthan-like scenario does not play out where its chief Sachin Pilot and Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot are engaged in a bitter power tussle since the party formed the government there at the end of 2018. At the event, Singh and Sidhu were sitting next to each other at the Congress headquarters after a "cordial meeting" at Punjab Bhawan earlier, their first meeting in the last four months. At the event, the Chief Minister while mentioning his old ties with Sidhu's family not only said that he and Sidhu will work together, but also underlined that "when Sidhu was born in 1963, I was commissioned in IMA." He recalled Sidhu's father and his mother were together in politics and when he left the Army, Sidhu's father helped him get into politics. "I used to go to Sidhu's house then, when he was 6-year-old," said Singh, who had earlier insisted that Sidhu must apologise publicly for his earlier derogatory remarks against him, before he will meet him. No public apology was, however, made by Sidhu so far. While some news outlets ran the headline that Sidhu touched the feet of the Chief Minister during tea party at Punjab House before he took charge as PCC chief, a senior party functionary, aware of the matters, described it as "all bunkum". At the event, Sidhu said he will have love for juniors and respect for elders and underlined that it is the workers who are the soul of the party, which derives power from them. Mimicking a batting style as he rose to speak, the cricketer-turned-politician said, " Punjab will win, Punjabis will win. All Congress workers in Punjab have become the party's state unit chief today. There is no difference between a leader and a worker." Reaching out to agitating farmers from the state on the Delhi border, he said, "I want to tell Punjab farmers that the biggest mission of my presidency is that the power of the government helps them and improves their lives. We shall make a difference, we have to make a difference. I want to tell farmers that their agitation is pious." "We will move together in politics. We have to think of Punjab's welfare," the Chief Minister said, pointing towards Sidhu and urging  party workers to extend full support to the new state president.. Singh also said, "when Sonia Gandhi told me that the party wants to make Sidhu as state unit chief, even then I had told the media that whatever decision Soniaji will take, will be acceptable to us." Opposing Sidhu's appointment as Punjab Congres chief earlier, the Chief Minister had argued that it will not go down well with many seniors in the party state unti. Later, former chief of the state Congress unit, Pratap Singh Bajwa, also a Jat Sikh like Sidhu and Amarinder Singh, had thrown his hat in the race for PPCC chief. Two days after Sidhu's show of strength at the Golden Temple, where nearly 60 of 80 Punjab MLAs accompanied him, the Chief Minister on Friday called all MLAs, MPs and party leaders for tea at Punjab House before they proceeded to attend the event of Sidhu taking over as PPCC chief. The four new working presidents of the Punjab Congress -- Sangat Singh Gilzian, Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Pawan Goel and Kuljit Singh Nagra -- also assumed charge at the event, which also saw attendance of AICC in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat, former chief minister Rajinder Kaur Bhattal, former PPCC chiefs Partap Singh Bajwa and Sunil Jakhar. Nagra and Gilzian had on Thursday extended a formal invitation, signed by over 55 legislators to the chief minister at his farmhouse in Mohali. Earlier Sidhu had in a letter on Thursday requested the CM to come for the installation ceremony, calling him the "eldest of the Punjab Congress family" and saying he had no personal agenda against him. Sidhu, who had joined Congress in 2017 after a three-year stint with BJP since 2014, had an uneasy relation with the Chief Minister and at point had said "Rahul Gandhi and not Amarinder Singh was my captain". He had resigned as a state minister in 2019 after he was divested of his local bodies portfolio and there was intense speculation for the last few months about his joining the Aam Aadmi Party. Signs of a thaw in their frosty ties emerged on Thursday amid a realisation is the Chief Minister's camp that with the party high command backing Sidhu, not many MLAs would invite the wrath by siding with Singh with only nine months left for the state election. Sidhu's appointment as PCC chief is being seen as an attempt by the party to create a new leadership in Punjab, when the chief minister is nearing 80. Sidhu had after getting the "pivotal responsibility" said that his "journey has just begun". Shiromani Akali Dal has hit out at Sidhu's appointment saying the Congress high command is trying to hide its government's “non-performance” by bringing about a change in its state unit. Congress has given an indication of its next generation plan also in appointing Revanth Reddy as Telangana PCC Chief, Kannur MP K Sudhakaran as Kerala Congress chief, Nana Patole as Maharashtra chief and Hardik Patel as Working President of Gujarat. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/navjot-singh-sidhu-takes-over-as-punjab-congress-chief-1011898.html
23-07-2021||National Politics||Submit phone for investigation if you thinks it is tapped: BJP dares Rahul||The BJP on Friday dared Rahul Gandhi to submit his phone for investigation if he believed it was tapped. BJP spokesperson Rajyavardhan Rathore said nobody's phone was tapped illegally in the country and if anyone had doubts about it they could file a complaint so that legal action could be initiated. Speaking to reporters, Rathore said even a “junior copywriter” will not be interested in copying the contents of Rahul Gandhi's phone as the Congress leader has nothing “original” to offer. The BJP leader accused the Congress of being determined to stall Parliament for one reason or another after being rejected twice by people in Lok Sabha polls of 2014 and 2019. Earlier, Gandhi had claimed that his phones were tapping under the Pegasus Project and accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah of committing “treason”. Rathore said Gandhi's comments were “irresponsible” but added that everybody had the right to say what they wanted in a democracy. Gandhi should submit his phone to a probe agency, and investigation will take place according to the Indian Penal Code (IPC), he said. “We will now wait for Rahul Gandhi to deposit his phone for investigation to proceed,” he said. Rathore alleged the Congress cannot accept the country's development and has been stalling Parliament's functioning on one pretext or another. “We are well aware of his record in Parliament,” the former Union minister said in a dig at Gandhi over his “frequent absence” from Lok Sabha.  The Congress cannot accept the country's development and has been stalling Parliament's functioning often one one pretext or another, he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/submit-phone-for-investigation-if-you-thinks-it-is-tapped-bjp-dares-rahul-1011899.html
23-07-2021||National Politics||Don't indulge in politics over Covid vaccines: Mansukh Mandaviya to Opposition||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday appealed to Opposition parties not to play politics on the issue of Covid-19 vaccines and asserted that everyone should work together to ensure people are vaccinated against coronavirus. Responding to supplementaries during Question Hour in Lok Sabha, the minister said the government is still in talks with US company Pfizer with respect to making its vaccine available in India. "There should be no politics on the issue of Covid and vaccination. The prime minister has said this several times," Mandaviya said in response to a question asked by Shiv Sena MP Rahul Shewale. "I will also not want to indulge in politics on this issue but I want to present the facts," he said, adding that the prime minister till date has held over 20 meetings and discussions with the state governments and chief ministers. He said some opposition-ruled states raised the issue that health is a state subject and they should be taken into confidence. "Many said Health is a state subject, states said we also need permission to buy vaccines. We said that we have no problem with this. The states said that we want to go out for tender to buy the vaccine. Modi ji said that we are ready to do whatever help is needed," the Health minister said. He said accordingly, the states were allowed to buy 25 per cent and 25 per cent by the private (sector). The Centre was to procure 50 per cent for the people. "For the 25 per cent, states issued tenders and we said we will provide all possible help. The suppliers were limited and the Indian government too was holding talks," he said. Many issued global tenders. But there were only two Indian companies which had started vaccine manufacturing, the Serum Institute of India (Covishield) and Bharat Biotech (Covaxin), Mandaviya said. He added that Moderna has registered in India and taken permission. Johnson and Johnson has tied up with Biological E and work on technology transfer has begun. "With Pfizer, the Indian government was holding talks with it. But the company said it will not deal with the states and the Indian government is holding talks with us. Even today, an experts group is holding talks with the company," Mandaviya said. In a meeting with the states, the chief ministers said they were not getting adequate supply of vaccines and the Centre should procure 25 per cent, which the states were to earlier acquire, of the vaccines. So a new policy came into being from June 21 under which the Centre deciced to vaccinate all the citizens, he said. "The issue is about politics. There should be no politics on this issue. Our goal is to vaccinate 100 per cent people above the age of 18 years. We all need to work on it together. It is not the time to indulge in politics," Mandaviya, who assumed charge of the Health ministry earlier this month following a Cabinet reshuffle, said. He said those 'spreading confusion' should be stopped from doing so and and the public should be connected with the free vaccination campaign.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dont-indulge-in-politics-over-covid-vaccines-mansukh-mandaviya-to-opposition-1011921.html
23-07-2021||National Politics||Only 22 heritage trees relocated due to Central Vista Avenue redevelopment project: Centre||Only 22 heritage trees had to be relocated because of the Central Vista Avenue redevelopment project, the government informed Parliament on Friday. The redevelopment project of the Central Vista -- the power corridor of the country -- includes the revamping of the three-km-long Rajpath from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate. It also envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a Common Central Secretariat and new residences for the prime minister and the vice president. Responding to a question in Lok Sabha on the relocation of trees to the Badarpur Eco-Park, Union Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav said according to information received from the Central Public Works Department, "only 22 number of trees have been relocated from the Central Vista Avenue to the eco-park, Badarpur, and there is no other proposal to relocate trees from the Central Vista Avenue to Badarpur". He said there is a proposal to plant 10 saplings for every tree uprooted or removed, and the compensatory plantation will be done at the Badarpur Eco-Park, Badarpur. On another query on census of trees, Yadav said, "As per available information, no tree census has been conducted in the recent past." "However, the Forest Survey of India (FSI) carries out sample plot based regular inventory of trees in forests and outside forests in the country under its National Forest Inventory Programme," he said. On the basis of data collected growing stock -- stems and volume of wood -- estimates are generated at the national and state levels, he told Lok Sabha in a written response. To a question about the survival rates of relocated trees and details of existing and ongoing research that supports relocation, Yadav said the Indian Council for Forestry Research and Education (ICFRE), Dehradun, had conducted a study on tree translocation in India last year and it has submitted a report to the ministry. "There is no further ongoing study under the ICFRE at present in this regard," he said. The Centre had earlier rubbished reports that several jamun trees, nearly 100 years old, could be uprooted as a part of the Central Vista project, and had claimed that the overall green cover will increase. In May, the Union housing and urban affairs ministry had said that only a few trees will be transplanted as part of the project. The environment ministry has already granted clearance for expansion and renovation of the existing Parliament building, which is a part of the Rs 13,450 crore Central Vista redevelopment project. The construction of the prime minister's residence under the ambitious project will be completed by December 2022, the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) had informed a central government appointed expert panel, which has given its nod to the project. The CPWD, the project developer, informed the expert appraisal committee (EAC) that the expansion of Parliament building and construction of new Parliament building will be done by November 2022 and prime minister's residence will be constructed by December 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/only-22-heritage-trees-relocated-due-to-central-vista-avenue-redevelopment-project-centre-1011955.html
23-07-2021||National Politics||Don't lower India's standing in the democratic world stage: Venkaiah Naidu on tearing of Pegasus statement||Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Friday asked MPs not to lower the country's standing on the democratic world stage as he described the action of an MP snatching papers from a Minister and tearing it in the House as hitting a "new low". "I am deeply distressed by the course of events in the House. I expect many of you to be equally anguished. If so, we shall find a way out of the present state of affairs. We are anguished and so are the people. Let the Parliament function smoothly and bring shine into the lives of the people," he said. Naidu said he was "unable to understand" why Rajya Sabha was not being allowed to function and it was "even more difficult to understand" why the people of our country are being "denied their due from the highest legislature of our country in their hour of stress". "The moot question is who would benefit from a dysfunctional Parliament. Certainly, not the country and its people. I am not sure if those who are behind the disruptions would benefit from crippling the Parliament," Naidu said. He said the leaders had expressed a keen desire for a productive session prior to the Monsoon Session but the course of events over the last few days brought out the "gap between the noble intentions and real actions" and it is "despairing". He said the only business that could be transacted so far was a four-hour discussion on Covid-19 issues and the hour-long reply of the Health Minister. Referring to Sen's issue, Naidu said it was decided that in the meeting of Rajya Sabha's Business Advisory Committee that MPs will be allowed to seek clarification from the Minister after he made a statement on Pegasus. "But unfortunately, the proceedings of the House hit a new low with the papers being snatched from the Minister and torn into pieces and thrown into the air. Such actions are a clear assault on our parliamentary democracy. They do not cover the world’s largest democracy with glory. Should the members of Parliament be a party to degrading the country’s standing on the world stage?" he said. The Chairman said the turn of events in the House brings to the question of what drives the disruptions in the Parliament. "Is it only political grandstanding? I have stressed on the eve of the session that the Parliament is much more than a political institution given it’s Constitutional mandate. But there seems to be scant respect for the Constitution and the sanctity of Parliament. It is very unfortunate," he said. Appealing to all sections of the House to enable smooth functioning by rising above the narrow political considerations, he said disruptions only halt the march of our nation besides letting the people down. "In three weeks from now, we will be entering the 75th year of our hard-fought Independence. The spirit of it’s celebration should not be marred by a dysfunctional parliament. Our freedom struggle was all for self-governance with our people as the masters. But what is being witnessed in the Parliament is to the contrary. This does not resonate with the moment of 75 years of our freedom from colonial rule," he added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dont-lower-indias-standing-in-the-democratic-world-stage-venkaiah-naidu-on-tearing-of-pegasus-statement-1011987.html
23-07-2021||National Politics||Top Kashmiri leaders, journalists, activists among potential Pegasus targets: Report||The Wire said the list included Delhi-based Kashmiri journalists, key separatist leaders, politicians, human rights activists and business persons. Hurriyat Conference leader Mirwaiz was a potential target of surveillance between 2017 and 2019 while at least four members of separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani's family — including his son-in-law, journalist Iftikhar Gilani and his son, scientist Syed Naseem Geelani -- were of consistent interest between 2017 and 2019 to the Indian client of the NSO group which made Pegasus. Another potential target were two members of former Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti’s family members, who also worked in People’s Democratic party (PDP). "Their selection as potential targets of surveillance happened when Mufti was still chief minister of the erstwhile state and in a coalition with the BJP. In fact, Mufti’s family members were chosen for potential surveillance just months before the government collapsed as the BJP pulled out of the coalition in June 2018," according a report by The Wire. Separatist leader Bilal Lone, who is the brother of People's Conference leader Sajjad Lone, and late activist SAR Geelani, who was acquitted in the Parliament attack case, were also in the list. Forensic analysis of Lone's phone showed that there were signs of targeting in 2019 while Geelani’s phone showed clear signs of Pegasus spyware activity between February 2018 and January 2019. Apni Party president Altaf Bukhari’s brother Tariq Bukhari also makes an appearance in the list and was of considerable interest to the agency which added his name between 2017 and 2019, the Wire said. The leaked database also showed that at least five Kashmiri journalists — Muzamil Jaleel of the Indian Express, Aurangzeb Naqshbandi formerly with Hindustan Times, Iftikhar Geelani formerly with DNA and Sumir Kaul of PTI and fifth journalist whose name has been withheld at request — were also targeted in the cyber surveillance programme. Shabir Hussain, a Delhi-based political commentator from Kashmir, is also in the list, The Wire said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/top-kashmiri-leaders-journalists-activists-among-potential-pegasus-targets-report-1012005.html
23-07-2021||National Politics||Challenges galore before Mamata as she gears up to helm anti-BJP front||Riding on the back of her party's landslide assembly poll victory, TMC boss and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has given a clarion call for opposition unity to topple the Narendra Modi government in 2024 Lok Sabha polls, but experts are of the view that optimism, for now, needs to be tempered, given the challenges anti-BJP forces have faced in the past. The TMC supremo, who has emerged as the doughtiest opposition face after winning one of the toughest elections of her career, apparently seeks to take up a larger role in national politics, and is expected to use her tried-and-tested strategies to confront the saffron camp in 2024. During her annual address at the party's Martyrs' Day rally earlier this week, which was delivered in Hindi, English and Bengali, Banerjee asked the opposition leaders to unite and start working towards the formation of a 'Gathbandhan' (alliance) right away if they were willing to oust the Modi government from power. "No one can deny that Mamata Banerjee has emerged as the nucleus of opposition politics. If you go through her speech, you will know that she wants to cumulate anti-BJP votes and create a people's alliance against the saffron party," TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh said. A senior TMC leader, who did not wish to be quoted, said Banerjee has given an early call for opposition unity, going by her experiences of 2014 and 2019, when lack of leadership, unity and coordination in the opposition camp helped the BJP hit the jackpot. "During 2014 and 2019, efforts to cobble up a united front didn't work out as the initiative was taken a few months ahead of the polls. That didn't evoke a sense of acceptance among the voters. This time, we want to iron out all differences and start the process well ahead of time," he said. Although the TMC leadership is hopeful of creating a strong anti-BJP front, with Banerjee at the helm, it will be an uphill task for her camp to convince all opposition parties to put aside their political differences and work for the common cause. At the moment, however, the Mamata Banerjee-led party has poll strategist Prashant Kishor and I-PAC by its side, much to her advantage. I-PAC played a vital role in ensuring TMC’s victory in assembly polls. The party last month extended its contract with the team till the 2026 assembly polls. Kishor, who recently met NCP supremo Sharad Pawar and Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Vadra, is striving to organise a meeting between Banerjee and other opposition leaders during her scheduled visit to Delhi next week. According to political analyst Biswanath Chakraborty, the TMC will be able to take advantage of Kishor’s rapport with leaders of various parties to bring them to the table. "What turned out to be the biggest drawback of opposition parties in 2019 wasdearth of a common strategy to counter the BJP's campaign. With poll strategists like Prashant Kishor by TMC's side, it will be comparatively easier for Banerjee to bring them all on one platform," he said. Chakraborty pointed out that Kishor had managed to bring together RJD supremo Lalu Prasad Yadav, JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar and the Congress during the 2015 Bihar elections. The country-wide media hype created by the BJP central leadership over Bengal elections by pitting it as a ‘Modi versus Mamata battle’ has only helped the feisty TMC boss establish herself as the leader who can stop the saffron party’s juggernaut that had been rolling since 2014, he said. "The BJP, in a way, helped Mamata Banerjee project herself as the most powerful opposition leader by the country-wide hype it engineered over Bengal polls. Also, the way Muslims in Bengal have voted en-bloc for the TMC reflects that minorities trust her when it comes to fighting the saffron camp," Chakraborty pointed out. Sixty-six-year-old Banerjee's experiences as a three-time chief minister, seven-term parliamentarian, two-time railway minister, besides her brief tenure in coal and sports ministry, give her an edge over many potential leaders who are willing to steer the anti-BJP front in 2024. The proposal to build an anti-BJP front, however, has its own pitfalls in the absence of a Common Minimum Programme (CMP), a pan-India appeal and a national template. According to poll observers, the qualms of certain regional leaders over Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's leadership abilities could dampen the efforts to build a united opposition alliance as it is literally impossible to create a front without the grand old party acting as glue, on the account of its pan-India presence. The Congress, which has been out of power since 2014, still commands twenty per cent vote share, as per 2019 results, and it is either in power or the main opposition party in at least 19 states. Political analyst Suman Bhattacharya underlined that the "Modi government’s popularity is at an all-time low" and the opposition camp needs to make the most of this opportune moment to change the narrative in its favour. "The political situation now is very different from that of 2019 as the BJP government’s popularity is waning over its handling of the economy and the Covid situation. At the same time, the opposition alliance needs to have a face. And the Congress got to be part of this alliance," political analyst Suman Bhattacharya said. Leader of the Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury also feels that no alliance would have pan-India credibility against the BJP if his party does not extend its support to it. "Mamata Banerjee isn’t saying anything new; our leader Sonia Gandhi has been iterating this over the last few years. It was the Congress that acted as the glue for the opposition parties and twice defeated the BJP in 2004 and 2009. “If somebody thinks he or she can defeat the BJP without taking the Congress into confidence, the person is living in a fool's paradise," Chowdhury, the state president of the grand old party, asserted. Listing the challenges that the opposition camp might have to encounter, political scientist Udayan Bandopadhyay said several parties have a questionable track record when it comes to opposing the BJP. He also noted that the upcoming Uttar Pradesh polls might turn out to be a game-changer. "If the BJP falters in UP, it will hasten the process of creating the opposition front. If the saffron party manages to win big, things could go back to square one," he claimed. Making light of TMC's efforts to build an anti-BJP front, Dilip Ghosh, the saffron party’s state president, said Mamata Banerjee and her team are “daydreaming”. “They will have to face a rude shock after 2024 Lok Sabha polls. The TMC should have learnt a lesson or two from its 2019 performance when its tally dropped from 34 to 22,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/challenges-galore-before-mamata-as-she-gears-up-to-helm-anti-bjp-front-1012008.html
23-07-2021||National Politics||TMC MP Santanu Sen thanks BJP for suspending him||Trinamool Congress MP Santanu Sen on Friday thanked the BJP-led government at the Centre for suspending him from Parliament in an “unparliamentary way” but asserted that his voice cannot be stifled by such tactics. The BJP's West Bengal unit claimed that the conduct of TMC MPs has maligned the image of the state. The TMC leader's suspension came after a motion moved by the government was passed in the House with a voice vote. “Thanks to @narendramodi and @BJP4India Govt again for suspending me from #Parliament in the most unparliamentary way. But be sure that voice of protest @MamataOfficial ji and @AITCofficial can't be stopped. #BharatiyaJasoosParty Minister @HardeepSPuri might be rewarded for hooliganism,” Sen tweeted. Sen had snatched papers from Vaishnaw in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday, tore and flung them at the Chair, as the Pegasus snooping row turned ugly. The TMC MP later accused Union minister Hardeep Puri of verbally threatening and abusing him inside the House after it was adjourned. While reacting to the development, West Bengal BJP president and MP Dilip Ghosh alleged that TMC MPs through their theatrics are maligning the image of the state. “The TMC has maligned the state through its violent and corrupt politics. In Delhi too, TMC MPs are maligning the image of the state through their theatrics,” he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-mp-santanu-sen-thanks-bjp-for-suspending-him-1012062.html
23-07-2021||National Politics||Mamata’s call to unite against BJP sparks speculation in Congress of reviving alliance with TMC||Trinamool Congress (TMC) Mamata Banerjee’s call to Opposition parties, especially the Congress to form an anti-BJP platform, has sparked speculation that the grand old party may revive its alliance with the TMC in West Bengal. The presence of senior Congress leaders such as P Chidambaram and Digvijaya Singh at the Chief Minister’s virtual rally on July 21 further strengthened the possibility of the two former alliance partners coming close to each other once again. Mamata has also invited Sonia Gandhi at a TMC mega rally in Kolkata later this year if the Covid-19 pandemic is under control in the state. Indicating that the state unit will not oppose joining forces with the TMC in Bengal if the Congress High Command wanted it, state Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said that the state unit was a part of Congress and had to go by the instructions of the High Command. “There is no separate entity as the Bengal Congress. We are the state unit of the Congress. If the national leadership instructs us to join forces with the TMC, we have to do it,” said Chowdhury. He also pointed out that the TMC came to power in Bengal for the first time in the 2011 Assembly election when Congress was its alliance partner. As to whether it will bring an end to the Congress’ ties with its current alliance partner in Bengal, the CPI(M) led Left Front Chowdhury said that Mamata had urged all the Opposition parties including the CPI(M). “We joined forces with the TMC before under the instruction of the High Command. Then we had to join forces with the Left Front as TMC’s coercion became unbearable, that too under the High Command’s instruction,” said Chowdhury. However, state Congress sources pointed out that in the 2006 Assembly elections, two independent candidates backed by Chowdhury were fielded in his home district of Murshidabad and they emerged victorious over official Congress candidates. TMC’s increasing closeness with the Congress has also prompted its current alliance partner the Left Front to look for alternatives, sources in the Left Front said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamata-s-call-to-unite-against-bjp-sparks-speculation-in-congress-of-reviving-alliance-with-tmc-1012092.html
23-07-2021||National Politics||Even junior copy-writer will not copy Rahul Gandhi's phone contents: BJP||Amid the ongoing political row over the Pegasus spyware, former Congress President Rahul Gandhi alleged that his phone is being tapped, prompting the BJP to dare him to submit his phone for investigation if he believes so. "My phone was tapped. This is not the issue of my privacy. This is not an issue of Rahul Gandhi's privacy. I am the Leader of Opposition, I raise the voice of the people. This is an attack on that. This is an attack on the voice of the people," Gandhi said. BJP spokesperson Rajyavardhan Rathore, however, asserted that no one's phone has been tapped illegally by the Modi government and took a swipe at Gandhi, saying even a junior copywriter will not be interested in copying his phone's content as the Congress leader has nothing original to offer. Training his guns on the government on the alleged snooping of politicians, journalists, industrialists and others, Gandhi, meanwhile said, "The issue is not whether Anil Ambani's phone was tapped. The issue is the entire Indian state is under attack...this is not an attack on Rahul Gandhi. This is an attack on individuals. This is an attack on Indian states." He said that Pegasus is classified by the Israeli state as a weapon and that weapon is to be used against terrorists. "The Prime Minister and the Home Minister have used this weapon against the Indian state and our institutions. They have used it politically. They have used it in Karnataka. They have used it to scuttle probes. They have used it against all the institutions of the country. The only word for this is treason and this has to be investigated and the Home Minister has to resign," Gandhi said. Congress leader P Chidambaram tweeted, "On the scale of freedom, rank India against a liberal democracy like France and a stern democracy like Israel. France orders an investigation and calls a meeting of its National Security Council. Israel established a commission to review the allegations of phone surveillance. India denied that there was any unauthorised surveillance and refused to even debate the matter." Israel established a Commission to review the allegations of phone surveillance India DENIED that there was any UNAUTHORISED surveillance and refused to even DEBATE the matter Opposition MPs, including Rahul Gandhi, DMK's Kanimozhi and Shiv Sena's Priyanka Chaturvedi on Friday protested against the government inside Parliament complex over the snooping issue, carrying a banner which read "#PegasusSnoopGate We demand Supreme Court Monitored Judicial Probe", the MPs raised slogans like "ye jasoosi bandh karo (stop this spying)". Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/even-junior-copy-writer-will-not-copy-rahul-gandhis-phone-contents-bjp-1012125.html
23-07-2021||National Politics||Naidu may look into Sen-Puri issue if written complaint is filed: Sources||Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu may take up the issue of reported exchanges between TMC leader Santanu Sen and Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri inside the House after it was adjourned, sources said Friday. They said Naidu told some opposition members that there is no precedent of the chairman having taken cognizance of such incidents, but he may take it up if a written complaint is received. He later alleged that Puri threatened and verbally abused him after the House was adjourned amid uproar. Noting that this incident (with Puri) is in the nature of individual exchanges and accusations, Naidu, however, said that if this matter is brought to his notice in proper form with relevant details, he can examine it for future guidance after consulting former Secretaries General of the House as it would set a precedent, the sources said. Some opposition leaders including Anand Sharma, Jairam Ramesh, Sukhendu Sekhar Ray, Tiruchi Siva and Vaiko met the Chairman after the suspension of Sen. On the issue of the motion of Sen's suspension not listed in the business, Naidu said the chairman is empowered to permit any business to be taken up in the House without being listed in the List of Business for the day, based on the nature of such business as has been happening over the years. This has been allowed as per Rule 29(2) of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Council of States. This rule empowers the Chairman of Rajya Sabha to allow any business to be taken up in the House without it being listed for the day. On no opportunity provided to Sen to express regret after he tore Vaishnaw's statement, Naidu is believed to have told the opposition leaders that it was not for the Chair to suggest to the member concerned to express regret. The implication is what if the member concerned refuses to express such regret was also raised by the Chairman, the sources said. Vaiko also expressed concern over some sections of the House being denied opportunities to raise issues of public importance through Zero Hour and Special Mentions besides participating in discussions on Bills and other issues due to continued disruptions by some parties/members and the House should be allowed to function smoothly, they said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/naidu-may-look-into-sen-puri-issue-if-written-complaint-is-filed-sources-1012151.html
23-07-2021||National Politics||TMC condemns suspension of Rajya Sabha member Santanu Sen||The Trinamool Congress on Friday condemned the suspension of its Rajya Sabha member Santanu Sen, alleging that the order was "malicious” and “arbitrary". Sen was on Friday suspended from the Rajya Sabha for the remaining period of the Monsoon session for snatching and tearing the statement of IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on the Pegasus row, as Upper House Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu dubbed Sen's action as an "assault on the country's parliamentary democracy". "We consider Sen's suspension as malicious and arbitrary. We condemn it. The order was without any justification and has no provision in law," TMC RS member and party's chief whip Sukhendu Shekhar Ray said in a press conference. Referring to the recent ruckus in Parliament, the TMC leader alleged that some BJP leaders belong to the same group that was responsible for "killings in Gujarat". "Why was a BJP leader denied entry into the US? In West Bengal too, they brought anti-social elements. A party which indulges in violence from day one and has a history of butchering people with an attitude of might should not lecture others," he said. The TMC MP, however, did not name anyone. "They will suspend us and the people will suspend them," Ray said. He further alleged that Union minister Hardeep Puri was abusive towards Sen, a charge denied by the minister. Derek O'Brien said his party will soon provide evidence that the minister heckled Sen. "After the cameras went off yesterday, certain incidents took place inside the Rajya Sabha. If Sukhendu Shekhar Ray or any TMC MP tells you what happened, you might think they are biased. "Over the next few days, we will convene a press conference where we will give you non-TMC witnesses to the incident,” he claimed. Meanwhile, a party leader said TMC's Mahua Moitra has given a privilege notice against IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw over the Pegasus issue, alleging that the minister had lied to the House.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-condemns-suspension-of-rajya-sabha-member-santanu-sen-1012161.html
23-07-2021||North and Central||J&K police shoots down drone carrying IED material in border belt of Jammu||The Jammu and Kashmir police on Friday shot down a hexacopter drone carrying an improvised explosive device (IED) weighing five kgs near the International Border (IB) in the Akhnoor area of Jammu district. Additional Director General Police (ADGP), Jammu, Mukesh Singh, said a hexacopter carrying a payload of five kg IED material was shot down in Akhnoor. “The police had a specific input that Jaish-e-Mohammad was planning to drop a payload through a drone near Akhnoor. The IED material was packed and it was almost a ready-made IED just to be triggered by connecting a few wire,” he told reporters in Jammu. Singh said that preliminary analysis suggested that it was a hexacopter with six wings fitted with a flight controller and a GPS. “The threads of the latest drone are the same as that of the ones used for dropping payloads at Indian Air Force (IAF) station, Jammu on June 27,” the ADGP revealed. Since the twin blasts on the IAF station in Jammu, several drones were spotted in the last one month on multiple locations in Jammu, raising the threat of a drone attack. “The serial number of the flight controller used in the latest drone is just one digit different from the one that was earlier shot down at Akhnoor some time ago,” he said. The initial investigations into twin drone terror attacks on the IAF base in Jammu on June 27 have also revealed that some elements of the Pakistan army helped the LeT in fabricating the ‘pressure fuse’ which triggered the explosion. ADGP Singh said that the latest drone shot down was an assembled one with its parts manufactured from Taiwan and Hong-Kong. “It seems that the Jaish has assembled many drones with the same series,” he said. The ability of drones to evade radar, wreak devastation at strategic installations and transport weapons to terrorists has become a new concern for the country’s security establishment. Of late Pakistan has been procuring armed drones from China and Turkey. Since 2020, there has been a spurt in airdropping of weapons by drones and the smuggling of narcotics along the border in Jammu. Over 325 drones have been sighted along the border with Pakistan since 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-police-shoots-down-drone-carrying-ied-material-in-border-belt-of-jammu-1011828.html
23-07-2021||North and Central||LeT commander among two militants killed in Kashmir’s Sopore||A commander of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) was among two militants killed in an overnight encounter with security forces in the Sopore area of north Kashmir’s Baramulla district on Friday. The night-long gunfight at Warpora, Sopore, 56 km from here, erupted after a joint team of Army, J&K police and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) launched a cordon-and-search-operation following inputs about the presence of militants in the area, sources said. Police said the search operation turned into an encounter after the militants opened fire on security forces, who retaliated. In the ensuing firefight, two militants affiliated with the LeT were killed. Kashmir police chief Vijay Kumar, while confirming the killing of two LeT militants in the gunfight identified one of them as Fayaz War, a commander of the LeT. “He (War) was involved in several attacks and killings of civilians and security personnel. He was the last perpetrator of violence in north Kashmir,” he said. The identity of the other slain militant was not known immediately. The police said it recovered incriminating materials including arms and ammunition from the encounter site. Two dozen militants, mostly belonging to the LeT, have been killed by the security forces in Kashmir in the first 23 days of this month. Due to the Covid-19 lockdown, only 16 ultras were killed in Kashmir in May and June. 82 militants and 18 security forces and J&K police personnel have been killed in Kashmir since the beginning of this year. Out of 82 militants killed this year, 43 belonged to the LeT followed by Hizbul Mujahideen, Al-Badr, Jash-e-Mohammad and Ansar Ghazwat-ul-Hind. Over 200 militants were killed in Kashmir in 2020 while the number was 157 in 2019. In 2018, the number of militants killed stood at 257 -- which was the highest in a decade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/let-commander-among-two-militants-killed-in-kashmir-s-sopore-1011868.html
23-07-2021||North and Central||Heavy rainfall likely in parts of Madhya Pradesh; IMD issues red alerts||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday issued two red alerts of heavy to very heavy rainfall for isolated places in eastern and western parts of Madya Pradesh. According to Nagpur-based Regional Meteorological Centre, heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely to occur at isolated places during the day. Bhainsdehi area in Betul district received the highest 275 mm rain in the last 24 hours ending 8.30 am, while 16 districts received heavy, very heavy and extremely heavy showers in the same period, senior meteorologist P K Saha of IMD Bhopal said. "A well-marked low-pressure area has formed over northwest Bay of Bengal. Apart from this, a monsoon trough is passing over MP's Rewa district, and an offshore trough is running from the coast of Maharashtra to Kerala," the official said, adding that the developments have triggered rainfall in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/heavy-rainfall-likely-in-parts-of-madhya-pradesh-imd-issues-red-alerts-1011894.html
23-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi HC seeks police reply on Tahir Hussain's plea to set aside UAPA provisions for Delhi riots||The Delhi High Court Friday asked the police to respond to a plea by former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain, arrested in connection with the north-east Delhi riots last year, seeking to set aside UAPA provisions relating to terror activities invoked against him in the charge sheet. Justice Mukta Gupta issued notice to the Centre, Delhi government and Delhi Police on the petition which has also challenged grant of sanction to prosecute him in the case lodged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). The court said a reply affidavit/ status report be filed by the authorities within four weeks and listed the matter for further hearing on September 28. Senior advocate Mohit Mathur, representing Hussain, submitted that although the provisions relating to terrorist activities have been invoked against him in the charge sheet, there is nothing to show that his act was that of a terrorist. “Mere road blocks, chakka jam and expression of dissent has been taken as terrorist activities,” he contended. Hussain has sought to set aside UAPA provisions including sections 13 (punishment for unlawful activities), 15 (terrorist act), 16 (punishment for terrorist act) and 18 (punishment for conspiracy) invoked in the charge sheet filed by the Crime Branch of Delhi Police. The charge sheet in the UAPA case relates to an alleged larger conspiracy that led to the north-east Delhi riots during the anti-CAA protests. Special Public Prosecutor Amit Mahajan, representing Delhi Police and the Centre, said the trial court had already taken cognisance of the charge sheet in September last year. He said the accused has challenged the sanction granted by the authorities to prosecute him on merits, which should have been filed before the trial court. Hussain has been facing prosecution in various cases lodged by Delhi Police in connection with the last year’s riots, including for the alleged offences of attempt to murder and rioting under the Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 700 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-seeks-police-reply-on-tahir-hussains-plea-to-set-aside-uapa-provisions-for-delhi-riots-1011945.html
23-07-2021||North and Central||BSP exhorts Brahmins and Dalits to join hands to oust BJP in Uttar Pradesh||BSP on Friday virtually kicked off its election campaign to capture power in Uttar Pradesh in the forthcoming assembly polls, which are due early next year, by appealing to the electorally influential Brahmin and Dalit communities to join hands to 'oust' the BJP and help the BSP form the next government. The party made the appeal at its first of the seven 'Brahmin Sammelans' at Ayodhya, aimed at bringing back the electorally influential community to its fold. BSP general secretary S.C.Mishra, who addressed the meeting, which was re-coined as 'Prabuddh Sammelan' in view of a ban imposed on the caste-based meetings by the court, said that no force could stop BSP from forming the next government in UP if the two communities supported the party. Mishra also paid obeisance at the makeshift Ram Temple and the famous Hanumangarhi temple at Ayodhya. Mishra slammed the BJP for indulging in politicking in the name of Lord Rama and said that the latter belonged to everyone. ''We also worship Lord Rama but we don't bring him into politics,'' he said. He also ruled out the possibility of an alliance in the next polls. As part of his party's efforts to woo the saint community ahead of the next year's elections, the BSP leader also met some important seers in the temple town and sought their blessings. Mishra said that BSP was the only party, which accorded due respect to the Brahmins. ''BSP had fielded the largest number of Brahmin candidates in the past assembly polls in the state.....there were many ministers from the community in the BSP government in 2007,'' he added. Several prominent Brahmin leaders of the BSP, including former UP ministers Nakul Dubey, Antu Mishra and others, were present at the meeting. BSP would be holding six more such meetings at Ambedkar Nagar, Pratapgarh, Kaushambi, Prayagraj, Sultanpur and Mathura in the first phase. More such meetings would be held in Western UP districts in the second phase.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bsp-exhorts-brahmins-and-dalits-to-join-hands-to-oust-bjp-in-uttar-pradesh-1011947.html
23-07-2021||North and Central||Ishrat Jahan seeks bail in Delhi riots case, says police has no evidence in conspiracy case||Former Congress Councillor Ishrat Jahan, arrested under the stringent law UAPA, sought bail on Friday in the north-east Delhi riots conspiracy case saying that Delhi Police does not have "an iota of evidence" against her. Jahan and several others have been booked under the anti-terror law in the case and are accused of being the "masterminds" of the February 2020 riots, which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured. “The intent was to falsely implicate me. The investigating agency (police) does not have an iota of evidence to show that I am connected to the conspiracy,” said advocate Pradeep Teotia, appearing for Jahan, while arguing for her bail before Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat. Teotia further challenged the prosecution to show the evidence which qualifies her to be implicated under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), adding that her case is on a better footing than those who have been granted bail in the case. The counsel also objected to the prosecution's allegations that Jahan helped in financing the protest and violence and took the court through her financial transactions. He also questioned the credibility of witnesses in the case. “The transactions made by me are normal and routine. My pattern never changed. The evidence is piecemeal and not in totality. If shown properly, it will be known that I am not guilty,” he added. Jahan has been a lawyer, a young political person with brilliant acumen but has been shown to be “kattar” [hardcore], he said, adding that a wrong image of her is being projected by the investigating agency. This is the first time the accused has sought regular bail in the matter. In November last year, the court had denied interim bail to her considering the gravity of the offences including those lodged under UAPA. Jahan had been granted interim bail for ten days to get married and was directed not to tamper with the evidence or influence the witnesses. Her marriage was fixed for June 12, 2020. Besides Ishrat Jahan, Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha, JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, former student leader Umar Khalid, Jamia Coordination Committee members Safoora Zargar, former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain and several others have also been booked under the anti-terror law in the case. The Delhi High Court had recently granted bail to Tanha, Narwal, and Kalita in the case, saying the State blurred the line between the right to protest and terrorist activity in anxiety to suppress dissent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ishrat-jahan-seeks-bail-in-delhi-riots-case-says-police-has-no-evidence-in-conspiracy-case-1011961.html
23-07-2021||North and Central||Farmers discuss agriculture laws on second day of Kisan sansad||The 'Kisan sansad', being held at Jantar Mantar near Parliament where the Monsoon Session is underway, entered its second day on Friday. Paramilitary forces and police personnel have been deployed at the site with heavy barricading at the entrance to avoid any kind of untoward incident. The protest by the farmers was peaceful. The farmers started 'kisan sansad' (farmers' parliament) with speaker Hardev Arshi, deputy speaker Jagtar Singh Bajwa and the agriculture minister. The sansad had a one-hour question hour where questions were thrown at the agriculture minister who tried his best to defend the Centre's new agriculture laws. The minister told the sansad how amid the raging Covid pandemic, farmers were requested to head back to their homes and get themselves vaccinated. Every time the minister failed to give a satisfactory response, the members shamed him, raised their hands and objected to his answers. Bajwa, while addressing the media, said, "The agriculture minister failed to answer questions following which members of the sansad shamed the minister leading to disruption.” “The question raised was when prime minister himself has stressed on the fact that there was MSP, it is still there and it will continue to be there then why is there an issue to make it a law (kanoon). If all the three agri laws are made for the farmers, then why not cancel them and make them again by consulting the farmers on it." Arshi said the kisan parliament was adjourned for a brief period and the Friday's proceedings were similar “the way the actual Parliament functions”. "In the question hour, we raised questions and the agriculture minister could not respond to the queries and continued to misguide the house," he said. A group of 200 farmers reached Jantar Mantar in central Delhi on Thursday to protest against the Centre's three contentious farm laws as the Monsoon session of Parliament was underway. Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal has given a special permission for the demonstration by a maximum of 200 farmers at Jantar Mantar, a few metres away from the Parliament Complex, till August 9.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-discuss-agriculture-laws-on-second-day-of-kisan-sansad-1012027.html
23-07-2021||North and Central||Rashtrapati Bhavan to reopen for public from August 1||People will be able to visit Rashtrapati Bhavan and Rashtrapati Bhavan Museum Complex, which have been closed since mid-April due to Covid-19 outbreak, from August 1, according to an official statement issued on Friday. The tour of Rashtrapati Bhavan will be available on Saturday and Sunday (except on gazetted holidays) in three pre-booked time slots--1030-1130 hrs, 1230-1330 hrs and 1430-1530 hrs--with a maximum limit of 25 visitors per slot, it said. The Rashtrapati Bhavan Museum Complex will remain open for six days in a week (Tuesday to Sunday), except on gazetted holidays, in four pre-booked time slots--0930 - 1100 hrs, 1130 - 1300 hrs, 1330 – 1500 hrs and 1530 – 1700 hrs-- with a maximum limit of 50 visitors per slot, said the statement issued by the Rashtrapati Bhavan. "Visit to Rashtrapati Bhavan and Rashtrapati Bhavan Museum Complex, which has been closed since April 14, 2021 due to Covid-19, will re-open from August 1, for the public," it said. Visitors can book their slots online.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rashtrapati-bhavan-to-reopen-for-public-from-august-1-1012043.html
23-07-2021||North and Central||L-G Baijal grants Delhi Police chief power of detaining authority||Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal has granted the powers of detaining authority to the Delhi police chief till October 18 under the National Security Act, according to a notification. It comes ahead of Independence Day and at a time farmers protesting against the Centre's three agriculture laws have been holding 'Kisan Sansad' at central Delhi's Jantar Mantar. The Delhi Police said it is a routine order and is issued regularly. The NSA allows preventive detention of an individual for months if the authorities feel that the individual is a threat to the national security, and law and order, police sources said. "In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 3, read with clause (e) of Section 2 of the National Security Act, 1980, the Lt Governor pleased to direct that during the period July 19 to October 18, the Delhi Police Commissioner may also exercise the powers of detaining authority under sub-section (2) of section 3 of the aforesaid Act," the notification stated. Earlier this month, Delhi Police Commissioner Balaji Srivastava had issued an order prohibiting the flying of aerial objects like drones, paragliders, and hot air balloons, ahead of Independence Day celebrations. The order shall remain in force in the national capital for a period of 32 days from July 16 till August 16 for security reasons, officials had said. On Thursday, a group of 200 farmers protesting the Centre’s three agri-marketing laws started a ‘Kisan Sansad’ at Jantar Mantar, close to Parliament where the Monsoon Session is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/l-g-baijal-grants-delhi-police-chief-power-of-detaining-authority-1012066.html
23-07-2021||North and Central||Punjab Congress infighting resolved, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi Friday said the infighting in the party's Punjab unit has been resolved. He said this after Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh attended Navjot Singh Sidhu’s coronation as the new state unit chief at a function at Punjab Bhawan at Chandigarh. "It is resolved. You can see,” Gandhi told reporters outside Parliament here when asked about the Punjab crisis and if the infighting persists despite Sidhu’s elevation. Singh and Sidhu were at loggerheads for some time and had been making public statements against each other, but were seen together at the function Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-congress-infighting-resolved-says-rahul-gandhi-1012083.html
23-07-2021||North and Central||Phone tapping: Delhi Police asks Rajasthan CM's OSD to appear before it on Saturday||The Delhi Police Crime Branch has asked the Rajasthan chief minister’s OSD to appear before it on Saturday for questioning in a phone-tapping case lodged on the complaint of Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. However, Lokesh Sharma replied to the Crime Branch notice on Friday, saying it was not possible for him to travel out of Jaipur for two weeks due to personal reasons. He said if there is any urgency, he is available via video conference at a suitable time. The notice was issued on July 19 and the CM’s Officer on Special Duty (OSD) was asked to appear for questioning at the Prashant Vihar office of the Crime Branch in Delhi's Rohini. The Delhi Police had registered the FIR in March this year against Sharma on charges of criminal conspiracy, criminal breach of trust and unlawfully intercepting telegraphic signals (telephonic conversation) on the complaint by Shekhawat, who is also the BJP MP from Jodhpur. The phone-tapping controversy erupted in July last year in Rajasthan. Audio clips of alleged telephonic conversations between Shekhawat and Congress leaders surfaced amidst a rebellion against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot by his then deputy Sachin Pilot and 18 party MLAs supporting him. It was alleged that Lokesh Sharma circulated audio clips purportedly having conversation about the conspiracy to topple the Congress government. On the basis of the audio clips, Congress leader Mahesh Joshi had registered cases with the state SOG and the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) but the FIR did not mention that Gajendra Singh referred to in the clip was Union minister Shekhawat. The SOG later closed the case. Sharma has rejected the allegations of phone tapping. After the case was registered against him, he had approached the Delhi High Court seeking quashing of the FIR against him following which the court last month asked the Delhi Police not to take any coercive action against him till the next date of hearing, which is August 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/phone-tapping-delhi-police-asks-rajasthan-cms-osd-to-appear-before-it-on-saturday-1012103.html
23-07-2021||North and Central||3 killed, 40 injured in collision of buses in Punjab||Three persons were killed and forty others injured, nine of them seriously, in a collision between two buses on the Moga-Amritsar road in this district of Punjab on Friday, police said. Those killed and injured were travelling in a minibus which was on its from Zira town to Chandigarh carrying supporters of Congress who were to attend the installation ceremony of Navjot Singh Sidhu as Punjab Congress chief. The minibus collided with a state-owned PEPSU roadways bus near Lohara village, police said. Moga Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans said the deceased have been identified as Virsa Singh, Vickey and Gurtej Singh. The nine seriously injured were referred to a hospital in Ludhiana, police said. "Saddened to learn of the bus accident in Moga district in which 3 Congress workers have reportedly died & many persons are injured. Have directed DC Moga to immediately provide full medical treatment to all the injured and to send a report to the Government," Chief Minister Amarinder Singh tweeted. Saddened to learn of the bus accident in Moga district in which 3 Congress workers have reportedly died & many persons are injured. Have directed DC Moga to immediately provide full medical treatment to all the injured and to send a report to the Government. He directed Moga district administration to immediately provide an ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh each to families of the deceased and Rs 50,000 each to those seriously injured in the incident. Free treatment will be provided to all others who sustained minor injuries, the chief minister said in another tweet. In Chandigarh, during the installation ceremony of Sidhu, the Punjab Congress observed a two-minute silence as a mark of respect to those killed in the accident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-killed-40-injured-in-collision-of-buses-in-punjab-1012110.html
23-07-2021||North and Central||Faridabad man attacks wife with hot oil, acid, DCW seeks action||A Faridabad woman has sustained 35 per cent burn injuries to her face after being attacked with hot oil and acid allegedly by her husband, the Delhi Commission For Women (DCW) said on Friday. The victim's neighbour informed the DCW about the incident and brought her to Delhi, it added. The woman was taken to the Safdarjung hospital in Delhi where her treatment is ongoing. DCW chief Swati Maliwal and member Vandana Singh visited the hospital to meet the woman. Doctors informed that she is in a critical condition, the DCW said. The woman had informed the neighbour that her husband threw acid on her face. As soon as her son got the information, he reached the hospital to meet his mother. He informed that his father was a frequent abuser and had earlier also thrashed his mother brutally after which she had to be hospitalised, the commission added. The DCW has informed the Haryana Police about the matter and a team was sent to Delhi. It is providing legal assistance to the survivor and has asked Faridabad police to register an FIR in the matter, it said. DCW chief Maliwal stated, "This is the third day in a row that I am meeting an acid attack victim in a hospital. This woman was attacked by her own husband and as a result she got severely injured. I met her in the hospital and am severely disturbed after looking at her condition. It seems no one is afraid of the law!" On Thursday, the panel had said a woman living in outer Delhi's Kirari was allegedly forced to drink acid by her in-laws in January this year and the police failed to register a case in the matter for six months. Earlier this week, Swati Maliwal had written to Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, seeking strict action in a case where a man allegedly forced his wife to drink acid on June 28.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/faridabad-man-attacks-wife-with-hot-oil-acid-dcw-seeks-action-1012170.html
23-07-2021||Oasis||Develop an attitude of gratitude||Gratitude is essentially a feeling and expression of thankfulness for whatever privileges we are enjoying in life. It is a noble trait, though rare.    Good things we enjoy should never be taken for granted. We should be eager and gracious to acknowledge and thank God, people and circumstances for whatever privileges we enjoy, like the perfect functioning of the body organs,  cordial relationships, good health, enviable positions and possessions and the sense of well-being, all culminating in a sound sleep.  The benefits of being grateful are multiple, immense and immeasurable.    Primarily, gratitude increases our spiritual energy and showers us with a sense of goodness and contentment. It strengthens our resolve to reciprocate favours received and gives us the satisfaction of having fulfilled our obligations of returning such favours. It develops in us a habit of positive thinking and appreciation for all good things that we are bestowed on by God. It blesses both the receiver and the giver. A sincere expression of gratitude dissolves in us all feelings of guilt, anger, self-pity, self-condemnation, dejection and the like; these are replaced by increased self-esteem, self-worth, self-confidence and self-image of righteousness, self-care and compassion. It pulls us out from our egos and implants us in the realm of divinity. Gratitude is divine and ingratitude is monstrous. Filling our mind and heart with thankfulness enlarges and offers to us an ocean of peace and calmness.     Some of the ways of expressing gratitude, besides consciously making an effort and acknowledging and thanking, are appreciating everything, remembering and mentioning them with gratitude frequently and reciprocating the good deeds.    It is no doubt difficult amidst our daily trials and tribulations, but not impossible. It can be practised and perfected by just repeating always the thoughts and deeds of gratitude. A few of the ways of doing this are saying thanks whenever we receive some favour and move in the company of people with a gratitude mindset and those who are positively disposed towards the idea of gratitude, assume responsibility for our present state of comforts and discomforts and consciously think of gratitude and its twin faces of obligation and pleasure. Abundance in life is positively correlated to the quality of gratitude.  All religions include express or implied gratitude in their prayers and offerings and also in their art, literature, religious practices and ceremonies.  Prayers are replete with praise and offerings to God for the privileges He has bestowed upon us in the past, present and will do so in the future. However, gratitude should never be expected or demanded; if done, it might lead to disappointment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/develop-an-attitude-of-gratitude-1011793.html
23-07-2021||Opinion||Vidya Balan: A non-conformist actor who makes the personal political come alive||Vidya Balan is one of the most dependable actors in Hindi cinema. In an industry that has since its inception been dominated by men, this is in itself an achievement and firmly in the personal political. There will be others who will say that there are many female-oriented films and superstars shouldering films on their own, producing them and changing narratives - all true, but there is only one Vidya Balan- who has steadily been breaking stereotypes, one choice, one incredible portrayal at a time. Hindi cinema always has over-indexed on the idea of a perfect female. This idea itself has transformed over time. Originally it was about patriarchal conformism - the mother, sister, daughter, daughter-in-law. The non-conformist was slotted into roles of the vamp, who owned their sexuality, body and agency, and doomed to perennially be used as parallel tracks, glamour insertions or a lesson to learn with her pain of unrequited love. This notion of the 'perfect female has now expanded - finding increased space within diffused patriarchy. So, while Deepika Padukone, Anushka Sharma, Alia Bhatt all push the narratives of women representations on Hindi mainstream screens, Vidya Balan attempts to revolutionize them by unapologetically being who she is. Watch her celebrate and own her body with abandon and elan, far from conformist ideas of female beauty, with sexuality in The Dirty Picture. She has refused to conform to the body expectations from a mainstream Hindi cinema actress across films and has stamped her agency on her own body with every act. Add to this the representations of age. Tumhari Sulu, in her filmography, is a glorious example of how she plays an excited, positive, middle-class homemaker, driven purely by her passion for doing something beyond age-old patriarchal roles. In her latest offering Sherni, she doesn't cover up experience and age under any synthetic. She brings to the fore the raw, authentic side of a DFO (district forest officer), struggling with patriarchal expectations on the one hand, and sexism at work, and the innate desire to be true to what is right and the demand of her job on the other. The portrayal is startlingly sharp, empathetic and vulnerable in equal measure. With Kahaani, we saw an image in mainstream media we hadn't seen before. That of a heavily pregnant woman navigating through odds to find her missing husband. As the film's lead protagonist, Vidya Balan's portrayal of that woman - her body language and walk sans glamour - was one of the most significant steps in inclusive, body-positive depictions that mainstream Hindi cinema needed to see. The politics and agency of sexuality, as is the question of gaze, have been long-standing issues with mainstream Hindi cinema. The Dirty Picture faltered in its script that glorified the male gaze and attempted to tell the story of Silk Smitha from the vision of a man. But Vidya Balan's stellar performance, understanding of male desire, and complete control over her body and sexuality gave the film dignity and the conversations it triggered. Her human portrayal of a sex icon enabled us to see the woman who dared to dream beyond the body she was reduced to by a film industry plagued with objectification. Paa is another example of a well-written character (and her choice to play it) who is comfortable with the idea of body autonomy, chooses to go ahead with her pregnancy out of wedlock and is fiercely protective of her child as a single mother. Her anguish, refusal to have her partner govern decisions on the unborn child or her body and her rebuttal of him claiming a stake in her son's loss is testimony to immense strength and control over her sexuality and decisions. Also, in Parineeta, her very first Hindi film outing, where she chooses to be intimate with the man she loves when she does. Agency is the hallmark of almost every role she has willingly played. Paa, Sherni, Tumhari Sulu, The Dirty Picture, Shakuntala Devi - every film doesn't just have the woman at the centre. It has a woman who can take control, decide narratives of her life, and play a specific role in her decision-making process. It is also the agency of body and mind, sexuality and vitality, desires and conflicts, themes prevalent in each narrative. Then there are the very choices of films she has made. Her stubborn need to do films that bring not only stories of triumph but stories of loss and throw into sharp relief vulnerability, daily struggles of being a strong woman who dares to be different. Ranging from Paa to Sherni, Parineeta to The Dirty Picture, and every single film in between, has had a political feminist stance, which gets accentuated by her choice to do the films in the first place. Ably guided by tight, empathetic writing, sharp editing, and cinematography that heightens such conflicts, Vidya Balan's filmography is a rich study of how stereotypes must and can be broken by maintaining a steadfast presence and biting into well-defined roles for women. These are roles where the identity of the characters she plays remains stronger than the relationships they are viewed against. Lastly, the very persona of Vidya Balan. A straight speaking woman embracing the idea of health over the body and refuses to change to fit in. She shatters glass ceilings because that is what they are for, a woman who makes wearing sarees mainstream and brings back the love for them, pulling them away from being a mummy's garment to taking them to the Cannes film festival red carpet (as a jury). Vidya Balan is the veritable outsider who worked her way through television, music videos and movies. She battled body conformity issues and emerged just like her latest offering, Sherni, and continues to win - being her raw, individualistic, empathetic, beautiful, natural self. (The writer is a poet, gender activist and ad-woman) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/vidya-balan-a-non-conformist-actor-who-makes-the-personal-political-come-alive-1011956.html
23-07-2021||Panorama||The 1964 Games proclaimed a new Japan; there’s less to cheer this time||Under crisp blue skies in October 1964, Emperor Hirohito of Japan stood before a reborn nation to declare the opening of the Tokyo Olympic Games. A voice that the Japanese public had first heard announcing the country’s surrender in World War II now echoed across a packed stadium alive with anticipation. On Friday, Tokyo will inaugurate another Summer Olympics, after a year’s delay because of the coronavirus pandemic. Hirohito’s grandson, Emperor Naruhito, will be in the stands for the opening ceremony, but it will be barred to spectators as an anxious nation grapples with yet another wave of infections. For both Japan and the Olympic movement, the delayed 2020 Games may represent less a moment of hope for the future than the distinct possibility of decline. And to the generation of Japanese who look back fondly on the 1964 Games, the prospect of a diminished, largely unwelcome Olympics is a grave disappointment. “Everyone in Japan was burning with excitement about the Games,” said Kazuo Inoue, 69, who vividly recalls being glued to the new colour television in his family’s home in Tokyo in 1964. “That is missing, so that is a little sad.” Yet the ennui is not just a matter of pandemic chaos and the numerous scandals in the prelude to the Games. The nation today, and what the Olympics represent for it, are vastly different from what they were 57 years ago. The 1964 Olympics showed the world that Japan had recovered from the devastation of the war and rebuilt itself as a modern, peaceful democracy after an era of military aggression. Highways and the bullet train were rushed to completion. With incomes rising, many Japanese families like Mr Inoue’s bought televisions to watch the Games, the first to be broadcast live by satellite around the globe. This time around, Japan is a mature, affluent nation. But its economy has been stagnant for much of the past three decades, leaving growing numbers of people behind. One in seven children live in poverty, and many workers are in contract or part-time jobs that lack stability and pay few benefits. It is a much older nation now, too. When Hirohito opened the Summer Games, just 6% of the population was 65 or older. Today, the figure is more than 28%, and the fertility rate is almost half that of 1964. The population has been shrinking since 2008. The 1964 Tokyo Olympics are often regarded as the point when Japan pivoted into prosperity. Within four years, Japan became the world’s second-largest economy, behind the United States, its former occupier. (It has since fallen to third, behind China.) As many Japanese entered the middle class, they bought not just televisions, but other modern appliances like washing machines, refrigerators and vacuum cleaners. Japan is again approaching a turning point, one whose outcome depends on how the government, corporations and civil society respond to a shrinking and ageing population. Back in 1964, there was “a sense of Japan in motion and a sense of a country with a future,” said Hiromu Nagahara, an associate professor of history at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Now, it’s “a country that has lost confidence and a country whose political elites feel very intensely that loss of confidence.” Longtime observers of Japan say it should revise some sclerotic practices and cultural norms. While the country’s rise as an industrial powerhouse was built on strong social cohesion, that aspect of society has tended to repress women, ethnic minorities and other groups that don’t conform to traditional expectations. “Japan’s strengths are clear — it’s the social fabric,” said Carol Gluck, a historian of modern Japan at Columbia University. “But that can become a weakness if it makes it hard to effect change.” “There’s a lot of potential there,” Professor Gluck added. “But the question is, will it be grasped and realised before things get so bad.” With the international spotlight on Japan for the Olympics, many of its societal warts have been exposed. In February, the president of the Tokyo organising committee, Yoshiro Mori, 84, was forced to resign after saying that women talked too much in meetings, though not before he received a staunch defence from traditionalists. In a country that ranks 120th out of 156 nations in a gender gap ranking, many Japanese women recognised his comments as reflecting all-too-familiar attitudes. Despite pressure from activists to seize the Olympic moment to advance gay and transgender rights in Japan, a modest bill labelling discrimination “unacceptable” failed to even get a hearing in the conservative Parliament. And this week, a composer for the opening ceremony resigned after it emerged that he had confessed to severely bullying disabled classmates in school. The Japanese Education Ministry calls bullying one of the biggest social challenges in classrooms. When Tokyo bid for the 2020 Games, the prime minister at the time, Shinzo Abe, framed it as a symbol of triumph over a devastating earthquake, tsunami and nuclear disaster in 2011. That message has been overtaken by a new narrative: That the Games represent a global effort to overcome the pandemic. The Japanese people, who mostly oppose holding the Games, aren’t buying either message. The nuclear cleanup is far from complete, and the Games are being held amid a state of emergency as coronavirus cases have reached a six-month high in Tokyo. Those increases have been compounded by daily announcements of positive cases in the Olympic Village, reminding everyone of the enduring power of the virus. And with spectators barred from all but a few events, there is little upside for hotels, restaurants, retailers and other businesses. “I feel sorry for the tourism business or hotels,” said Ikuzo Tamura, 84, who sold commemorative cloth wraps in the Olympic Stadium in 1964. “They don’t have the same opportunity as we did. I don’t think someone should be blamed, but in this situation, people have no choice but to endure.” At this point, Japan’s best hope may be to showcase its crisis management skills by pulling off the events without any large-scale outbreaks. “Whether you agree or not with the Japanese government, these Games are going ahead with a very high degree of risk,” said Roy Tomizawa, author of 1964: The Greatest Year in the History of Japan. Historians point out that the 1964 Games did not go as well as gauzy-eyed citizens might recall. Two top officials resigned amid public criticism of Japan’s decision to send a team to the 1962 Asian Games, whose host country, Indonesia, excluded athletes from Israel and Taiwan, said Yuji Ishizaka, a sports sociologist at Nara Women’s University. And up to a year before the 1964 Olympics, only about half of the public supported hosting the Games. Still, the hope of any Olympics is that, once the Games start, the athletic competition comes to the fore. What people remember best from 1964 is the victory of the Japanese women’s volleyball team, a group of factory workers who snatched the gold medal from the Russians; or the men’s gymnastics team, which won a group gold medal, becoming heroes. This year, even without live audiences, the drama will still be present and televised. But it will be tempered. Yoshiko Kanda, a member of the victorious volleyball team in 1964, said that the crowd’s cheers were “the biggest reminder of why I was competing.”  “Without this feeling in the air, I bet many athletes are struggling,” said Ms Kanda, 79, who competed under her unmarried name, Matsumura. “In 1964, the environment, the air, the feeling in society was burning with excitement,” she added. “Compared to the ’64 Olympics, it will be so lonely.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-1964-games-proclaimed-a-new-japan-there-s-less-to-cheer-this-time-1011784.html
23-07-2021||Panorama||Some lessons in economics for non-economists||One of the occupational hazards of being a professor of economics is that I have to encounter a lot of questions on the state of the economy at family gatherings.  So, in this piece, I try to give some rudimentary lessons in economics to non-economists, hoping that it would help them to understand some of the ‘puzzles’ in economics, including why different economists differ in their analysis and policy prescriptions. Economic theory has two parts. Microeconomics explains how individual buyers and sellers behave under different market conditions like perfect competition (case of many small firms), monopoly (a single seller), oligopoly (a few big sellers, like in automobiles, telecom). These ideas are not difficult to understand even for laypersons as these mostly correspond to their everyday experiences. By contrast, the other branch — Macroeconomics — deals with questions like why GDP (Gross Domestic Product or the market value of all goods and services produced in an economy), the overall rate of employment, exports, imports and balance of payments, change over time. In addition, it tries to explain how these economic variables respond to the policies of the government, in particular monetary policy (changing money supply and interest rates), fiscal policy (changing government expenditures, taxes/subsidies), international trade and payments policy (changing taxes and restrictions on international trade and capital movements), exchange rate policy (managing rupee-dollar exchange rate by buying and selling dollars from the market). The problem is that the entire economy is a highly complex machine which has many moving parts that we cannot see. We observe only the end results and it is not easy to perceive how the different parts of the machine are interacting in the background. For that reason, economists use simplified models with lots of assumptions to approximate and understand the complex reality. In the process, different economists use different models with their different underlying assumptions which may yield conflicting results. Now, consider a couple of examples of ‘puzzles’ or ‘paradoxes’ in economics. For an individual, saving for the future is considered a good thing or a ‘virtue’. However, this is not true for an entire economy if it is having a shortage of aggregate demand and excess production capacity. In such a situation, policy inducements to save more means less current expenditure on goods and services, which aggravates the demand shortage, leading to further cutback in production and employment, worsening the situation. On the other hand, if the current problem is one of excess demand and shortage of production capacity, encouraging saving and discouraging current consumption spending would be the right policy. So, the same policy is ‘right’ or ‘wrong’ depending on the policymaker’s reading of the underlying economic situation. The policymaker’s life becomes even more difficult when there is excess demand in some sectors, along with excess supply in others, combined with conflicting pulls from lobbyists from different segments. Another example. In a situation of falling production and employment in sectors like jute, steel or automobiles, labour unions are advised, and they sometimes do accept, a cut in wages to save jobs. But the same policy would be counterproductive if the entire economy is suffering from demand shortage and a general ‘recession’. An economy-wide cut in wages would further reduce income of workers and hence aggregate demand, production (since here demand is the constraint on production) and overall employment. Consequently, it would not be the right policy. Economists, when they write articles in professional journals, usually make their model and assumptions explicit so that professional colleagues are able to understand and criticise their results by questioning the appropriateness of the assumed model to study a particular state of the economy. However, when they write popular articles in newspapers or give soundbytes in media, they only state the results of their analysis, without specifying the underlying model or the assumptions. That is an additional reason why the readers or listeners get confused by reading or listening to their ‘conflicting’ views. On top of this, different economists have different political and philosophical persuasions — on issues like the role of government vs the private sector, growth vs redistribution, degree of acceptable inequality, reservation of jobs for the underprivileged, tribal rights over forest resources, protection of environment vs economic development, appropriate compensation and rehabilitation of land/property losers in development projects— which influence their policy prescriptions. Economics, unlike physics or engineering, is not free of value judgement. Hence, it is not surprising that different economists come up with different policy recommendations. Let me end with one question which I most often have to face in social gatherings. Since the stock market (as measured by Sensex or Nifty) is doing so well, while bank interest rates on fixed deposits are steadily falling, should people invest more in the stock market? A person gains by playing in the stock market only if he is able to buy cheap and sell dear. But it is very difficult for an individual to know the proper timing of when to buy and sell a company stock unless the person has some ‘inside’ information or has the time and ability to do adequate research (which most others are not able to do) or is a big enough player who can manipulate the market price by his buying and selling. Since the average retail investors do not fall in any of these categories, it is not possible for them to make consistent profits by playing in the stock market. At the same time, it is true that a diversified portfolio of stocks (not the stock of any single company) yields a higher rate of return over a long period of time than bank fixed deposits. So, the best bet for an ordinary retail investor is to hold a certain portion of his portfolio in mutual funds (which invest in a well-diversified basket of companies drawn from different sectors) by investing a small amount regularly, every month, through the so-called SIP (Systematic Investment Plan) route. This way, a young man or woman would be able to build a substantial nest egg over a period of time, with higher yield and low risk. However, a senior citizen, unless he has started early, may not have time on his side to be engaged in this investment strategy. (The writer is a former professor of economics at IIM Calcutta, India, and Cornell University, USA)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/some-lessons-in-economics-for-non-economists-1011787.html
23-07-2021||Panorama||A nonpareil trailblazer||In 1960, during an American trip, when a Journalist asked the popular and admired Indian politician couple, who belonged to two different political parties, “What happens in India when husband and wife are leaders in opposing political parties?”, both replied: “Peaceful co-existence”. They further laughingly added, “if we had been in America we probably would have been divorced twice. Political rivalries haven’t extended into our married life.” The example of husband and wife occupying the topmost positions in two foremost opposing political parties of the country and leading an ideal harmonious life with each other is unparalleled in Indian democracy and history. That couple was Sucheta Kriplani and J B Kriplani (Acharya Kriplani); both were ardent Gandhians, socialists, independence activists and leading politicians of pre and post-independent India. They met each other in the backdrop of the Civil Disobedience movement and got intellectually connected. They married overcoming mammoth impediments, first the opposition from the families since Sucheta was 20 years younger to J B and secondly and very importantly, opposition from Gandhi as he thought that his two most trusted and hardworking lieutenants and national workers would be lost amidst the family responsibilities.  After their marriage, both got extremely busy with national, social and relief work, most of the time, away from each other. J B was much senior to Sucheta in public life and had already established himself as a strong national leader. Sucheta, who was the professor of history at BHU, was still finding her ground. Gradually Sucheta not only started rising but during the Quit India phase (1942), she emerged as the star of the underground movement that shook the roots of the foreign government. She also became the right hand of Gandhi in his constructive work in villages and relief and rehabilitation work in the riot-torn region of Noakhali (1946).  Due to her contributions, Sucheta was elected a member of the Indian Constituent Assembly from the United Provinces (now Uttar Pradesh). On August 14, 1947, when India as a nation was about to be born, the Constituent Assembly held its Independence Session which started at 11 o’clock in the night. It was the most momentous and reflective juncture when in that historical Session just before Jawaharlal Nehru’s Tryst with Destiny speech, Sucheta Kriplani exhilarated the Assembly by the soul-stirring recitation of Vande Mataram. It was a pinnacle moment for her because she not only opened the Session with her singing but also concluded it by reciting Saare Jahan Se Achha and the National Anthem. Sucheta had a sweet, rich and soulful voice and her Bhajans had been the regular feature of Gandhi’s prayer meetings during 1946-47. However, behind a soft voice was an iron-willed and gutsy person, who in spite of being highly influenced by the ideas and philosophies of her political guru, Mahatma Gandhi, and her husband, remained fiercely independent, made her own choices and chartered her own course. In 1950, J B broke away from Indian National Congress (INC) due to ideological differences and formed his own ‘Kisan Mazdoor Praja’ party, which later merged with the Socialist Party of India and became the Praja Socialist Party of which he became the Chairman. After some time, Sucheta too felt the need to join the Praja Socialist Party. Though in 1957 with the declaration of INC of its socialist aims and measures at its Avadi Session, she felt it was no longer necessary for her to remain outside the folds of the organisation of which she had long been an active member. She not only returned to INC in 1957 but later became its general secretary as well. However, J B remained in the Opposition for the rest of his life. In spite of belonging to opposing political parties in the Lok Sabha, Sucheta and J B epitomised mutual tolerance and integrity in politics by staying together cordially. In 1963, the unstoppable Sucheta became the first woman chief minister of an Indian state— Uttar Pradesh, the largest one. It was a remarkable feat given fewer women in politics at that time. From teaching history to creating history, during her eventful journey of life, Sucheta Kriplani stood out as one of the most dynamic political personalities with a splendid record of service to her credit. She played a prominent role in shaping the contours of independent India.  (The writer is a post-doctoral research fellow, UGC)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/a-nonpareil-trailblazer-1011796.html
23-07-2021||Right in the Middle||Undone by Captcha||The pandemic has brought our life to a near standstill. When the lockdowns were enforced, it is the digital system that came to our rescue. Many payment apps came in hand, especially when many e-commerce platforms stopped taking cash to protect their employees. Similarly, one could file statutory returns online without the hassle of standing in serpentine queues to file our returns.  However, life is never a smooth going vehicle. Like in all good things, one had to surmount some problems. One such challenge we had to surmount was Captcha. Captcha is an acronym for “Completely Automated Public Turing Test” to distinguish humans from bots. Captcha was introduced to prevent the hacking of websites. The Captcha comes in many forms— letters and words, a combination of letters and words, and images that we have to identify before we are allowed to log on to a site. It becomes virtually impossible, especially for a septuagenarian like me to decipher the Captcha, which, in addition to user id and password, is a requirement to log onto a website. Any error in distinguishing a letter or word prevents one from logging onto the site. Some of the sites have a string of distorted, blurry and squiggly letters and numbers, which is beyond any normal human to decipher. Many times ‘x’ turns out to be ‘X’. Similarly, two ‘Ns’ strung together is, actually, an ‘M’. Recently, just when I thought I got the ‘W’ correct, it turned out to be two ‘Vs’. Moreover, distinguishing a ‘0’ (zero) from an ‘O’ is another challenge. Some captchas have hidden words and numbers lurking behind the main string of words, which we often tend to miss. Many of the websites have Google’s reCaptcha, which helps to identify the Captcha an easy experience. Bridges, cars, crosswalks and hydrants are some of the images used for easy logging. On the face of it, it looks very simple but when you thought you had successfully identified all the 5 fire hydrants in the grid, you realize that you have missed an image with a small lurking snout of the fire hydrant. The result is the same: You always end up on the losing side. My inability to decipher the string of words often plunges me into despair, besides bruising my ego. However, I recently came across a blog post, where it was mentioned that, in 2014, “Google had pitted one of its machine learning algorithms against humans in solving the most distorted text Captchas: The computer got the test right 99.8% of the time, while the humans got a mere 33%.” I was happy that I’m not alone in failing the simple test of deciphering the Captcha. I’m now part of the majority of 77% of the people who have failed to get the Captcha right. The moral of the story is that whatever you may try to do, it is the Captcha that is the ultimate winner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/undone-by-captcha-1011792.html
23-07-2021||Second Edit||Police database move is unwarranted||The move by Bengaluru Police to launch a software to collect details of non-Kannadiga tenants in the city, including that of expatriates and those from other states, is not only discriminatory and dangerous, but smacks of jingoism. The details of foreigners on an extended stay are anyway available as they are required to register themselves and also inform the local police about any change in their residential address. Some of these foreigners do indulge in crimes, including drug peddling, and change their place of residence without informing the police, but this is true of all criminals, not just expatriates. Crimes like thefts, chain and mobile snatching, rowdyism and drug-pushing usually thrive when the jurisdictional police officer fails to gather intelligence and act or is complicit in the crimes. The much-touted neighbourhood watch scheme, which could have addressed some of these issues, has been a non-starter, compounded by the fact that local police officers rarely interact with resident welfare associations or other groups that usually have their ears to the ground and can complement the work of the law enforcing agencies. Article 14 of the Constitution guarantees equality before law and equal protection of law to all people within the territory of India, while Article 15 prohibits discrimination on the grounds of religion, race, caste, sex, place of birth. Under Article 19, a citizen has the right to freely move throughout the country, reside in any part and practice any profession, trade or business. Hence, the proposal of the police to collect a database of and profile non-Kannadiga citizens is unconstitutional, illegal and is liable to be challenged in court and struck down by it. Given the concerns over data security, such a database and profiling can be dangerous as it would make it easy for anti-social elements to target people of a particular country, state or community, especially during riots, if they are to obtain access to the software, which does not seem difficult these days. Bengaluru Police and the government should understand that the discrimination inherent can have a cascading effect, with other states and countries adopting a similar stand against Kannadigas. Incidents of attacks on Kannadigas living outside the state have been reported in the past. It will only be natural for other governments to reciprocate in equal measure if Karnataka goes ahead with this prejudiced move. Instead, the police should first set its own house in order, strengthen forensic and investigation capabilities and intelligence, weed out corrupt and inefficient officers who are unable to control crime. The public at large cannot be made to suffer for the deficiencies of the police force.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/police-database-move-is-unwarranted-1011788.html
23-07-2021||South||Continuing Covid-19 surge triggers caution in Kerala||A marginal rise in the Covid-19 Test Positivity Rate (TPR) in Kerala over the last few days triggered concerns about whether the state was paying the price for an unscientific easing of relaxations. The TPR of the state has been hovering around ten per cent for over the past month and was below the ten per cent mark only on five days. Over the last five days, the TPR was increasing marginally and reached 12.38 per cent on Thursday. The seven-day average TPR also stayed above ten per cent from April 14. With 12,818 fresh Covid cases on Tuesday, the total Covid active cases in Kerala reached 1,28,881. Experts noted that if the increasing trend continues for some more days, and the margin of increase also goes up, then the state needs to be alert of the onset of a third wave. But the present marginal increase could be the outcome of the easing of lockdown norms unscientifically, as well as people ignoring Covid protocols. While Kerala is being widely criticised for the present Covid situation, the state health authorities stuck to the 'delaying the peak' strategy. Moreover, the state's targeted testing strategy of checking those who are prone to the infection could also be a reason for the high TPR of Kerala. Kerala Health department Nodal officer Dr. Amar Fettle said that the state could prevent a sudden spike of Covid-19 and as a result, the death rate could be kept at the lowest by ensuring proper medical care to the infected. As a major section of the society was still uninfected, the infection rate in Kerala continues to be comparatively higher. Indian Medical Association - Kerala chapter president designate Dr. N Sulphi said that if the state enters a Covid third phase before the second phase subsided, it could be a cause for concern for the health care infrastructure. He also said that enhancing the vaccination could be the most viable option to face a further surge. Kerala government was facing criticism that the restrictions like alternate working days for various segments of shops and weekend lockdown were only leading to unnecessary crowding. Moreover, the three-day relaxation from July 18 to 20 in view of Bakrid had also invited widespread criticism. Meanwhile, the state government decided to appoint IAS officers as special officers in Kasargod, Kozhikode, Malappuram, Palakkad and Thrissur districts where the TPR was high.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/continuing-covid-19-surge-triggers-caution-in-kerala-1011803.html
23-07-2021||South||Kerala's 'oldest learner' Bhageerathi Amma no more||Kerala's oldest learner Bhageerathi Amma, who passed the literacy examination at the age of 105 two years ago and won the praise of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, died here, family sources said. She was 107 years old and breathed her last late on Thursday night at her house due to age-related ailments, they said. Hailing from Prakkulam in Kollam district, the centenarian was a recipient of the prestigious Nari Shakti Puraskar by the Central government for her exceptional contribution towards women's empowerment. She had scripted history by becoming the oldest student by clearing the fourth standard equivalency examination conducted by the state-run Kerala State Literacy Mission (KSLM) in 2019. The woman had appeared for the examination, conducted by the state literacy mission, at Kollam and came out with flying colours with205 out of a total of 275 marks and full marks in maths. KSLM sources here said due to her advanced age, Bhageerathi Amma had difficulty in writing the exams and took three days to complete the three question papers on the environment, mathematics, and Malayalam. The woman, who had always yearned to study and gain knowledge, had to give up her dream of educating herself after her mother died as she had to take care of her younger siblings. Bhageerathi Amma had quit formal education in class three at the age of 9. Her passion for studies had won accolades from none other than Prime Minister Narendra Modi. While narrating the story of Bhagirathi Amma, Modi had said in his radio address last year that, "If we wish to progress in life, we should develop ourselves, if we wish to achieve something in life, the first pre-condition for that is the student within us must never die." She left without fulfilling the dream of passing the 10th standard equivalency exam, family sources said. Bhageerathi Amma has 12 grand and great-grandchildren. One of her six children and three of her 15 grandchildren are no more, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-oldest-learner-bhageerathi-amma-no-more-1011874.html
23-07-2021||South||UDF boycotts question hour in Kerala Assembly over mass felling of protected trees||The Congress-led UDF opposition on Friday boycotted the question hour session in the Kerala Assembly as the Left government rejected their demand for a judicial probe into the mass felling and smuggling of centuries-old rosewood trees from Muttil in Wayanad district by the alleged timber mafia. It is for the second consecutive session that the opposition used the incident of the illegal tree felling in the government-assigned lands to attack the ruling front in the House. Terming the massive tree felling reported in the high range district as the "biggest" looting of forest resources in the history of the state, the opposition said only a judicial probe would bring out the comprehensive picture of the plunder and the conspiracy behind it. They also wanted the former ministers and officials, who had issued orders which had allegedly helped the mafia to fell trees from the revenue land, to be listed as accused in the case. Rejecting their demand, Forest Minister A K Saseendran said a probe by the Special Investigation Team was underway and a judicial probe was not under the consideration of the government. "The ongoing investigation is satisfactory. All perpetrators, involved in it, will be punished," the minister said, adding that the loss incurred due to the illegal tree felling in Muttil alone was estimated to the tune of around Rs 14 crore. He rejected media reports that there were differences between the Forest and Revenue Departments over the issue. He, however, admitted that the Revenue Department had issued an order which could have a different interpretation from the stand adopted by the Forest Department so far in connection with the felling trees from the 'pattaya bhumi' (government assigned land), he said. Protesting the government's stand over the issue, the opposition legislators boycotted the question hour and walked out of the House. After it came under attack over the felling and smuggling of trees in Wayanad, the Kerala government recently constituted a special investigation team (SIT) to probe into the scandal and similar such cases. The Centre also recently sought a report from the state government over the incident of the illegal felling of crores-worth timber by the alleged mafia. The opposition Congress-led UDF had raised the issue in the first session of the Kerala Assembly, accusing the Left government of shielding the culprits. Accusing the Left government in the state of helping timber mafia to axe protected trees, the opposition had alleged such a crime was not possible without the knowledge and support of political and administrative leadership and the involvement of ministers concerned. The state government had informed the Kerala High Court that a mafia was involved in felling of trees and what was revealed in the investigation was just the tip of the iceberg.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/udf-boycotts-question-hour-in-kerala-assembly-over-mass-felling-of-protected-trees-1011927.html
23-07-2021||South||Flood alert issued to people living on banks of Bhavani river||A flood alert was sounded on Friday to the people living on the banks of the Bhavani River near Mettupalayam in the district following the release of inflow of surplus water from Pilloor Dam due to incessant rains in Coimbatore and Nilgiris districts. Nilgiris district has been experiencing incessant rains for the last couple of days and excess water is flowing into Pilloor dam, the capacity of which has reached 97 feet as against the full capacity of 100 feet. Considering the safety of the dam, 14,000 cusecs water is being released to the river, by opening four sluice gates, as inflow crossed 15,000 cusecs around 3 AM, official sources said. The administration sounded the alert to the people living on the banks, even as senior Revenue officials visited the area and reviewed the safety measures and made arrangements to accommodate in marriage halls and schools, they said. People in the areas in Thekkampatti, Nellithurai, Mettupalayam, Alankombu and Sirumugai were also asked to move to higher places, following the overflowing of Bhavani river, through public address system, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/flood-alert-issued-to-people-living-on-banks-of-bhavani-river-1011954.html
23-07-2021||South||Bhageerathi Amma, Kerala's oldest student, passes away at 107||A centenarian woman in Kerala who became the oldest to clear literacy exam and won appreciation of Prime Minister Narendra Modi died at the age of 107. Bhageerathi Amma, a native of Prakulam in Kollam district, cleared the Kerala State Literacy Mission's fourth-standard equivalency test at the age of 105. She had also received the Nari Shakthi Puraskar of the centre for her achievement. She received appreciation from the Prime Minister in his Mann Ki Baat address. "If we wish to progress in life, we should develop ourselves, if we wish to achieve something in life, the first pre-condition for that is the student within us must never die," Modi said referring to the great grandmother's achievement. Sources close to her family said that she desired clearing the tenth equivalency test. Owing to the age related issues she took. Bhageerathi Amma had to stop her studies at class three owing to family and social compulsions. But she did not hide her desire to learn when the Kerala Literacy Mission authorities approached her. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in his condolence message that Bhageerathi Amma had been an inspiration to Kerala's women empowerment and literacy missions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bhageerathi-amma-keralas-oldest-student-passes-away-at-107-1012028.html
23-07-2021||South||Three days after Kerala transgender activist's death, partner found dead||Amid the mystery over the death of a transgender activist in Kerala on Tuesday, her partner was also found hanging on Friday. Jiju, a native of Thiruvananthapuram aged around 30, was found hanging at a friend's flat at Kochi. He was living with Anannyah who was found hanging at her flat in Kochi on Tuesday. Sources said that Jiju was mentally down following Anannyah's death as they were living together. Jiju, who was a hairstylist, had reportedly gone out to buy food when Annanyah ended her life. There was mystery surrounding Anannyah's death as she had been raising serious allegations of medical negligence against a private hospital in Kochi where she underwent sex reassignment surgery. She had even stated that she was having severe health issues after the surgery. Her father alleged that the hospital authorities had even manhandled her. The post-mortem examination of her body found that prima facie she died by suicide. But the state government had also ordered a high-level probe into her death owing to the allegations she raised against the hospital over the sex reassignment surgery. Annanyah had also staged a demonstration in front of the hospital last Wednesday. Sources said that a medical board is likely to be formed to probe the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/three-days-after-kerala-transgender-activists-death-partner-found-dead-1012032.html
23-07-2021||South||Schools in Andhra Pradesh to reopen on August 16||Schools in Andhra Pradesh will open for the 2021-22 academic year on August 16, the state government announced on Friday. A CMO release said the government would also come out with detailed guidelines on August 16 on the implementation of the New Education Policy-2020. The Chief Minister would dedicate to people the government schools refurbished under the first phase of Naadu-Nedu programme and also launch the second phase works on August 16. Classification of schools into six categories from PP-1 to Class 12 would be undertaken as per the NEP-2020. The existing Anganwadis would be converted into satellite foundation schools, covering each habitation, the CMO release said. The Chief Minister directed the Education Department officials to clearly spell out to all concerned why they were shifting to the NEP-2020. "Create wide awareness, particularly among parents, on the benefits of NEP-2020. There should be no scope for any doubts or apprehensions," Jagan Mohan Reddy said. He said the state government would spend Rs 16,000 crore for implementing the NEP-2020. This would rejuvenate the education system, he added. The government also decided to award marks to Class X students, who were declared to have passed in 2020 and 2021, as final examinations could not be conducted due to the coronavirus outbreak. While 70 per cent weightage would be given to slip tests, 30 per cent would be for formative assessment for awarding the final marks. Grades would be awarded as per the marks, the School Education Department officials told the Chief Minister. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/schools-in-andhra-pradesh-to-reopen-on-august-16-1012039.html
23-07-2021||South||US Consulate in Chennai to launch 'diaspora diplomacy' from July 28||The United States’ Consulate will on July 28 launch a virtual conversation series named #DiasporaDiplomacy featuring prominent Indian-Americans who will talk about their personal and professional journey. Indian-American Aerospace engineer Dr Swati Mohan will be the first to be featured in the series on July 28. Dr Swati Mohan, the Guidance, Navigation, and Control Systems Engineering Group Supervisor at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL), led the operations of the control for the NASA Mars 2020 mission. Through the #DiasporaDiplomacy series, the US Consulate General Chennai will present prominent Indian Americans to talk about their journeys and their role in furthering US-India relations. The series will also highlight the extraordinary contributions of the Indian American community to the US business, academic, innovation, health, and science sectors, a press release from the Consulate said. “More than four million Americans have roots in India. This diaspora is a powerful engine for growing and strengthening political, economic, and social ties between the United States and India. We look forward to adding Indian American diaspora voices to our public outreach,” Consul General in Chennai Judith Ravin, who will launch the series on July 28, said. During the first session, Dr Swati Mohan will interact with India’s United Nations Space4Women Network Mentor Deepana Gandhi and other students, journalists, and space enthusiasts during the program. She will also discuss the Perseverance Mars rover mission, her Indian American roots, her US higher education, and her perspectives on the role of women in STEM [science, technology, engineering, and mathematics]. The event will also be live-streamed on the US Consulate General Chennai’s Facebook page. The second event in the #DiasporaDiplomacy series will be a virtual music concert by Grammy-nominated Indian American singer Priya Darshini on August 18.  On August 19, Priya and her team will lead a virtual workshop for emerging musicians.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/us-consulate-in-chennai-to-launch-diaspora-diplomacy-from-july-28-1012075.html
23-07-2021||South||TN allows use of CSR funds to administer free vaccines in pvt hospitals||Tamil Nadu has found a novel way to maximise the use of Covid-19 vaccines allotted to private hospitals by the Union government. The state has asked corporates and private firms to buy vaccines from the private hospitals’ quota under their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds and administer them to the people free of cost. The health department has already received Rs 4 crore from various companies and the scheme of providing free doses to the public at private hospitals will be launched next week in Chennai. The government will also allow private individuals or firms to sponsor the vaccines at hospitals of their choice to enable maximum optimisation of the doses allotted to private hospitals. The Union government follows a 75:25 vaccination distribution formula under which it supplies 75% doses to the states free of cost and 25% to private hospitals. Lakhs of vaccine doses at private hospitals in Tamil Nadu are not used owing to a slew of factors, including its high cost, while the supplies given to the state government run out quite fast. “We will launch the scheme in the next five to six days at a private hospital in Chennai. Our only aim is to ensure that every dose that is made available to the state is administered. Private companies and financial institutions are coming forward to use their CSR funds to buy these vaccines and administer them to people,” Health Minister Ma. Subramanian told DH. He added that a prominent hotel chain and a private bank based out of Tamil Nadu has approached the health department expressing interest in sponsoring vaccine doses in a few localities in Chennai and elsewhere. The minister said the hospitals where vaccines are sponsored will be asked to install display boards about the free vaccination prominently. The state has so far administered a little over 2 crore vaccine shots of which 13 lakhs are from the private sector. Of the 17 lakh doses allotted for private hospitals in July, they have paid money only for 5 lakh doses of which 2.42 lakh have been administered. Subramanian said private companies and private hospitals have evinced “great interest” in the scheme and are ready to join the government’s efforts in inoculating the eligible population as early as possible. The minister has so far met representatives from over 250 hospitals spread over a dozen districts across the state to discuss the scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-allows-use-of-csr-funds-to-administer-free-vaccines-in-pvt-hospitals-1012081.html
23-07-2021||South||Kerala on high alert for third wave as Covid-19 cases escalate, says CM Vijayan||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that although the present marginal increase in Covid-19 TPR in Kerala did not indicate the onset of a third wave so far, the state was considering the situation with utmost seriousness as the centre has alerted that the country is on the verge of a third wave. The Covid-19 figures of Kerala escalated further on Friday with the total positivity rate (TPR) increasing to 13.63 per cent from 12.38 per cent on Thursday. The number of fresh Covid cases on Friday also increased and reached 17,518. Vijayan said that it was decided to tighten the enforcement of Covid protocols and lockdown restrictions in the meeting on Friday. Further restrictions on attendance at offices in areas with higher TPR are also being enforced. The state would be also conducting studies to identify if any fresh variants of the virus were present in the state. He also said that since Kerala could manage the number of Covid patients well within the limits of the state's health infrastructure, the state need not be too worried about a third phase. Meanwhile, Vijayan said reports that Kerala was not making proper utilisation of Covid vaccines were baseless and aimed at defaming Kerala's achievements. While at the national level 25.5 per cent the country's population have received the first dose and 6.8 per cent have gotten the second, in Kerala it was 35.5 per cent and 14 per cent respectively. All health workers in the state have received the first dose while 82 percent have received the second. On average, up to 2.5 lakh people are vaccinated daily in Kerala. If the Centre's vaccine supply remains uninterrupted at least 60 per cent people could be vaccinated in next two to three months, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-on-high-alert-for-third-wave-as-covid-19-cases-escalate-says-cm-vijayan-1012095.html
23-07-2021||South||3D-printed doffing units developed by IIT-M start-up installed in hospitals||After the country’s first 3D-printed house, deep tech start-up Tvasta Manufacturing Solutions has now developed doffing units to protect frontline health care workers using the same technology in collaboration with Saint-Gobain. Two 3D-printed doffing units have been deployed at the Kanchipuram government hospital and Omandurar Medical College and Hospital in Chennai, while the foundation stone at Tiruvallur government hospital has been laid. Tvasta, founded by IIT-Madras alumni, had developed India's first 3D-printed house which has been installed at the institute's campus in Chennai. Doffing units help doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers to sanitize themselves after their shifts, and safely remove the PPE kits and dispose of them properly. The units, which are integrated with equipment such as UV-C sterilisation box, automatic sanitiser and soap dispensers, eliminate the risk of these healthcare workers carrying the infection to their homes. The 150-square feet doffing unit is also equipped with a washbasin, water closet, and a shower, besides a special provision for PPE disposal with a disposal chute to minimise the contamination from the PPE. 3D-printed doffing units save time as only the assembling of the unit takes place in the hospital premises, compared to the conventional style of construction which would not just consume more time but also cause inconvenience to patients during a pandemic. These units are printed at Tvasta’s 3D printing facility in Perungudi in Chennai and transported to the hospitals in a modular manner. The company said the technology offers a significant reduction in time and cost of the unit, while plumbing and electrical lines are integrated along the 3D printed walls. Welcoming the move, Tamil Nadu Health Minister Ma Subramanian said Saint-Gobain Company is providing the doffing units under its CSR (corporate social responsibility) initiatives. “These doffing units will be a model to the entire country,” he said. Tvasta said the walls are 3D printed with an optimal design with a positioned gap which significantly reduces the raw material usage and enhances the thermal insulation making it a more sustainable structure compared to conventional structures. “The concrete 3D printing technology is a ‘Ready-to-Implement Methodology’ with no lead time on manufacturing, which significantly reduces the construction time,” the company said. Tvasta’s ‘Concrete 3D Printing’ is an automated manufacturing method for constructing three-dimensional real-life structures (at all realizable scales). The technique utilizes a Concrete 3D Printer – a Tvasta product – which accepts a computerized three-dimensional design file from the user and fabricates a 3D structure in a layer-by-layer manner by extruding flowable material akin to concrete.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/3d-printed-doffing-units-developed-by-iit-m-start-up-installed-in-hospitals-1012100.html
23-07-2021||South||Over 60% in Telangana have antibodies against Covid-19: Study||The first such survey conducted over a year ago in the state — in May 2020 — had shown the antibodies in 0.33% of the population. The fourth round of the seroprevalence study now included children of 6 to 9 years of age, who showed 55% seropositivity — an indication of the silent, prior exposure to SARS-CoV2. Researchers also found that among those people who were not vaccinated at all in Telangana, the seropositivity was low at 51.3%; 78.5% in those who had received one dose and 94% in people who got both the shots. The study, part of the national serosurvey, was conducted by the Hyderabad-based ICMR-NIN along with the state health department in three districts of Telangana - Jangaon, Nalgonda and Kamareddy. “The near 100% seropositivity among those vaccinated clearly indicates that vaccines are effective. This should remove any hesitancy and encourage people to get their jabs as early as possible,” said Dr A Laxmaiah, head of the Public Health Division, ICMR-NIN and nodal officer for the Telangana study. The survey included the 6-9 year-old children for the first time in this fourth phase. About 55% of this age group were found to be seropositive, while 61% of adolescents had Covid-19 antibodies. “Among the healthcare workers, the seropositivity was as high as 82.4%, which can be attributed to the early vaccination of the frontline workers,” NIN officials said. The first round of the serosurvey, conducted in May 2020 and the second, third rounds conducted in August and December 2020 in the same three districts showed a seroprevalence of 0.33%, 12.5% and 24.1% respectively. ICMR said that its strategy is to repeat cross-sectional serological studies in the same geographic locations so that the infection transmission trends could be documented for studies. “While the seroprevalence at the national level went up from 24 % in December 2020 to 67% in June 2021, in Telangana it went up from 24.1% to 60.1% during the same time frame,” the official said. “Though over 60% of people have developed antibodies, the remaining 40 % are still susceptible. So, we should not lower our guard. All non-pharmacological Covid-19 measures like wearing masks, hand sanitization, physical distancing should continue,” cautioned Dr Hemalatha R, Director, ICMR-NIN. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/over-60-in-telangana-have-antibodies-against-covid-19-study-1012104.html
23-07-2021||South||Kerala CPM in tight spot over a major cooperative bank scam||A major scam at a CPM-controlled cooperative bank in Kerala is turning out to be an embarrassment to the ruling CPM-led Left Democratic Front, especially since the Left-front has been resisting the Centre's moves like the formation of a new ministry for cooperation alleging of BJP's attempts to have a grip on the cooperative sector. The Karuvannur Service Cooperative Bank in the Thrissur district is caught up in the scam in which the CPM local leaders, who are the administrators, are facing accusations. The Opposition Congress launched an attack against the CPM over the issue by raising the matter in the state Assembly on Friday through an adjournment motion notice and alleging inaction by the Left-front government over reports regarding the scam. Even as a panel of the party probed and detected the scam much earlier, it was suppressed, Congress alleged. While State Co-operation minister V N Vasavan had informed the Assembly that it was a Rs 104 crore scam, the Congress leaders, as well as whistleblower, alleged that it was a Rs 300-crore-scam happening over the past one decade. A 13-member director board with CPM local leader K K Divakaran as president that was running the bank was dissolved the other day. Scores of loans were given illegally issued through fictitious accounts based on fake documents. Even land deeds pledged by the customers were allegedly repledged illegally by the racket involving the banks administrators and real estate lobbies. Many even allege that their land documents were taken into possession by some agents by offering loans and were duped. The scam came to light after some loanees who were regularly repaying as well as many who did not receive loans started receiving notices for default despite making regular payments. A person who received the default notice had even ended life by suicide the other day. A bank employee Suresh Kumar, who became the whistleblower, was expelled from the bank. Many of the victims of the frauds were also CPM workers and supporters. While the local police initially registered a case and arraigned some bank officials as accused, the case was later transferred to the Crime Branch. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said CPM can't be blamed for any party workers or leaders indulging in any illegal acts as the party would never tolerate such acts. Anyone involved in such illegal activities would face stringent action, he said adding that the government would initiate all steps to protect the credibility of the cooperative sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cpm-in-tight-spot-over-a-major-cooperative-bank-scam-1012122.html
23-07-2021||South||In a bid to attract entrepreneurs, Tamil Nadu exempts startups slew of conditions||Tamil Nadu has exempted start-ups registered with the state from a slew of conditions like Earnest Money Deposit (EMD), prior turnover, and prior experience for government purchases up to Rs 20 lakh in a bid to attract more entrepreneurs to the state.  Tamil Nadu is the latest in the list of states like Karnataka, Telangana, and Kerala that have exempted the start-ups from several aforementioned conditions. The move will lead to talent attraction from across the country as an entrepreneur who has registered with the Udyam portal in Karnataka can also participate in government purchases in Tamil Nadu after duly registering.  A government order (GO) dated July 22 signed by Arun Roy, Secretary, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) department, said many start-ups struggle in the early stages because of a lack of market for their products and patronage from the government, which is a major purchaser, can solve their marketing problem to a “great extent”. Roy said after careful examination, the government has decided to provide concessions to registered start-ups for public procurements by a procuring entity which includes government departments, PSUs, local bodies, cooperative institutions, universities, statutory boards, and societies.  Under the new rule, the start-ups registered will be exempted from payment of Earnest Money Deposit (EMD), condition of prior turnover, condition of prior experience, and waiver of tender cost. At present, EMD is exempted for locally registered MSME which includes start-ups as well.  Welcoming the move, K E Raghunathan of Consortium of Indian Associations (CIA), said it was heartening to see the state inviting entrepreneurs after wooing investors.  “This is a great initiative and a step in the right direction. These efforts will show their benefits in about four years from now as we have embarked on attracting entrepreneurs from outside Tamil Nadu. We should also think on what more we can give them without taking away the cake from existing players,” Raghunathan told Deccan Herald. He also said the government should ensure these start-ups registered with the portal get business.  “The real test is the weightage that the government will give to these start-ups. Are we going to identify the certain portion of the government purchases to start-ups? The first step has been taken, and the subsequent steps should be to help these start-ups get business that would ensure that they sustain,” Raghunathan added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/in-a-bid-to-attract-entrepreneurs-tamil-nadu-exempts-startups-slew-of-conditions-1012126.html
23-07-2021||South||Kerala Police moot probe by central agencies to unearth source of hawala money linked to state BJP unit||The Kerala Police recommended a probe by central agencies to unearth the source of hawala money suspected to be brought for BJP's electioneering. A special investigation team that probed the highway robbery of hawala money at Thrissur district in Kerala just ahead of the April 6 Assembly election filed the chargesheet on Friday. While the initial complaint said that Rs 25 lakh was stolen, it was later revealed that around Rs 3.5 crore in hawala money was stolen. Though BJP state president K Surendran and many local leaders were quizzed by the police, they were made only witnesses, while 22 persons involved in the heist were chargesheeted. The police maintained that a probe by central agencies was required to unearth the source of the money suspected to be brought for BJP's electioneering. It was suspected that the money was brought from Mangaluru, said sources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-police-moot-probe-by-central-agencies-to-unearth-source-of-hawala-money-linked-to-state-bjp-unit-1012168.html
23-07-2021||State||Flood threat in Krishna river basin in Belagavi||Heavy rains in the Western Ghats region in Maharashtra and in the catchments of river Krishna and its tributaries in the district have been posing a flood threat along the banks of rivers on Friday. Rivers Vrdganga and Doodhganga tributaries of river Krishna were flowing near danger mark in Nippani and Chikkodi taluks. A huge inflow of waters in the river Vedganga has resulted in the river overflowing on the Pune-Bengaluru national highway and traffic movement being diverted from the busy route. Water inflow in river Krishna at Kallol barrage crossed one lakh cusecs. Water was spreading beyond the banks. Residents from villages downstream  Malaprabha dam in Savadatti taluk have been asked to move to safety with waters to be discharged as it has been receiving over 30,000 cusecs inflow. The maximum water storage level in the dam is 2079 feet and it reached 2069 feet on Friday morning. Hidkal Dam across river Ghataprabha has been receiving over 50,000 cusecs inflow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/flood-threat-in-krishna-river-basin-in-belagavi-1011848.html
23-07-2021||State||Miscreants hack Beary Academy website||Miscreants have hacked the website of the Karnataka Beary Sahitya Academy used for transliterating Beary words using the Roman script and had uploaded obscene content.  “On July 14, we noticed during an admin login that the website contained obscene contents and photos. Meanwhile, in the ‘USER’ Section a message – ‘Hacked By Mr.7Mind’ was found. Hence, we immediately contacted Hostinger support and they found that our login password was weak. Based on their suggestion, we changed our password. However, we noticed the database being hacked again after two days,” Uchil said.  “Experts suggested us not to communicate with the said e-mail ID as it might be a trap to collect money. Experts also suggested us to file a complaint as there are possibilities of hackers trying to attack the website again after its restoration,” he said in the complaint. “We have also requested the Cyber Crime Police to provide necessary information regarding cybersecurity to protect our website,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/miscreants-hack-beary-academy-website-1011946.html
23-07-2021||State||Central University of Karnataka, 11 other varsities get new vice chancellors||President Ram Nath Kovind has appointed Battu Satyanarayana as the Vice Chancellor of the Central University of Karnataka, more than a year after the post fell vacant following the superannuation of H M Maheshwariah. Kovind also named vice chancellors to 11 other central universities, while the top academic and administrative posts remain vacant in 10 other central universities, including Delhi University. Satyanarayana, a retired Chemistry Professor from Osmania University, Hyderabad, has published 31 research papers in international peer-reviewed journals. A profile on the Osmania University website stated that Satyanarayana had also served as the President of the Osmania University Teachers Association and Chairman of Andhra Pradesh Federation of University Teachers' Associations. The announcement came a day after Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan told the Rajya Sabha that 22 posts of vice chancellors of central universities were vacant. Jawaharlal Nehru University vice chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar too has completed his tenure in office and is on extension till fresh appointment is made. The newly appointed vice chancellors include Tankeshwar Kumar (Central University of Haryana), Prakash Bansal (Central university of Himachal Pradesh), Sanjeev Jain (Central university of Jammu), Kshitij Bhusan Das (Central university of Jharkhand), Muthukalingan Krishnan (Central University of Tamil Nadu) and Basuthkar J Rao (Central University of Hyderabad). Kameshwar Nath Singh (Central University of South Bihar); Prabha Shankar Shukla, North-Eastern Hill University (NEHU), Shillong; Alok Kumar Chakrawal (Guru Ghasidas University, Bilaspur); Syed Ainul Hasan, Maulana Azad National Urdu University (MANUU) and Lokender Singh, Manipur University. Responding to questions on delay in appointment of vice chancellors, the Education Minister had told the Rajya Sabha that no time frame could be mentioned for filling up the vacancies as the process of making such appointments was a time-consuming exercise. It involved getting Executive Council/ Court’s nominations of the concerned Central University, constitution of Search-cum-Selection Committee, advertisement of posts, scrutiny of applications, interaction with the shortlisted candidates, getting vigilance clearances, approval of the competent authority.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/central-university-of-karnataka-11-other-varsities-get-new-vice-chancellors-1012132.html
23-07-2021||State||13 reservoirs in Karnataka receive 42 TMC of water in a day||An unprecedented rainfall in coastal and Malnad areas of Karnataka has left several major and minor dams filled to the brim, forcing authorities to discharge excess water into rivers. Sources in the state government revealed to DH that this is the second time that almost all dams have been filled to the brim in the last five years. As per the data, 13 major reservoirs recorded a cumulative inflow of 42 TMC between July 22 and July 23. The water inflow data provided by the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Cell (KSNDMC) revealed that the River Krishna basin received an inflow of 22 TMC of water followed by Hydro-Electric Reservoirs with 15 TMC and the Cauvery basin reservoirs with 5 TMC of water as of Friday evening. Almost all the reservoirs have been filled up to 55 per cent of their total capacity of 328.18 TMC on Friday. Similarly, the reservoirs in the Cauvery basin alone have been collectively filled up to 68 per cent of the total capacity of 114.57 TMC and the reservoirs in the Krishna basin have been filled up to 72 per cent of the total capacity of 417.52 TMC. This apart, several small reservoirs such as Kabini, Vatehole near Belur in Hassan have been filled up to 91 per cent of their total capacity of 19.52 TMC. The water level in the Narayanapura reservoir in the Krishna Basin has also been filled up to 83 per cent of its total capacity of 33.31 TMC, according to hydrology scientists at KSNDMC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/13-reservoirs-in-karnataka-receive-42-tmc-of-water-in-a-day-1012162.html
23-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Some ministers, MLAs in race for Karnataka CM post, claims R Ashoka||Some “active” Cabinet ministers and legislators are in the race to become the next Karnataka chief minister, according to Revenue Minister R Ashoka. The BJP central leadership has kept everyone guessing on who the next chief minister will be even as incumbent B S Yediyurappa’s exit looks imminent after July 26, when he completes two years in office. “Ours is a national party and the [high command] has its own channels to get information. Those who are active in the Cabinet, their names are there [for the CM’s post]. There are MLA’s whose names are there,” Ashoka told reporters, adding that a decision will be taken keeping the state’s interest and politics in mind. Asked if he was in the chief ministerial race, Ashoka said this was for the high command to decide. Ashoka is a prominent Vokkaliga leader in the BJP. “If someone goes, ‘me, me’, it doesn’t work that way in our party,” he said. “Besides, the CM's chair isn't vacant for now. Let’s see.” “They are not panicking,” Ashoka said. “The high command has said it will talk to the CM and solve whatever problem there is. So, there’s no confusion,” he added. “It’s true that all of us met at the CM’s chamber after the Cabinet meeting. We discussed the current politics, development works and Cabinet decisions that were taken,” Ashoka said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/some-ministers-mlas-in-race-for-karnataka-cm-post-claims-r-ashoka-1012029.html
23-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||3 die in heavy rains in Karnataka, thousands evacuated||Heavy rains in various parts of Karnataka over the past 24 hours have claimed three lives, led to landslides in eight places and evacuation of about 9,000 people, while the government has sounded a red alert in seven districts. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, who reviewed the flood situation with top officials on Friday, directed all district in charge ministers and MLAs to oversee relief work in their areas. He said the government would extend all necessary support to relief and rescue efforts and assist farmers who suffered losses due to the untimely rain and hailstorms. Dr Manoj Rajan, Commissioner, Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority said parts of Belagavi, Chikkamagaluru, Dharward, Haveri, Shivamogga and Uttara Kannada are facing the brunt of floods due to incessant rains over the past few days. The rivers Krishna, Cauvery, Tungabhadra, Bhima, Kapila (Kabini) and many others in Malnad and coastal Karnataka are in spate, said the KSDMA officer. Details shared by him showed that 131 villages in 18 Taluks are badly hit, affecting 16,213 people. While three people lost their lives, two are missing. The rains damaged 21 houses completely and 804 houses partially. 65 bridges, 10 schools and a primary health centre were damaged, while 291.03 km of roads were washed away. So far, 8,733 people have been evacuated to safety. The state has opened 80 relief camps where 4,964 people are staying. Landslides were reported in eight places, including Virajpet in Kodagu district and Arabail Ghat in Uttara Kannada district. A red alert has been sounded in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan and Kodagu districts for the next 24 hours in view of a possible heavy to extremely heavy rainfall and an orange alert, in Belagavi and Dharwad, the officer said. The rains have also led to filling up of most of the reservoirs in Karnataka, including the Almatti, Bhadra, KRS, Kabini, Harangi, Hemavathi, Narayanapura, Malaprabha and Ghataprabha, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/3-die-in-heavy-rains-in-karnataka-thousands-evacuated-1012031.html
23-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||From The Newsroom: Karnataka HC quashes UP Police notice to Twitter India MD Manish Maheshwari||In your daily evening news update, nearly 60 people were killed in a series of landslides in Western Maharashtra; Karnataka High Court quashes notice issued by the Uttar Pradesh Police to Twitter India Managing Director Manish Maheshwari; Lok Sabha was informed that no fixed timeline can be indicated for the completion of the vaccination drive but the government expects that all those above 18 years will be vaccinated by year-end, and the opening ceremony of the Tokyo Olympics began today.  Nearly 60 people were killed and over two dozen missing as a series of landslides shocked the coastal Konkan belt and Western Maharashtra today. The Maharashtra government confirmed 40 to 45 deaths in a series of incidents in flood-battered neighbouring regions, which incidentally has also had a Covid-19 test positivity rate higher than the state’s average. In one of the biggest search, rescue and relief operations - multiple agencies are involved - Army, Navy, Air Force, Coast Guard, NDRF and Maharashtra government agencies.   The Karnataka High Court quashed a notice today issued by the Uttar Pradesh Police to Twitter India Managing Director Manish Maheshwari under section 41A of CrPC. The notice was in relation to the FIR registered over a video posted on Twitter. Justice G Narendar observed that the notice under section 41A was a mala fide act or carried out in bad faith on the part of the police considering the fact that the petitioner was not arrayed as an accused in the FIR.   Lok Sabha was informed today, no fixed timeline can be indicated for the completion of the vaccination drive but the government expects that all those above 18 years will be vaccinated by year-end, This was disclosed by Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare Dr Bharati Pravin Pawar in a written reply to questions raised by Congress MP Rahul Gandhi and Trinamool Congress' Mala Roy. The Minister also said between August 2021 and December 2021, a total of 135 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine are expected to be available.   The opening ceremony of the Tokyo Olympics began today in a nearly empty stadium after a year-long pandemic postponement and a build-up marred by scandal and controversy. The ceremony in the 68,000-capacity stadium is taking place before just a few hundred officials and dignitaries, including Japan's Emperor Naruhito, French President Emmanuel Macron and US First Lady Jill Biden. That’s all for today. For more news and updates, please log onto deccanherald.com. Have a great evening. Source: DHNS/PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/from-the-newsroom-karnataka-hc-quashes-up-police-notice-to-twitter-india-md-manish-maheshwari-1012044.html
23-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka logs 1,705 single-day Covid-19 cases, 30 deaths||Karnataka on Friday reported 1,705 new Covid-19 cases and 30 deaths, taking the tally to 28,91,699 and the toll to 36,323. The day also saw 2,243 discharges, continuing to outnumber the fresh cases, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 28,31,226. Out of 1,705 new cases reported on Friday, 400 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 781 discharges and only three deaths, the health department said in a bulletin. The total number of active cases in the state is 24,127. Out of 30 deaths reported on Friday, four each were from Dakshina Kannada and Kolar, Bengaluru Urban and Mysuru had three each, Dharwad and Shivamogga (two each), followed by others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 400, Dakshina Kannada 295, Mysuru 157, Udupi 131, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,24,044, followed by Mysuru 1,71,843 and Tumakuru 1,17,325. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 11,99,859, followed by Mysuru 1,67,794 and Tumakuru 1,14,897. Cumulatively, a total of 3,75,51,620 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,25,426 were collected on Friday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-logs-1705-single-day-covid-19-cases-30-deaths-1012088.html
23-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka set to notify 10% economically weaker section quota soon||The Karnataka government will soon issue a notification giving effect to a 10% reservation in the state's civil services and educational institutions for people from the economically-weaker sections (EWS), or upper castes. "An order will be issued in a week. It will ensure 10% reservation to EWS from communities that were not provided reservation till now," Backward Classes Welfare Minister Kota Sreenivas Poojary told DH. It will be applicable for students seeking admissions in institutes of higher education, he pointed out. "Till now, the quota was applicable only for central government jobs. Now, the state government has also approved the policy," Poojary said. Following the notification, families from upper castes with an annual income of below Rs 8 lakh can avail certificates classifying them under the EWS category. While the Centre has published a list of communities that can avail benefits under EWS category, Karnataka will list all communities that come under the category in the upcoming notification. The Constitution (103rd amendment) Act, 2019, enables people from EWS to claim reservation that is currently available only for the scheduled castes, scheduled tribes and other backward classes. In January 2019, the Centre notified that 10% reservation would be provided in central government jobs and in admissions to educational institutions under the Centre for EWS persons whose family has a gross annual income below Rs 8 lakh. The Cabinet on Thursday approved the EWS reservation, more than two years after the Centre introduced it. That the government was dragging its feet came up for discussion in the Legislative Assembly in March. Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai told the Assembly that the government would issue a fresh order on EWS reservation as an earlier order had left out several communities. There were also complaints that some communities availing reservations under various other categories were listed under EWS also, forcing the government to revise the list of eligible communities. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-set-to-notify-10-economically-weaker-section-quota-soon-1012093.html
23-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Pontiffs plan major spectacle ahead of B S Yediyurappa's exit||Hundreds of seers have been invited to take part in a mega conclave scheduled to be held on July 25 coinciding with Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa’s imminent exit.  “We have invited pontiffs of mutts from all communities,” Balehosur Dingaleshwar Swamy told reporters. The conclave will be held at Palace Grounds.  The seer said the conclave will discuss “ongoing developments”, but he refused to connect it with the change in leadership. “I can’t definitely say what will come up for discussion. But, I can say that this conclave isn’t to impress or blackmail anybody.”  Yediyurappa is arguably the BJP’s tallest Lingayat leader and several mutts, mostly from this community, have rallied behind him by mounting pressure on the saffron party to let him be. Lingayats, who are estimated to make up 16 per cent of the state’s population, are seen as the BJP’s core support base.  Earlier this week, Dingaleshwar Swamy led a delegation of seers to Yediyurappa, expressing solidarity with the Lingayat leader. The seer had said that over 500 pontiffs would be mobilized in support of Yediyurappa if the BJP central leadership failed to drop its plan to replace him.   “It will be wrong for me to say what the agenda of the conclave will be. Anything might come up for discussion there. Whatever decision is taken will be conveyed at the conclave,” the Dingaleshwar seer said, neither confirming nor denying the possibility of Yediyurappa’s exit figuring in the conclave.  The pontiffs conclave is seen as an effort to mobilize support for Yediyurappa.  Responding to criticism over pontiffs getting involved in politics, Dingaleshwar Swamy said: “No mutt has favoured a single party or person. Pontiffs protest only when there’s injustice. Mutts do have the right to point out when something’s going wrong.”  According to a senior BJP leader, the timing of the conclave is suspect. “After Yediyurappa’s appeal that no one should protest or speak in his favour, we believed that the pontiffs would stop rallying for him. We need to see how this plays out,” the leader said.  Sources in the RSS, the BJP’s ideological parent, said it would be up to Yediyurappa to ensure the dominant Lingayat community was not antagonized.  Earlier in the day, Dingaleshwar Swamy and a few others seers went to Mines & Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani's house to greet him. Nirani, also a Lingayat, is being speculated as Yediyurappa's replacement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pontiffs-plan-major-spectacle-ahead-of-b-s-yediyurappas-exit-1012184.html
23-07-2021||West||Two persons missing after landslide in Satara district of Maharashtra||Two persons were missing after landslide took place in the Wai tehsil of Western Maharashtra's Satara district on Thursday evening, an official said. The incident took place at Devrookhwadi, a remote area of the tehsil, said district collector Shekhar Singh. "Twenty-seven people from five affected houses were rescued but two persons are still missing,” he told PTI. “We had to halt the rescue operations due to incessant rains and the possibility of further landslide at the same site. The operation will commence tomorrow morning,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/two-persons-missing-after-landslide-in-satara-district-of-maharashtra-1011767.html
23-07-2021||West||Trustees raise concern over associating Sabarmati Ashram with 'world-class museum', 'tourist destination'||In its first-ever official response to the Gujarat government on redeveloping Mahatma Gandhi-founded Sabarmati Ashram and its precinct into a "world-class museum and tourist destination" under the supervision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Sabarmati Ashram Preservation and Memorial Trust (SAPMT), which manages the ashram, has raised "concerns over usage of worlds like "world-class" and "tourist destination".  "We (trustees) all have consensus on this approach that please do not see this (Ashram) as something like a world-class and tourism destination. It is just unacceptable to me and everyone. First of all, these are marketing words and these words have strong connotations. Associating them with Ashram would be terrible. It can't be a place for tourism," said Ela Bhatt, chairperson of SAPMT. The 88-year-old Bhatt is the founder of the much-acclaimed Self Employed Women's Association (SEWA) and chancellor of Gandhi-founded Gujarat Vidyapith. She said that the state government wrote to SAPMT and sought "in principle approval" for the redevelopment project. "There are many suggestions (in the letter) which are quite acceptable and there is no need to create any unnecessary issue. We have no objection if the government is making facilities like roads, parking, among others. We have written back, saying that whatever you (government) do please do it with utter simplicity and truthfulness. Also, consensus of all five concerned trusts," she told DH on Thursday. The state government had on June 28 written to SAPMT and four other associated trusts to pass a resolution in favour of the redevelopment project and hand over revenue records. The government has been citing examples of museums such as Martin Luther King Jr as a "standard" to redevelop the Ashram premises. "With all due respect to Martin Luther, we can't compare these two places. Ashram is a living history where Gandhi actually lived and experimented with ideas of simplicity, trusteeship, community living, among others. We are not against facilities but it should be in sync with Gandhi's way of living and his message to the world," Bhatt said.  When asked if redevelopment is required, considering the money, said to be Rs 1,200 crore, that is going to be spent, she said, "We have also raised this issue. We have said in the letter that apart from simplicity, truthfulness, the cost should also be economical."  "Our specific objection is with regard to talks of making the place a "world-class museum and tourism centre. This place should be isolated from the crowd. Of course, there should be cleanliness, it should become a silent zone, as we had been demanding for long. But, we are very upfront in saying that as far as Sabarmati Ashram is concerned, which is a matter of faith, it should be left alone. How could we alter the character of Sabarmati Ka Sant (Saint of Sabarmati) by converting it into a world-class museum," said another official, privy to the content of the letter, on condition of anonymity.  The "Gandhi Ashram Memorial and Precinct Development Project", said to be costing Rs1,200 crore, plans to bring all five ashram trusts including SAPMT, Sabarmati Ashram Gaushala Trust, Harijan Ashram Trust, Harijan Sevak Sangh and Khadi Gramodyog Prayog Samiti together in one large campus. The master plan has been created by HCP Design, Planning and Management Pvt Ltd, headed by architect Bimal Patel, who is also involved in the Central Vista project in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/trustees-raise-concern-over-associating-sabarmati-ashram-with-world-class-museum-tourist-destination-1011769.html
23-07-2021||West||Multi-agency operation to rescue people from Chiplun, Mahad||A multi-agency coordinated rescue and relief operations are underway in the flood-hit Konkan towns of Chiplun and Mahad even as a series of landslides were reported on Friday.  So far, six persons have died in the last two days in rain-related incidents in the coastal Konkan belt and the Western Maharashtra region.  The floods are being described as worse than the ones reported in 2005 and 1967.  The three big rivers of Western Maharashtra -- Panchganga in Kolhapur, Krishna in Sangli and Koyana in Satara -- are flowing above the danger mark in several areas. Around 10,000 cusecs water is being released from the Koyna Dam, whose catchment has received heavy rainfall.  On the other hand, the Mahabaleshwar hill station in Satara has recorded 1,500 mm plus rainfall in the last three days.  The traffic on the Mumbai-Goa and Pune-Bengaluru highways have been badly affected because of the incessant rainfall, waterlogging and damage to the roads. More than 5,000 to 6,000 persons are reported to be stranded in Chiplun in Ratnagiri district and Mahad and Raigad district. According to the latest reports, 200 to 300 plus stranded people have been rescued from the two towns. Teams of Army, Navy, Air Force, Coast Guard, National Disaster Response Force are aiding the efforts of the Maharashtra government. The North Konkan district of Raigad and twin South Konkan districts of Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg, Western Maharashtra districts of Kolhapur, Satara and Pune have been experiencing heavy rainfall over the past few days. On Thursday night, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray briefed Prime Minister Narendra Modi of the ground situation. "Units of the Navy and Army have joined the rescue and relief efforts in Ratnagiri and  Raigad districts. The Air Force has started rescue work in Ratnagiri," the Chief Minister's Office said. NDRF Director General Satya Pradhan said that some teams have reached while some are on the way. The Mumbai-headquartered Western Naval Command has mobilised Flood Rescue Teams and helicopters to provide assistance to the State administration. Despite adverse weather conditions and widespread inundation in affected areas, a total of seven naval rescue teams departed by road for deployment to the Ratnagiri and Raigad districts. Airlift of marooned personnel from Raigad district is also being undertaken.  One Seaking 42C Helo from INS Shikra, Mumbai departed for Rescue at Poladpur/Raigad during early morning hours. The naval Flood Rescue Teams are fully self-sustained and equipped with Gemini rubber boats, loud hailers, first aid kits, life jackets and lifebuoys. These rescue teams also include specialist Naval Divers and diving equipment. Additional Flood Rescue Teams are being maintained on a high degree of readiness at Mumbai, for immediate development, should the need arise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/multi-agency-operation-to-rescue-people-from-chiplun-mahad-1011775.html
23-07-2021||West||Zomato, Swiggy dull appetite for Mumbai's dabbawallas||After the pandemic shut offices and put Mumbai's renowned lunchbox deliverymen out of work, the 130-year-old dabbawala network has tied up with a trendy restaurant chain to take on India's billion-dollar start-ups. For two decades, neither terror attacks nor monsoon deluges could stop Kailash Shinde from delivering hot lunches to Mumbai office workers, until lockdowns put the father-of-two on a forced hiatus for a whole year. "It's been very difficult," the 42-year-old said. "I had to sell what I could and work odd jobs to get by." Instantly recognisable in his traditional Gandhi cap and white Indian attire, Shinde is one of 5,000 dabbawalas who have gained global recognition for delivering home-cooked food with clockwork precision. An intricate system of alphanumeric codes helps the largely semi-literate or illiterate workforce collect, sort and distribute 200,000 meals across Mumbai each day via bicycles, hand carts and a sprawling local train network. Their work has been studied as a "model of service excellence" at Harvard Business School, and inspired personal visits from Richard Branson, Prince Charles and executives from global delivery giants FedEx and Amazon, among others. But with extended lockdowns forcing millions of Mumbai's white-collar professionals to work from home, many dabbawalas have been struggling to feed their own families since April last year. "Our members have had to work as security guards and labourers, in addition to seeking jobs as deliverymen for restaurants," said Ulhas Muke of the Nutan Mumbai Tiffin Box Suppliers Charity Trust, which represents the workforce. But delivery jobs are harder to come by in a space now increasingly dominated by mobile apps, especially for people like 39-year-old Pandurang Jadhav, who can't read or write. Unemployed for the first time since becoming a dabbawala aged 17, Jadhav moved to his ancestral village and spent the last year farming rice. The earnings were meagre and he desperately missed Mumbai, where he managed 30 men. "I used to love working as a dabbawala," he told AFP, describing it as "the best job". Help arrived this May in the form of a tie-up with some of Mumbai's most popular eateries, allowing Jadhav and 30 others to return to work. Instead of handling home-cooked meals packed in stainless steel tiffin boxes, he is now delivering restaurant staples from nachos to spaghetti carbonara to time-starved professionals as they continue working from home for a second year. The scheme offers restaurateurs an alternative to the prevailing local duopoly of delivery giants Zomato and Swiggy, whose steep discounts and razor-thin margins have slashed their profits. "We are trying to find a way out of the tyranny of the aggregators," said Riyaaz Amlani, the owner of Impresario Restaurants, which operates 57 outlets across more than a dozen Indian cities. "Of course we want to help the dabbawalas. They are the original deliverymen of Mumbai," he told AFP. Amlani plans to expand his partnership with the dabbawalas, but analysts say that alone may not be enough to help the famed deliverymen survive the pandemic. "It is paramount for them to be flexible at this point," said Sreedevi R, an assistant professor at Mumbai's SP Jain Institute of Management and Research. "The dabbawalas could become delivery agents for last-mile delivery not just for restaurants but also for any e-commerce business," she told AFP. But a lack of literacy means many of them are reluctant to take on work that requires tech-savvy skills. Muke, of the dabbawala representative group, is instead finalising plans to set up a commercial kitchen of their own, delivering inexpensive meals across Mumbai. He has already secured millions of dollars in donations, including a hefty $2 million (more than Rs. 14 crore) contribution from banking giant HSBC, with the kitchen due to open in the next few weeks. "My grandfather was a dabbawala, and then my uncle and now I am," Muke said. "This is the work that I like doing. I want to keep delivering food to people."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/zomato-swiggy-dull-appetite-for-mumbais-dabbawallas-1011814.html
23-07-2021||West||2 dead, 8 injured as house collapses in Mumbai's Govandi||At least two persons were killed and eight others injured after a single-storey house collapsed in Shivaji Nagar area of Govandi in eastern Mumbai early on Friday, a civic official said. The incident occurred at plot number 3 near Bombay City Hospital around 5 am, he said. "Seven fire engines and one rescue van of the fire brigade, and personnel of the police as well as other agencies reached the spot and launched a search and rescue operation," the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said. Ten people were injured in the incident, he said, adding that while seven of them were rushed to the Ghatkopar-based Rajawadi Hospital, three others were taken to the Lokmanya Tilak Memorial Hospital in Sion. However, doctors at the Rajawadi Hospital declared two of them brought dead. The two deceased were identified as Neha Parvez Shaikh (35) and Mokar Zabir Shaikh, (80). The condition of a woman, identified as Shamshad Shaikh (45), is critical, he said. All others are undergoing treatment and their condition is stable, the official added. Further details about the incident are awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/2-dead-8-injured-as-house-collapses-in-mumbais-govandi-1011837.html
23-07-2021||West||Mahabaleshwar receives record over 1,500-mm rainfall in 3 days||In what bears the signature of climate change, the picturesque hill station of Mahabaleshwar has seen a record over 1,500 mm rainfall in the last three days. Nestled in the mountainous Sahyadri range of the Western Ghats, Mahabaleshwar town was the summer capital of Bombay Presidency during the British Raj. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Mahabaleshwar has been receiving heavy rainfall over the last week. In the 24 hours between July 22 and 23, Mahabaleshwar recorded 594.4 mm rainfall. On July 20-21, it recorded 482 mm rainfall, while on July 21-22, the figure was 461 mm rainfall. In three days, the town received 1,534.4 mm rainfall, breaking previous records. “Many places near Verna Lake are flooded. But now the rains are receding,” said KS Hosalikar, Scientist-D, Head SID, Climate Research & Services, Pune.   Mahabaleshwar rainfall records by IMDWatch these numbers... 483 mm rainfall since morning 8.30 am till 1 am night of 23 Jul. Yesterday it was 461 mm in 24 hrs 21-22 Jul 8.30 am Mahabaleshwar is the origin of five rivers including Krishna -- the fourth-biggest river in India --  that flows across Maharashtra, Karnataka, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh - covering 1,400 km - and empties into the Bay of Bengal. The others are Koyna, Venna, Savitri and Gayatri. Over the last few years, Mahabaleshwar has been receiving very high rainfall -- often crossing 250 to 300 mm in 24 hours -- earning the sobriquet of Maharashtra’s Cherrapunji or Mawsynram. It is located about 120 kilometers southwest of Pune and 285 kilometers from Mumbai, Mahabaleshwar is a vast plateau measuring 150 kilometers, bound by valleys on all sides. It reaches a height of 1,439 meters (4,721 feet) at its highest peak above sea level, at a place known as Wilson or Sunrise Point. Mahabaleshwar comprises three villages: Malcolm Peth, Old ‘Kshetra’ Mahabaleshwar, and part of a village called Shindola. Constructed at the confluence of five rivers, Krishna, Venna, Savitri, Koyna and Gayatri, the Panchganga Temple is a major religious destination for devotees. Mahabaleshwar accounts for 85 per cent of India's strawberry produce.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mahabaleshwar-receives-record-over-1500-mm-rainfall-in-3-days-1011863.html
23-07-2021||West||Gujarat: Covid-19 patient dies day after hospital collects his sperm as per HC order||A day after a Vadodara-based private hospital collected the sperm of a Covid-19 patient as per the Gujarat High Court's directions following a plea filed by his wife, the man died. The lawyer of the man's wife gave this information on Friday. The 32-year-old man was on life support at Sterling Hospital as he was suffering from multi-organ failure following a coronavirus infection. "The hospital had informed us that they had extracted the sperm of my client's husband shortly after the high court gave a go-ahead for it on Tuesday evening. But he passed away on Thursday," Nilay Patel, the woman's lawyer, said. "Further hearing in the case is scheduled today," he added. The patient's wife had moved the high court on Tuesday, saying that she wanted to have his child through IVF/ART procedure, but he was not in a condition to give consent for the collection of his sperm. As per doctors, his chances of survival were slim, the plea had said. She had approached the court after the hospital demanded a court order to collect his sperm for IVF. Granting an urgent hearing to the woman, Justice Ashutosh J Shastri had directed the hospital to collect the man's sperm as soon as possible and store it appropriately. Anil Nambiar, zonal director at Sterling Hospital, where the patient is admitted, had told reporters on Wednesday that the doctors had successfully extracted sperm of the patient on Tuesday night, within hours of receiving the court's order. "The patient's family decided to carry out the procedure. But we needed the consent of the individual on whom the process is to be carried out. Since he is critical and cannot give his consent, we could do so only if the court allowed," Nambiar had told the media on Wednesday, adding that the IVF procedure will be carried out after the court allows it. The high court had noted in the order on Tuesday that "interim relief is granted in an extraordinary urgent situation" and it "shall be subject to the outcome of the petition". Further hearing about the granting permission for IVF/ART procedure has been scheduled on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-covid-19-patient-dies-day-after-hospital-collects-his-sperm-as-per-hc-order-1011862.html
23-07-2021||West||Maharashtra rain fury, landslides kill 36 in Raigad||At least 36 persons were killed and several others feared trapped after a massive landslide in the floods-ravaged Raigad district of Maharashtra. "32 of them died in Talai and 4 in Sakhar Sutar Wadi. At least 30 people are trapped," the Raigad district collector said. “The initial reports that I have is that 30 to 35 persons have died,” Thackeray said. “All possible relief is being extended,” he said. Meanwhile, Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Wadettiwar said in the state more than 40 to 45 people have died in rain-related incidents. “The toll may go up,” he said. However, Wadettiwar said that water is being released from Almatty Dam of Karnataka, which is easing the flood situation in the Kolhapur District. With continous rainfall inundating several regions in Maharashtra, the floods are being described as worse than the ones reported in 2005 and 1967. The three big rivers of Western Maharashtra -- Panchganga in Kolhapur, Krishna in Sangli and Koyana in Satara -- are flowing above the danger mark in several areas. The traffic on the Mumbai-Goa and Pune-Bengaluru highways have been badly affected because of the incessant rainfall, waterlogging and damage to the roads. 5,000 to 6,000 persons are reported to be stranded in Chiplun in Ratnagiri district and Mahad and Raigad district as of Friday morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-rain-fury-landslides-kill-36-in-raigad-1011883.html
23-07-2021||West||Police custody of Raj Kundra, Ryan Thorpe extended till July 27||A court in Mumbai on Friday extended till July 27 the police custody of businessman Raj Kundra in a case related to the alleged creation of pornographic films and publishing them through some apps. Kundra, the husband of actor Shilpa Shetty, was arrested on the night of July 19 by the city police's crime branch after being booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act. He was produced before the magistrate court at the end of his earlier remand on Friday. Police sought an extension of his custody to probe the matter further. The police had earlier told the court that the 45-year-old businessman was gaining financially from the illegal activity of making and selling pornographic material. The police had claimed they have seized Kundra's mobile phone and its contents need to be scrutinised and also his business dealings and transactions have to be looked into. Apart from Kundra, the police also produced another accused, Ryan Thorpe, before the court, which extended his custody till July 27.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/police-custody-of-raj-kundra-ryan-thorpe-extended-till-july-27-1011889.html
23-07-2021||West||Stan Swamy's counsel urges HC to monitor inquiry into his death by by invoking 'parens-patriae'||The counsel of late jesuit priest Stan Swamy, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case who died earlier this month, urged the Bombay high court on Friday to monitor the magisterial inquiry into his death by invoking its "parens-patriae" jurisdiction. Senior counsel Mihir Desai, who represented Swamy in the high court, said that although the activist was dead and there existed no question of him being granted bail any more, the high court need not consider the late priest's appeals seeking bail abated. He said that there existed previous Supreme Court judgements ruling that high courts could exercise "parens-patriae jurisdiction" or act as the parent of such appellants, who were not in a position to take decisions for themselves. Advocate Desai urged the high court to permit Swamy's aide, father Frazer Mascarenhas, be permitted to participate in the inquiry supposed to be conducted into Swamy's death as per section 176 of the CrPC. He urged the court to direct that the inquiry be conducted as per the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) guidelines, and also to direct the magistrate to submit a copy of the inquiry report before the high court so that the same can be monitored. "We are looking at a peculiar situation here since the appellant died while the appeals were pending. But, the HC has wide powers," Desai said. He cited the Bhopal gas tragedy case, and the case of comatose nurse Aruna Shanbaug, where courts had exercised their parens-patriae jurisdiction. Appearing for the National Investigating Agency (NIA), Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh said that while the agency had no objection to father Mascarenhas participating in the inquiry, the court need not pass any directions on the magistrate following the NHRC guidelines since that was part of procedure and would be followed. Singh said that the NIA, however, had an objection to the HC asking for the probe report. "The HC is presiding over two appeals challenging the accused's rejection of bail on medical grounds and merits," he said. "With the accused's death, the appeals stand abated as per section 394 of the CrPC," he said. The high court then directed advocate Desai to give written submissions on whether the appeals stood abated, or if they could be amended so that the HC could continue exercising jurisdiction over the matter. The NIA then intervened to say that it had two additional submissions to make. ASG Singh referred to a comment made by Justice Shinde on July 19 while hearing the appeals. Justice Shinde had said at the time that while the legal issues and charges against Swamy were a different matter, that aside, it had "great respect" for the work that Swamy did for the society when he was alive. "We have all condoled the death of Mr. Swamy, but any personal comments or private comments coming from the judges or any law officer, especially in the open court, are normally being twisted by the press and social media," Singh said. Justice Shinde responded saying that the court had never made any personal comments on the NIA, the state's conduct in the case, or legal issues involved. Justice Shinde further said that if the NIA wanted, he was willing to take back his words on any comments he had made personally. "If you want, I take my words back. Our endeavour is to stay fair and balanced always. That should be the end of the matter," Justice Shinde said. "Our problem is that we don't have control on what happens outside (the court)," the HC said. Singh then said that he had no grievances with the court. It was just that "public perception" mattered to agencies. The Maharashtra government's counsel Aruna Pai, meanwhile, told the high court that the magisterial inquiry into swamy's death was yet to begin. The post-mortem, however, was conducted as per procedure, she told the HC. The high court will hear the matter next on August 4. Swamy died at the private Holy Family Hospital in the city on July 5. He was shifted from the Taloja prison to the private hospital following HC's intervention, and was undergoing treatment there for multiple ailments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/stan-swamys-counsel-urges-hc-to-monitor-inquiry-into-his-death-by-by-invoking-parens-patriae-1011903.html
23-07-2021||West||Damaged portions of railway line in rain-hit Konkan to be restored soon||The rail traffic in the rain-hit Chiplun city in Maharashtra’s Ratnagiri district could be restored by 6 pm, after a damaged track on the Konkan railway (KR) line is repaired, an official said on Friday. Incessant rains and resultant flooding have washed out the ballast below the railway tracks and embankment in several patches between Chiplun and Kamathe section, said L K Verma, chief spokesperson of KR. The KR suspended the traffic between Chiplun and Kamathe sections from the early hours of Thursday, as a precautionary measure after the water level in Vashishti river rose over the danger mark. Following this, several trains were regulated at various stations including Dadar-Sawantwadi special at Chiplun station. Dadar-Sawantwadi Road daily special train, which had been held up at Chiplun station since Thursday morning, is being brought back to Mumbai, as the track between Anjani and Chiplun stations declared fit for train movement, Verma said. According to railway officials, when the flood was at its peak, the water had almost touched the railway bridge and a photograph of the inundation went viral on social media. "The forecast for restoration of Chiplun-Kamthe section of Ratnagiri region over Konkan Railway is 18.00 hrs of 23/07/2021 subject to weather conditions," the KR had said in a tweet on Thursday. While the track hasn't suffered any damage, the ballast below the tracks and embankment has been washed away in several patches due to the force of the flood water, an official said. Boulders, ballast and additional labourers have been brought in to restore the damaged portions of the railway line, he said. The 756-km long track of the Konkan Railway runs between Roha, near Mumbai to Thokur near Mangaluru. This route, spread across three states namely Maharashtra, Goa and Karnataka, is one of the challenging terrains having many rivers, gorges and mountains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/damaged-portions-of-railway-line-in-rain-hit-konkan-to-be-restored-soon-1011905.html
23-07-2021||West||Shift all affected by rains in Kolhapur immediately; divert traffic on Bengaluru-Pune highway: Minister||Minister of State for Home and the Guardian Minister of Kolhapur Satej Patil has directed the district administration to shift people and livestock affected due to flooding to safer places immediately. He has also directed the administration to direct traffic through Kognoli on the Pune-Bengaluru highway to Chandgad, Aajara and Gadhinglaj. Patil held review meetings to take stock of the flood situation in Kolhapur till late evening on Thursday. He has asked the district administration to shift people in villages such as Prayag Chikhali, Ambewadi and Aarey facing the utmost risk in the flooding to safer places at the earliest. He also directed for the shifting of people villages that are at risk after the Kolhapur-Ratnagiri highway submerged owing to the rise in the water level in the Panchganga river to 43 feet. He has also asked for the shifting of people from city areas including Bapat Camp, Shahupuri, Ramanand Nagar etc. The meeting was attended by MLAs Ruturaj Patil, Chandrakant Jadhav, District Collector Rahul Rekhwar, Commissioner Dr Kadambari Balkawade, Superintendent of Police Shailesh Balkawade and CEO of Zilla Parishad Sanjaysinh Chavan among others. Patil also appealed to the people of Kolhapur to take due care and not venture out of their homes, unless in case of emergency, amid the heavy rainfall in the district and the prediction of downpour till July 25. Patil has said that the district administration has been taking every step required to ensure that the people do not suffer. Kolhapur has been witnessing downpour with many rivers, bunds submerged, while the Punchaganga is expected to reach the warning level very soon. IMD has predicted heavy rainfall in Kolhapur between July 22 and 25. Against this backdrop, Patil has appealed to the people to be cautious.  "I request all the citizens in Kolhapur to not venture out of their homes unless it is of the utmost need. The people leaving on the banks of rivers and in the low lying areas should intimate the district administration if the water level started rising. They are requested to shift to safer places in such conditions. The district administration and disaster management cells are on their toes to take all required steps," Patil tweeted. Patil said that 81 bunds and dams in the districts have submerged till 12 pm on Thursday and the water level at Rajaram dam has reached 38 feet. "Many parts including Shahuwadi, Radhanagari, Aajara, Chandgad, Kagal, Karwir have recieved heavy rain. Rivers in the districts are expected to reach danger level on Friday. The citizens are requested to take all due care in this backdrop and cooperate with the district administration," Patil said. Patil has also directed the district administration to ensure that the people shifted to the safer places get every aid related to food and medical help. The administration has been asked to reach out to the people at their doorsteps and ensure that the power and telecommunication supply is restored at the earliest.   Kolhapur South's MLA Ruturaj Patil, too, has been on the field helping people suffering from the heavy rainfall. After he recieved information about the flooding, he visited the submerged area of Ramanand Nagar and helped the fire brigade rescue stranded people. He ventured into the water in mechanised boats and rescued people, especially children. He was accompanied by social activities and party workers.  In areas like Dutt Colony, Malhar Complex, Khandoba Temple and Jadhav Park in South Kolhapur, more than 150 houses were under water. MLA Ruturaj has appealed to people from his constituency to take due care during the heavy rainfall.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shift-all-affected-by-rains-in-kolhapur-immediately-divert-traffic-on-bengaluru-pune-highway-minister-1011906.html
23-07-2021||West||Landslides, heavy rain kill nearly 60 in Maharashtra||More than 55 to 60 people were killed and over two dozen missing as a series of landslides shocked the coastal Konkan belt and Western Maharashtra. The Maharashtra government confirmed 40 to 45 deaths in a series of incidents in flood-battered neighbouring regions, which incidentally has also has a Covid-19 test positivity rate higher than the state’s average. In one of the biggest search, rescue and relief operations - multiple agencies are involved - Army, Navy, Air Force, Coast Guard, NDRF and Maharashtra government agencies. “In the last few days we have seen unprecedented rainfall…perhaps the definition of heavy to very heavy rainfall needs to be changed,” Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. In Mirgaon in Satara district, a dozen have been killed in a landslide. Another incident of similar nature was reported from Ambegar in Satara district's Patan, where more than a dozen are feared trapped. In Mumbai, four people have died and seven others injured in an incident of house collapse. “In the last 2 days, 40 to 45 deaths have been reported across Maharashtra,” Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Wadettiwar said. “We fear more casualties,” he said that massive rescue and relief operations have been undertaken. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/landslides-heavy-rain-kill-nearly-60-in-maharashtra-1011922.html
23-07-2021||West||Maharashtra rains: 11 rescued from bus before it gets swept away in river||Eleven people on board a bus had a narrow escape as they were rescued just before the vehicle got washed away into a river in Kolhapur district of Maharashtra early on Friday, police said. The incident occurred around 2.30 am at Pangire village in Bhudargad tehsil when the bus driver, despite being asked by the police and the PWD personnel not to go ahead, drove the vehicle over a bridge even as the water of the Chikodi river was flowing above it, they said. "The PWD officials had intercepted the Nashik-bound bus before the bridge. However, its driver did not listen to them and went ahead on the bridge. But the police staff ran towards the bus and evacuated all the 11 people on board," an official from Bhudargad police station said. The water was flowing with strong force, due to which the bus fell off the bridge and got stuck in water before being swept away by the strong currents, he said. Kolhapur district guardian minister Satej Patil said instructions have been given to file an offense against the bus driver.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-rains-11-rescued-from-bus-before-it-gets-swept-away-in-river-1011923.html
23-07-2021||West||Landslides in Maharashtra was a repeat of Malin incident||The series of landslides in the Sahyadri ranges of Western Ghats is a near-repeat of the Malin incident that took place nearly seven years ago. On 30 July 2014, a landslide occurred in the Malin village in the Ambegaon tehsil of Pune district of Maharashtra. The landslide, which hit early in the morning while residents were asleep, was believed to have been caused by a burst of heavy rainfall and killed at least 151 people. The entire village was wiped out from the map as the landslide originated from the neighbouring hill. About 44 to 46 separate houses were believed to have been buried in the landslide. The landslide was first noticed by a bus driver who was driving by the area and saw that the village had been overrun with mud and earth. He revealed that the village itself was missing. He alerted the MSTRC depot, which relayed the information to district authorities. The immediate cause of the landslide was also attributed to a low-pressure trough that had developed over the Arabian Sea and had caused continuous heavy rainfall for more than 24 hours before the actual event. Deforestation along with faulty agricultural practices destabilised the slope and the rainwater infiltrated to a crucial depth where the top soil layer moved under the influence of gravity. The traditional rice cultivation allowed the water to flow downhill without obstructions. But recently, wheat cultivation had started which required terracing and levelling of the slopes. Therefore, the water accumulated on the slopes and infiltrated to a depth that destabilised the slope.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/landslides-in-maharashtra-was-a-repeat-of-malin-incident-1011944.html
23-07-2021||West||Heavy rains likely over west coast in 2-3 days: IMD||As heavy rains batter several parts of west and south India, the meteorological department on Friday said isolated extremely heavy falls are very likely over Konkan, Goa and central Maharashtra in the next two days. Scattered to fairly widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls are likely to continue over Gujarat till July 23, but its intensity will increase from July 24, it said. "Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls very likely to continue over west coast during next 2-3 days with reduction thereafter," the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. "Isolated extremely heavy falls also very likely over Konkan, Goa, the adjoining ghat areas of central Maharashtra during July 23-24 with reduction thereafter and over coastal and south interior Karnataka, (from) today July 23," it said. In neighbouring Goa, several parts, including Sattari and Bicholim tehsils in north and Dharbandora in south, are reeling under a flood-like situation. A large number of houses was inundated as the water level of some rivers rose following heavy rains over the past few days. "It is likely to increase to fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls on July 24-26. Isolated extremely heavy falls also likely over Gujarat region July 25," the IMD added. It said fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls are likely to continue over east and adjoining central India during July 23-25 with reduction thereafter. Isolated extremely heavy falls also likely over west Madhya Pradesh on July 23 and July 24 and east Madhya Pradesh, Telangana and Odisha on July 23, the IMD added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/heavy-rains-likely-over-west-coast-in-2-3-days-imd-1011975.html
23-07-2021||West||Maharashtra rains: Amit Shah assures Thackeray of 'all help' from Centre||Union Home Minister Amit Shah spoke to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday and took stock of the situation arising due to heavy rains and landslides in Raigad, where at least 30 people have lost their lives. Shah said the Centre is extending all possible help to the Maharashtra government to deal with the emerging situation in the state. "The accident that occurred due to heavy rains and landslides in Raigad, Maharashtra, is unfortunate. In this regard, I have spoken to Chief Minister Shri Uddhav Thackeray and DG @NDRFHQ. NDRF teams are engaged in relief and rescue operations. The central government is providing all possible help there to save the lives of people," he said in a tweet in Hindi. At least 30 people have died in a landslide near a village in the coastal Raigad district of Maharashtra, police said. The toll in the incident near Talai village in Mahad tehsil is likely to rise, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-rains-amit-shah-assures-thackeray-of-all-help-from-centre-1011977.html
23-07-2021||West||Red alert for six rain-hit districts of Maharashtra; extremely heavy showers expected||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday issued a red alert for six districts of Maharashtra which have been already pounded by heavy rains, forecasting "extremely heavy" rainfall and recommending preventive actions. The alert was issued for the next 24 hours for the districts of Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg in coastal Konkan and also for Pune, Satara and Kolhapur in Western Maharashtra. Extremely heavy rainfall is "very likely" at isolated places in ghat (hilly/upland) areas, an IMD official said. "Very likely" denotes 51 to 75 per cent probability of occurrence, he added. The forecast for Satara is "most likely" which means a probability of more than 75 per cent, he said. A rainfall above 204.4 mm in 24 hours is considered as extremely heavy. The forecast also included red alert for Ratnagiri and Satara for Saturday. Intensity of showers will drastically come down from Sunday onward, the IMD said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/red-alert-for-six-rain-hit-districts-of-maharashtra-extremely-heavy-showers-expected-1011991.html
23-07-2021||West||Evacuation of people from hilly areas of rain-ravaged Konkan on: Maharashtra CM||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday said people residing in hilly and landslide-prone areas of the rain-ravaged Konkan region are being evacuated and expressed grief over the loss of lives in a landslide in Raigad district. He appealed to people to cooperate with the local administration in the evacuation process in vulnerable areas in the coastal region, a statement from the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said. Thackeray asked people to be alert in the backdrop of the IMD forecasting heavy rains in the next two days in several parts of the state. He said the local administration should work in coordination for smooth relief and rescue operations in the rain-devastated areas. The chief minister visited the disaster management authority control room in Mantralaya (state secretariat) in south Mumbai and took stock of the situation arising out of downpour and flooding in Konkan and western Maharashtra. Thirty people have died in a landslide near a village in coastal Raigad district of Maharashtra, police said on Friday. Heavy rains since the last two days have caused massive floods in Raigad, Ratnagiri, Palghar, Thane, Sindhudurg, Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara districts. Due to discharge of water from the Koyna dam in western Maharashtra, an alert has been sounded in Sangli and Kolhapur districts. The chief minister asked the authorities to ensure distribution of food, water, medicines and clothes to the people displaced by floods and heavy rains, the statement said. He said the flood-affected districts of western Maharashtra top the list of coronavirus cases and rescue operations there should be done by adhering to Covid-19 protocols, especially use of face masks. As many as 14 NDRF teams have been deployed in the affected areas, the chief minister said. He said 500 people have been rescued in Chiplun in Ratnagiri district and four relief centres have become operational in the coastal town, around 250 km from Mumbai. Also, 22 people stranded on the Kolhapur-Panhala road due to incessant rains have been rescued, the CM added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/evacuation-of-people-from-hilly-areas-of-rain-ravaged-konkan-on-maharashtra-cm-1011993.html
23-07-2021||West||Rajasthan approves draft tribal upliftment scheme||The Rajasthan government has approved a draft tribal participation scheme for the upliftment of the community in the state that is set to be rolled out next month. The scheme will be launched on World Tribal Day on August 9. Under the plan, work will be done according to the needs of people living in tribal areas for inclusive development of the tribal community. These will include work related to construction and repair, promotion and protection of community assets as well as employment generation, skill training, dairy, animal husbandry, etc. Under the scheme, only those works will be allowed through which at least 50 per cent of the beneficiaries belong to the tribal community. For the work and activities to be done under this scheme, at least 30 per cent of the required amount will have to be provided from public support, voluntary organisations, donors or any other government scheme, program or fund. In the scheme, the approval of funds for projects up to Rs 10 lakh will be issued by the District Collector; above Rs 10 lakh and up to Rs 25 lakh by the Commissioner, Tribal Regional Development and above Rs 25 lakh from the level of Tribal Regional Development Department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rajasthan-approves-draft-tribal-upliftment-scheme-1011994.html
23-07-2021||West||At least 20 feared trapped in two landslides in Maharashtra's rain-hit Satara district||At least 20 people are feared trapped in landslides in two locations in the Patan tehsil of Western Maharashtra's Satara district which has been battered by rain, police said on Friday. Landslides took place at Ambeghar and Mirgaon villages during the night, burying a total of eight houses, said Ajay Kumar Bansal, Superintendent of Police, Satara rural. The incidents followed a major landslide in the coastal Raigad district on Thursday evening. Some people have been rescued, the SP said. "At Ambeghar, 13 or 14 people in four houses are feared trapped, while at Mirgaon, three houses were affected with 8 to 10 people inside," said Bansal, adding that rescue work is underway. Due to incessant rains, the roads leading to the two villages are either blocked or inundated, making it difficult to bring heavy machines for rescue work, the SP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/at-least-20-feared-trapped-in-two-landslides-in-maharashtras-rain-hit-satara-district-1012020.html
23-07-2021||West||Maharashtra sees complex flood relief operations||Choppy winds emanating from the Arabian Sea, uneven mountainous terrain of the Sahyadri mountainous ranges, flooding in multiple locations in the vast stretches of Konkan and Western Maharashtra - all these factors have led to one of the most complex search and rescue operations in this part of India. Throughout Friday, helicopters hovered in the air looking for stranded people, while rescuers swam in water in darkness to save people. Incessant rains are making the multi-agency operations more complex. More than half a dozen agencies including the three wings of armed forces - Army, Navy and Air Force - are part of the operations. Read | Evacuation of people from Konkan on: Uddhav Besides, the Coast Guard and teams of National Disaster Response Force are involved in the operations along with the Maharashtra Government’s State Disaster Response Force and district and municipal rescue team besides the police. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar state’s Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Wadettiwar undertook a review of the ground situation. “It is a very complex and challenging operation that is being carried out,” Wadettiwar told reporters. Reaching the target locations was itself difficult because of waterlogged or damaged roads, officials said. “We are undertaking non-stop operations,” said NDRF’s Director General Satya Pradhan in a tweet. While Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Thackeray on Tuesday evening, Union Home Minister Amit Shah spoke to him on Friday even as Pawar was in touch with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. The IAF undertook flood-relief operations in Chiplun and Khed. The IAF has positioned two Mi-17V5s and two Mi-17s for flood relief operations. Another helicopter is standing by at Pune for any emergency requirement. The Mumbai-headquartered Western Naval Command  has mobilised Flood Rescue Teams and Helicopters to provide assistance to the State administration. Despite adverse weather conditions and widespread inundation in affected areas, a total of seven naval  rescue teams  departed by road for deployment to the Ratnagiri and Raigad districts. Airlift of marooned personnel from Raigad district is also being undertaken. One Seaking 42C helicopter from INS Shikra, Mumbai departed for Rescue at Poladpur/Raigad during early morning hours. The naval Flood Rescue Teams are fully self-sustained and equipped with Gemini rubber boats, loud hailers, first aid kits, life jackets and life buoys. These rescue teams also include specialist Naval Divers and diving equipment. Additional Flood Rescue Teams are being maintained on a high degree of readiness at Mumbai, for immediate development, should the need arise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-sees-complex-flood-relief-operations-1012035.html
23-07-2021||West||Maharashtra landslide: Modi announces Rs 2 lakh ex-gratia for next of kin of deceased||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday condoled the loss of lives in a landslide in Maharashtra's coastal Raigad district and announced an ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh for the next of kin of the deceased. Modi said the situation in Maharashtra due to heavy rains is being closely monitored and assistance is being provided to the affected. Thirty-six people were killed in a landslide near a village in coastal Raigad district of Maharashtra, police said on Friday. The incident occurred near Talai village in Mahad tehsil on Thursday evening. "Anguished by the loss of lives due to a landslide in Raigad, Maharashtra. My condolences to the bereaved families. I wish the injured a speedy recovery. The situation in Maharashtra due to heavy rains is being closely monitored and assistance is being provided to the affected," the prime minister said. Prime Minisgter Modi has announced an ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh each from Prime Minister's National Relief Fund (PMNRF) for the next of kin of those who lost their lives due to a landslide in Raigad, Maharashtra, according to a tweet by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO). The PMO said Rs 50,000 would be given to the injured. Earlier, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu also condoled the loss of lives. "Anguished by the loss of lives due to a landslide in Raigad, Maharashtra. My condolences to the bereaved families. I wish the injured a speedy recovery," he said in a tweet. Anguished by the loss of lives due to a landslide in Raigad, Maharashtra. My condolences to the bereaved families. I wish the injured a speedy recovery. The situation in Maharashtra due to heavy rains is being closely monitored and assistance is being provided to the affected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-landslide-modi-announces-rs-2-lakh-ex-gratia-for-next-of-kin-of-deceased-1012036.html
23-07-2021||West||Shilpa Shetty quizzed in porn films case against husband Raj Kundra||After arresting her husband and businessman Raj Kundra in a case of alleged production and distribution of pornographic films through apps, Mumbai Police on Friday recorded the statement of Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty, an official said. Shetty's statement was recorded at her house in suburban Juhu in the afternoon, he said. The crime branch of Mumbai Police also conducted a search of the house and seized a laptop, the official added. As Shetty was a director of Viaan Industries, Kundra's firm, the police decided to question her, he said, adding that she had later resigned from the post. Earlier in the day, a court extended Kundra's police custody till July 27. He was arrested in the case on July 19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shilpa-shetty-quizzed-in-porn-films-case-against-husband-raj-kundra-1012038.html
23-07-2021||West||Maha govt announces Rs 5 lakh ex-gratia for kin of those killed in landslides||The Maharashtra government on Friday announced an ex-gratia of Rs five lakh each to the kin of people who have died in landslides triggered by heavy rains in different parts of the state. A statement from the Chief Minister's Office here said, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who announced the financial assistance, also expressed grief over the loss of lives. The statement said landslides have been reported in ten places - Poladpur (2 incidents) and Mahad (1) talukas of Raigad district, one each in Khed in Ratnagiri district, Mirgaon, Ambeghar, Humbhrali, Dhokwale villages in Patan taluka and Kondvali, Mojhejor villages in Wai taluka of Satara district. The injured will be treated in hospitals at government expense, the statement said, without disclosing their figure. An official in the CMO said as per information received here, 42 people have died in Raigad district and two in Satara district in separate incidents of landslide. Heavy rains since the last two days have caused massive floods in Raigad, Ratnagiri, Palghar, Thane, Sindhudurg, Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara districts. Earlier in the day, Thackeray visited the disaster management authority control room in Mantralaya (state secretariat) in south Mumbai and took stock of the situation arising out of downpour and flooding in Konkan and western Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maha-govt-announces-rs-5-lakh-ex-gratia-for-kin-of-those-killed-in-landslides-1012054.html
23-07-2021||West||Over 100 dead in rain-related incidents in Maharashtra||More than 100 people have died in a chain of landslides and other monsoon-related incidents in the mega-floods-ravaged coastal Konkan belt and mountainous terrain of Western Maharashtra. The worst of the landslides was reported from the Taliye village near Mahad town in Raigad district, where over 50 dead bodies have been recovered while over 40 to 50 others are still feared trapped in the heap of debris. An estimated 50-60 metre tall portion of a hillock broke loose on Thursday night - after being pounded by torrential rains - and crashed onto around 30-plus houses below, trapping a majority of the victims under the huge boulders, stones, trees, bushes and slush in the darkness of night. The government has confirmed over 100 deaths in 48 hours in the series of incidents in flood-battered twin rights of Western Ghats, which incidentally has also has Covid-19 positivity rate higher than state’s average falling in the red-zone, which is yet to be fully unlocked. These floods in Konkan and Western Maharashtra are worse than the ones reported in 2005 and 1967 - and happened just after back-to-back cyclones - Nisarga in June 2020, and Tauktae in May 2021. At least a dozen incidents of landslides have been reported from two geographically vast and diverse regions of the state compounding into one of the biggest disasters in recent times. More than 1,800 to 2,000 people have been rescued for safety by various agencies involved in the operations including NDRF, armed forces and Maharashtra government. “The rainfall that has been seen in the last few days is something unprecedented…perhaps the definition of heavy to very heavy rainfall needs to be changed,” Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said. In the Konkan districts of Raigad and Ratnagiri, the water levels have receded, however, in Western Maharashtra districts of Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara, there was flooding in multiple locations, because of the overflowing Panchganga, Krishna and Koyna rivers, respectively. According to tentative estimates, over 2,500 big and small vehicles including trucks, tempos, cars and scooters were stuck and damaged in the floods and were piled up at various locations. As far as the Taliye incident is concerned, massive rescue and relief operations have been launched and will continue through the night. “It is a big tragedy. So far 50 deaths have been confirmed…we the agencies are working 24x7 to rescue people,” Raigad MP Sunil Tatkare told DH from Raigad after visiting several sites.  There have been several other landslides and deaths including 15 in two incidents in Poladpur (Raigad), 12 in Mirgaon and 1 in Wai (Satara), 11 in Khed (Ratnagiri), and another half dozen locations in Satara. Meanwhile, people died in Mumbai in an incident of house collapse.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-100-dead-in-rain-related-incidents-in-maharashtra-1012064.html
23-07-2021||West||Police raid Raj Kundra, Shilpa Shetty's Juhu home||On a day of hectic developments, the Crime Branch-CID carried out raids at the Juhu residence of controversial businessman Raj Kundra and his actor-model wife Shilpa Shetty. Kundra was arrested by the Crime Branch-CID that is investigating an online pornography racket. After the remand, Kundra was taken to his home when the raid was conducted. The post stated: “I take a deep breath, knowing that I’m lucky to be alive. I have survived challenges in the past and I will survive challenges in the future. Nothing need to distract me from living my life today." Meanwhile, Kundra has moved the Bombay High Court challenging the police remand. Kundra is booked under sections 354(C) (Voyeurism), 292 (sale of obscene content), 420(cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 67, 67A (transmission of sexually explicit material) of the Information Technology Act and Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act. “Without following the due process of law under the provisions of Section 41A of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, as mandated by the Supreme Court from time to time, police arrested Kundra by calling him under the grab of recording statement,” he had submitted. Kundra’s Mumbai-based company, Viaan Industries Ltd, was linked to the UK-based Kenrin Pvt Ltd, allegedly owned by his brother-in-law Pradeep Bakshi. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/police-raid-raj-kundra-shilpa-shettys-juhu-home-1012068.html
23-07-2021||West||Maharashtra rains: 11 rescued from bus before it gets washed away, driver held||Eleven people including eight Nepalese workers were rescued in the nick of time before the bus in which they were traveling was swept away in a flooded river in Western Maharashtra's Kolhapur district on early Friday morning, police said. A case was registered against the driver of the private bus for recklessly taking it on a flooded bridge on the Chikodi river, they added. The incident took place around 2.30 am at Pangire village in Bhudargad tehsil. Of 11 people, eight are Nepalese who work in hotels in Goa and were on their way to Nashik from where they were to return to their country. "The police patil (local police representative) of Pangire village Sandip Gurav, some local persons and home guard staff stopped the bus, asking the driver not to go ahead. But he did not pay heed and ventured onto the bridge," said senior inspector Sanjay More of Bhudargad police station. Even the passengers and his co-driver tried to dissuade the driver, but he drove on by removing a wooden log placed across the bridge as a barrier. Once on the bridge, the bus skidded and landed in the river, said inspector More. Some passengers then climbed on the roof and shouted for help. "Police patil Gurav, other policemen, home guards, and local youngsters rushed to the spot, and by tying a rope to a truck parked near the bridge, rescued all 11 persons," More said. Moments after its occupants were rescued, the bus was swept away, he said. Manbahadur Dangi, a Nepali national who was on board, said he was asleep when the bus landed in the water. "I woke up and saw water gushing inside. We were very scared... the locals from the village rushed to our help and rescued us," he told PTI. "For a moment, I felt we would not survive and thought of calling my brother to tell him to look after my children and family," Dangi said. Nilesh Bharade, Nitin Bharade, Akshay Bharade, Santosh, Amol Chavan and Bhairavnath Chavan, all members of the local voluntary group Chhatrapati Pratishthan, played a crucial role in the rescue, police said. Bus driver Ajit Pardeshi (39) was detained. A case under IPC section 307 (attempt to murder) was filed against him for driving on the flooded bridge, police said. In another incident in the wee hours of Friday, a Ratnagiri-bound bus of the Karnataka government's transport service got stranded in water on Kolhapur-Panhala road. As many as 25 passengers were safely evacuated, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-rains-11-rescued-from-bus-before-it-gets-washed-away-driver-held-1012087.html
23-07-2021||West||500 homes damaged, losses in crores due to heavy rain, flooding: says Goa CM Sawant||Nearly 500 homes were damaged and a similar number of persons had to be rescued, as heavy rains for the eighth consecutive day, caused flooding in Goa's hinterland, especially villages located in the lower reaches of the Western Ghats mountains. According to Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, who conducted a tour of the flooded low-lying areas in the Bicholim sub-district in North Goa, while the exact losses have not finalised yet, the figure is estimated to be in several crores. "Heavy rains have been witnessed in Goa over the last few days, which has led to areas like Sattari, Bicholim, Ponda, Dharbandora, Bardez and Pernem being majorly hit. Such flooding has not occurred in Goa since 1982," Sawant told a press conference at the state Secretariat on Friday. Nearly 500 homes, most of them with mud walls, have been damaged in rural parts of Goa due to the heavy rains, which also caused the levels of local rivers to rise suddenly, he said. The Chief Minister has also urged donors and NGOs to contribute to the efforts of the state in providing relief and rehabilitation of families and persons who have suffered losses due to the heavy rains and flooding. The rescued villagers have been housed in temporary state shelters, which have been housed in primary schools in the affected ub districts. "The level of the Valvonti river in Bicholim rose steeply and 160 houses were affected in the area. More than 40 people needed to be rescued using boats. In Sattari, the Mahadayi river also rose above the danger mark. 130 houses were majorly damaged and a bridge in Paikul was completely washed away, leading to the evacuation of more than 65 people," Sawant said. The Chief Minister also said that one person, a woman, may have died after she was washed away in a torrent in the early hours of Friday. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/500-homes-damaged-losses-in-crores-due-to-heavy-rain-flooding-says-goa-cm-sawant-1012131.html
