24-07-2021||First Edit||A shortage of the oxygen of truth||Union Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare Bharti Pravin Pawar’s statement in the Rajya Sabha that “no deaths due to lack of oxygen have been specifically reported by states/UTs” contradicts the information that is in the public domain. The minister was at best being very technical, ignoring reality and shutting her eyes on a sorry situation that existed in many parts of the country. The statement was based on reports from states which did not attribute deaths to lack of oxygen. Death certificates or other medical records do not identify the cause of a Covid death as lack of oxygen, but that is no reason for governments to deny the specific reason for death. Giving the exact number of deaths that happened due to oxygen shortage might have been difficult, but the response should not have been a blanket denial. There was a shortage of oxygen in many parts of the country, including Karnataka, during the second wave of the pandemic in April-May. Many hospitals had made appeals for oxygen and patients had died as it was not available in time. The Supreme Court had told the central government to supply oxygen to hospitals in the national capital, and the government had increased the production of medical oxygen. The shortage of oxygen and the resulting panic and deaths had become such a public and well-reported scandal that denying it now is false and disingenuous. The many families who lost their dear ones because oxygen was not available in time would find the denial offensive. The Centre should not have accepted the reports provided by the states without application of mind. Everyone wants to deny unpleasant facts and to pass the buck, but the denial should not be taken to such absurd and questionable lengths. Such statements, which are blatantly at variance with known facts, erode the government’s credibility. Other assertions and claims made by it on the pandemic and its management and even on other matters would be considered as unreliable by people. The government might also be considered insensitive as the matter concerned the lives of people in the most distressed situations. The need for the government to maintain public trust and to be sensitive and empathetic is important in times of crisis. The collection, recording and interpretation of data about all aspects of Covid, including infections, fatalities and recoveries, has been problematic from the beginning. It is widely known that a lot of data has been suppressed by governments at all levels. It should be realised that misrepresentation and lack of transparency and accountability will only be counterproductive and set back the fight against the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/a-shortage-of-the-oxygen-of-truth-1012237.html
24-07-2021||In Perspective||Ramp up diagnostic capacities in rural India||Recently, the Indian government placed an order for six submarines for the Indian Navy worth Rs 43,000 crore to augment its fighting capacity. In the Covid pandemic, going by official figures, some 420,000 Indians have died so far, which is far more than the deaths in any war India has fought. But we have not seen any news of government investing in health technology such as RTPCR machines or CT Scan machines. All our peripheral health institutions are devoid of modern diagnostic technologies. Many medical colleges also do not have adequate diagnostics. Hence, people have to go to the private sector and pay high prices for diagnosis and treatment. Neither the country nor any state of India has a “chief pathologist” or “chief radiologist” to advise the government on technology guidance. Because of Covid, there is a massive awareness of the value of tests such as RTPCR and HRCT. Some years ago, the Indian Institute of Public Health, Gandhinagar, did a study and found that most public and private labs used the old Widal test, rather than blood culture, for diagnosis of typhoid. Modern lab test equipment such as CBNAT and TruNat and Elisa machines are available only for TB and HIV in most districts. Most medical diagnostic equipment is imported, and hence expensive. Prime Minister Narendra Modi needs to encourage ‘Make in India’ in the medical diagnostics sector. In India, there is a great diagnostic divide between the urban private sector, which has the latest equipment, and the rural public health sector, which is devoid of diagnostic equipment. This has led to delays in the diagnosis of Covid in rural areas, resulting in more spread and deaths.  The required diagnostic equipment is not that expensive: an RTPCR system may cost Rs 50 lakh and a good CT machine may cost Rs 2 crore. But ensuring that they are available in each district hospital was not included in the last budget, which came amidst the pandemic. Perhaps there is no one to champion within government to advocate the economic case for such diagnostic equipment. The government largely focuses on building large brick and mortar buildings rather than on investing on the best machines and trained human resources. The last budget did talk about upgrading the public health system over six years under a new program called Prime Minister Atmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana, to be launched with an outlay of about Rs 64,180 crore. The government should make a ‘Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Nidan Yojana’ (PM-JANY) of about Rs 20,000 crore for the whole country. This sounds like a large amount but divide it by the 700+ districts of India, it amounts to less than Rs 30 crore for each of them to modernise the whole diagnostic set up at district and sub-district hospitals. With tele-radiology, remote reading of CT scans and X-rays can be done. So, shortage of specialists in rural areas should not be an argument used to prevent such investments. It will give real teeth to the Test-Trace-Treat strategy for Covid in rural areas. Lab tests are not only useful in diagnosis of the case but tests like CRP, D-Dimer, Troponin and LDH are also very useful in deciding hospitalisation and the line of treatment for seriously ill patients. With proper monitoring of patients, mortality will decline. We also need to invest in advanced equipment for genome sequencing so that the new variants of coronavirus can be rapidly identified and public health action can be taken in time to control their spread. For this, we should collaborate with the private sector and research institutions which may already have the equipment. Such investments made now will pay rich dividends during future pandemics. Such equipment will also be useful for regular care of cancer and other disease patients. It is heartening to note that recently the Union Finance Minister has announced a special package of investment in healthcare to the tune of Rs 50,000 crore. This is a positive move, but it is mostly focused on care facilities for children, such as to increase children’s hospital beds, paediatric ventilators and paediatric ICU facilities. But it also will have some investment to upgrade laboratory services, including genomic sequencing facilities, which are very much needed. Recently, a new package of Rs 23,123 crore has been announced for emergency response and health system preparedness for Covid. It is mainly focused on infrastructure for hospital care and some actions to prevent future waves of Covid; the only lab-related investment is improving genome sequencing at NCDC. We hope the government will not lose this opportunity to make such pro-poor investments in public health diagnostics services. (Dr Dileep Mavalankar is Director, Indian Institute of Public Health, Gandhinagar; Dr Mukesh Maheshwari is a Senior Histopathologist based in Ahmedabad)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/ramp-up-diagnostic-capacities-in-rural-india-1012229.html
24-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa unveils bust of Basavanna in Shivamogga||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa virtually unveiled the bust of Basavanna, a social reformer of the 12th century from Bengaluru, which was installed at the entrance of Gandhi park in the city. It may be mentioned here that former mayor of The London Borough of Lambeth Neeraj Patil had donated the bust of Basavanna to Shivamogga City Corporation, and it was brought to the city from London in November, 2018, but it was not installed due to some problems. However now, all the hurdles have been cleared. Speaking on the occasion, the Chief Minister said in order to introduce the ideals of Basavanna to the next generations, the work pertaining to the construction of Anubhava Mantapa worth Rs 500 crore has been initiated at Basavakalyan, in Bidar district, which is considered to be the birthplace of 12th century poet and social reformer Basaveshwara. He also asked people to imbibe some ideals of Basavanna in their lives and pay true tribute to him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-unveils-bust-of-basavanna-in-shivamogga-1012322.html
24-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru begins preparations to face third Covid-19 wave: DC||The Mysuru district administration is preparing to face the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic amid a dearth of vaccines. Deputy Commissioner Dr Bagadi Gautham said the district administration and the Health Department have been taking all the measures needed to tackle the third wave. The DC said that the district has achieved 85 per cent first dose of vaccination and 25 per cent second dose. The district has been receiving a steady supply of vaccines and there is no dearth of it as of now, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-begins-preparations-to-face-third-covid-19-wave-dc-1012378.html
24-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru Police sniffer dog 'Sudha' no more||Sudha, the famed sniffer dog of Mangaluru police Commissionerate, died on Saturday. The 10-year-old Doberman Pinscher was one among the three dogs in the second batch inducted into the squad. Sudha joined the team on April 4, 2012 and Sandeep K had been her handler. She assisted the police in cracking crimes and had played a vital role in bandobast activities.   According to sources, Sudha had helped Ullal police solve the murder of a watchman by retrieving footwear of the accused discarded a kilometre away from the crime scene. The last rites of Sudha was performed near the district police parade ground. Mangaluru Commissioner of Police N Shashi Kumar, DCP Hariram Shankar and others paid their last respects. A tulasi plant and fruit sapling were planted near the grave. Sandeep said that he had been taking care of Sudha since she was three months old. He was so close to Sudha that he had even named his bike after Sudha. Sudha had developed a tumour in her chest five months ago. Though she had recovered after treatment, her condition deteriorated a week ago. She stopped taking food for the past two days and breathed her last at 10.20 am, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-police-sniffer-dog-sudha-no-more-1012448.html
24-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Elderly woman washed away in floodwaters||A 70-year-old woman has reportedly been washed away in floodwaters while she was walking on the waterlogged bridge near Hole Bhairanahalli in Holehonnur town in Bhadravathi taluk on Saturday. The staff of Fire & Emergency Services Department is searching for the body. According to police, the incident took place when Hanumakka, a resident of Agasara Beedhi in Holehonnur town, was heading towards the plantation. She lost her balance while crossing the mini-bridge constructed across a stream and fell off. According to local people, she was washed away in the stream which was in full spate due to incessant rains in the region over the last two days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/elderly-woman-washed-away-in-floodwaters-1012501.html
24-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Not aware of what CM Yediyurappa, BJP national leaders discussed: Joshi||Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi on Saturday stated that he is not aware of the topic of discussion held between Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and the BJP's national leaders, and none of them spoke to him (Joshi) regarding the 'CM change' issue. "Whatever I know about the state politics is only through media, and neither Yediyurappa nor the party's top brass have discussed anything with me. Therefore, I am not an authorised person to comment on that," he said. "I do not know whether Yediyurappa has been asked to resign or not. It is left to leaders like J P Nadda, Narendra Modi and Amit Shah to decide. There is no question of me being the front-runner or back-runner for the chief minister's post," Joshi noted. He also refused to comment on several seers demanding the continuation of Yediyurappa as the chief minister, saying, "it is not related to me". 'No clarity' Meanwhile, Large & Medium Scale Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said, there is no clarity on what message from the party's leadership would come for Yediyurappa and when. "I am not aware of this issue, as the party's central leadership did not speak to me. I visited Gujarat and Delhi for the works related to industries department, and I also met Defence Minister Rajnath Singh for the same purpose," he said. state BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel has already clarified that the voice in a controversial audio clip is not of him, and he has sought probe into the matter, Shettar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/not-aware-of-what-cm-yediyurappa-bjp-national-leaders-discussed-joshi-1012335.html
24-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka minister Nirani denies lobbying to replace B S Yediyurappa but says he would abide by party's decision||Denying that he was lobbying to replace Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, who seems to be on his way out, Karnataka Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh R Nirani said he will abide by any decision taken by the BJP central leadership. Addressing reporters here, Nirani said he was an ordinary BJP functionary and it was his duty to follow the party's diktat. The minister further added that the BJP is a disciplined party and unlike other parties lobbying for posts will not work here. As Yediyurappa had announced that he would abide by the top leadership's instruction on July 25, speculation is rife that Nirani is among those who would be the next chief minister. "There has been no instruction for replacing Chief Minister Yediyurappa.He is still our leader and we all are with him. The BJP top brass will take a decision on the CM post and we have to abide by it," the minister said. Nirani, who visited Delhi about a fortnight ago and termed his visit 'successful', reiterated his support to Yediyurappa. To a question on lobbying, Nirani said "I never lobbied for any post in my life.I will shoulder the responsibility bestowed on me by the party.Our national leaders will choose the right person for the CM post after considering all the factors." Stating that he was not after any post, the minister said all the 120 BJP legislators are qualified to become the Chief Minister. He added that he got many positions without aspiring for one and was made minister by the party after getting elected for the first time. "Even now I am bestowed with a huge responsibility. I never aspired for any post in the past nor am I going to do now," Nirani clarified. As his visit to Kashi Vishwanath temple in Varanasi triggered speculation that he went to seek blessings before assuming the new role, the minister sought to downplay it. Asking people not to draw any inferences from his Varanasi visit, he said he has the habit of visiting temples since childhood and goes there once in a month or two. Nirani, a three time BJP MLA, is an industrialist who owns the MRN Group, which runs sugar mills.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-minister-nirani-denies-lobbying-to-replace-b-s-yediyurappa-but-says-he-would-abide-by-partys-decision-1012369.html
24-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka minister denies scam in egg procurement, Congress bays for blood||Women & Child Development Minister Shashikala Jolle on Saturday denied any wrongdoing even as the Congress demanded her resignation after a Kannada news channel aired a sting operation alleging bribery in the tender process for the supply of eggs to anganwadis. According to the sting, the minister allegedly sought commission in the tender process for the procurement of eggs under the Mathrupoorna scheme. Calling it "false", Jolle said there was no tender called for the process. "No tender has been called for the egg procurement process. I have not asked any individual or organisation to take part in the tender process," she said in a statement, adding that she would seek legal recourse. "It's a conspiracy to defame me." Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah demanded a Lokayukta probe apart from asking Jolle to resign. "On one hand the government is not allocating funds for any development works and on the other, its leaders are trying to fill their pockets by misusing their offices," he said in a tweet. Former Women & Child Development Minister Umashree said calling a tender for the egg procurement was in violation of a Supreme Court order concerning nutrition provided to anganwadi children. "To avoid such irregularities, there is a Balavikas Samithi. Mothers and anganwadi workers are part of this committee. All ingredients must be procured through this. The minister should stop justifying herself and scrap the tender process," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-minister-denies-scam-in-egg-procurement-congress-bays-for-blood-1012436.html
24-07-2021||Main Article||Three decades of Liberalisation: The bold gambit that paid off||Launching the Congress manifesto in 1991, former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi promised to significantly liberalise the economy within 365 days. After his tragic assassination, the task of fulfilling this promise fell to then Prime Minister P V Narasimha Rao and his Finance Minister Manmohan Singh. They displayed exemplary courage and confronted the multiple challenges facing the Indian economy head-on. The Gulf War had triggered a spike in oil prices, expatriates were withdrawing foreign currency deposits, and the previous government had been forced to mortgage gold to meet its financial obligations. Foreign exchange reserves were enough only for a few weeks of imports. Rao’s minority government had two options before it: resolve the immediate crisis and continue in office or risk political power by undertaking long-term structural economic reforms. Reforms were unpopular and opposed by most political parties. Yet, on July 24, 1991, presenting his maiden budget, Singh boldly embraced the “idea whose time has come” and announced the reforms that set India on the path of high economic growth. The parallelly announced Industrial Policy ended the ‘licence-quota-permit raj’ system. The budget laid emphasis on controlling inflation, which was in double-digits, and improving the fiscal situation. Industrial licences were abolished, except for a few strategic sectors. A revised import-export policy opened Indian industries up to competition from abroad. Direct foreign investment up to 51% was allowed in specific industries. A transparent mechanism to review tariffs, which were eventually reduced drastically, further opened up the economy.     Reforms unleashed the entrepreneurial spirits of Indians and industry. India’s share in the world economy has more than doubled since 1991. GDP has grown 10 times since pre-reform levels. Average per capita income has increased from Rs 14,300 to Rs 86,700. India’s current foreign exchange reserves at $600 billion are enough to cover 18 months’ imports.      India’s middle class has grown exponentially, and a scarcity economy has given way to one where consumers are spoilt for choice. Indian industry is competitive in many high-tech sectors, and consumers have access to the best quality products worldwide. World-class infrastructure has come up across the country. Air travel is significantly cheaper. Metro rail systems have been established in major cities. With a mobile subscriber base of 1.2 billion, India’s telecom sector is the envy of the world. The information technology revolution has contributed to increased exports and strengthened our soft power. Despite some recent setbacks, there has been a marked change in people's standard of living and the quality of jobs available in the country. While the reforms called for realignment of national policies, Singh also stressed on his government’s commitment to “adjustment with a human face” to ensure that the poorer sections were not disproportionately impacted. The wealth created due to liberalisation allowed for an expanded social safety net. Well-designed rights-based schemes like MGNREGS helped create an empowering welfare state. Higher MSPs for crops boosted rural incomes and helped India stave off the 2008 global financial crisis. Between 2005 and 2016, 27 crore people were lifted out of poverty. The reforms have stood the test of time and proven their usefulness. Remarkably, successive governments with divergent ideologies have built upon the foundations laid in 1991. Yet, much remains to be done.      The role of the government needs reimagining. A troublesome spike in wealth inequality and the damage caused by the pandemic highlight the need for serious governance reforms. In 1991, the situation called for the government to exit certain sectors and deregulate. 2021 calls for the government to commit itself to ensuring universal access to essential services like healthcare and education. Social welfare cannot be delegated to market forces. The government must also continue its emphasis on infrastructure and financial inclusion. Robust regulatory framework institutions must ensure that markets work without our people getting ripped off. The enormous NPA (bad loans) overhang demonstrates how some people get to privatise profits and socialise losses. Thirty years after liberalisation, India finds itself in a tough spot. Unemployment has soared, food consumption has fallen, raising fears of rising poverty and malnutrition, and economic inequality has risen sharply. Demonetisation and the poorly designed Goods and Services Tax regime have derailed India's growth. Mishandling of the Covid-19 pandemic has exacerbated our problems. India's strong middle class, a creation of the 1991 reforms, has shrunk. Poverty and indebtedness have risen rapidly. Outstanding loans against gold jewellery have nearly doubled since last year. The ‘humane face’ Singh spoke of in 1991 has lately been missing from policymaking. The current government has not announced sufficient stimulus measures. Interventions have focused on the supply side, offering more loans to already stressed businesses and have had little impact: GDP has shrunk by 7.3%.  India can overcome its immediate challenges only with a demand-driven approach. The solution is a direct income transfer scheme like NYAY – nyuntam aay yojana. Income support for the most vulnerable is more than a humane gesture. It will kickstart consumption and have a positive multiplier effect on the economy. Income support needs to be accompanied by a well-targeted fiscal stimulus. Saving small businesses that have had to face the worst of the crisis must be the priority. The government must resist temptations to close the Indian economy off from the world. Raising tariffs on goods is a regressive step. Atmanirbhar Bharat should not result in isolationism. In 1991, the nation had to mortgage its gold. In 2021, Indian households are facing the same fate. Today’s crisis, which predates the pandemic, is different in form but no less potent in its capacity to inflict damage on our people. Our economy has lost some sheen, but our underlying strengths can help us recover swiftly. Liberalisation made India a global leader of the 21st century, enhanced our self-confidence, strengthened our professionalism and appetite for entrepreneurship. Brainpower is now our brand, thanks to our successes in the knowledge economy. India’s development story is renowned for growth with a human face. All these are the result of the courageous leadership that was displayed in 1991. It is up to us to consolidate the gains of the past and ensure an even better future for aspirational India. (Prof M V Rajeev Gowda is a former MP and Chairman, Research Department, Indian National Congress; Akash Satyawali is its National Coordinator)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/three-decades-of-liberalisation-the-bold-gambit-that-paid-off-1012228.html
24-07-2021||National||Karnataka HC relief to Twitter MD: BJP says UP police proactive; Congress slams Yogi govt||The BJP Friday said the Uttar Pradesh police was being "proactive" in sending a notice to the Twitter India MD over the circulation of a "communally sensitive" video, while the Congress slammed the state government for "targeting" the official "individually" through the summons which was quashed by the Karnataka High Court. The HC quashed the notice issued to Twitter India Managing Director Manish Maheshwari by the UP police, seeking his personal appearance as part of its probe into the video uploaded by a user on Twitter, saying it was issued by mala fide. The single bench of Justice G Narendar said the notice under Section 41(A) CrPC should be treated as Section under 160 of CrPC, allowing the Ghaziabad Police to question Maheshwari through virtual mode from his office or his residential address in Bengaluru. Responding to the development, UP BJP spokesperson Rakesh Tripathi said, "We have seen riots in western Uttar Pradesh in the past and the large scale use of social media in it. The police were proactive to prevent any communal disharmony and hence took this decision to set accountability of a social media platform and sent notice to Twitter." "The court has disallowed in person appearance but allowed questioning through virtual mode. We respect the decision of the Karnataka High Court. The Uttar Pradesh government is committed to ensuring no misuse of social media for disturbing communal harmony," he told PTI in Lucknow. UP Congress' social media vice chairperson Pankhuri Pathak said the way the UP government is "targeting" Twitter is something not seen anywhere in the world. 'This government is just after Twitter and trying to control social media the way it has controlled the mainstream media," she alleged. "We have earlier seen law enforcement agencies' raids at offices of social media but when that did not work, the government went after individuals, targeting them personally. This vendetta politics is hurting the image of India world over," Pathak said. Meanwhile, the Ghaziabad Police, which had lodged an FIR against Twitter and others on June 15 over the circulation of the video of an elderly Muslim man who claimed being attacked by a group of young men and his beard being forcibly shaved off, said it was yet to receive the Karnataka HC's order. "We are yet to receive the Karnataka High Court's order. When we get the order, we shall decide the course of our future action accordingly," Ghaziabad police chief Amit Kumar Pathak told PTI. The FIR named as accused Twitter Inc, Twitter Communications India Pvt Ltd (Twitter India), news website The Wire, journalists Mohammed Zubair and Rana Ayyub, besides Congress leaders Salman Nizami, Maskoor Usmani, Shama Mohamed and writer Saba Naqvi. They were booked over the circulation of a video in which the man, Abdul Shamad Saifi, also alleged that he was forced to chant 'Jai Shri Ram' on June 5 during the attack. However, the police maintained that it was not a communal attack but some people had tried to portray it that way while sharing the video on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karnataka-hc-relief-to-twitter-md-bjp-says-up-police-proactive-congress-slams-yogi-govt-1012236.html
24-07-2021||National||Hearing on Sri Krishna Janmabhumi suit posted for July 30||A court here Friday adjourned the hearing on the maintainability of the Sri Krishna Janmabhumi suit to July 30. Civil Judge Senior Division Jyoti Singh adjourned the hearing on the Thakur Keshav Dev Ji Mahraj Vs Intazamia Committee case. "Both the parties so far have presented written statements in support of their submission," DGC Civil Sanjai Gaur said. Defense counsel Advocate Niraj Sharma opined that since the maintenance of status quo before 1947 is mandatory as per Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act 1991, the suit deserved rejection. However, advocate Mahendra Pratap Singh on behalf of plaintiff presented the papers claiming that the suit does not come under the purview of Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act 1991. The act also says that it would not apply if the dispute predates 1947, Mahendra Pratap Singh said. On behalf of the plaintiff, it was also said that since the construction made on the part of land of Keshav Deo temple are covered by Ancient Monument and Archeological Sites and Remains Act 1958, the Places of Worship (Special Provisions Act 1991 would not apply, and hence the suit is maintainable. The suit seeks the shifting of a 17th-Century mosque away from a temple which the devouts believe is the birthplace of Lord Krishna.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hearing-on-sri-krishna-janmabhumi-suit-posted-for-july-30-1012242.html
24-07-2021||National||Antony Blinken to pay first trip to India amid Afghanistan withdrawal||US Secretary of State Antony Blinken will speak next week in India about supporting Afghanistan as worries grow in New Delhi about Taliban gains amid the end of the two-decade US military mission, officials said Friday. On his first visit to the emerging US ally since taking office, Blinken will also look to resume work together on supplying Covid-19 vaccines and explore greater security and cyber cooperation, officials said. Blinken will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Foreign Minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar on the trip Wednesday and afterward hold separate talks in Kuwait. Dean Thompson, the top US diplomat for South Asia, said that Blinken would welcome India's "shared commitment to peace and supporting economic development in Afghanistan," where New Delhi has pumped in some $3 billion since the US invasion overthrew the Taliban regime following the September 11, 2001 attacks. "We expect that all the countries in the region have a shared interest in a stable and secure Afghanistan going forward and so we will certainly be looking at talking with our Indian partners about how we can work together to realize that goal," Thompson told reporters. President Joe Biden has ordered an end to the longest-ever US war by the end of August, saying that nothing more can be achieved militarily -- despite rapid gains on the ground by Taliban insurgents. The Taliban welcomed virulently anti-Indian extremists when the Sunni Muslim militants ruled Afghanistan from 1996 to 2001, with an Indian civilian airliner hijacked to the Taliban bastion of Kandahar in 1999. India's enthusiastic support for the Afghan government, including helping build a new parliament building, has fueled suspicions in its historic rival Pakistan which was the main international backer of the Taliban regime. India recently evacuated 50 diplomats and others from its consulate in Kandahar although it insisted personnel would return as soon as security improves. US and Indian governments across party lines have been building closer relations since the late 1990s as the world's two largest democracies see shared interests on a rising China, Islamist extremism and other challenges. But Biden, in a shift in tone if not substance from his predecessor Donald Trump, as a candidate voiced subtle criticism of Modi's Hindu nationalist government over controversial steps including a citizenship law that critics say discriminates against the Muslim minority. Thompson said the United States "will raise" human rights issues but added: "We firmly believe that we have more values in common on those fronts than we don't." Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin visited New Delhi as part of his first overseas trip but Blinken's travel was put on hold amid a severe outbreak of Covid-19 in the billion-plus country. The Biden administration had seen India as a key partner on fighting Covid with a deal announced in March for India to produce one billion Covid vaccine doses with US, Japanese and Australian support. "This is such a critical country in the fight against Covid-19," Blinken said of his India trip during an interview on MSNBC. "We have millions of vaccines ready to go to them when they finish their own legal process to bring them in. And India is the leading country when it comes to the production of vaccines," Blinken said. "Of course, they're focused understandably on their own internal challenges now, but when that production engine gets fully going and can distribute again to the rest of the world, that's going to make a big difference, too." Biden last month vowed to provide 500 million vaccine doses around the world and the United States has since been making near-daily announcements of shipments, seeing a global defeat of Covid as critical both to the world's economy and US leadership.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/antony-blinken-to-pay-first-trip-to-india-amid-afghanistan-withdrawal-1012247.html
24-07-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Tell them there is no data available'||After several media reports suggested that Israel-based NSO Group’s software is being used to spy on journalists, human rights activists and political dissidents, the world's most infamous hacker-for-hire outfit denied the allegations stating that it has no visibility into its customers' data. Issuing a statement on the report by Forbidden Stories, NSO called it "full of wrong assumptions and uncorroborated theories," and threatened a defamation lawsuit. "We firmly deny the false allegations made in their report," NSO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-tell-them-there-is-no-data-available-1012250.html
24-07-2021||National||Centre plans more power islands to counter cyber, terror threat||By Rajesh Kumar Singh India is discussing a plan to create so-called power islanding systems in several cities to protect critical infrastructure from potential attacks on the electricity grid, power minister Raj Kumar Singh said. Cities including Bengaluru, known as India’s Silicon Valley, and Jamnagar, which has two of India’s largest oil refineries, are among cities being assessed for an islanding system, Singh told lawmakers in parliament Thursday. Existing systems in cities such as New Delhi and Mumbai are being revamped, he said. The plan follows a major power outage in India’s financial hub Mumbai last year that brought the city to a halt and prompted speculation about a cyber attack. The year before, the country’s nuclear power monopoly reported computer systems at one of its generation plants had been attacked by malware. Power grids the world over are increasingly digitalized, leaving them vulnerable to such attacks. Islanding systems feature generation capacity and can isolate automatically from the main grid in the event of an outage. For the new systems, provinces need to submit proposals for setting up generation and storage capacities, Singh said in his written comments Thursday. The strategy was questioned in some quarters. “Islanding entire cities is a very 20th-century idea,” said Reji Pillai, president of the India Smart Grid Forum, which advises the government and utilities on smart grid technologies. “Where’s the space in Bengaluru for setting up new generation plants, and without adequate generation capacity within the islanded area what is the purpose of islanding?” Instead, Pillai recommended smart microgrids for isolating smaller areas, such as commercial and industrial complexes, shopping malls, airports, defense units, railway stations and hospitals. The system would be connected to the main network and could isolate automatically in the event of an outage. The microgrids would run on a mix of battery and rooftop solar power, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-plans-more-power-islands-to-counter-cyber-terror-threat-1012258.html
24-07-2021||National||India and Pakistan need to work together to resolve bilateral issues: US||India and Pakistan need to work with each other to resolve their bilateral issues, the United States has said, observing that it had always encouraged the two neighbours to build a more stable relationship going forward. "With regard to India-Pakistan, I would just note that we strongly believe that India and Pakistan's issues are ones for them to work out between themselves," Acting Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asian Affairs Dean Thompson told reporters during a conference call on Friday. "We are pleased to see that the ceasefire that went into place earlier this year is - has remained intact, and we certainly always encourage them to continue their efforts to find ways to build a more stable relationship going forward," Thompson said in response to a question. Relations between India and Pakistan nose-dived after New Delhi abrogated the special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 on August 5, 2019 and bifurcated it into two Union territories. The two neighbours earlier in the year signed a ceasefire agreement. On a question on Afghanistan, the Acting Assistant Secretary said that the US expects all the countries in the region to have a shared interest in a stable and secure Afghanistan going forward. Secretary of State Tony Blinken is slated to visit India next week during which Afghanistan would be a major topic of discussion. “We will certainly be looking at talking with our Indian partners about how we can work together to realise that goal, to find ways to bring the parties together, and continue to pursue a negotiated settlement to end the longstanding war," Thompson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-and-pakistan-need-to-work-together-to-resolve-bilateral-issues-us-1012263.html
24-07-2021||National||Buddha's ideas more relevant now as humanity faces Covid-19 crisis: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday that Lord Buddha's ideas are all the more relevant now as humanity faces the COVID-19 crisis and asserted that India has shown how to face even the most difficult challenge by following the path shown by the founder of Buddhism. In his message at Ashadha Purnima and a Dhamma Chakra Day programme, which marks the day when Buddha gave his first sermon after attaining enlightenment, he said the world has felt the power of Lord Buddha's teachings in times of tragedy.  "The entire world is moving in solidarity following the teachings of the Buddha. In this, the 'care with prayer' initiative of the International Buddhist Confederation is praiseworthy," the prime minister said. Quoting 'Dhamm Pada', Modi said enmity does not quell enmity but is rather won over with love and a big heart. "In times of tragedy, the world has felt this power of love and harmony. As this knowledge of Buddha, this experience of humanity gets enriched, the world will touch new heights of success and prosperity," he added. Citing Buddha's teachings, the prime minister said, "Harmony between our mind, speech, and resolve and between our action and effort can guide us away from pain and towards happiness."  "This inspires us to work for general welfare during good times and gives us strength to face difficult times. Lord Buddha gave us an eight-fold path to achieve this harmony," he said. When Lord Buddha, forged in the fire of sacrifice and endurance, speaks, then these are not mere words but an entire cycle of 'Dhamm' begins and the knowledge flowing from him become synonymous with welfare of the world, the prime minister said. That is why today he has followers all over the world, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/buddhas-ideas-more-relevant-now-as-humanity-faces-covid-19-crisis-pm-modi-1012274.html
24-07-2021||National||India reports 39,097 new Covid-19 cases, 546 deaths||India's tally of Covid-19 infections rose by 39,097 in a day to reach 3,13,32,159, while 546 more people succumbed to the viral disease during the same period taking the death toll to 4,20,016 on Saturday, according to Union Health Ministry data. The number of active cases in the country has increased to 4,08,977, accounting for 1.34 per cent of the total caseload while the national Covid-19 recovery rate stood at 97.35 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. An increase of 3,464 cases was recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a day. Also, 16,31,266 tests to detect Covid-19 were carried out on Friday, taking the total number of such tests conducted so far in the country to 45,45,70,811, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.40 per cent. It has remained below 3 per cent for 33 days in a row. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.22 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 3,05,03,166, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. The total number of Covid vaccine doses administered so far in the country has reached 42.78 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30-lakh mark on August 23, 40-lakh mark on September 5, and 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28 last year, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20, and the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore Covid cases on May 4 this year and the three-crore mark on June 23. The 546 new fatalities include 167 from Maharashtra and 132 from Kerala. A total of 4,20,016 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,31,205 in Maharashtra, 36,323 in Karnataka, 33,862 in Tamil Nadu, 25,041 in Delhi, 22,748 in Uttar Pradesh and 18,056 in West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-39097-new-covid-19-cases-546-deaths-1012276.html
24-07-2021||National||The rise of Raj Kundra from son of a bus conductor to business tycoon||Kundra, the husband of actor Shilpa Shetty, was arrested on the night of July 19 by the city police's crime branch after being booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act. Here's a look at Kundra's life and his rise as a business tycoon. Raj Kundra was born in London. His father Bal Krishan Kundra was a bus conductor in London before he started a small business, and his mother Usha Rani Kundra worked as a shop assistant. Kundra started his business career as a pashmina shawl seller to fashion retailers in Britain, and it was in that trade that he made his first millions. In 2007, he moved to Dubai and set up Essential General Trading LLC, a company dealing in precious metals, construction, mining, and renewable energy projects. At the same time, he began financing and producing Bollywood films. He was ranked the 198th richest British Asian by Success, a business magazine, in 2004. Kundra has been married twice so far. His first wife was Kavita Kundra and they had a daughter. They got divorced and he married Bollywood actress Shilpa Shetty on November 22, 2009. They have two children, a son, and a daughter. Raj Kundra is associated with Essential Sports and Media, and also with Satyug Gold, Super Fight League, and Bastian Hospitality, a restaurant chain in Mumbai In 2009, Kundra and his wife invested in the Indian Premier League cricket team Rajasthan Royals. In July 2015, a panel appointed by the Supreme Court of India imposed a life ban on him from cricket-related activity over a case of spot-fixing. He has also written a book titled 'How Not to Make Money' that was published on October 14, 2013.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-rise-of-raj-kundra-from-son-of-a-bus-conductor-to-business-tycoon-1012282.html
24-07-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccines for children likely by September: AIIMS chief||As fears of a third Covid wave loom large, AIIMS chief Dr Randeep Guleria said that India is likely to start vaccinating children by September. "I think Zydus has already done the trials and they're waiting for the emergency authorisation. Bharat Biotech's Covaxin trials should be over by August or September, and by that time we should get approval. Pfizer vaccine has been already approved by the FDA (US regulator - Food and Drug Administration). Hopefully, by September, we should start vaccinating children, and that would be a big boost as far as breaking the chain of transmission is concerned," Dr Guleria told the publication. His remarks come as the country is yet to clear a vaccine for children and speculation is that they could be the worst-hit group in the next wave.  Till July 23, India has administered over 42 crore doses of vaccines and the government aims to vaccinate all adults by the end of this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccines-for-children-likely-by-september-aiims-chief-1012287.html
24-07-2021||National||Blinken's Delhi visit: US to raise Pegasus row, issues of human rights, religious freedom||With the United States lawmakers expressing concerns over the state of freedom of expression and religion in India, President Joe Biden’s administration is now planning to take up the issues with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government in New Delhi. Biden’s Secretary of State, Anthony Blinken, will raise the issues of human rights and democracy with the Modi Government during his visit to New Delhi next week, the US officials told journalists in Washington D.C. on Friday. He may also touch upon the controversy over recent media reports on use of Pegasus spyware for snooping on phones of political leaders, civil society activists and journalists in several nations, including India. Three US lawmakers – Senator Ed Markey, Representative Marie Newman and Representative Andy Levin – of late took part in a panel discussion and expressed concern over the crackdown on free speech and discrimination against religious minorities in India. Besides, another group of over 20 members of the Senate and House of Representatives recently wrote to the US Secretary of State, urging him to appoint a special envoy to combat the alleged rise in attacks against Muslims in different parts of the world, including India, China and Myanmar. Blinken will arrive in New Delhi on Tuesday for a two-day visit – his first after the Biden Administration took over on January 20 last. He will have meetings with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and the Prime Minister’s National Security Advisor Ajit Doval on Wednesday. He is also likely to call on Modi and discuss with him Biden’s plan to hold an in-person summit of the Quad – a bloc comprising US, India, Japan and Australia – in Washington D.C. later this year. The “shared democratic values” of the US and India will be on the agenda of discussion when Blinken will meet Jaishankar and call on Modi. This was confirmed by Dean Thompson, the acting Assistant Secretary for South and Central Asian Affairs of the US State Department, on Friday. “And with respect to the human rights and democracy question, yes, you’re right; I will tell you that we will raise it, yes, you’re right; I will tell you that we will raise it,” said Thompson, adding: “And we will continue that conversation, because we firmly believe that we have more values in common on those fronts than we don’t.” He was replying to a journalist, who asked him if the US Secretary of State will raise with his counterpart in New Delhi the issues related to human rights and religious freedom in India, in view of the laws enacted and actions initiated by the Modi Government allegedly targeting the Muslims. “Obviously, we – the whole notion of using this type of technology against civil society, or regime critics, or journalists, or anybody like that through extrajudicial means is always concerning,” he said, in response to another question on the use of Pegasus spyware developed by the NSO Group of Israel for snooping on phones of political leaders, journalists and activists in India. “I know this is a broader issue, but I will say that we’ve been, I think, quite vocal about trying to find ways for companies to be able to ensure that their technology is not used in these types of ways. And we will certainly continue to press – to press those issues.” The US Secretary of Defence Lloyd Austin had visited New Delhi on March 20 and he too had raised during his meetings with his counterpart Rajnath Singh the issue of democracy and human rights in India. Austin was the first top official of the Biden Administration to visit New Delhi. He also had a meeting with Jaishankar. “And we believe India is going to be a really important part of continuing those conversations and building strong efforts on those fronts (democracy, right of free speech and religion and human rights) in partnership as we go forward,” Thompson said during the briefing on Blinken’s forthcoming visit to New Delhi. During his first phone call with Modi after taking over the Oval Office in White House, Biden, himself, had “underscored his desire to defend democratic institutions and norms around the world” and noted that “a shared commitment to democratic values” was “the bedrock for the US-India relationship”. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/blinkens-delhi-visit-us-to-raise-pegasus-row-issues-of-human-rights-religious-freedom-1012294.html
24-07-2021||National||60k students dropped out, over 2 lakh shifted to govt schools in Andhra Pradesh during Covid-19||During the Covid-19 pandemic, Andhra Pradesh saw over 2 lakh private school students between classes one to 12 enrolling into government schools while 60,253 students dropped out, most of them girls. Education Minister Audimulapu Suresh told IE, “The dropouts can be attributed to Covid-19 lockdowns, closure of schools for a long time, job or income loss of the main breadwinner, and migration to native places.” He added that the government is trying to trace the dropouts in this academic year to enroll them into the educational institutions again. Along with Andhra Pradesh, other states are also showing a similar trend due to the economic distress caused by the pandemic. “Due to loss of income, some parents can no longer afford to send their children to private schools and have enrolled them in government schools. Another reason is the improvement of infrastructure which has transformed government schools, attracting many students,” an Education Department official is quoted as saying in the report The dropout rate has increased in the districts of Andhra Pradesh, as per the report. In Visakhapatnam, 19,800 students dropped out in 2019-20 which increased to 36,016 in 2020-21. Similarly, in East Godavari, the numbers increased from 3,800 to 36,237 in the same period. In Kurnool, 10,000 students dropped out in 2019-20 which increased exponentially to 42,328 in 2020-21. In the pandemic, hundreds of families shifted from towns and cities to villages, leading to a displacement of students, according to the officials of the Sarva Siksha Abhiyan.  The government has also launched a mobile application called Mana Badiki Podam. Teachers, anganwadi workers, and house-to-house surveyors upload the details of the dropouts and Children Info Drop Box helps the government track them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/60k-students-dropped-out-over-2-lakh-shifted-to-govt-schools-in-andhra-pradesh-during-covid-19-1012298.html
24-07-2021||National||President Kovind congratulates Mirabai Chanu for winning silver medal in weightlifting in Tokyo Olympics||President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday congratulated Mirabai Chanu for winning a silver medal in weightlifting in the Tokyo Olympics. Chanu, 26, ended India's 21-year wait for a weightlifting medal at the Olympics by clinching the silver medal in the 49 kg category to open the country's account in Tokyo on Saturday. “Heartiest congratulations to Mirabai Chanu for starting the medal tally for India in the Tokyo Olympics 2020 by winning silver medal in weightlifting,” Kovind tweeted. Heartiest congratulations to Mirabai Chanu for starting the medal tally for India in the Tokyo Olympics 2020 by winning silver medal in weightlifting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-kovind-congratulates-mirabai-chanu-for-winning-silver-medal-in-weightlifting-in-tokyo-olympics-1012316.html
24-07-2021||National||SC refuses to share information on SCBA's letter for elevation of top court lawyers as HC judges||The Supreme Court has refused to part with information under the RTI Act on details of a letter written by the SC Bar Association for proposing names of top court advocates for appointment as High Court judges. The top court said information shared under fiduciary relationship, also being "third party information", were exempted under the transparency law. The authorities cited Section 8(1)(e) and 11(1) of the RTI Act to decline the request. A lawyer, Amritpal Singh Khalsa filed an application under the RTI Act after SCBA president, Vikas Singh publically claimed to have written a letter in this regard. In his letter to the CPIO, SC, Kalsa sought a copy of the proposal sent by the SCBA on May 31, along with the order, letter, communication or any other document in which it was noted that the Chief Justice of India has agreed to the proposal by the bar body. He also sought file notings in this regard. Besides, Kalsa sought a letter or order issued by the CJI to chief justices of high courts to consider elevation of lawyers practising in the Supreme Court as High Court judges. Notably, last month, lawyers body of the top court formed a "search committee" to identify deserving and meritorious advocates, practising in the Supreme Court, for their elevation as judges in the high courts across the country. Following a request made by Supreme Court Bar Association on May 31, the Chief Justice of India agreed and requested the chief justices of the high courts to consider lawyers practising in the Supreme Court for elevation to their high courts, a statement from Bar president Vikas Singh had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-to-share-information-on-scbas-letter-for-elevation-of-top-court-lawyers-as-hc-judges-1012326.html
24-07-2021||National||President Kovind calls Maharashtra governor, expresses concern over loss of life due to rains, floods||President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday called Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and expressed his concern over the loss of life and property in the state due to rains and floods. The governor apprised the President about rescue and relief works undertaken to mitigate people’s plight, the Rashtrapati Bhavan said. As many as 129 people have died in rain-related incidents, including multiple landslides, in Maharashtra over the last two days, according to official data updated till Friday. “President Shri Ram Nath Kovind called Maharashtra Governor Shri Bhagat Singh Koshyari and expressed his concern over loss of life and property in the state due to rains and floods. The Governor apprised him about rescue and relief works undertaken to mitigate people’s plight,” the Rashtrapati Bhavan tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-kovind-calls-maharashtra-governor-expresses-concern-over-loss-of-life-due-to-rains-floods-1012327.html
24-07-2021||National||Here's how you can check ICSE, ISC results||The results of ICSE and ISC Class 10 and Class 12 Board examinations 2021 have been released. The results are available on the website as well as through SMS. Rechecking of marks will not be applicable this year since the students were awarded imputed marks, CISCE Chief Secy Gerry Arathoon said in a statement. The board had cancelled the exams for both the classes this year in view of the second wave of Covid-19. The result have been announced on basis of an alternate assessment policy decided by the board. How to check the results 2. Fill the UID number. 3. Fill the index number. 4. Enter the capcha mentioned. 5. Click on "show result". Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heres-how-you-can-check-icse-isc-results-1012331.html
24-07-2021||National||Maharashtra government issues protocols restricting mobile use in office||Here is the list of protocols that the state has laid down for the government staffers: - Officials should use landlines on priority, and should use mobile phones only when there is important work. - Officials should speak briefly, courteously, and maintain decorum. - They shouldn’t fight and argue on the phone. - They should answer phone calls of people’s representatives and senior officials on priority. - Officials should go out of the cabin to attend urgent personal calls. - Officials must put phones on silent mode during meetings with seniors. - Officials should not use earphones during meetings. - Officials should not switch off their phones during official tours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-government-issues-protocols-restricting-mobile-use-in-office-1012341.html
24-07-2021||National||CISCE results announced, almost all students clear classes 10, 12 exams||Girls outshone boys in the Class 12 examinations of the Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), results of which were announced on Saturday. For the Class 10 examinations, girls and boys were on an even keel as they achieved the same pass percentage of 99.98 per cent. The CISCE had cancelled the examinations this year owing to the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic and assessed the performance of the students on an alternative assessment policy decided by the board. “In Class 12, the pass percentage of girls is 99.86 per cent, while that of boys is 99.66 per cent,” CISCE Chief Executive and Secretary Gerry Arathoon said. In Karnataka, all 21,386 students who had applied for the Class 10 examinations cleared the assessment criteria, while the pass percentage among the 2040 Class 12 students was 99.95 per cent.  Unlike previous years the option of rechecking of answer scripts will not be available as candidates have been awarded “imputed marks”, Arathoon said, adding that a dispute resolution mechanism will be in place for correction of calculation errors, if any. A total of 2,422 schools had presented candidates for the Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) Class 10 examination, while 1,166 schools had presented candidates for the Indian School Certificate (ISC) Class 12 exam. A total of 2,19,499 candidates, including 54.14 per cent boys and 45.86 per cent girls, appeared for Class 10 exams, while 94,011 candidates, including 53.67 per cent boys and 46.33 per cent girls appeared for Class 12 exams. The southern region has the best pass percentage (100) followed by the western region where 99.99 per cent of students cleared Class 10. For Class 12, southern and western regions have the best pass percentage (99.91 per cent) followed by northern regions (99.75 per cent).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cisce-results-announced-almost-all-students-clear-classes-10-12-exams-1012348.html
24-07-2021||National||India is proud of her daughter: Rahul on Mirabai Chanu's silver medal in Tokyo Olympics||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday lauded weightlifter Mirabai Chanu for winning the first medal for the country in Tokyo Olympics and said India is proud of her daughter. "Congratulations to Mirabai Chanu for our country's first medal on the very first day. India is proud of her daughter," he said on Twitter. Chanu ended India's 21-year wait for a weightlifting medal at the Olympics by clinching a silver medal in the 49 kg category to open the country's account in Tokyo on Saturday. It was also the first time that India managed to win a medal on the opening day of competitions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-is-proud-of-her-daughter-rahul-on-mirabai-chanus-silver-medal-in-tokyo-olympics-1012354.html
24-07-2021||National||Gyanvapi Mosque gives land for Kashi Vishwanath Temple Corridor||In a significant development amid the ongoing legal tussle between Kashi Vishwanath Temple and the UP Sunni Central Waqf Board which takes care of the Gyanvapi Mosque in Varanasi, the latter has given one thousand square feet of land for the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in an exchange deal. According to the officials, the Board was given land measuring one thousand square feet in the Bans Phatak area in the town, which was not very far from the corridor. Sources said that the land, which was given to the Kashi Vishwanath Temple, was very close to the Temple and was turning out to be an 'obstacle' in the way of the corridor, which was inaugurated by prime minister Narendra Modi in 2019 for beautification of the Kashi Vishwanath Temple. "The land was needed for setting up a control room for the Kashi Vishwanath Temple," said an official in Varanasi. The development assumes significance as it comes amid the ongoing legal tussle between the two parties over ownership of the Temple and Mosque. A court in Varanasi had, on a petition by Vijay Shankar Rastogi, ordered for an archaeological survey of the premises. The court had directed the ASI to form a five member team and study the entire premises. The petitioner had contended that the entire premises belonged to the Kashi Vishwanath and that the Gyanvapi Mosque was only a part of the Temple Rastogi had sought the court's direction for resolving the issue through survey by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) claiming that the Mosque had been constructed after demolishing the Temple. The Sunni Central Waqf Board, which is the opposite party in the matter, plans to challenge the decision in the higher court. The premises had been a bone of contention between the two communities for the past several decades but there was renewed clamor to "take back" the Kashi Vishwanath Temple premises by the saffron outfits after the favourable decision of the apex court in the Ram Temple case. Some saffron leaders had even threatened to demolish what they termed the 'blots' on the rich history of Hinduism and must be 'removed' without delay. A district court in Mathura was also hearing a civil suit claiming ownership of the entire land on which the Srikrishna Janmabhoomi was situated and seeking removal of the Shahi Idgah Mosque.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gyanvapi-mosque-gives-land-for-kashi-vishwanath-temple-corridor-1012358.html
24-07-2021||National||SC junks PIL to declare that NCLT cannot act as appellate authority||The Supreme Court has declined to entertain a PIL seeking to declare that the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) cannot act as an appellate authority to the decisions of the top court and find flaws so as to circumvent the "rule of law" laid down. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said the petition is clearly not maintainable and there is no reason to entertain the petition under Article 32. “It is not necessary for this court to return any finding on the question sought to be raised in the abstract without any live challenge to an order of the adjudicating authority. In any event, there are appellate remedies available under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) to an aggrieved party. The petition is dismissed,” the bench said. The apex court was hearing a PIL filed by one Ashok Surana seeking to declare that the NCLT cannot act as an appellate authority to the decisions of this court and find flaws so as to circumvent the "rule of law" laid down. The plea also sought directions that the "rule of law" laid down by the top court is binding on the authorities below without any conditions and cannot be sidelined or overruled. “Declare that the rule of constructive res judicata (matter decided)  applies to the decisions of this court and is a fundamental rule which sustains the rule of law in ensuring finality to litigation,” the plea said. Surana submitted that the NCLT has misinterpreted the judgments of this court and, hence, the invocation of the jurisdiction under Article 32 is sought to be justified. He also clarified that he is not a party to any of the proceedings before the adjudicating authority under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code 2016.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-junks-pil-to-declare-that-nclt-cannot-act-as-appellate-authority-1012360.html
24-07-2021||National||Indigo, Spicejet airlines staff among 7 persons arrested for gold smuggling||Seven persons, including four staffers of Indigo and Spicejet airlines, were arrested by the customs officials at Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport here for allegedly smuggling into the country gold worth Rs 72.46 lakh, an official statement said on Saturday. Three persons were intercepted by the customs officials after their arrival from Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, on Tuesday, it said. “Detailed personal and baggage search of the two passengers resulted in the recovery of two gold bar pieces and one gold biscuit collectively weighing 517.2 grams and valued at Rs 22.89 lakh,” the statement issued by the customs department said. One of the passengers has admitted to have handed over 160 grams of gold to Indigo airline staff, it said. “On the basis of interrogation, it has transpired that three members of a syndicate of Indigo airline and one member of Spicejet were also involved in smuggling of gold and they have also admitted their involvement in smuggling of 960 grams gold previously,” the statement said. The total value of the smuggled goods including previously smuggled gold comes to Rs 72.46 lakh, it added. All the seven accused persons -- three passengers along with four syndicate members -- have been placed under arrest, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indigo-spicejet-airlines-staff-among-7-persons-arrested-for-gold-smuggling-1012380.html
24-07-2021||National||Madhya Pradesh police rescue 16-year-old girl who was abducted, sold for marriage||A 16-year-old girl, who was abducted, sexually assaulted and 'sold' to a person for Rs 50,000 with whom she was also forcibly married, has been rescued from Madhya Pradesh's Bhind district and the accused arrested, police said on Saturday. The accused, Rajeev Garg, had befriended the girl by creating a fake ID on social media and emotionally blackmailed her to meet him in northwest Delhi from where she was abducted and taken to Bhind, they said. On May 29, the girl told her parents that she was going to one of her friends' house but when she did not return, her family starting searching her. When she was not found, a case was registered at Ranhola police station next day under section 363 (punishment for kidnapping), a senior police officer said. The call detail records of the victim were scrutinized. The police focused on a particular mobile number whose location was found to be in Uttar Pradesh's Etawah, and Gwalior and Bhind in MP, the officer said. "The location of that mobile number was in Delhi on the day the girl went missing. Its movement was followed and police apprehended Garg on Thursday from Bhind," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime) Monika Bhardwaj said. Based on his disclosure, the victim was rescued from a house near Bhind's bus stand, the police said. Enquiry revealed that the accused had created an ID on social media in the name of Mahi Garg, and came in contact with the victim there, the DCP said. Both of them started interacting. However, one day, when the girl came to know that her virtual friend is a male, she stopped talking to him and also blocked his mobile number when he tried to contact her, police said. Garg then called her from a different mobile number and emotionally blackmailed her to continue their friendship and unblock his phone number, they said, adding the accused also convinced her to meet him at Madhuban Chowk in northwest Delhi. On May 29, the girl went to Madhuban Chowk and met Garg who abducted her and took her to Bhind, police said. The victim was physically and sexually assaulted by Garg. She told the police that Garg had sold her to a man named Ram Mohan, also a resident of Bhind, for Rs 50,000 and she was forced to marry him, the police said. Garg was in Gwalior Jail for seven months in a dowry case. Mohan was Garg's tenant and is presently at large. The victim and Garg were brought to Delhi, police added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-police-rescue-16-year-old-girl-who-was-abducted-sold-for-marriage-1012388.html
24-07-2021||National||Opposition stalling Parliament over non-issue: Joshi on Pegasus row||Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said that opposition parties are stalling the functioning of Parliament over the Pegasus row, which he termed a non-issue. Speaking to media persons on Saturday, he said that Israeli cybersecurity firm NSO Group has distanced themselves from the ‘alleged leaked list’ and the government has made it clear that snooping is not such an easy task and there are set rules for tapping somebody’s phone. In spite of this, the opposition parties are not allowing Parliament to function, as they do not have any other issues to rake. “Tell us one reason as to why an inquiry into the baseless snooping charges should be held,” he said. Joshi asked Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to read the entire articles on Pegasus row and understand that the mere presence of a name in a list does not amount to ‘spying’. “The Wire, which broke these stories itself has made it clear on the issue; the opposition and Rahul Gandhi has to read the articles completely,” he said and added that if Rahul Gandhi still feels that his phone is ‘tapped’, he should file a police complaint and submit his phone for forensic testing. Condemning the behaviour of opposition leaders, Joshi reiterated that government is willing to discuss any issue, including Pegasus, in the Parliament. However, for that, the opposition leaders should allow the House to function. When Sushma Swaraj and Arun Jaitley were ‘stalling’ the parliament, the then opposition leaders had an issue of coal scam, 2G, Commonwealth Games and others. However, today as the opposition has no issues against the Modi government they are racking up a non-issue and stalling the house. “This is not a way for the opposition to behave,” he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-stalling-parliament-over-non-issue-joshi-on-pegasus-row-1012444.html
24-07-2021||National||Two Indian Covid-19 vaccines for children could be available soon||At least two homegrown Covid-19 vaccines for children could soon be available for the nationwide immunisation drive which so far is targeted at the adult population. At least 11% of the total three crore Covid-19 cases reported across the country was among the age-group below 20 years. Bharat Biotech too is carrying out Phase II/III trials of of the whole-virion inactivated SARS-Cov-2 vaccine on children in the age group of 2-18 years. “The outcome of these trials will depend on data emerging from the trial for the purpose of its approval and availability in the country,” Union Minister of State for Health Bharti Pawar told the Lok Sabha. With 10-12% of India’s population in the 12-18 years age group, at least 13-14 crore adolescents would require the Covid-19 vaccine in the country. Vaccination for children would be a necessity as India plans to reopen schools, which now have been shut for nearly 15 months since the Covid-19 pandemic broke out last year. While several states plan to re-open colleges first, Indian Council for Medical Research Director General Balram Bhargava said it would be wise to start primary schools first as kids were not too susceptible to the coronavirus. On Friday, the European drugs regulator approved the use of Moderna's coronavirus vaccine for children aged 12 to 17. In May, the United States had authorised the Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine for children aged 12 to 15 years old. Indian officials were in talks with both Moderna and Pfizer for supply of vaccines, but negotiations were taking longer than expected as the order books of both the pharma majors were full for most part of this year. Earlier, a study published in The Lancet said that “living with 11-17 year olds increases the risk of infection by 18-30%.” Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-indian-covid-19-vaccines-for-children-could-be-available-soon-1012450.html
24-07-2021||National||India asks its citizens in Afghanistan to exercise caution in view of spike in violence||India on Saturday asked its citizens in Afghanistan to exercise utmost vigilance and caution in view of the "dangerous" security situation in several of its provinces, and warned that Indians additionally faced a "serious threat of kidnapping". In a fresh advisory, the Indian embassy said the terror groups operating in Afghanistan have escalated violent activities including the targeting of civilians and asked the Indians not to travel outside the main cities. It said the new advisory reiterates the earlier one issued on June 29 which remained valid for all. The embassy also advised the Indian media personnel travelling to Afghanistan to establish contacts with it for a better assessment of the risks involved, and cited "recent tragic events", in a reference to the killing of Indian photojournalist Danish Siddiqui in Kandahar on July 16. "Security situation in Afghanistan remains dangerous in several provinces. Terror groups operating in Afghanistan have escalated violent activities including the targeting of civilians. Indian nationals are not exceptions, and they additionally face a serious threat of kidnapping," it said. "This advisory reiterates advice of June 29 which remains valid for all," it added. The fresh advisory came amid a spike in terror attacks in Afghanistan following the withdrawal of the majority of American troops from the country. The US plans to complete the drawdown by August 31, ending nearly two-decade of its military presence in the country. In the advisory, the embassy asked all Indians visiting, staying and working in Afghanistan to exercise "utmost vigilance and caution" with regard to their security and specifically called for restricting all types of non-essential travel. "All Indian nationals visiting, staying and working in Afghanistan are advised to exercise utmost vigilance and caution with regard to security at the workplace, place of residence and also during movement to their places of work," it said. The embassy also asked Indians to avoid visiting crowded markets, shopping complexes, mandis, restaurants and other public places. "Movements, especially, during peak commuting hours should also be avoided. While travelling on roads, maintain distance from possible targets like military convoys, vehicles of government ministries/offices, high ranking officials, law enforcement agencies," it said. The embassy said all essential movements should be kept as discrete as possible, adding travelling outside the main cities should be strictly avoided. "All Indian nationals arriving in Afghanistan are advised to register with the embassy/consulates on the website: https://eoi.gov.in/kabul/ or by email to paw.kabul@mea.gov.in. Those already present in Afghanistan, but have not registered, are requested to do so," it said. The embassy also advised the Indian companies operating in Afghanistan to once again make special security arrangements in respect of their Indian employees deployed at project sites. "Special attention is drawn to members of the Indian media travelling to Afghanistan to cover events through ground reports," it said. "As recent tragic events showed, it is essential that all Indian press-persons covering events on the ground establish contact with the Public Affairs and Security Wing of this embassy for a personalised briefing," it added. The embassy further said: "This will not only help media persons make a better assessment of the risks involved but also make it easier for the embassy to render speedy assistance if needed." As the situation deteriorated in Afghanistan in the last few weeks, India has been in touch with leading international players as well as the Afghan government on the overall developments in the country. External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi on Thursday said that India supports the government and the people of Afghanistan in realising their aspirations for a peaceful, democratic and prosperous future that protects the interest of all sections. India has been a major stakeholder in the peace and stability of Afghanistan. It has already invested nearly $3 billion in aid and reconstruction activities in the country. India has been supporting a national peace and reconciliation process which is Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-asks-its-citizens-in-afghanistan-to-exercise-caution-in-view-of-spike-in-violence-1012453.html
24-07-2021||National||Pulse oximeters, nebulisers now cheaper as govt caps trade margins||Pulse oximeters, blood pressure monitoring machines, nebulisers, digital thermometers and glucometers have become cheaper as the government capped trade margins on these critical medical devices. The Chemicals and Fertilsers Minister had noted that the data collected from the manufacturers /marketers/importers pointed out that existing trade margins on the five medical devices ranged up to 709% from price to distributor to MRP level. The maximum downward revision has been reported by an imported brand of pulse oximeter, showing reduction of Rs 2,95,375 per unit, it added. The downward revision of MRP has been reported by imported and domestic brands across all the categories, the Chemicals and Fertilisers Ministry said. Medical devices sold by around 620 brands have witnessed reduction in prices so far. These devices are used extensively in the treatment and prevention of Covid-19. On July 13, the National Pharmaceuticals Pricing Authority (NPPA) had invoked extraordinary powers under the Paragraph 19 of DPCO, 2013, to put a cap on trade margin of five medical devices -- oximeter, glucometer, BP monitor, nebuliser and digital thermometer. The margin was capped up to 70% on Price to Distributor (PTD) level. “Pursuant there to, a total of 684 products/brands of these medical devices have been reported as on July 23, 2021 and 620 products/brands (91%) have reported downward revision of MRP,” the ministry said in a statement. The revised MRP effective from July 20, 2021 on all the brands and specifications has been shared with the state drug controllers for strict monitoring and enforcement, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pulse-oximeters-nebulisers-now-cheaper-as-govt-caps-trade-margins-1012468.html
24-07-2021||National||Centre invites suggestions for Unified Health Interface under digital health mission||The government has invited suggestions as it seeks to roll out the Unified Health Interface as part of the National Digital Health Mission (NDHM). The National Health Authority (NHA), which has been mandated to design and roll out NDHM in the country, said that comments from the public have been invited to ensure that UHI is designed and developed in a collaborative and consultative manner. The consultation paper provides an overview of the proposed design, scope and role of Unified Health Interface. Through UHI, the NDHM aims to transform the way digital health services are rendered in India. Currently, patients and healthcare providers need to be on the same application to avail and provide digital health services, the NHA said. “It is envisioned that the open network created by UHI will serve as the digital infrastructure for patients and healthcare providers to engage in the discovery, booking, payment and fulfilment of a variety of digital health services across applications,” it said. The services include, but are not limited to, teleconsultation and the discovery of pharmacies and hospitals. Over time, the services enabled by the platform will evolve with the market ecosystem. UHI is designed to be similar to the UPI (Unified Payments Interface) ecosystem which has emerged for digital payments. Since the launch of the pilot of NDHM in August 2020 in six Union Territories, multiple rounds of consultations with different groups of stakeholders have been held for the various building blocks to discuss the design and adoption. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-invites-suggestions-for-unified-health-interface-under-digital-health-mission-1012470.html
24-07-2021||National||UAPA, sedition law misused to stifle dissent, needed to be repealed, say former SC judges||Referring to the death of 84-year-old Father Stan Swamy, booked under UAPA, in jail, one of the judges Aftab Alam said, "I submit, UAPA has failed us on both counts: National security and Constitutional Freedoms."   Justice Alam, and fellow former judges Deepak Gupta, Madan B Lokur, and Gopal Gowda spoke at a public discussion on a topic "Democracy, dissent and draconian law - should UAPA and sedition law should have a place in the statute books?" While Justice Alam said the process of trial becomes a punishment for many in such cases, Justice Lokur was of the view that there should be a system of compensation for those who are wrongfully implicated and later acquitted. Echoing the same view, Justice Gupta expressed that these draconian laws have no place in a democracy. Notably, Justice Gowda was of the opinion that the legislations have now become a weapon against dissent and that they need to be abrogated. "One of the criticisms of the UAPA is that it has a very low rate of conviction but a high rate of pendency. It is the process that becomes the punishment," said Justice Alam. Quoting the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data, he said that 2,361 UAPA cases were pending in trial in 2019 out of which 113 were disposed of with conviction in 33 cases, acquittal in 64, and discharge in 16 which brings the rate of conviction to 29.2 per cent. He said that the UAPA has failed the country on two counts - national security and constitutional freedom and must be repealed. Concurring with Justice Alam, Justice Gupta elaborated on the misuse of the sedition law and UAPA and said that it has been made harsher and harsher over time and should be shown the door as soon as possible. "In a democracy, dissent is essential and draconian laws have no place. In the last few years, laws have been misused to stifle dissent and quell the voices which ask questions from the government," he said. Alluding to the death of UAPA accused Stan Swamy and arrest of a man in Manipur under the National Security Act (NSA) for saying that cow dung is not a cure for Covid-19, he asked if "India has become a police state". Meanwhile, even though Justice Lokur agreed that there is a need to repeal the draconian laws, he said that not only will they "never go anywhere, but National Security Act (NSA) will also be made to be very active to quell dissent". He suggested that the only remedy is accountability and compensation for those who are acquitted after long periods of incarceration. Further, Justice Gowda noted that massive reforms are necessary in special security legislations as they "reek of an authoritarian impulse which is dangerous in a constitutional democracy". "Legal reforms are imperative. Provisions in these special laws that accord impunity to State excesses need to be repealed. Stringent guidelines need to be laid down for the exercise of these powers," he said. Senior advocate Prashant Bhushan, who also spoke at the webinar, said that UAPA and sedition are being used to stifle dissent and crush the freedom of speech and that the time has come to see whether they are in tune with the Constitution. The discussion was organised by the Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Reforms (CJAR) and Human Rights Defenders Alert (HRDA). Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uapa-sedition-law-misused-to-stifle-dissent-needed-to-be-repealed-say-former-sc-judges-1012476.html
24-07-2021||National||India resumes helping others with Covid-19 aid to counter China; sends oxygen to Bangladesh, Indonesia||An “Oxygen Express” train with 200 MT liquid medical oxygen from India will cross over to Bangladesh on Sunday. An Indian Navy ship, INS Airavat, reached Indonesia, carrying 300 oxygen concentrators and 100 MT of liquid medical oxygen. Both Bangladesh and Indonesia are at present witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases, triggering fear of looming oxygen crises, like the one experienced in many cities in India during the brutal second wave of the pandemic. Though New Delhi is unlikely to lift restrictions on sending out Made-in-India Covid-19 vaccines to the foreign nations immediately, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government apparently decided to gradually restart helping the countries in the South and South East Asian region with oxygen concentrators and liquid oxygen. The Indian Army last month gifted Nepali Army medical aid worth over Rs 18.02 crore, including ventilators, ambulances, Intensive Care Unit beds, Personal Protective Equipment sets and Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) test kits to detect SARS-CoV-2 infection. Since the Covid-19 pandemic swept the world by March 2020, India provided medicines and medical equipment to over 150 countries in its neighbourhood and beyond, including Grants-in-Aid valued at around Rs 80 crore to 82 countries. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government also sent out 107.15 lakh doses of the Made-in-India Covid-19 vaccines to foreign nations as grant till April 16, in addition to the 357.92 lakh doses exported commercially and 198.628 lakh doses as contribution to the COVAX initiative of the World Health Organization, Gavi – The Vaccine Alliance and others to ensure equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines around the world. New Delhi, however, had to pause sending out drugs, medical equipment and vaccines to foreign countries after the second Covid-19 wave hit India. India itself received medical aid, including 17,018 ventilators, 46 oxygen plants, 885 metric tonnes of liquid medical oxygen, 23,116 oxygen concentrators and 25,124 oxygen cylinders, from governments and private sector entities in over 40 countries around the world over the past few weeks. Besides, it also received 1330105 doses of Faviparavir, 11,06,940 doses of Remdisivir and 51,024 doses of Tocilizumab drugs as foreign medical aid, in addition to 19,88,985 rapid diagnostic kits, 98,32,274 masks. China, which has been keen to spread its tentacles in South Asia and South East Asia, stepped in to take advantage of the situation and augmented supply of medical aid and vaccines to Nepal, Sri Lanka and other nations in India’s neighbourhood as well as the Indian Ocean region. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-resumes-helping-others-with-covid-19-aid-to-counter-china-sends-oxygen-to-bangladesh-indonesia-1012490.html
24-07-2021||National||'Best assurance' from UK on Vijay Mallya extradition, says Harsh Vardhan Shringla||Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said here on Saturday that India has made its best case on Vijay Mallya being wanted for economic offences and the Indian government has the “best assurance” from the UK authorities of his extradition to face charges of fraud and money laundering related to unpaid loans to his now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines. During his two-day visit to the UK, Shringla held meetings with Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) officials to review the Roadmap 2030 strategy for an enhanced UK-India partnership. Consular matters such as the extradition of economic offenders wanted in India to face charges were also raised during the wide-ranging discussions. “We have been given to understand that there is a process in place and that the British side is working on his (Mallya) extradition based on that process,” Shringla told reporters, in response to a question over the delay in Mallya’s extradition – which is believed to be undergoing a "confidential" asylum application process after all legal appeals were exhausted last year. “We have no reason to doubt that assurance that this man wanted for economic offences in India, owes a lot of money in India has to be returned to the country. We have made our best case and they have given their best assurance,” said the Foreign Secretary. Indian High Commissioner to the UK Gaitri Issar Kumar said that the Indian mission in London has been keeping the pressure on over the issue. “In the High Commission, the assessment is that the extradition has been decided, the only thing is this remaining legal process which they are duty bound to do because it is a judicial process,” she said. Meanwhile, Mallya’s bankruptcy case will return to the High Court in London on Monday, where a consortium of Indian banks led by the State Bank of India (SBI) are pursuing a bankruptcy order against the 65-year-old businessman to recoup unpaid loans. Before he leaves for New Delhi on Saturday evening, the Foreign Secretary also confirmed that the first UK-India Consular Dialogue is scheduled for September, when a whole range of consular issues including easier student visa processes are to be discussed. “The first Consular Dialogue between the UK and India will take place in September. There are a number of consular issues, which is bound to be when there is so much people to people connect,” said Shringla. “I reminded them about a quick decision on the extradition of economic offenders such as Vijay Mallya and Nirav Modi. I also pointed out that criminals like Jayesh Patel were in custody and he needs to be deported to India as soon as possible. He is here on fake identity documents, there is need for him to face justice back in India,” he said. While Nirav Modi is seeking permission to appeal against his extradition in the High Court in London, Jayesh Patel – wanted in India for murder and around 50 criminal offences – is fighting his extradition at Westminster Magistrates’ Court in London since his arrest earlier this year. Among a range of consular and migration issues that came up during the Foreign Secretary’s UK visit, he also received an update on the Migration and Mobility Partnership (MMP), which had been signed between UK Home Secretary Priti Patel and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar in May. “It was an important landmark decision by the two sides. The Joint Working Group that will get into the nitty-gritty and operational details of this partnership and how to operationalise it, will be meeting in August,” he said, adding that the MMP would lead greater two-way exchange of students and professionals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/best-assurance-from-uk-on-vijay-mallya-extradition-says-harsh-vardhan-shringla-1012495.html
24-07-2021||National||37.8% 10-year-olds in India have Facebook accounts, 24.3% have Instagram accounts: NCPCR Study||About 37.8 per cent children aged 10 years have Facebook accounts, while 24.3 per cent in the same age group are on Instagram, which is seemingly in contravention to the guidelines laid down by various social networking platforms, the apex child rights body NCPCR found in a new study. The age barrier for creating an account on Facebook and Instagram happens to be 13 years. In the study by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) on the ‘Effects (Physical, Behavioural and Psycho-social) of using Mobile Phones and other Devices with Internet Accessibility by Children’, it was found that a large proportion of 10-year-olds have social media accounts. According to the study, “37.8 per cent of 10-year-olds and 24.3 per cent of the same age group have Facebook and Instagram accounts, respectively”. This is seemingly in contravention to the guidelines laid down by various social networking platforms, it noted. "Social media platforms contain and disperse such a variety of content, a lot of which is neither appropriate nor conducive for children. They can be anything from violent or vulgar content to instances of online abuse and bullying of children. Hence, in this regard, proper oversight and stricter enforcement is required," it said. Among the children who have accounts on the major social networking apps/sites, Facebook (used by 36.8 per cent) and Instagram (used by 45.50 per cent) are the most popular. For the study, responses from a total of 5,811 participants, consisting of 3,491 school going children, 1,534 parents and 786 teachers from 60 schools, across six states in the country, were collected. The data also showed that the most prominent means to access smartphones and the internet for the children is through their parents' mobile phones – 62.6 per cent of respondents. "It is also interesting to note that 30.2 per cent of the children of age groups (8 to 18 years) possess their own smartphones and use them for all purposes," the study said. The major activity for which children use smartphones/internet devices is “online learning and classes”, 94.8 per cent of the respondents were of this opinion, the study found. The other major purposes of use include messaging applications (40 per cent), referring study materials (31 per cent), music (31.30 per cent) and games (20.80 per cent). When asked about the features that children like to enjoy on smartphones/internet devices, 52.9 per cent answered as chatting. Only 10.1 per cent of children like to use smartphones for online learning and education. According to the data collected, 78.90 per cent of children said that they spend between 0-2 hours on their smartphones for using the internet, playing games, listening to music, chatting, among others, which is quite less compared to popular perception. While 15.80 per cent of the children spend 2-4 hours on the smartphones, 5.30 per cent spend more than 4 hours on the same. The study found that about 76.20 per cent children use smartphones before going to sleep. According to the available literature, the use of smartphones/smart devices which have vibrant screens and motion pictures at a minimum of 36 frames per second, before going to sleep, has many negative and detrimental effects on the state of mind and health of humans, especially children. It can lead to adverse impact on them like sleep disorders, sleeplessness, anxiety, tiredness, among others, the study flagged. The study also revealed that 23.80 per cent of children use smartphones while they are in bed, before going to sleep, which is quite a substantial proportion and a cause for concern. The data also indicated that use of a smartphone in bed increases with the increase in age of children. "About 13 per cent children 'always' use smartphones while studying, 23.30 per cent 'frequently' use them, 30.10 per cent 'seldom' use them and only 32.7 per cent of children 'never check their smartphones while studying'. "Approximately, 37.15 per cent of children, always or frequently, experience reduced levels of concentration due to smartphone use," the study said. The NCPCR study also found that a majority of children believe that using the internet has 'very much’ or 'partially' increased their creativity, which is 31.5 per cent and 40.5 per cent, respectively. While 29.7 per cent of the children feel that the Covid-19 pandemic has ‘very much' had a negative impact, 43.7 per cent think it has had 'partial' negative impact on their education. "Hence, it could be concluded that the education of the majority of school children was negatively impacted due to the pandemic and its subsequent consequences," the study said. Most of the teachers (54.1 per cent) who participated in the study believed the use of smartphones in the classroom is “immensely or somewhat distracting”. "Around 72.70 per cent of teachers had no prior experience of using smartphones/internet devices. Therefore, there is a need to equip the teachers with the digital knowhow and give them access to sufficient educational resources and teaching aids," the study said. The biggest challenge that teachers face in allowing the use of smartphones is that they find it “hard to monitor" what students are doing – 36.1 per cent were of this opinion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/378-10-year-olds-in-india-have-facebook-accounts-243-have-instagram-accounts-ncpcr-study-1012500.html
24-07-2021||National Politics||TMC nominates Jawhar Sircar for Rajya Sabha by-election||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Saturday nominated former Prasar Bharati CEO Jawhar Sircar as its candidate for the Rajya Sabha by-election seat in West Bengal. The Election Commission has announced that the by-election will be held on July 16. The TMC stated in a tweet that Sircar’s “invaluable contribution” to public service will help the party serve the country better. “We are delighted to nominate Mr.@jawharsircarin the Upper House of the Parliament. Mr. Sircar spent nearly 42 years in public service & was also the former CEO of Prasar Bharati. His invaluable contribution to public service shall help us serve our country even better!,” tweeted the TMC. Reacting to the development, Sircar said that he will highlight in Rajya Sabha how the Union Government was being run and work for the development of people. “I was a bureaucrat and not a politician. I will raise the issues concerning the people in Rajya Sabha and work for the development of the people,” said Sircar. He also said that it was Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee who informed him that the TMC wants to nominate him as its Rajya Sabha candidate and sought his consent. “I agreed to the proposal. The official announcement by the TMC was made after that,” said Sircar. Sircar was born in 1952 in Kolkata and studied in the St. Xavier's School, Presidency College (now Presidency University) and the Calcutta University. The by-poll for the Rajya Sabha seat was necessitated with the resignation of former TMC MP Dinesh Trivedi on February 12. Trivedi eventually left the TMC and joined the BJP ahead of the Assembly elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-nominates-jawhar-sircar-for-rajya-sabha-by-election-1012337.html
24-07-2021||National Politics||Uttar Pradesh thwarts plans by NDA ally to install 'Bandit Queen' Phoolan Devi's statues||Plans to install the statues of Phoolan Devi, popularly known as the 'Bandit Queen', by the Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP), an NDA ally in Bihar, in different parts of Uttar Pradesh was foiled by the police. The plan was to woo the 'Nishad' (Boatmen, Fishermen) community ahead of the assembly polls in the state, which is scheduled to be held early next year. The police seized the statues, which were brought from Bihar by VIP leaders, in Prayagraj, Mirzapur, Bhadohi, Banda and some other districts, according to sources. VIP leader Ramesh Chand Kewat said that the statues had been kept at different police stations and that the authorities had not returned them to the party despite repeated requests. The officials said that permission from the state government was not obtained to install the statues. ''Besides, it would have been in violation of the Covid protocol as people in large numbers would have assembled at the programs,'' said a senior government official here on Saturday. Mukesh Sahni, who calls himself 'son of mallah' (son of boatman) has declared to contest the assembly polls in UP indicating that he intends to electorally 'encash' Phoolan's popularity in the 'Nishad' community in the state. Interestingly UP-based Nishad Party was an ally of the BJP in the state and had contested the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in alliance with the BJP and its president Sanjay Nishad's son Praveen Nishad was a saffron party MP from Sant Kabir Nagar. Mukesh Sahni's decision to jump in the electoral fray in UP could queer the pitch for Nishad Party with whom the BJP was currently holding talks for an alliance. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/uttar-pradesh-thwarts-plans-by-nda-ally-to-install-bandit-queen-phoolan-devis-statues-1012342.html
24-07-2021||National Politics||Bhupen Bora appointed as Assam Congress chief||Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Saturday made key organisational changes in Assam after Punjab and Uttarkahand, naming Bhupen Bora as PCC chief and appointing three Working Presidents on the pattern followed in recent rejig in other states. Bhupen Bora, stated close to Rahul Gandhi has been appointed Assam Congress chief two months after Ripun Bora had resigned from the post taking responsibility for the party's debacle in the recent Assembly polls. Bhupen Bora was opposed to alliance with Badaruddin Ajmal's AIUDF and was one among the four leaders, who had written to Sonia Gandhi last year against this alliance. Congress lost the election massively and the alliance was stated one of the reasons for it later. The three Working Presidents are Rana Goswami, Kamalakhya Dey Purkyastha and Jakir Hussain Sikdar. Both Purkayastha and Sikdar are MLAs. Sikdar and Purkyastha are from the Bengali community, which was learnt to have been miffed with Congress in Assam because of their opposition to CAA. Rana Goswami hailing upper Assam belongs to the Brahmin community and is believed to be close to Priyanka Gandhi. After handing the new responsibilities, the party has relieved Ripun Bora and Rana Goswami of their current posts of AICC secretaries and thanked the outgoing state Ripun Bora for his contributions. In two more appointments, Loken Singh was appointed interim president of the Manipur Pradesh Congress Committee with immediate effect till a full-time chief was named while the party also appointed Arya Kumar Jnanendra as chief organiser for the Odisha Pradesh Congress Seva Dal. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bhupen-bora-appointed-as-assam-congress-chief-1012404.html
24-07-2021||National Politics||Cabinet reshuffle in Rajasthan likely next week as Congress shifts focus from Punjab||With Punjab done and dusted, Congress high command has shifted focus on Rajasthan where the power tussle between Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and former state unit chief Sachin Pilot festering for more than three years is yet to be resolved. A party source said that the Cabinet expansion and political appointments in the state is likely to take place next week. Ahead of what is being considered the last leg of efforts, AICC general secretary for organisation, K C Venugopal, and AICC general secretary in-charge for Rajasthan, Ajay Maken, will be visiting Jaipur tonight where they will try to take all senior leaders on board. A late-night meeting is expected at the CM's residence. "The workers who have given so much to the party should get a political reward in proportion to their efforts. It is not about any post or position. We want to expand the Congress family...new people should be associated," he added. After a bitter war of words that included charges of phone tapping by leaders of the Pilot camp on Gehlot, the party had grounded Pilot removing him from both the posts of Deputy Chief Minister and Rajasthan PCC chief in July last year. It was a big jolt to Pilot, who was earlier given a big credit for bringing the party to power in 2018 by hitting every nook and corner of Rajasthan after being appointed Rajasthan Congress chief in 2014. After frequent tussles, Pilot with his 18 MLAs had rebelled against the Chief Minister. One probable long-term solution could be the reinstatement of Pilot as Deputy Chief Minister and PCC chief while Gehlot remains chief minister for the present term, which ends in 2023. While Pilot is in for a larger role in the state in future, the party might bring him in a senior position in AICC for some time, a leader said. Discussions have been held from leaders of the two camps to fill up the nine vacancies in the state cabinet to adjust all sections. A few leaders from the Pilot camp have already been adjusted in the Rajasthan PCC. While the party will also look forward to adjusting independent legislators including those from the BSP, who joined Congress, the old-timers who have won four to five times could land with key portfolios. Rajasthan, which at present, has 21 members in the council of ministers including the chief minister can have a maximum of 30 ministers. Two rounds of talks between Gehlot and Maken have already happened last month. Earlier, the reshuffle was delayed as Gehlot was not available due to a myriad of reasons including one advanced by the Gehlot camp that doctors had advised the Chief Minister to avoid one-on-one meetings. On the issue of filling up the ministerial vacancies, Rajasthan Congress leader Bhanwar Lal Sharma, had last month said cryptically "There is a proverb - Ek Anar, Sau Bimar' (the availability is one while the aspirants are in hundred) But in this case, there are 25 'bimar'. How many would get it? Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cabinet-reshuffle-in-rajasthan-likely-next-week-as-congress-shifts-focus-from-punjab-1012432.html
24-07-2021||North and Central||Soldier killed in landmine explosion along LoC in J&K||A soldier was killed while another suffered injuries after accidentally stepping over a land mine during a patrol near the Line of Control (LoC) in Krishna Ghati (KG) sector of Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district on Saturday.  An official said the explosion took place at a forward location of LoC in KG sector resulting in injuries to two army soldiers.  While one of the injured soldiers succumbed to his injuries, the other is undergoing treatment at an army hospital, he said.  The deceased soldier was identified as Krishna Vaidya, a native of Hamirpur in Himachal Pradesh. During monsoon season, anti-personnel mines drift away from their place and pose a threat to soldiers on the LoC, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/soldier-killed-in-landmine-explosion-along-loc-in-jk-1012295.html
24-07-2021||North and Central||Two militants killed in ongoing gunfight in Kashmir’s Bandipora||Two unidentified militants were killed while three Army soldiers got injured in an ongoing gunfight between ultras and security forces in the Sumblar area of north Kashmir's Bandipora district on Saturday. The gunfight erupted after a joint team of army, Jammu and Kashmir police and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) launched a cordon-and-search operation in Shokbaba forest area of Sumblar, 70 kms from here, following inputs about the presence of militants in the area, sources said. Police said the search operation turned into an encounter after the militants opened fire on security forces, who retaliated. In the ensuing firefight, two unidentified militants were killed. Reports said three soldiers, who sustained bullet injuries in the gunfight, were shifted to a hospital. The status of their condition was not immediately known.    Sources said that the exact number of militants hiding in the forest area is not known but the exchange of fire is going on from both sides. “It seems to be a newly infiltrated group of militants and the operation may take longer as it is going on in a forest area,” they said. Twenty-six militants, mostly belonging to the LeT, have been killed by the security forces in Kashmir in the first 24 days of this month. Due to the Covid-19 lockdown, only 16 ultras were killed in Kashmir in May and June. Pertinently, 84 militants and 18 security forces, and J&K police personnel have been killed in Kashmir since the beginning of this year. Out of 84 militants killed this year, 43 belonged to the LeT followed by Hizbul Mujahideen, Al-Badr, Jash-e-Mohammad and Ansar Ghazwat-ul-Hind. Over 200 militants were killed in Kashmir in 2020 while the number of 157 in 2019. In 2018, the number of militants killed stood at 257, which was the highest in a decade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-militants-killed-in-ongoing-gunfight-in-kashmir-s-bandipora-1012302.html
24-07-2021||North and Central||Fake gun licence racket: CBI raids multiple locations in Jammu and Kashmir, Delhi||The sleuths of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Saturday carried fresh raids across Jammu and Kashmir and Delhi, including the residence of senior IAS officer Shahid Choudhary in Srinagar, in an alleged gun-licence scam case. An official said that simultaneous raids were carried out at 40 locations in Srinagar, Anantnag, Baramulla, Jammu, Udhampur, Rajouri (J&K), and Delhi during which official and residential premises of current and former public servants, including an IAS officer and around 20 gun houses were searched. Choudhury, who is currently Secretary Tribal Affairs and CEO Mission Youth, J&K, served as the Deputy Commissioner of Kathua, Reasi, Rajouri, and Udhampur districts, during which he allegedly issued thousands of licences under fake names. In December 2019, the CBI had conducted similar raids at 17 locations in Srinagar, Jammu, and three other cities including Gurgaon (Haryana), Mohali (Punjab), and Noida (Uttar Pradesh) covering houses and offices of eight former district magistrates/deputy commissioners in connection with the alleged scam. In March 2020, the CBI had arrested two former district magistrates of Kupwara- Rajiv Ranjan, an IAS officer, and Itrit Hussain Rafiqui - in connection with the issuance of a large number of arms licences based on forged documents. The Jammu and Kashmir government had in 2018 recommended a CBI probe into the gun licence racket after names of public officials, especially some IAS officers, surfaced during investigations carried out by Rajasthan police's Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS). The unholy nexus between bureaucrats-middlemen-arms dealers was unraveled by the Rajasthan police's ATS in 2017. The CBI is investigating alleged irregularities in the grant of over two lakh arms licenses in different districts of Jammu and Kashmir. These licences were just not issued to residents of J&K but also issued to people living in Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, and other states by showing them as Kashmiris. Pertinently, despite the arrest of several high-profile officials by the CBI in a fake gun licences scam, J&K still tops the list of states/UTs where arms licences with all India permission were issued from 2018 to 2020. Official data reveals that of the 22,805 fresh arms licences issued across the country between 2018 and September 15 last year, 17,905 were issued in J&K, which accounts for 78.51% of the licences. In the same period a total of 94,400 arms licences with all India permission across the country, out of which, 14,172 were done in J&K. A senior police officer said some big players were making a fortune by selling fake arms licences and supplying sophisticated weapons to businessmen, builders, and even to certain journalists based outside J&K which needs to be stopped at once.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fake-gun-licence-racket-cbi-raids-multiple-locations-in-jammu-and-kashmir-delhi-1012321.html
24-07-2021||North and Central||Five killed, 18 injured in lightning strikes in Madhya Pradesh's Panna district||Five persons were killed and 18 others injured in four incidents of lightning strikes in Madhya Pradesh's Panna district, the district officials said on Saturday. According to district authorities, the incidents took place at Ureha, Pipariya Daun, Choumukha and Simrakhurd villages of Panna district on Friday. While Ureha, Pipariya Daun and Choumukha villages reported one casualty each, two women were killed in the lightning strike at Simrakhurd, it was stated. A 70-year-old man was struck by lightning when he ventured into a forest for grazing cattle in Simrakhurd, while another person died in Pipariya Daun and a 65-year-old man was killed in Choumukha, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Rachna Sharma said. Seven persons were injured in the lightning strikes in these three villages, she said. Apart from this, two women in their 20s were struck by lightning when they were working in a field in Ureha village, collector Sanjay Kumar Mishra said, adding that 11 others, who were injured the incident, are undergoing treatment at Panna district hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/five-killed-18-injured-in-lightning-strikes-in-madhya-pradeshs-panna-district-1012325.html
24-07-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh govt issues SOP for reopening of schools for Classes 11, 12 from July 26||The Madhya Pradesh government has issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) for reopening of schools for Classes 11 and 12 with 50 per cent attendance starting July 26, an official said on Saturday. As per the SOP released on Friday, physical classes for students of Classes 9 and 10 standard classes will resume once a week from August 5, the official said. Classes will be held twice a week for students of Classes 11 and 12, and virtual sessions will continue simultaneously, he said. Class 11 students will attend school on Tuesdays and Fridays, while Class 12 students will convene at schools on Mondays and Thursdays, he said. Students of Classes 9 will attend school on Saturdays and for those in Class 10, sessions will be held on Wednesdays, the official added. Meanwhile, chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains has directed district collectors and chief medical and health officers to inoculate teachers and non-teaching staff of schools and colleges that come under the Department of Higher Education and School Education from July 26 to 31, the official said. For this, a vaccination campaign will be organised from 9 am to 5 pm on an appointed date by selecting colleges with facilities in the district headquarters and development blocks, he added. It will be ensured that the first and second dose of jabs against Covid-19 are administered to teachers and employees of all government and non-government colleges and schools, including those of the Tribal Welfare Department, the official said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-govt-issues-sop-for-reopening-of-schools-for-classes-11-12-from-july-26-1012333.html
24-07-2021||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir administers 71 lakh Covid vaccine doses||Successfully overcoming the issue of Covid-19 vaccine hesitancy among masses, Jammu and Kashmir has vaccinated 71 lakh people in a little over six months. Official data reveals that over 57 lakh Covid jabs have been administered in the age group of 45 years and above, including healthcare and frontline workers, while over 14 lakh doses have been administered in the age group of 18-44 years. The vaccination drive among the 45+ group started on January 16 while the jabs for below 45 age group commenced from June 1. Among 20 districts in the union territory (UT), 12 have achieved the target of 100 per cent vaccination in the 45+ group. Notably, the UT has missed two deadlines to vaccinate all above 45 years of age. After the second wave of Covid-19 hit the UT in April and May this year, people flocked to vaccination centres in large numbers to get their jabs. According to the 2011 census, J&K’s population is 12.5 million. When the vaccination drive started in Kashmir, rumours and hesitancy among the people were the main obstacles. From roping in influencers, prominent doctors and religious leaders, authorities used all possible ways to remove vaccine hesitancy. Instead of waiting for people to vaccine centres, healthcare workers started a door-to-door vaccination drive which helped achieve desired results. The UT has witnessed 4,374 deaths since the pandemic began last March. From the peak of more than 50,000 active cases in mid-May, cases have come down to 1,409 as of July 23. So far, 3,14,620 patients have recovered, which is 98.19 per cent of total cases. Though the Covid-19 count in J&K is down, health experts have warned that if people continue to violate the safety protocols, cases may surge again in the coming weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-administers-71-lakh-covid-vaccine-doses-1012339.html
24-07-2021||North and Central||Cops register FIR for flouting Covid-19 norms at Sidhu's installation ceremony||Chandigarh Police has registered an FIR against unidentified persons for allegedly violating Covid-19 guidelines during the installation ceremony of Navjot Singh Sidhu as Punjab Congress chief. A case under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act has been registered, police said on Saturday. The case was lodged against unidentified persons who came from different districts of Punjab and assembled at Punjab Congress Bhawan here, they said. They did not maintain social distancing norms and also did not wear masks, police added. The case was registered at Sector 11police station, they said. Scores of Congress supporters had assembled at Punjab Congress Bhawan on Friday for the installation ceremony of Sidhu as the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cops-register-fir-for-flouting-covid-19-norms-at-sidhus-installation-ceremony-1012340.html
24-07-2021||North and Central||Two militants killed, jawan injured in encounter in Bandipora in north Kashmir||Two unidentified militants were killed while an Army jawan was injured in an encounter in Bandipora district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, officials said. Security forces launched a cordon and search operation in Shokbaba forest in the Sumblar area of Bandipora in north Kashmir following inputs about the presence of militants there, they said. The officials said as the forces were conducting searches in the area, the militants fired upon them. The forces retaliated and two militants were killed in the ensuing encounter, the officials said. While the officials had earlier said three soldiers were also injured in the gunfight, Srinagar-based PRO Defence Col Emron Musavi said only one Army personnel sustained injuries. He said the injured jawan was evacuated. The officials said the identity and group affiliation of the slain ultras are being ascertained. The operation is in progress and further details were awaited, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-militants-killed-jawan-injured-in-encounter-in-bandipora-in-north-kashmir-1012362.html
24-07-2021||North and Central||Haryana government increases dearness allowance from 17% to 28%||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday announced to increase the rate of dearness allowance from 17 per cent to 28 per cent. The increase in dearness allowance will be applicable from July 1, an official spokesperson said. The increased dearness allowance also includes the DA payable from January 1, 2020, July 1, 2020 and January 1, 2021, he said. It will benefit about 2.85 lakh government employees and 2.62 lakh pensioners of the state, the spokesperson said. It will put an additional burden of about Rs 210 crore per month on the state exchequer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-government-increases-dearness-allowance-from-17-to-28-1012382.html
24-07-2021||North and Central||Doctors at private hospital successfully operate on woman with two uteruses in Delhi||Doctors at a private facility recently operated on a 30-year-old woman with two uteruses, a rare condition which caused her acute pain, especially during a menstrual cycle. This condition is so rare that till February this year, only 60 such cases were reported worldwide, Dr Amit Javed, director, general and Laparoscopic Surgery, Fortis Hospital in Vasant Kunj, said, adding that the case study has been accepted for publication in the Journal of Minimal Access surgeries. "There is not much awareness about this problem. The pain due to this condition worsens during menstruation. Menstrual pain is considered a normal phenomenon. Ladies usually ignore it and also consider the pain as a sign of them having stones," the doctor said. Talking about the woman, he said the patient had been having severe pain in the lower abdomen for the last one year and it would get worse during the time of her menstrual cycle. Doctors would advise her painkillers and she used to get transient relief. "However, a doctor ordered an ultrasound which showed that she could have gallbladder stones and also showed a small fibroid in the uterus. She was then referred to us for gallbladder removal surgery," Dr Javed said. "But gallbladder stones usually lead to pain in the right side of the upper abdomen. So we ordered an MRI which suggested that she had ACUM," he said. ACUM, which translates to accessory and cavitated uterine masses, in lay terms means a baby uterus inside the normal uterus. There is a hollow mass inside the uterus which has blood and degraded blood (blood from the menstrual cycle). "We had to remove the hollow mass and use an open technique. The surgery was carried out laparoscopically. We had to be quite careful while doing the surgery so as not to affect her tubes," Dr Javed said. Dr Nivedita Kaul, Senior Consultant Obstetrics and Gynaecology at the hospital was also involved in the case. The doctor said the patient has recovered well and has no pain till now. "She was trying to conceive earlier but could not because of this issue," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/doctors-at-private-hospital-successfully-operate-on-woman-with-two-uteruses-in-delhi-1012417.html
24-07-2021||North and Central||L-G must intervene in exceptional circumstances, not in every other matter of city govt: Sisodia||The Delhi lieutenant governor has referred to the Centre the city government's decision to choose lawyers for fighting cases related to the farmers' agitation, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Saturday and alleged that functioning of the elected AAP dispensation was being obstructed. The Lt Governor (L-G) is to intervene in issues of the city government only in "exceptional circumstances" and not in every other matter. Else what is the need of an elected government, he said at an virtual press conference. On July 19, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had taken a decision that lawyers chosen by the Delhi government will fight cases related to the farmers' agitation against the three contentious agri laws enacted last year. "But today, the Lt Governor has said that he has referred the matter to the Centre for consideration of the Honourable President. I want to ask what is the interest of the Centre in choosing lawyers? If they have to choose the lawyers also, what is the point of the elected government of Delhi," Sisodia said. The deputy chief minister stated that the Delhi Lt Governor has powers to refer to the Centre decisions of the city government he is not in agreement with. But this applies to only "exceptional circumstances" and not "every other matter", Sisodia said. "They are using these powers in nearly every matter," he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/l-g-must-intervene-in-exceptional-circumstances-not-in-every-other-matter-of-city-govt-sisodia-1012426.html
24-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi Metro, buses to function at full capacity from Monday; cinemas, theatres to open at 50%||With fresh Covid-19 cases down to a trickle, the Delhi government announced easing of restrictions on travel in the national capital by allowing metro and bus services to run to full capacity from Monday. Cinema halls and theatres in the city will be allowed to reopen at half their capacity, while bars too shall be permitted to operate at 50% of the seating capacity from 12 noon to 10 pm, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said. “All shops will be permitted to function on all days of the week without any distinction of essential and non-essential goods and services between 10 am and 8 pm,” the DDMA order said. Auditoriums, assembly halls can also reopen with a 50% seating capacity. In both buses and metros, no standing passenger will be allowed, the order said. Wedding events can take place with the presence of a maximum of 100 persons and the same cap is applicable for funerals too, the DDMA said. Religious places will also open in the national capital but visitors will not be allowed. The DDMA has also allowed business-to-business (B2B) exhibitions, but only for business visitors. The national capital had witnessed a brutal second wave of Covid-19 in April-May with a maximum of 28,395 fresh cases reported on April 21. Daily cases began to decline gradually in the latter part of May. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-metro-buses-to-function-at-full-capacity-from-monday-cinemas-theatres-to-open-at-50-1012429.html
24-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi records zero Covid-19 deaths for second time since onset of 2nd wave; 66 cases||No death due to Covid-19 was recorded in Delhi on Saturday, while 66 fresh cases were reported with a positivity rate of 0.09 per cent, according to data shared by the city health department. This is the second time since the starting of the second wave of the pandemic in the national capital that zero fatality has been logged in a day. On July 18 too, no death was recorded, while the city had registered 51 cases. On March 2 this year, the national capital had reported zero death due to the virus. On that day, the number of single-day infections stood at 217 and the positivity rate was 0.33 per cent. The second wave swept the city during April-May period. On Friday, the city had registered 58 cases and one fatality, while the positivity rate was 0.09 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-zero-covid-19-deaths-for-second-time-since-onset-of-2nd-wave-66-cases-1012442.html
24-07-2021||North and Central||India lodges strong objection with Pakistan over drone activities in Jammu||India on Saturday lodged a strong protest over drone activities by Pakistan authorities in Jammu areas during a sector commander-level meeting between the Border Security Force and the Pakistan Rangers, officials said. The meeting was held at the request of Pakistan Rangers at the International Border (IB) in the Suchetgarh area and it was decided to re-energise instant communication between field commanders, whenever required, to resolve the operational matters, a BSF spokesperson said. Commanders of both the border guarding forces discussed various issues with the main emphasis by the BSF delegation on Pakistani drone activities, terrorist activities and digging of tunnels from across the border and other issues related to border management, he said. A very strong protest was lodged by BSF delegates regarding drone activities by Pakistan authorities in the Jammu area, the officials said. At the same time, both sides expressed their commitment to maintaining peace and harmony at the IB, they said. "It was the first sector commander level meeting between two border guarding forces after the declaration of ceasefire agreement by DGMOs (in February)," the spokesperson said. "The meeting was held in a cordial, positive and constructive atmosphere and both sides agreed on an expeditious implementation of the decisions taken in the earlier DG-level talks and committed to each other to maintain peace and harmony at the IB," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-lodges-strong-objection-with-pakistan-over-drone-activities-in-jammu-1012443.html
24-07-2021||North and Central||Rahul Gandhi demands Covid vaccine timeline, says people's lives are on the line||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday hit out at the government saying it has not admitted to any timeline on vaccines and this is a "classic case of missing spine". He sought to know where the vaccines were and said people's lives were on the line. "People's lives on the line, GOI admits no timeline, Classic case of missing spine," Gandhi said on Twitter. He used the hashtag "#WhereAreVaccines" and cited a news report that said "No fixed deadline for completing vaccination drive in India: Govt tells Parliament". His remarks came a day after the government told Lok Sabha that no fixed timeline can be indicated now for the completion of the Covid-19 vaccination drive in the country in view of the dynamic and evolving nature of the pandemic. The government, however, said it is expected all beneficiaries aged 18 years and above will be inoculated by December. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala had also said, "Modi Government's lies exposed in reply to Shri Rahul Gandhi's question in Parliament on Vaccination."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rahul-gandhi-demands-covid-vaccine-timeline-says-peoples-lives-are-on-the-line-1012449.html
24-07-2021||North and Central||Farmers show black flags to Navjot Singh Sidhu||A group of farmers on Saturday showed black flags to newly appointed Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu when he arrived here to pay obeisance at a gurdwara. Protesters also raised slogans against Sidhu for his “thirsty walks to the well” remark made during his address in his installation ceremony at Chandigarh on Friday. Sidhu clarified that his comment was misunderstood and presented in wrong perspective. The Congress leader said he has high regard for farmers and supports them with heart and soul. On Friday, Sidhu had said, “I say to the Kisan Morcha people, my elders (farmers) that the thirsty walks to the well. The well does not go to the thirsty. I today invite you (farmers). I want to meet you.” Meanwhile, the Aam Aadmi Party took exception to the Sidhu's remark and said it “smells of arrogance.” “It is a pity that on one hand Navjot Sidhu announced to kill his ego and on the other, to stand in favour of farmers, he also made a condition that the thirsty (farmers) have to come to the well (Sidhu) because the well does not go to the thirsty,” said AAP state farmers’ wing president and MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan in a statement. Sandhwan appealed to Sidhu that he should immediately apologise for his remark as farmers are “annadatas” of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-show-black-flags-to-navjot-singh-sidhu-1012451.html
24-07-2021||North and Central||Two-and-a-half-year-old girl raped in Himachal Pradesh; minor apprehended||A two-and-a-half-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a boy, police said. Shimla Superintendent of Police Mohit Chawla said the accused schoolboy has been apprehended. A case was registered under IPC section 376 (rape) and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act following a complaint by the victim’s mother, he said. “The boy will be sent to an observation home according to the rules of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015,” he said. The victim's mother told police that the boy had taken the girl child to the fields under the pretext of playing with her. He then raped the girl. The child’s mother rushed to the fields on listening to her daughter's cry, police said, adding that the accused fled from the spot. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-and-a-half-year-old-girl-raped-in-himachal-pradesh-minor-apprehended-1012472.html
24-07-2021||North and Central||Fire at farmers' protest site on Singhu border||A tent was damaged as a fire broke out at the farmers’ protest site on the Delhi’s Singhu border on Saturday, police said. No loss of life was reported in this incident, a police official said. However, the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farmer unions spearheading the stir against the Centre’s farm laws, said two tents were damaged in the incident. “However, the spirit of the farmers is unaffected,” the body said. Meanwhile, Jamhuri Kisan Sabha general secretary Kulwant Singh said no person was injured in the incident but things were damaged. Sukhwinder Singh, a protester, suspected that it was someone’s doing. “Rain stopped around 5 pm and the fire in the first tent broke out around 5.30 pm. Later, another tent, which was around 100 metres away, caught fire. We suspect that someone has come here and done this thing,” he said. Farmers have been camping at Delhi borders since November last year, demanding the repeal of the Centre’s three contentious farm laws and a new law to guarantee minimum support price for crops. However, the government has maintained that the laws are pro-farmer. Several rounds of talks between farmers and the government have failed to break the deadlock over the farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-at-farmers-protest-site-on-singhu-border-1012474.html
24-07-2021||North and Central||Probing 'unaccounted transactions' of Rs 200 cr, says CBDT after raids on Bharat Samachar and linked businesses||The CBDT on Saturday claimed to have seized documents and digital records that indicate "unaccounted" transactions of about Rs 200 crore after it raided Lucknow-based Hindi news channel Bharat Samachar and its linked businesses early this week. The searches were carried out on July 22 at Lucknow, Basti, Varanasi, Jaunpur and Kolkata and at the residential premises of Bharat Samachar Editor-in-chief Brajesh Misra, state head Virendra Singh, BJP MLA from Uttar Pradesh's Harraiya (Basti district) assembly seat Ajay Singh and some others. The CBDT did not identify the group in the statement and said that apart from news media, the group deals in mining, hospitality, liquor and real estate.  Officials identified it to be the case linked to the raids carried out against Bharat Samachar. "Cash of more than Rs 3 crore has been seized and 16 lockers have been placed under restraint."  "Documents including incriminating digital evidence indicating nearly Rs 200 crore of unaccounted transactions have been seized," the CBDT claimed, adding the probe in the case is continuing. After the raids, Misra said on his official Twitter handle that they are tax-compliant citizens and that they have been paying due taxes for the last two decades. He added that they have been fighting for the public through their journalistic work and the channel had become "the voice of the poor" when the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic hit the country this year. The statement claimed that evidence found during searches "establishes" that the business group has been earning huge outside-the-books income through mining, processing and sales in liquor, flour business, real estate, etc.  "Unaccounted income emanating out of these transactions has been found exceeding Rs 90 crore as per preliminary estimates. "This income has been brought back into the books through a network of shell companies and other bogus entities without paying any taxes, thereby creating a charade that the money has been accounted for," it alleged. During the  searches, more than 15 companies incorporated at Kolkata and other places were found to be "non-existent."  "Share premia of over Rs 30 crore were collected by these shell companies through other similar entities or through individuals of no means," the CBDT said, alleging that there was "no economic rationale" for any such premium. It said the raids "established that individuals as well as shell entities were used by the group to launder huge funds amounting to more than Rs 40 crore, showing them as loans obtained by media companies." "Taxation profiling of such shell entities who have provided 'loans' indicates that they neither possess the financial ability nor had any economic rationale for advancing such 'loans'," it claimed. It said that "these persons and entities were found to be closely related to the final beneficiaries."  One of these persons had provided loans of more than Rs 1 crore to media entities and was himself not only unlettered but also of very meagre financial means, the statement said. "Taxation profiling of each individual and entity indicated that either no returns were filed or very meagre taxes had been paid which were not at all commensurate with the huge amount of loans and premia running into crores," it said. The CBDT said it was found that a "paper company" did not have any business, the address mentioned was false and it had no employees.  "Yet it had been paid more than Rs 4 crore of share premium by another bogus concern. "Similar modus operandi was also followed in having so-called 'trade payables' in the books of the main entities of these businesses through such dubious concerns with unaccounted sources of funds," it claimed. These so-called 'payables' alone amount to more than Rs 50 crore, it alleged.  The CBDT said that one of the branches of the group has "voluntarily disclosed" an income of Rs 20 crore during the search once they were confronted with the evidence.  "This disclosure includes Rs 13 crore of bogus 'trade payables'," it said. The group, it said, therefore devised a complex strategy of earning huge "unaccounted" income through the creation of sophisticated financial layers of "dubious and bogus" entities spread across multiple states, to route this unaccounted money back into the main businesses without paying any taxes.  "The total amount of such unaccounted layering through bogus entities exceeds Rs 170 crore while the total unaccounted transactions exceed Rs 200 crore," it claimed. The CBDT said the "unaccounted" amounts so earned were used partly for the purchase and construction of property.  "Evidence of unaccounted payments in cash running into crores has been found during the search. "Evidence has also been found to indicate that payments exceeding Rs 2 crore have been made in cash by one of the businesses in violation of provisions of Income-tax Act, 1961," it alleged.  Huge unaccounted money has also been deposited in a group trust and routed to the main concerns, the statement alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/probing-unaccounted-transactions-of-rs-200-cr-says-cbdt-after-raids-on-bharat-samachar-and-linked-businesses-1012481.html
24-07-2021||North and Central||Security tightened along Haridwar borders to stop Kanwariyas from entering||Security was beefed up along the borders of Haridwar district on Saturday to prevent Kanwariyas from entering, as Uttarakhand has suspended the Kawad Yatra this year in view of a looming threat of a third Covid wave. Though the pilgrimage has been suspended, the possibility that Kanwariyas may still try to enter Haridwar, which shares borders with Uttar Pradesh, to collect waters from the Ganga and offer prayers to Lord Shiva remains. Deployment along the borders of the district has been stepped up so that Kanwariyas do not enter Haridwar. However, if some of them arrive at the borders they will be requested to go back, Uttarakhand Director General of Police (DGP) Ashok Kumar said. “If they insist then action will be taken," he said. With the month of Shravan beginning tomorrow, marking the starting of the pilgrimage, Kanwariyas are likely to make an effort to enter the city. Hence, deployment along the borders has been strengthened and vigil stepped up to ensure there is no violation. The Uttarakhand Police has already issued orders to put Kanwariyas under forced quarantine for 14 days if they dare violate the ban on the yatra. However, there will be no restriction on the entry of tourists who have a negative RT-PCR test report and are registered on the smart city portal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/security-tightened-along-haridwar-borders-to-stop-kanwariyas-from-entering-1012484.html
24-07-2021||North and Central||Minor girl gangraped in front of brother, act videotaped||A 15-year-old girl was allegedly raped in a village here by four men in front of her younger brother who was held at gunpoint by the accused, police said, adding they made a video of the act to threaten the victim. The incident took place on Friday night at the victim’s house when her parents were away in the village that falls under Phugana police station. The accused – Rahib, Sahib, Arif and Maruf – who are residents of the same village, have absconded, police said The victim was left unconscious and her brother narrated the incident to police. A case has been registered against the four men under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, Deputy Superintendent of Police Sharad Chandra Sharma said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minor-girl-gangraped-in-front-of-brother-act-videotaped-1012499.html
24-07-2021||Opinion||Why India can’t repeat its 1991 miracle||By Shruti Rajagopalan Exactly 30 years ago, a looming balance of payments crisis finally convinced India’s leaders to dismantle its socialist economy, ushering in private enterprise and years of higher growth. Those pundits and policymakers hoping that Prime Minister Narendra Modi might use the country’s Covid-induced slump to launch similarly dramatic reforms, however, are likely to be disappointed. That’s not because Modi is afraid of bold initiatives or lacks the political capital to see them through; his popularity remains unmatched, as does his flair for the dramatic gesture. The real issue is that his government and the Indian bureaucracy, unlike in 1991, aren’t set up to develop a consensus behind liberalising reforms. It’s important to remember that the 1991 reforms didn’t come out of the blue, purely in response to the crisis. They had been fermenting for more than a decade, prompted in part by the success of India’s more open Asian neighbours. Growth miracles in countries such as South Korea and China defied the post-World War II consensus that poorer countries needed to shield their infant industries from outside competition. A program of fiscal discipline, deregulation, currency and trade liberalisation, and privatisation — familiarly known as the Washington Consensus — became the leading prescription for developing countries. Key Indian technocrats grew to support such reforms during their time at international institutions such the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the United Nations and began introducing them to India in the 1980s. While those initial efforts didn’t produce immediate change, the ideas percolated through the bureaucracy and found their way into parliamentary and expert committee reports. By 1991, after years of consultation and debate, they were ready to be implemented under pressure of the crisis. They found the perfect shepherd in then-Finance Minister Manmohan Singh, an Oxford-trained economist with a doctoral dissertation in trade policy. Two things have changed in recent years. First, among elite development economists, the academic emphasis has shifted from chasing prosperity through free trade and economic growth to redesigning poverty alleviation and redistribution programs. Much research focuses on what government interventions are most effective, using methods such as the randomized controlled trials that won Michael Kremer, Abhijit Banerjee and Esther Duflo a Nobel Prize in 2019. While few economists disagree about the need for India to liberalize its land and labor rules, implement tax reforms, and privatize banks and other state-owned enterprises, those ideas no longer have the same cachet. Second, the bureaucratic system is no longer functioning as it once did, vetting proposals and building cross-party consensus. In Modi’s first term, only a quarter of the bills introduced in Parliament were referred to expert committees — far below the 71 per cent and 60 per cent rates of the previous two governments. In his current term, that figure has declined to roughly 10 per cent. Nor has the process of pre-legislative consultation introduced by the Modi government worked as advertised: In his first term, only 44 out of 186 bills were treated to such back-and-forth. In recent years, India has also taken to helicoptering in influential academics such as former central bank chief Raghuram Rajan rather than building a cadre of homegrown economists within the bureaucracy. Their ideas have had limited buy-in from the permanent bureaucracy, always resistant to outside opinions. Modi’s government, too, is now seen as increasingly skeptical of foreign or elite influence, in part because of criticism from former advisers who have returned to the West. What India had 30 years ago and lacks now is an infrastructure where good ideas can be refined and rise to the top levels of government. In his July 1991 budget speech announcing liberalization, Singh paraphrased Victor Hugo: “No power on earth can stop an idea whose time has come.” But ideas can only come of age in an environment conducive to nurturing them. Until India regains that, the prospects for sensible economic reforms appear bleak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-india-can-t-repeat-its-1991-miracle-1012259.html
24-07-2021||Opinion||Why 2021 could be the best year for IPOs||Despite the gloom and doom one sees on the ground, the trend of companies raising funds in the primary market through Initial Public Offerings (IPOs) is set to hit a record in 2021. So far in 2021, 27 companies have raised nearly Rs 41,299 crore – which is more than what was raised by way of IPOs in each of the last three years – 2018, 2019 and 2020. Many more firms are in the pipeline to hit the capital markets for the first time. According to Prime Database, 21 companies have received the nod from the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), the stock market regulator, to raise Rs 28,706 crore. These issues are expected to open over the next few months. Then there are another 27 companies that have filed offer documents and are waiting for SEBI approval – to raise Rs 60,476 crore through initial public offers or follow-on public offers (FPOs), according to Prime Database. (Only Ruchi Soya, out of these 27, has filed papers for an FPO to raise Rs 4300 crore). This list of 27 companies includes One 97 Communication, the owner of Paytm, which is expected to raise Rs 16,300 crore – the highest ever fundraise by any company in an IPO. If things go according to plan, Paytm will hit the markets around Diwali. The year 2017 was when funds raised by IPO hit a record, at Rs 67,147 crore. As the pipeline from the Prime Database indicates, 2021 is headed for a new high. The financial year 2020-21 saw GDP growth contracting 7.3 per cent as a nationwide lockdown imposed in the last week of March 2020 to curb the spread of the virus brought economic activity to a grinding halt. So, what is keeping the IPO market buzzing amid a once in a century pandemic and after a contraction in economic growth, which was the first in four decades?  There are multiple reasons. The first being the pandemic itself. “The retail investor base has multiplied,” says Arun Kejriwal, a Mumbai-based senior analyst. “The onset of Covid-19 pandemic led to new investors being born. You are sitting at home, and one activity you can do, apart from your regular work, is to open a demat account and a trading account and start trading. Opening a demat account does now cost you much,” Kejriwal says. “There is a new breed of investors in the market. The base of investable people has gone up.” The number of demat accounts grew by 50 per cent since the lockdown was imposed in March 2020. What is also evident is that investors’ have not lost money in the IPOs, barring a few – a reason that explains investors confidence in the primary market. “Most of the IPOs are over-subscribed. The shares have opened at a premium. Barring one or two issues, investors have not lost their money anywhere. The returns have been there in the primary market,” Kejriwal says. According to Pranjal Srivastava, partner-investment banking at Centrum Capital, it is not only the traditional companies coming to the primary market. “There is a good supply of very different kinds of IPOs. It is a good mix of manufacturing, speciality chemicals, e-commerce, fintech – different kinds of companies are coming with IPOs, which is attracting new investors,” Srivastava says. Rub-off effect The second reason for the boom in IPOs is the stock market itself – the secondary market. The BSE Sensex, which touched a low of around 25,000 in the last week of March 2020, has doubled since then. The secondary market had a rub-off effect on the primary market. “One is the kind of positive momentum we see in the secondary market, which rubbing-off on the primary market,” Srivastava says. “If the secondary markets are doing well, then primary markets automatically start doing well,” he says. India has been the third-largest recipient among major emerging market economies (EMEs) in terms of foreign portfolio investments till the first week of this month – after China and Brazil. According to the Reserve Bank of India data, India accounted for 2.6 per cent of the world market capitalisation in June 2021. India’s market capitalisation rose 66 per cent in one year to $ 3.02 trillion in June, outpacing the 44 per cent growth in the global market cap. “India is also becoming an attractive destination for foreign portfolio investments (FPI) in equities in 2021,” a report prepared by RBI researchers headed by deputy governor Michael Patra observed. “FPI equity valuations have risen in financial services, software and computer services, oil and gas, metals and mining, consumer durables, chemicals and capital goods sectors, which together account for 64 per cent of the total increase in these valuations during 2021 so far,” the report which was released mid-July said. Will the bull run continue? One of the reasons for the booming equity markets is the abundant liquidity available in the market. The Indian central bank has promised on several occasions in recent times to maintain the easy money policy till a durable economic recovery is in sight. Interest rates are at a multi-decade low amid slack demand for credit. Lenders are not expected to increase rates till the time loan demand comes back. “We are seeing a lot of IPOs getting launched, and a lot of DRHPs [draft red herring prospectus] are being filed with Sebi. The pipeline is also strong,” says Pranav Haldea, managing director, Prime Database. “What we are also seeing is strong listings. This is only going to encourage more and more companies to launch IPOs in the near future. The secondary market also continues to be buoyant. One of the pre-condition for IPOs is bullishness in the secondary market,” Haldea says while explaining why the momentum is likely to continue. The liquidity will also stay for a while, which is expected to keep the equity markets buoyant. “There is no immediate risk as such. The risk will emerge if the liquidity tap shuts off, if the interest rates start rising – which are not visible. There is no reason why the liquidity tap will be shut,” Srivastava says. (The writer is a Mumbai-based journalist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-2021-could-be-the-best-year-for-ipos-1012312.html
24-07-2021||Opinion||A declining BSP chants Ram and Parashuram||On September 30, 2010, as the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court gave its verdict in the Ram Janmabhoomi case, candles and earthen lamps popped up briefly in the temple town of Ayodhya. But the celebratory illuminations did not last long. Police went around extinguishing the candles, nudging Hindu families to keep their joy confined within the four walls of their homes. Mayawati, the then chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, earned praise for ensuring the day passed without any untoward incidents. Three years before that, Mayawati had led her Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) to an unprecedented majority in the Assembly polls. Not just Dalits, but Muslims and Brahmins had supported her. A decade is a long time. On Friday, BSP general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra was in Ayodhya to unveil Mayawati's Brahmin outreach. Mishra, his party's Brahmin face, hollered at a meeting organised on the outskirts of the district, "Ek saal se mandir nahin bana paaye hain. Kab banega mandir? (It's been a year since the foundation laying ceremony, but the temple is still incomplete. How long will it take?)." He promised that a BSP government in Lucknow after the Assembly polls would expedite temple construction. Kanshi Ram founded the political movement that stoked Dalit consciousness among the Scheduled Castes by invoking Shambuka and Eklavya, seen as victims of Brahminism in Hindu mythology. Forty years later, the BSP has taken to invoke Ram and Parashuram and promises to work for the "betterment of Sudama", a symbolism for the poor and marginalised among the Brahmins. Electoral considerations have undoubtedly triggered the BSP's currently weeklong Brahmin outreach. Its hope of increasing its vote share in UP rest on netting Brahmin support. The community is nearly 12-13 per cent of the electorate in UP and is said to be angry with the Yogi Adityanath government's alleged tilt towards Thakurs. The BSP's is an intriguing strategy when many see it as a declining force in the state and the Samajwadi Party as the real challenger to the BJP in the 2022 Assembly polls. The Adityanath government's mismanagement in handling the Covid-19 spread has led to anger against it. Chandra Shekhar Aazad, the upcoming Dalit leader of the Azad Samaj Party, has insinuated that the BSP's strategy would eventually help the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). He has alleged Mayawati is under pressure from the central probe agencies. Aazad, who is 34, projects himself as Mayawati's successor in the Dalit movement in UP. He has questioned how a party that claims to fight for Dalits has Brahmins as respective leaders of the two Houses of Parliament – Mishra in the Rajya Sabha and Ritesh Pandey in the Lok Sabha. The BSP's ideological confusion and its continuing decline come along with the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) split, the passing away of its founder Ram Vilas Paswan and its poor Assembly poll result. It indicates an inexorable weakening of the unfettered Dalit assertion in electoral politics since the 1980s. A much-forgotten Lok Sabha by-poll in 1985 in Bijnor, western UP, had symbolised this blossoming. The death of the sitting Congress MP from that seat necessitated the by-poll. The Congress fielded Meira Kumar, the daughter of Jagjivan Ram and who had quit the Indian Foreign Service to plunge into politics. Lok Dal's Paswan was her main opponent. Few had given the third candidate in the fray, Mayawati, any chance. Kumar's win turned out to be underwhelming. She bested Paswan by less than 6,000 votes. Mayawati was number three but bagged a creditable 61,000 votes as an independent candidate, votes which would have mostly gone to the Congress. In 1987, Mayawati contested the Haridwar Lok Sabha bypoll. She emerged a close runner up behind the Congress candidate but ensured Paswan forfeited his deposit, never to contest from UP again. A year later, Kanshi Ram contested the Allahabad Lok Sabha by-election after superstar Amitabh Bachchan vacated the seat. Joint opposition candidate Vishwanath Pratap Singh and Congress party's Sunil Shastri were Kanshi Ram'sRam's principal opponents. VP Singh defeated Shastri by over 200,000 votes. While Shastri failed to get even one lakh votes, Kanshi Ram bagged almost 70,000, most of which would have gone to the Congress. The BSP became a thorn in the flesh of the Congress, which started smelling a ''foreign hand'' in the BSP's success. But the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) was no less worried about the BSP. The Illustrated Weekly of India in 1988 quoted RSS chief Balasaheb Deoras describing the BSP as "one of the real problems for the RSS in north India". Much water has flown down the Ganga since. The RSS cadres have worked tirelessly among Dalits in the last couple of decades to wean them away from the Ambedkarite assertion of their Dalit identity and bring them under the umbrella of Hindutva. The decline of the BSP in UP and LJP in Bihar is comforting news, not just for the BJP but also for Congress. In the recent reshuffle and cabinet expansion, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was careful to increase the representation to Scheduled Castes, particularly from UP and Bihar and Bihar. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has consistently raised issues of atrocities on Dalits in UP. So, would this phase mark the fall into the oblivion of independent Dalit politics? It was the political genius of Kanshi Ram to have knitted a patchwork of alliances between various Dalit and EBC (Extremely Backward Castes) in UP. In Bihar, Paswan tried something similar until Nitish Kumar scuppered the effort by carving out a separate Mahadalit category. Can young leaders such as Aazad and Chirag Paswan repeat those feats, or will the two big national parties, the BJP and Congress, subsume Dalit politics? Or will efforts of Mandal parties - the SP in UP, JD (U) and RJD in Bihar - succeed in appropriating the space of independent Dalit parties? The results of the 2022 Assembly polls in UP would be an indicator. However, Dalit activists believe the current phase is a gestation period before dynamic leaders emerge to voice issues that concern EBCs, including among Muslims, and Dalits. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-declining-bsp-chants-ram-and-parashuram-1012419.html
24-07-2021||Opinion||How your local official, politician acted mattered a lot in this pandemic||The pandemic is global, but that doesn’t mean that people are impacted by it in the same way or to the same extent everywhere. That’s well known, and intuitive, but let’s dig a little deeper and see at what level it starts to be different. The Indian experience is the result of what’s going on in the country, and it’s different from that of other countries. That’s to be expected. Those countries are governed differently, their socio-economic realities are different, the links to the rest of the world vary, and so on. It’s understandable, therefore, if our experience of the pandemic is different from that of another country. How about states? Now, we’re still seeing lingering threats in Kerala, Maharashtra, and a few of the north-eastern states, and at various times in the past, other states have hit Covid peak numbers that were scary -- Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, etc. There’s some explanation for each of those: mega events with crowds, density in cities, trade and travel connections to other countries. These vary from state to state, and thus the differences. Now, let’s go one level deeper. What about between districts? Let’s leave the big urban districts out -- Mumbai, Chennai, Bengaluru Urban, etc. They’re very different from other places. Let’s look at the ones we really think of as ‘districts’, with a medium-sized headquarters town, a few small ones and lots of villages. Should we expect differences between districts within a state? Let me point to the data -- in every medium and large state, some districts are less affected by Covid than others. And the times at which some districts have hit their peaks are also different. It’s hard to say why this might be, unlike in the case of nations or states, but it surely is so. Some of this is just chance -- who is traveling, what variants of the virus they carry, how transmissive it is, etc -- but in three months of active Covid relief work in close association with government officials across several states, I’ve come to the conclusion that some of it is also due to varying levels of responsiveness of the local officials in each district. Your local MLA, district Medical Officer, CEO of the Zilla Parishad, district in-charge minister, the hospital superintendent at the General Hospital -- how good these people are mattered a lot in the pandemic. In fact, one could even say that who has held these jobs in the past has also become important now. If they’ve done a good job, then the district is more resilient; if they did not, then it’s more vulnerable today. We don’t often think of this. In a system of state-led governance, there is a tendency to think that every District Commissioner, ZP CEO, and hundreds of others are inter-changeable without much difference. And while people in each constituency have some view of their own MLAs and MPs, they don’t often think much about how good or not such persons are in different parts of the state. But all of this matters. In India, we do not have district-level governments, which makes it hard for quick responses to problems. Instead, multiple departments, each operating on guidance and instructions from the state ministers, end up doing things in silos. That cannot withstand a pandemic which demands simultaneous and integrated attention to so many things -- the hospitals, their infrastructure, devices, power supply, manpower, road network, transportation services -- to get things under control. In this scenario, only some DCs, CEOs and other officials took it upon themselves to try and come up with an integrated response. In some places, the local MLAs have gone beyond mere distribution of relief and actually thought about the full picture. That has also helped. This high correlation with diligence and attention is widespread. Even districts that were really badly hit in the beginning have been able to recover once the local officials began to take this seriously. On the other hand, in places where local officials were either indifferent or were busy gaming Covid-related procurement, things got worse. In Karnataka, some kind of stability was reached in a few districts through a combination of official efforts and external support by active private citizens -- Dharwad, Karwar, Kodagu, Chitradurga come to mind in particular. District-level capacity and focus matters because we don’t know which strain of the virus will cause the next wave. For instance, 75% of recent post-vaccination deaths are in just a few districts. Is that because the vaccine doesn’t work on the strains that are prevalent there? No one really knows. New efforts in genome sequencing, bioinformatics, disease mapping, etc., can help us create spatially informed responses. Karnataka is getting going on this front better than many states. And we are fortunate to have the talent needed to do this here. But even with all that, we will still need local people -- both in public office and among citizens -- to do their part. When all this is over, we should think about that. Who works for and represents us in our localities, councils, panchayats and districts really matters, and it also matters how much we ourselves are involved in governance. The pandemic is global, and there’s a lot of it we cannot control. But our experience of it is very local, for very human reasons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/how-your-local-official-politician-acted-mattered-a-lot-in-this-pandemic-1012518.html
24-07-2021||Opinion||It’s not where you shop, it’s what you buy||I’m trying to remember the last time that I actually purchased something from a physical store. Was it December last year, when I needed new sunglasses? My life has now reached a point where nearly all my shopping is done online. I know how it looks: I’m supporting unethical multinational companies such as Amazon, instead of local traders, and contributing to the destruction of India’s retail business. Is it really as bad as it seems, though? Last week, the findings of a pan-India consumer survey revealed that people have become more conscious about product origin and ingredients, whether products are eco-friendly, and how closely brands are working to benefit local communities. Consumers are switching to organic and natural products, often in support of social causes. Furthermore, online shopping and better delivery logistics are helping enterprises reach new buyers. I’m one such buyer. In the morning, I get up and brew myself coffee using fresh craft-roasted and ground beans, produced on a plantation that follows sustainable farming practices. I wash my hands and wipe down the kitchen bench with chemical-free cleaners infused with essential oils. Afterwards, I light a non-toxic incense stick, hand-rolled by prisoners who are being rehabilitated and transformed. The honey I put on my toast is pure and unadulterated. It comes from a society that assists rural farmers to take up community-based beekeeping with indigenous bees. Warli tribal art decorates the breakfast tray. It’s part of a striking collection of contemporary handicrafts designed and made by rural artisans from across India. Where did I get all these meaningful swadeshi products? Amazon India. In fact, if it wasn’t for the Ecommerce sites, I probably would never have discovered them. In Gujarat, a friend of mine has a brand that aims to create sustainable livelihoods for artisan women of marginalised tribal communities. This includes the bamboo-weaving Kotwalia community and the nomadic Mir community, skilled in bead work. They make intricate, eye-catching beaded bangles and necklaces. Of course, I was excited last year when my friend told me that the products would be available online. She had decided to use the platform to gain more exposure, since lockdown and lack of tourists had affected sales and thus the artisans’ income. Amazon, for instance, has special storefronts for authentic Indian handicrafts and female entrepreneurs, and a local shops programme to help kirana stores establish digital presence. They hold regular online events to promote artisans and small businesses. Similar initiatives by other large Ecommerce players have helped these enterprises access infrastructure, and wider markets, to stay afloat even during the pandemic. All is not well, though. The Confederation of All India Traders says Ecommerce companies have destroyed the business of kirana stores and other merchants with anti-competitive practices. The traders’ association wants Ecommerce operations to be reigned in to level the playing field, and the government has drafted broad amendments to consumer Ecommerce rules in response. These proposed changes prohibit flash sales, create entry barriers to the marketplace, and increase regulatory compliance requirements. The unfortunate thing is that Indian artisans and entrepreneurs most in need of support to sell online may get caught in the crossfire of appeasing traders’ concerns. Ecommerce is undoubtedly the future of retail and there’s much potential to use it for good, to empower small businesses to adapt and grow. They shouldn’t be disadvantaged by policy changes aimed at shielding bricks-and-mortar stores. By shopping online, I want to create opportunities for enterprises that have positive social, environmental and economic impacts. Hopefully, it will encourage them to embrace the shift to Ecommerce and take advantage of what large Ecommerce platforms have to offer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/it-s-not-where-you-shop-it-s-what-you-buy-1012519.html
24-07-2021||Opinion||Don’t call it a nexus, these are tender ties!||The purpose of calling for tenders is to ensure transparency in awarding government contracts which run into thousands of crores. That’s the theory, but in reality, it is an altogether different story, with many politicians and bureaucrats devising ingenious way to ‘fix’ the bidding process. Tender documents are often ‘managed’ even before they are advertised. Here, the company approaches the minister concerned either directly or through touts and makes a ‘commitment’. The tender is then tailored by inserting conditions that are favourable to this company, while at the same time making it tough for rival firms to qualify. While a part of the ‘commitment’ has to be paid in advance, the remaining is released at each stage of the contract -- the first instalment when the tender document incorporating the favourable conditions is released, the second when the company is shortlisted, and the third when the work order is issued. The bidders are clever. They know that there are instances when ministers have not kept their word even after being paid off. That’s why, they never pay the entire amount in one tranche. The whole process is not as simple as it appears, though, as not just the minister, but almost everybody in the pecking order, starting from the caseworker, has to be “taken care of”. A thorough knowledge of the intricacies of the working of this “system,” including the multiple layers of bureaucracy, is required, lest the file is “lost” somewhere in the labyrinth. Usually, the tout – Mr Consultant -- draws up a “package” of who will get what, and does all the groundwork. Sometimes, bureaucrats themselves act as agents of ministers. Yet, no matter how well-oiled the “system” is, there is always some risk. Sometimes, the minister might change mid-way, or the government itself might fall, in which case the amount already paid is lost. The concept of returning the money for work not done does not exist in this “system.” Now, there could be instances when an interested company becomes aware of the project only after the bid document is released, in which case tampering with the tender conditions is difficult. But “entrepreneurs” never lose hope. All that the company has to do is to strike a deal with the minister, who will then summon the other bidders and request them to withdraw from the fray, with the promise of awarding them other big projects in the future “as I am already committed on this one.” Of course, companies do not pay up from their own pockets to get these contracts. They get to recover the bribe amount by escalating the project or contract cost somewhere down the line. Who pays then? You guessed it: You do! The inventiveness does not end there. In the case of civil works, large projects are broken down into many small parts and awarded to several favoured contractors, instead of one, to overcome the conditions of the tender process drawn up by the same government. On paper, everything is kept legal and perfect. The next hurdle appears at the time of payment of bills, which are cleared only after the contractor pays up a fixed percentage of the total amount. Ease of doing business with the government consists in knowing which palm to grease and when. Many companies prefer to work with corrupt bureaucrats as they feel that such officers clear files faster, as their motivation to amass wealth is high, while the honest ones are generally slow. Undoubtedly, there are many upright officers and some straightforward ministers, too, but there is not much they can do, given how deeply entrenched the “system” is.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/don-t-call-it-a-nexus-these-are-tender-ties-1012520.html
24-07-2021||Opinion||The end of Marx||The word ‘end’ signifies two meanings -- termination and purpose -- and to understand the relevance of Karl Marx to our own times, and the inexorable purpose of his social enquiry, we must first rescue him from the communism and the State authoritarianism that followed in his footsteps, and from the long shadows of Lenin, Stalin, and Mao. When Marx himself was accused of being a communist, his reply was unequivocal: “I do not know communism, but a social philosophy that has as its aim the defence of the oppressed cannot be condemned so lightly.” Marx’s work on the State, in fact, is pervaded by a powerful anti-authoritarian and anti-bureaucratic bias. Yet, his ideas have often been invoked in ignorance by detractors and proponents alike. Karl Heinrich Marx, born on May 5, 1818, in Germany, authored a masterpiece -- a book for the future. Das Kapital (Capital), Volume I, published in 1867, centres on his theory of the capitalist system, its dynamism, and its tendencies toward self-destruction; and on the concept of the ‘surplus value’ of labour and its consequences for capitalism. Marx expounds that it is not the pressure of population that drives wages to the subsistence level but rather the existence of a reserve army of labour. He analyses with cold logic, and not a sense of moral indignation, that within the capitalist system, labour is a mere commodity receiving only subsistence wages. The surplus value is appropriated by the owner of capital -- industrial, finance, or monopoly -- as in the present day. There is nothing Mephistophelean in how the miniscule number of the rich become richer or the vast majority of wage workers remain at subsistence wages. Two elements represent the inherent contradiction in capitalism: the owner-entrepreneur must accumulate, for in the competitive environment in which he operates, one accumulates or gets accumulated; and the propensity to crises -- what we today call business cycles -- not recognised until Marx wrote Capital. Rather than being a self-correcting system that evens out its own worst -- negative externalities and tragedies of the commons like pollution, climate change, and rent-seeking behaviour -- capitalism as a system inevitably leads to capitalists seeking to control that system themselves; it’s a matter of when, not whether, they can acquire enough capital to do so. The end being that at some point, there’s enough capital accumulation among some holders of capital that they realise that the easiest way to acquire more capital is not to compete in a free market, but to capture and become the State itself. In modern times, this often manifests in the form of regulatory capture -- sections of the government and institutions that are meant to govern and regulate industry and commerce instead become their captive handmaidens. To dismiss Karl Marx would be a serious mistake because his contribution to the labour theory of value is fundamental -- distinguishing use-value from exchange-value -- and defines the objective conditions in which ‘labour power’ is reduced to a commodity. Worker precariousness is an unconscionable problem today, more than in the 19th century world that Marx inhabited. Labour is increasingly being drawn into the low-paid sectors, and into underemployment and unemployment. The growing informalisation of labour, in the absence of a social security system, manifesting in the enormous growth of part-time, temporary, and contingent work, constitutes the new, more perilous structural condition of the labor market extant. So, why must we read Marx? What makes Capital extraordinary is that it remains the still-unrivalled critique of political economy and provides a vivid picture of the dynamism of capitalism and its transformation of societies on a global scale. It at once highlights the vulnerabilities of capitalism, including its unsettling disruption of States and political systems. Simply put, Marx launched the discourse on how best to transform politics and social relations. Ironically, much of the discourse today is divorced from the ground reality that animates our economy and hence our polity and society. While Capital is not without its flaws in critiquing capitalism as the organising principle of social life, the inevitability of Marx arises from the need to trace the reality of precarious labour back to its classical roots in Marx’s general law of accumulation and his concept of the reserve army of labour. Marx was a fighter, willing to sacrifice anything in the battle for his conception of a better society. The problems he diagnosed are still very much with us: the tendency to economic instability; and to the concentration of wealth and power. The end of Marx is not nigh; if anything, his exhortation for a just and equitable society haunts us with compelling urgency. Like Marx said, philosophers have only interpreted the world, the thing, however, is to change it. When we do, Karl Marx will have reached his end.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-end-of-marx-1012521.html
24-07-2021||Opinion||Section 69A of IT Act must also go||Zombies aren’t found only in fiction and films. We have in India, as we discovered recently, a zombie piece of legislation -- Section 66A of the IT Act, 2000. Struck down in 2014 in Shreya Singhal v Union of India for violating the constitutional guarantee of free speech, it is still being used by police to arrest and deny bail to those who might have said something remotely controversial on the internet. It’s one of those instances in which a largely beneficial judgement has been ignored by police and bureaucracy. As welcome as the Shreya Singhal judgement was, the Supreme Court did make one error -- one that continues to have a bearing on our right to free speech and became relevant in the context of the recent phone-hacking revelations. Apart from Section 66A, Section 69A of the IT Act, which allows the government to block websites, was also challenged in Shreya Singhal. But the SC upheld it on the basis that the grounds for blocking a website are the same as those found in clause 2 of Article 19 -- the provision of the Constitution that allows reasonable restrictions on freedom of speech and expression. This meant that as long as any blocking is based on “the interest of sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of the State, friendly relations with foreign States or public order,” it would be acceptable, since these were more or less the grounds that the Constitution permitted. This has also meant that the provision that permitted interception of electronic communications (Section 69) was also constitutional since it allowed the government to access your information on one of the same grounds. Yet, the Supreme Court in Shreya Singhal made a crucial mistake in interpreting Article 19(2). The clause allowed Parliament to make laws that allowed for restrictions on freedom of speech. What it did not envisage is Parliament giving away its law-making powers on this front wholesale to the government (or specifically a bureaucrat designated by the government). This is why Section 69 and 69A of the IT Act are constitutionally dubious. Article 19(2), when it was originally introduced read slightly differently. It permitted laws relating to libel, slander, decency, morality, or security of the State, and considered such laws as not limiting freedom of speech. However, it was changed by the first amendment to the Constitution in 1950, which expanded the scope of the clause to include “friendly relations with foreign States”, “public order” and “security and integrity of India” as grounds to limit freedom of speech. Crucially, the term “reasonable restrictions” was introduced into the Article, giving more scope for citizens to challenge laws restricting freedom of speech on the ground that they were unreasonable. This meant that while a journalist can be punished under law for printing false and inflammatory stories that might lead to a communal riot, Parliament cannot by law mandate pre-censorship of news stories on the possibility that some of them may cause disturbances. In Shreya Singhal, while upholding Section 69A, the SC overlooked one crucial difference. Under the Constitution, “reasonable restrictions” on free speech are supposed to be imposed by “law”. A “law”, whether made by the Union or a state, President or Parliament, is a general norm applicable to all. It is different from a “direction,” which is made to a specific person. For instance, requiring you to stop at a traffic light is a law, but traffic police asking you to halt your vehicle is a direction. Terms such as “security and integrity of India”, “public order” are those whose meaning and applicability in a particular context are always debatable. This is why there is a parliamentary process for law-making -- different viewpoints are heard and reconciled and such terms and their limits are clearly defined. If free speech is to be restricted, it should be for reasons that the public can understand and appreciate. However, when a bureaucrat directs that a website be blocked or an individual’s communication be intercepted, s/he is applying their own understanding of the terms “security and integrity of India”, “public order” etc. Such directions are not made public and there is no requirement in law to even debate them internally. What Sections 69 and 69A of the IT Act effectively do is to give a government servant the power to determine the extent of an individual’s freedom of speech. This is at the heart of the problem with these sections of the law. When it comes to the use of Pegasus, there’s no doubt that its use is illegal whether the government sanctioned it or not. However, even without the use of this technology, we must not forget that our laws enable some terrible invasions of privacy and free speech. Just because the government does it, it’s not legal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/section-69a-of-it-act-must-also-go-1012522.html
24-07-2021||Right in the Middle||How the pandemic happened||All was serene in Kailasa. Parvathi glanced at her spouse for the hundredth time. He seemed unaware of her existence. There He stood, with matted locks and closed eyes, wrapped in tiger skin. As the poet described, everything about Him was cold. The Ganga, locked in His head, spouted icy water. The snake, coiled around His neck, was slimy cold. The sandal paste covering His body, which was like frost. And He himself stood there, balanced on one leg, like a frozen statue. His consort sighed a deep sigh. Why did she not listen to her father who never favoured this alliance? How much longer could she live with a statue that came to life once a year to dance a terrible dance that shook the world?  His Thandavam was more fearful than His silence. Besides, she was not MS to ecstatically burst into “Kalai thooki nindraadum daivame…”  She was just an unworldly girl— a daughter of the mountain— who married this strange man after reinventing herself. Her thoughts wandered to Vaikunta where Lakshmi sat at the feet of Maha Vishnu. They were the picture of a perfect couple and Parvathi envied them. Their love for each other was so divine that whatever avatar He took in whichever place, she was there even before Him. Whether it was Ayodhya, Dwaraka, Badari or Puri, Lakshmi followed him like a shadow. She married and remarried Him a thousand times in Thiruvananthapuram, Tirupathi, Srirangam, Kanchi, Belur, Udupi— you name it. He descended to earth when she simply messaged Him to come to her! He killed demons and fought wars for her sake. Whereas, she — Parvathi— remained the wife of a mendicant, who showed no concern for her. Humiliation gave way to anger. Shiva’s consort would no longer brook insults.    “Shall we go down to the plains below?” she asked at last.   Shiva asked for one good reason why, without opening His eyes.  “I believe the inhabitants of the earth have turned too wicked and depraved. There is no end to their arrogance. Corruption is rampant. Governments spend recklessly on weapons of war. Maha Vishnu will descend to earth once again in another avatar to set things right. He gets the credit each time, so they will build more temples for Him and ignore you completely.” Parvathi touched the right chord. Shiva opened His fearful third eye which hurled an appalling ring of flame down to earth. The flame became a glittering gem-studded crown as it landed. It was more powerful than the Vishnu Chakra. Shiva sneered: Let’s see how the great Saviour will deal with that now!  He closed His eye again.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/how-the-pandemic-happened-1012230.html
24-07-2021||Second Edit||Editorial | Seers must stay out of politics||Religious leaders are supposed to be detached and ‘liberated’ from the affairs of the world, but the manner in which dozens of Lingayat seers have openly dabbled in politics by lobbying for the continuation of B S Yediyurappa as Karnataka Chief Minister is an indication of how far they have strayed from the path of renunciation. The doctrine of separation of Church and State calls for a distance between the political apparatus and religious organisations, but this line has been breached all too often. The political clout that these men in ochre robes wield has never been in doubt, but to dictate to a political party that a Chief Minister should not be removed only because he belongs to their community does not auger well for democracy and secularism. It is a different matter though that, irrespective of the party, it is usually an undemocratic ‘high command’ that has the final say in the choice of the Chief Minister, and not the MLAs as mandated by the Constitution. Nonetheless, religious and spiritual leaders have no business to play the role of power brokers. While all political parties are guilty of pandering to various mutts and their heads in view of their supposed influence over their followers, the BJP has taken it to an altogether different level in its bid to shred secularism, a basic requirement of democracy, and wield its Hindutva ideology to gain political dominance. It has come back to bite the party, as the seers threaten to derail the BJP’s electoral prospects if it dares replace Yediyurappa. The BJP has already had a taste of it during the 2013 Assembly elections, when the seers threw their weight behind Yediyurappa who had floated his own outfit, the Karnataka Janata Party, leading to the BJP’s defeat in many seats. It is no secret that many religious leaders interfere in the government’s functioning and exert pressure on the Chief Minister to induct their favourites as ministers and officers in plum posts. But what is most unfortunate is that the effect of what the seers have said openly has the effect of dividing people on the basis of caste and community. If the seers are keen on a life of politics, they should drop the pretence of renunciation and contest elections, as Yogi Adityanath and others have done. People look up to seers and saints with great reverence. They bring no honour to themselves by indulging in political manoeuvres. Politics and religion will both retain legitimacy only so long as they remain separate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/editorial-seers-must-stay-out-of-politics-1012238.html
24-07-2021||South||Kerala temple body to avoid 'bali tharpanamm' ritual due to Covid-19||Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB), the apex temple body in Kerala, has decided to avoid the annual 'bali tharpanamm', a ritual to pay homage to ancestors, in its shrines this year citing the spread of coronavirus. A recent high-level meeting of the Board decided not to allow the ritual, which used to be performed by thousands of devotees in the premises of small and big temples across the state, TDB sources here said. Over 1,200 temples, including the famous Sabarimala Lord Ayyappa shrine in the state, are managed by the TDB.  Cutting across gender and age barriers, people belonging to Hindu community usually perform the traditional ritual on the banks of rivers and seashores across the southern state on the occasionof the 'Karkkidaka Vavu', which falls on August 8 this year. The decision was taken based on the assessment that it was difficult to perform the ritual by adhering to social distancing norms and other pandemic protocols, they said. The entering of devotees en mass to the bathing ghats of temples to perform the bali tharpanam may aggravate the spread of the disease, the TDB officials said adding that discussion was held with tantris (head priest) of respective temples before taking the decision. According to Hindu belief, departed souls attain "moksha" (liberation) if the ritual is performed on 'Karkidaka Vavu' day. Temple authorities and police used to make elaborate arrangements to enable people to offer 'Bali tharpanam' at important places such as Thiruvallam Parasurama Temple and Shangumugham Beach here, Varkala Papanasam Beach and on the banks of Periyar river in Aluva near Kochi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-temple-body-to-avoid-bali-tharpanamm-ritual-due-to-covid-19-1012353.html
24-07-2021||South||Zika virus cases Kerala top 46 as two more test positive||Two more people tested positive for Zika virus in Kerala, taking the total number of reported cases of the infection to 46, out of which five are active. A 42 year-old woman from Kumarapuram in Thiruvananthapuram and a 30 year-old woman from Kottarakkara in Kollam were the ones who tested positive for the virus, a state government release said. The virus was confirmed in tests conducted at the virology lab of the Thiruvananthapuram Medical College. None of the infected patients have been admitted in the hospital and they all are stable, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/zika-virus-cases-kerala-top-46-as-two-more-test-positive-1012425.html
24-07-2021||South||Kerala sees slight decline in Covid-19 positivity rate but crucial days ahead||The Covid-19 surge in Kerala continued as 18,531 more persons tested positive for the deadly infection on Saturday. In what was a relief, the test positivity rate declined to 11.91 per cent. At 1.55 lakh, the number of tests done in the last 24 hours was comparatively high. The state's TPR had been steadily rising and reached 13.63 per cent on Friday, triggering concerns of a third wave.  Health department sources said that the coming week would be very crucial as relaxations were given for three days from July 18 to 20 in view of Bakrid. Social distancing norms were reportedly flouted following the ease of restrictions. If there was any massive spread of infection during those days, it would start reflecting from this week, they said. The state government had invited widespread crticism for relaxating restrictions. Meanwhile, there were reports that around 80 persons at the Thrissur Medical College Hospital, including patients and by-standers, were infected with Covid-19. At Idukki district, local people disrupted a film shooting accusing the crew of flouting social distancing norms. Subsequently, the police registered a case against the film crew.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-sees-slight-decline-in-covid-19-positivity-rate-but-crucial-days-ahead-1012446.html
24-07-2021||South||Row erupts over hoarding calling Pinarayi Vijayan 'Kerala's God'||A hoarding of Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in front of a temple at Malappuram district in Kerala terming him as 'Kerala's God' has triggered a row. The full size hoarding of Vijayan with the title 'Kerala's God' has the caption in Malayalam stating 'You asked who is God. People replied that the one who gives food'. The hoarding appeared in front of Pacheri Mahavishnu Temple at Valancherry, about 25 kilometres from Malappuram town, soon after the swearing in of the Pinarayi Vijayan's second consecutive government in May. With the temple committee raising objections to it, the hoarding was recently shifted to another nearby location. Temple committee officer bearer Ravendran told a section of local media that the devotees were quite disturbed over the hoarding terming Vijayan as God. The CPI(M) local leadership maintained that the hoarding was not installed by the party. Another hoarding with the pictures of Vijayan and all his cabinet colleagues had also appeared in the locality with the caption that all the temples towns in Kerala voted for CPI(M) and states it was evident that all gods were communist in this election. With the hoardings triggering a row after it went viral on social media, the police is likely to launch a probe to find its source. During the election campaign, Kerala had witnessed a row over hoarding terming Vijayan as 'Captain'. Even party senior leaders had raised objection to projecting him as captain ahead of elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/row-erupts-over-hoarding-calling-pinarayi-vijayan-keralas-god-1012455.html
24-07-2021||South||Mystery of Kerala transgender activist's death deepens||The nystery of the death of Kerala transgender activist Anannyah Kumari Alex deepened with reports that the postmortem examination found unhealed wounds on her private parts. According to sources, the postmortem report received by the police seems to be substantiating Anannyah's complaints of severe health problems after undergoing sex reassignment surgery. The police would be holding detailed discussions with the doctors and a medical board might be formed for further inquiry. Anannyah had alleged medical negligence by the private hospital where she had undergone sex reassignment surgery about an year back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mystery-of-kerala-transgender-activists-death-deepens-1012475.html
24-07-2021||South||Catholic priest arrested for 'disparaging' remarks against PM Modi & Amit Shah||A Catholic priest has been arrested in Kanyakumari district for his alleged disparaging remarks against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and 'Bharat Mata.' Father George Ponnaiah reportedly made the remarks at a meeting at Arumanai town recently. A video of his speech went viral on social media, following which leaders of various Hindu outfits and BJP lodged a complaint against him and he was arrested. He was booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Epidemic Diseases Act, police said. Meanwhile, scores of BJP workers, led by party's state treasurer S R Sekar, staged a demonstration in Coimbatore, demanding that the priest be detained under the Goondas Act for his remarks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/catholic-priest-arrested-for-disparaging-remarks-against-pm-modi-amit-shah-1012488.html
24-07-2021||State||IMD sounds red alert for coastal districts today||The vigorous monsoon in coastal and Malnad regions is likely to regress briefly after July 25 according to meteorologists of the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The officials attributed Thursday and Friday's rainfall to the prevailing low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal region. G S Patil, Director, IMD, Bengaluru told DH that an offshore trough has been spread over the peninsular region from Maharashtra to the Kerala coast resulting in widespread rainfall. "This is due to the well-marked low-pressure area over north-west of Bay of Bengal off the coast of Odisha and West Bengal," Patil explained. As a result, coastal Karnataka is expected to witness widespread rainfall till  July 27 followed by similar spells of intermittent rains in north interior and south interior Karnataka. The IMD has also sounded red alert in Uttara Kannada, Udupi, Dakshina Kannada till Saturday morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/imd-sounds-red-alert-for-coastal-districts-today-1012188.html
24-07-2021||State||Unprecedented rain triggers flash floods in Uttara Kannada||An aggressive and vigorous monsoon lashing coastal Karnataka, Konkan region and Godavari basin for the last couple of days has left Karnataka on the brink of witnessing severe catastrophe. A record and unprecedented rains in the last 24 hours has caused severe damage and distress across Uttara Kannada district, killing 6 people. According to Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Cell (KSNDMC), “All the top three places with the highest rainfall are within Uttara Kannada. Dongri in Ankola, Itguli in Sirsi and Castle Rock in Supa collectively received 1,482 mm rainfall of Friday,” explained a senior scientist at the centre. Following the heavy rains, several west-flowing rivers like Gangavali (Bedthi) and Aghanashini have breached the danger mark and submerged major bridges, national and state Highways leaving hundreds of people, vehicles stranded. The heavy rains have also resulted in major landslides along the Western Ghats region, damaging major roads that connected the coastal with hinterland areas. More intense than the 1961 and 2019 floods and heavy rainfall in the region, the night-long downpour left all the rivers in spate. The Sunkasala bridge on the NH was completely submerged and water was flowing four feet above the bridge. Several trucks, passenger vehicles were stranded due to the flood. Indian Navy chopper was deployed to rescue eight people from Bengaluru who were stranded at a hotel in Sunkasala amidst the swollen Bedthi river. Aghanashini river caused flash floods and marooned thousands of acres of agricultural fields, orchards in Kumata taluk. Following heavy inflow of water into the Kadra dam, the administration opened 10 sluice gates and released 2.15 lakh cusecs of water. As a result, Kadra, Mallapura, Kurnipet, Kinnara villages have been intensely flooded.  Even as the rains showed signs of regression in the coastal areas, the Malnad areas of Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan and Kodagu continued to receive heavy rainfall all through the day. Karimane in Hosanagara taluk of Shivamogga received 252 mm rainfall in just eight hours on Friday. The Shiradi ghat which was closed for traffic on Thursday further witnessed landslides. Charmadi Ghat also reported minor landslides all through the stretch. Rain claims six lives With the floodwaters completely surrounding the Kurve island in Ankola taluk, Beeru Gowda (65) and Gangadhar Gowda (30) died when the boat capsized due to strong currents. Similarly, Mahadevi Ambiga (46), a fisherwoman, died after her boat sank in the Sharavathi river near Molkoda village of Honnavar due to heavy rains andwinds. Gangadhar Thimmagowda (28) was washed away in the overflowing waters of Chennapura lake near Sirsi. Basave Gowda (66) died after the cattle pen collapsed in Kytanabeedu village in Chikkamagaluru taluk. Yet another person died in Khanapura of Belagavi due to electrocution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/unprecedented-rain-triggers-flash-floods-in-uttara-kannada-1012191.html
24-07-2021||State||Health officials on high alert in flood-hit regions||Health Minister K Sudhakar has instructed health officials to take precautions to prevent outbreak of diseases in flood-hit regions of the state. The minister held meetings with senior health officials at Arogya Soudha here on Friday and reviewed the preparedness of the health department in fighting floods. Officials were instructed to spray disinfectants in the flood-affected districts. They have also been told to educate people about potential outbreak of diseases. Vulnerable segments such as senior citizens, pregnant women and children must be given special attention during these floods, Sudhakar said. “The second wave of Covid is not over yet. Ensure that free masks and sanitisers are distributed to people in flood relief centres,” he added. The spread of communicable diseases such as chikungunya and dengue is low this year but the department needs to be on guard for any spike in cases in the coming days. Officials have been told to make use of mobile health units in case there are no primary health centres or government hospitals close to flood relief centres. In the worst-affected districts, the department must appoint nodal officers to coordinate with the district administration, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/health-officials-on-high-alert-in-flood-hit-regions-1012192.html
24-07-2021||State||Maharashtra cloudburst sparks flood fears in Krishna basin||The cloudburst in the Konkan belt, coupled with heavy discharges from reservoirs in Maharashtra, has sparked flood fears in the Krishna basin districts of the state. Krishna river and its tributaries - Vedganga, Doodhganga, Malaprabha, Ghataprabha, Hiranyakeshi and Markandeya - are flowing above the danger level in Belagavi district. Inflow into Krishna river at Kallol barrage in Chikkodi taluk has reached 1.56 lakh cusec, and it is expected to go further up in the next few days. The Sadalga-Borgaon and Kuduchi-Ugaar bridges have completely gone under floodwaters. Many villages in Khanapur taluk have been cut off by unrelenting downpour and swollen rivers/rivulets. Kanakumbi in Khanapur, where the Malaprabha river originates, has recorded a spine-chilling 52 cm (520 mm) of rain in the last 24 hours (ending 8 am on Friday), according to Belagavi sub-division assistant commissioner Ravindra Karalingannavar. NDRF personnel and the police evacuated more than 300 residents of the flooded areas in Sankeshwar and Nippani to shelters. A stretch of the Pune-Bengaluru highway (NH-4) near Yamagarni in Nippani taluk has gone under the floodwaters of Vedganga. Eight people were rescued from a stranded car and a lorry. The stretch is closed for traffic.An NDRF team rescued Adusiddeshwar Mutt seer and four others from the flooded mutt in Kundargi, Gokak taluk. With Malaprabha and Ghataprabha dams clocking massive inflows, the authorities have sounded a flood warning to the downstream villages.Unrelenting downpour has crippled normal life in Belagavi city and Khanapur town, where many areas have been inundated. The Belagavi-Kolhapur highway has been closed for traffic at Hattargi toll. A massive 3 lakh cusec of water was discharged downstream Almatti as a precautionary measure on Friday. Also the same quantum of water was released from the parallel Basava Sagara (Narayanapura) dam in the evening. Acres of standing crops on either side of the river have gone underwater. A flood alert has been issued to the villages on the banks of swollen Krishna river in Vijayapura, Yadgir and Raichur districts. Meanwhile, incessant showers have filled most of the water bodies in Dharwad and Gadag districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/maharashtra-cloudburst-sparks-flood-fears-in-krishna-basin-1012193.html
24-07-2021||State||Students want continuation of MCQ pattern in SSLC exams||The students, who appeared for SSLC examinations which concluded on Thursdays, have batted for the continuation of the Multiple Choice Questions (MCQ) pattern of the question paper. This year, the education department had switched to the MCQ format question paper considering the lack of academic days available for students to attend classes in offline mode and also the Covid-19 pandemic. According to the students, the MCQs were easier than the regular examination pattern where the questions need lengthy answers. They said sticking to the MCQ format will also help the students in future as most of the competitive examination papers will be in the MCQ format. "When the examination is just to check the learning level of children, then it can be tested through MCQs also," said a student said. The students even requested the department to continue the MCQ question paper pattern. "As we have attended online classes, there was a lack of practice when it comes to writing and the MCQ pattern rescued us," Sujal, a student, said. Meanwhile, the department officials said no decision has been taken on the question paper format for the supplementary examinations to be held in August.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/students-want-continuation-of-mcq-pattern-in-sslc-exams-1012194.html
24-07-2021||State||Fund release delay hits Centre's schemes in Karnataka||The delay in release of grants from the union government for schemes sponsored by it has affected several welfare schemes in Karnataka, hurting its already stretched finances. A recent review of such schemes by the state government identified 10 programmes in which release of grants from the Centre was lesser than the budgetary allocation. The schemes include Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS) and National Health Mission (NHM). While the Centre had allocated Rs 10,729 crore for these schemes for the 2020-21 financial year, it has released Rs 8,553 crore till date. An amount of Rs 2,175 crore - which is one-fifth of the total allocation - is yet to be released. The lion’s share of these allocations - around 60% - was for MGNREGS. Owing to an increased demand for jobs in rural areas due to the migration caused by the Covid-induced lockdown, the Centre had increased allocations for the scheme in the middle of the fiscal. Of the Rs 6,445 crore allocated for MGNREGS, the Centre has released Rs 5,605 crore till date and Rs 840.95 crore is pending. Budgetary allocations of NHM were also not released in full despite the pandemic. While Rs 1,208.54 crore was allocated, Rs 1,076 crore was released till date. For 2020-21, Rs 1,001.49 crore was budgeted by the Centre for ICDS and its supplementary nutrition programme. However, only Rs 680.63 crore is released. Receiving less than half the allocation was the CSS for development of infrastructure facilities for the judiciary being implemented by the Public Works Department. While the first scheme was promised an allocation of Rs 425.84 crore, only Rs 21.22 crore was released. Reduction in the Centre’s share in several CSSs has also hit the state’s finances. Reacting to a query on the issue following the review of CSSs, Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar said mid-day meals programme in schools was among the few schemes where the Centre’s share is reduced. Apart from funds for CSSs, reduction in the release of GST devolution and GST compensation funds has also affected the state's finances.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/fund-release-delay-hits-centres-schemes-in-karnataka-1012196.html
24-07-2021||State||Vehicles banned on Charmadi Ghat in the night||Chikkamagaluru Deputy Commissioner K N Ramesh banned the movement of vehicles on Charmadi Ghat road in the night until further orders on Friday. Ambulances and vehicles supplying oxygen were exempted from the ban. The movement of heavy vehicles was banned. Light vehicles like KSRTC bus, lorry, tempo traveller, ambulance, car, jeep, van, two-wheelers were allowed to ply from 6 am to 7 pm. Beltangady Tahasildar Mahesh J said the landslide at sixth curve in Charmadi ghats was a minor landslide. "Official from NH division of state PWD had inspected the landslide and took steps to prevent more mud from caving in," Mahesh told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/vehicles-banned-on-charmadi-ghat-in-the-night-1012244.html
24-07-2021||State||Conduct probe into Kateel's leaked audio clip: Ramanath Rai||Former minister B Ramanath Rai said that there is a need to conduct a probe into the alleged audio clip which reportedly had BJP state chief Nalin Kumar Kateel hinting at leadership change. Though Kateel had claimed that his voice was mimicked, everyone knows whose voice it was, Rai to media persons at Congress Bhavan on Saturday. "Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa himself has said that the voice in the audio clip was that of Kateel. But BJP MLAs from the district had failed to identify the voice and had appealed to Mangaluru Commissioner of Police to conduct a probe into the audio clip. Even after one week, the Commissioner of Police, who is well-versed in handling the issue of misuse of social media, had failed to solve the case,” the former minister observed. "It is a tragedy that BJP MLAs from the district did not identify the voice of their own three-time MP with whom they had a close affinity. In such a scenario, will they be a voice for the voiceless in their constituency?" he asked. The audio clip also exposed the level of corruption in the BJP-led government, Rai claimed. Rai also demanded a probe into the corruption charges against Minister for Women and Child Development and Pegasus spyware. The BJP government does not order a probe into allegations, but is engaged in diverting the attention of people from main issues, he charged. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/conduct-probe-into-kateels-leaked-audio-clip-ramanath-rai-1012381.html
24-07-2021||State||Nalin Kateel heaps praise on Yediyurappa||BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel was, on Saturday, full of praise for Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, saying that the latter had tackle the floods and the Covid crisis effectively.  Yediyurappa had overcome many a challenge and helped the poor, Kateel said.  He was speaking after inaugurating a meeting of the party’s office-bearers.  As Kateel described the agitations led by Yediyurappa and the manner in which he had built the BJP in Karnataka, it seemed like a farewell speech for the chief minister.  He also referred to Yediyurappa’s concern for farmers and how he took out padayatras to the take the party’s message across the state.  Congratulating the chief minister on completing two years in office, the state BJP chief said Karnataka was in the third position in implementing the schemes of the Narendra Modi-led central government.  Kateel also claimed that the Yediyurappa government had resolved the Mahadayi and Mekedatu water disputes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/nalin-kateel-heaps-praise-on-yediyurappa-1012477.html
24-07-2021||State||Panchamasali Lingayats to mount pressure for quota||Kudalasangama Panchamasali Peetha seer Basava Jaya Mrutyunjaya Swami on Saturday announced a massive campaign to mount pressure on the government for Category 2A reservation for the community. At present, the Panchamasalis come under Category 3B with a 5 per cent quota. Under Category 2A, they will get a share in the 15 per cent quota. “The chief minister had sought six months’ time to look into our demand. The deadline ends in September,” the seer told reporters.  “Starting October 1, we will have a satyagraha (demonstration) at Freedom Park,” he said. “From August 15 till September 30, we will take out the Panchamasali Pratigna Panchayat campaign to create awareness about our demand at the grassroots level. This will extend from Basavakalyan to the Male Mahadeshwara Hills,” he said, adding that it would culminate in the satyagraha from October 1 that happens to be former chief minister J H Patel’s birthday.  Panchamasali CM The seer said the BJP high command should consider any one of the 17 Panchamasali Lingayat legislators for the chief minister’s post. “This isn’t a demand or an assertion. It’s good if they pick someone from our community,” he said, noting that three of them - Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, Murugesh Nirani and Arvind Bellad - are being speculated for the post.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/panchamasali-lingayats-to-mount-pressure-for-quota-1012478.html
24-07-2021||State||The X factor called Yediyurappa & the challenge to pick his successor||The government headed by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa completes two years in office on Sunday and the writing on the wall suggests that he is spending his last days in office. Earlier this week, Yediyurappa dropped big hints that he is on his way out.  The past two years have been a political roller-coaster for the 78-year-old leader, who has had to fight dissidence within the party. Yediyurappa had to fulfill his promise of rewarding the 16 MLAs who defected from the Congress-JD(S) coalition without offending the ‘native’ BJP leaders. He also had to deal with some BJP leaders critical of his style of functioning. They alleged that his son, BJP state vice-president B Y Vijayendra, interfered in the administration. This, coupled with the BJP’s unwritten rule of asking its leaders to retire after 75 years of age, hung like a sword of Damocles over him. With the 2023 Assembly polls under two years away, the BJP has several challenges to overcome. If Yediyurappa manages to survive the uncertainty surrounding his continuation, the party will have to address internal rifts, along with complaints against Vijayendra. But, several Yediyurappa loyalists seem to have gone silent amid his imminent exit. Replacing Yediyurappa risks losing the support of Lingayats, the party’s largest vote bank. The party also hopes to win over the Vokkaligas, the other dominant community, to gain an edge over the JD(S) and Congress that are led by Vokkaligas H D Kumaraswamy and D K Shivakumar, respectively. Meanwhile, fresh demands are being made for a Dalit to be made the CM. The likelihood of Yediyurappa stepping down has already irked several Lingayat seers who have expressed solidarity with him, warning the BJP of dire consequences. Even Congress’ Lingayat leaders M B Patil and Shamanur Shivashankarappa have supported Yediyurappa, who is arguably the BJP’s tallest Lingayat leader. “If Yediyurappa is replaced with someone from a different community, it is likely to invite hostility from Lingayats,” political analyst D Umapathy says, describing the BJP’s Catch-22 situation. “Within the community, the BJP cannot find a leader matching Yediyurappa’s stature. Also, the name of Pralhad Joshi (Brahmin) is being floated for the CM’s post. This will not go down well with Lingayats. Ramakrishna Hegde’s appointment as the CM was an unprecedented situation where Lingayats supported a Brahmin leader. This is not the same,” he explains.  Further, while Yediyurappa is perceived as a ‘soft Hindutva’ ideologue, the BJP is said to be considering a hardliner backed by the RSS to become its face for the 2023 polls. Former Minister H Ekantaiah says such a move would work against the party. “Karnataka’s political culture does not support extreme right-wing ideology. Such an attempt will backfire. The party has already dented its image in the state,” he says. However, many BJP leaders strongly believe that their party’s prospects in Karnataka are not tied to one leader, immaterial of his mass appeal. Requesting anonymity, a senior BJP leader says, “The fear of Lingayats deserting BJP is baseless. The community, which stood with Janata Parivar during Veerendra Patil’s time, has unwaveringly remained with BJP after the Parivar split. Similar to the Janata Party, which thrived despite internal conflicts, the BJP’s presence will remain strong owing to a strong grassroots network of party workers.” Some leaders are also of the opinion that the Lingayat vote bank cannot be seen as one entity, as there are several groups at work within the community. Nonetheless, BJP leaders that DH spoke to unanimously agree that the party can sustain without Yediyurappa at the helm of affairs, but he cannot be sidelined. Whoever replaces Yediyurappa will have to find a way to work with him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/the-x-factor-called-yediyurappa-the-challenge-to-pick-his-successor-1012480.html
24-07-2021||State||Rain recedes, but no let-up in floods in Uttara Kannada, Krishna basin||The intensity of rain has come down drastically, but the flood situation in Uttara Kannada and Krishna basin districts remained grim. The swollen rivers and heavy discharge from reservoirs have cut off many villages, submerged acres of crops and damaged houses and road infrastructure. With inflows from Maharashtra clocking over 2.75 lakh cusec, Krishna river and its tributaries have created havoc in basin districts. The Pune-Bengaluru (NH-4) highway has remained closed for traffic at Yamgarni in Nippani taluk due to the flooding by the overflowing Vedganga. Also, the swollen Hiranyakeshi river has thrown traffic out of gear on NH-4 at Sankeshwar. Landslides and mudslips on Belagavi-Panaji highway near Londa have affected the vehicular movement between Belagavi and Uttara Kannada. NDRF and police personnel moved scores of stranded villagers, including a pregnant woman, in Chikkodi and Nippani taluks. Ghataprabha and Markandeya rivers have flooded several residential areas in Gokak town and surround villages. Chikkoli and Lolasur bridges have been submerged. Acres of sugarcane and maize crops have been inundated. Belagavi Deputy Commissioner M G Hiremath said that 19,035 persons, trapped in flooded villages in the district, have been rescued and shifted to safer places. A total of 8,795 persons have taken shelter in the 89 relief centres established in the district. Hiremath said that two deaths have been reported and traffic movement on 37 roads has been stopped.  Thupprihalla and Bennihalla, notorious for flash floods, have wreaked havoc on crops in Dharwad and Gadag districts while the Varada river has unleashed a flood fury in the Haveri district. Many villages downstream Almatti and Narayanapur reservoirs in Raichur and Lingasugur taluks have been turned into islands following a massive 3 lakh-plus cusec discharge. Huvinahedagi bridge in Devadurg taluk - a major road link between Raichur and Kalaburagi - has gone under the floodwaters of Krishna. 81 U-K villages hit Meanwhile, the overflowing Aghanashini, Gangavali and Kali rivers have left a trail of destruction in Uttara Kannada, where 81 villages have gone under floodwaters. Also, 30 bridges and over 50 houses were completely damaged in the deluge. Four people were killed and three have gone missing in the downpour-triggered flash floods, according to the district administration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rain-recedes-but-no-let-up-in-floods-in-uttara-kannada-krishna-basin-1012483.html
24-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CM holds virtual meeting with officials of flood-hit districts||Responding to the flood situation across coastal and north-west regions of the state, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday directed officials to relocate residents of low-lying villages along the river banks. The CM held a video conference with the district officials of Belagavi, Uttara Kannada, Shivamogga, Haveri, Chikkamagaluru and Dharwad even as the rains continued to lash the regions heavily. Pointing to the forecast issued by the IMD, CM told officials to open relief centres in all the flood-hit areas and prepare for any emergency. He also directed the officials to seek assistance from the Armed Forces in case they require helicopters for rescuing stranded villagers in flood-affected areas. Earlier in the day, Revenue minister R Ashoka briefed that the Uttara Kannada district received in excess of 300 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours with Dongri panchayat in Ankola taluk receiving a record 541 mm rainfall. Heavy rainfall across River Krishna catchment in Konkan areas of Maharashtra has swelled inflow into downstream reservoirs of Karnataka, according to Ashoka. The revenue minister further added, Belagavi, Kalaburagi, Yadgir districts have been put on high alert following increased discharge of water from the reservoirs. “We are expecting flooding in the next two-three days as the Krishna river is expected receive massive inflow,” he revealed. Four National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams are deployed in Raichur, Kodagu, Belagavi and Dakshina Kannada districts. The state government has requested two additional teams for Belagavi and Shivamogga, Ashoka said. The NDRF team in Bengaluru is being sent to Belagavi, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-holds-virtual-meeting-with-officials-of-flood-hit-districts-1012189.html
24-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||After PU results, colleges have task cut out for them to decide cut-offs||Colleges offering undergraduate courses in the state started getting queries from students and parents on Wednesday, a day after the announcement of the II PU results.  Following an increase in the number of students being eligible to get admission to higher education courses, the students and parents are trying to finalise the seats.  High application fee According to parents and students who dialled colleges on Wednesday, some of the institutions in cities like Bengaluru, Mysuru and Mangaluru have increased the application fee. The application fee fixed by the department of collegiate education was Rs 21 for last year.  Some colleges have even completed admissions for a few of the courses which are in high demand, like commerce and computer-based courses. Several students securing equal marks has become a headache for college managements to announce cut offs." "More than 2,000 students secured 600 out of 600 and we are still thinking how to decide the cut-offs," said the representative of a private unaided college in Bengaluru. There are over 430 government degree colleges and 375 private degree colleges in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/after-pu-results-colleges-have-task-cut-out-for-them-to-decide-cut-offs-1012195.html
24-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM directs in-charge Ministers to stay put in rain-hit districts||With torrential rains battering several parts of coastal, malnad and north-interior Karnataka, causing flood-like situation and landslides, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday directed district in- charge Ministers to stay put in their respective districts and monitor the relief and rescue operations there. The Chief Minister will himself be travelling to rain and flood-affected border district of Belagavi in north Karnataka on Sunday, to assess the situation there. "The Chief Minister this morning spoke to district in-charge Ministers and Deputy Commissioners of various districts and gathered information about the rain and flood situation there. He has directed the in-charge Ministers to stay put in their respective districts," the CMO said in a statement, which also informed about Yediyurappa's travel to Belagavi on Sunday. According to the information from the State Disaster Management Authority, till last evening, 131 villages in 18 taluks of the state have been affected by rains and floods, and 16,213 people have been affected and three people have died, while two were missing. Hundreds of houses have been damaged and 8,733 people were evacuated. As many as 4,964 people were taking shelter in 80 relief camps till last evening. The Chief Minister had held a virtual meeting with the district officials of Belagavi, Uttara Kannada, Shivamogga, Haveri, Chikkamagaluru and Dharwad, on Friday evening and had directed them to relocate the residents of low-lying villages along the river banks. With several dams in the state and neighbouring Maharashtra reaching brim, water is being released into the rivers, inundating lowliying and river banks areas. Rescue and relief teams like NDRF, SDRF, fire department personnels have been pressed into service in affected regions, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-directs-in-charge-ministers-to-stay-put-in-rain-hit-districts-1012315.html
24-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka permits reopening of amusement parks, activities at places of worship||Further easing Covid-19 restrictions, the Karnataka government on Saturday permitted reopening of amusement parks and similar places, and allowed places of worship to carry out related religious activities from July 25. "Amusement Parks and similar places permitted to reopen strictly adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour and following guidelines issued by the Health and Family Welfare Department," an order issued by Principal Secretary to Revenue Department (Disaster Management) N Manjunatha Prasad said. However, water sports and water related adventure activities are not allowed, it said. Also, places of worship (Temples, Mosques, Churches, Gurudwaras, and other religious places) are allowed to open and related activities pertaining to the places of worship are permitted from July 25, strictly adhering to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and SOP issued by the department concerned. However, temple festivals, processions, and congregations are not allowed, the order added. Earlier this month the government had allowed places of worship to open only for darshan, and no other special seva or other activities were permitted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-permits-reopening-of-amusement-parks-activities-at-places-of-worship-1012324.html
24-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Faced several challenges as CM from day one, Yediyurappa says as he stares at exit||As he stares at his possible exit, B S Yediyurappa on Saturday said he had to face several challenges from the day he took charge as the Chief Minister, but is satisfied that he has made honest efforts to better the lives of the people. The Chief Minister also said that he feels proud to have paid back to the people of Shivamogga district and his Shikaripura constituency, by ensuring its all-round development. He was speaking after virtually inaugurating projects worth Rs 1,074 crore and laying the foundation for various projects worth Rs 560 crore in Shivamogga district, from his home office here. "I am satisfied that in the last two years we put maximum efforts for the development of Shivamogga district. The projects that are being inaugurated are evidence for it. I feel proud to say that through all-round development, I have made honest efforts to pay back to the people of Shivamogga district, and more specifically Shikaripura taluk, which gave me political birth," Yediyurappa said. "From the day I took charge as the Chief Minister till now, I had to face several challenges like natural disasters that the state had never faced in the past and the corona pandemic, which ravaged lives. Now once again there is a flood like situation," Yediyurappa noted. Stating that he has spoken to Deputy Commissioners of eight districts, including Shivamogga, and directed them to take up relief and rescue works, he said "I'm satisfied that despite all these (challenges), I have been able to take steps to improve the living standard of the people and their financial position. ...I thank the people for their support in facing the challenges." Indicating that Monday might be his last day in office, Yediyurappa had recently said that based on the instructions that the central leaders will give him on July 25, he will begin "his work" from July 26. His government will complete two years in office on July 26. Yediyurappa, who began his political career as Purasabha president in Shikaripura, was first elected to the Legislative Assembly from Shikaripura in 1983 and went on to win eight times from there. The Chief Minister's elder son B Y Raghavendra is the MP from Shivamogga Lok Sabha constituency. Pointing out various initiatives on infrastructure development, irrigation works to provide water to farms, filling up of lakes in Shivamogga, among others, Yediyurappa expressed confidence that the irrigation projects taken up in the district would change the financial condition of the farmers in the days to come. Noting that Shivamogga airport work at Sogane village was under progress, he said the Rs 384 crore airport is viable for operating Airbus aircraft and would also benefit neighbouring districts in terms of tourism, industries and employment generation. The airport will start operations by next April, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/faced-several-challenges-as-cm-from-day-one-yediyurappa-says-as-he-stares-at-exit-1012389.html
24-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||1,857 new Covid-19 cases, 29 deaths in Karnataka||Karnataka on Saturday reported 1,857 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 28,93,556 while 29 deaths pushed the toll to 36,352. The day also saw 2,050 discharges, continuing to outnumber the fresh cases, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 28,33,276. Out of 1,857 new cases reported on Saturday, 551 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 560 discharges and only nine deaths. The total number of active cases stood at 23,905. Out of 29 deaths reported on Saturday, nine were from Bengaluru Urban; Dakshina Kannada (4), Chikkamagaluru, Mandya and Mysuru (two each), followed by others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 551, Dakshina Kannada 269, Mysuru 177, Udupi 129, Hassan 111, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,24,595, followed by Mysuru 1,72,020 and Tumakuru 1,17,424. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 12,00,419, followed by Mysuru 1,68,010 and Tumakuru 1,14,979. Cumulatively, a total of 3,77,05,035 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,53,415 were on Saturday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/1857-new-covid-19-cases-29-deaths-in-karnataka-1012454.html
24-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka gets 11% more rainfall than normal, first in 50 years: KSNDMC||As the monsoons continued to lash several parts of the state, three hoblis in Shivamogga district received more than 300 mm rainfall between July 23 and July 24. The 13 major reservoirs, exceeding the previous day’s numbers, received a cumulative inflow of 59 TMC during the same period. Kudumallige and Araga in Thirthahalli Taluk received 355 mm and 352 mm respectively, followed by Karimane in Hosanagara Taluk which received 324 mm rainfall. The data from Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) has shown that between July 18 to July 24, the coastal, Malnad and adjacent districts have received more than 500 mm up to 1238 mm rainfall. “As of 24th July 2021, the state has received 11 per cent more rainfall than normal in 50 years in this Southwest Monsoon season and in the last two days we have received 101 TMC inflows in our 13 major reservoirs”, Manoj Ranjan, Director, Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC), told DH. A total of 283 villages in 45 taluks have been affected by the looming floods in the state since July 22. While more than 36 thousand people have been affected, 9 lives have been lost and 3 have gone missing. With 2 deaths by drowning and 2 deaths by landslides, Uttara Kannada district has recorded more casualties than other districts. The Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) is monitoring and managing the flood Risk, Rescue and relief operations along with the 7 NDRF and 15 SDRF teams, Fire and emergency services, Navy helicopters, Indian Coast Guards along with Grama panchayat Disaster management team, Ranjan added. Due to a low-pressure area that lies over Jharkhand and neighbouring areas, and two other systems, Coastal Karnataka is expected to receive widespread rainfall until July 28 while interior regions are expected to receive fairly widespread rainfall, IMD (Bengaluru), said. An orange alert has been issued in Uttara Kannada, Udupi, Dakshina Kannada, Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan and Kodagu districts and a yellow alert has been issued in Belagavi and Dharwad districts until the morning of July 25, by the IMD.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-gets-11-more-rainfall-than-normal-first-in-50-years-ksndmc-1012517.html
24-07-2021||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||CM Yediyurappa to visit rain-hit Belagavi; death toll at 9||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will visit flood-hit Belagavi on Sunday even as the death toll rose to nine with several thousands being displaced in 11 districts due to heavy rainfall. More than 36,000 people in 283 villages have been affected with heavy rainfall battering these districts. Rescue operations were carried out to help marooned citizens. Eight out of nine deaths so far are due to drowning, according to the Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA). One person died because of a house collapse. Deaths were reported from Uttara Kannada (4), Belagavi (2), Chikkamagaluru, Dharwad and Kodagu (one each). "I have spoken to deputy commissioners of eight districts including Shivamogga and directed them to take up relief and rescue works," Yediyurappa said. Coastal, Malnad and adjacent districts received more than 500 mm rainfall, reaching up to 1,238 mm, authorities said. "Uttara Kannada, Shivamogga, Belagavi, Hassan, Chikkamagaluru, Dharwad, Dakshina Kannada and Kodagu districts received widespread heavy to extremely heavy rains," the KSDMA said, adding that Kudumallige in Tirthahalli, Shivamogga received the highest 355 mm rainfall. The state's 13 reservoirs have received 59 tmcft water, with the highest in the Krishna basin. As many as 31,360 people have been evacuated. The government has opened 237 relief camps where 22,417 people are currently housed. According to a preliminary assessment, 2,614 houses have sustained damages, 555.8 km of roads are affected, 213 school buildings are hit, 3,502 electrical poles uprooted, agricultural crop losses reported on 58,961 hectares and horticultural losses on 1,962 hectares. Seven NDRF and 15 SDRF teams along with fire personnel, an Indian Navy helicopter and coast guards are engaged in rescue operations. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/cm-yediyurappa-to-visit-rain-hit-belagavi-death-toll-at-9-1012434.html
24-07-2021||West||90,000 people evacuated in Maharashtra amid rain fury||More than 90,000 people have been evacuated from various flood-affected districts of Konkan and Western Maharashtra in the last three days.  So far, around 100 people have died in various incidents across the state during the three days of heavy downpour that resulted in a series of landslides.  According to the Chief Minister’s Office, a total of 89,333 people have been evacuated — Ratnagiri (1,200), Thane (2,681), Raigad (1,000) in the Konkan region and Satara (734), Kolhapur (40,882), Sangli (42,573) and Pune (263) — till Saturday morning. The process of evacuation is still under way in various parts of the state.  Besides the Navy, Army, and Air Force, as many as 26 teams of the National Disaster Response Force are carrying out relief operations. According to the latest report, while water has receded in Raigad and Ratnagiri in the Konkan region, several places in Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara in Western Maharashtra are still flooded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/90000-people-evacuated-in-maharashtra-amid-rain-fury-1012292.html
24-07-2021||West||Gujarat: Seven dead in fire, explosion caused by LPG cylinder leakage||Seven persons have succumbed to the burn injuries after leakage of gas from an LPG cylinder triggered fire and explosion inside a room on the outskirts of Gujarat's Ahmedabad city, police have said. The incident took place on Tuesday night (July 20), but the victims — labourers and their family members — died over the last couple of days during treatment, said S S Gameti, sub-inspector of Aslali police station in Ahmedabad rural on Friday. Besides men, the deceased included children and women, he added. "Some labourers working in a factory and their family members were sleeping in a small room when gas from their LPG cylinder started leaking on the night of July 20. When their neighbour knocked on their door to alert them, a labourer got up and switched on the light, which caused an explosion due to concentration of gas," Gameti said. "Ten persons were sleeping there at that time and all of them received severe burn injuries as fire engulfed the room. While three persons died during their treatment on Thursday, four others succumbed to the injuries at a hospital on Friday, he said. Three persons are undergoing treatment, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-seven-dead-in-fire-explosion-caused-by-lpg-cylinder-leakage-1012306.html
24-07-2021||West||Five bodies recovered from Ambeghar landslide site in Satara||Five bodies have been recovered on Saturday from the landslide site at Ambeghar village in Satara district of Maharashtra, an official said. The district administration had said that at least 16 people are feared trapped in the landslide at this village located in Patan tehsil as four to five houses were buried under the debris. "We have so far recovered five bodies during the search and rescue operation in Ambeghar," a district official said. The rescue operation is being carried out by local police, residents and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), Satara Superintendent of Police Ajay Kumar Bansal said. Landslides had also occurred at two other villages - Mirgaon and Dhokawale - in the same tehsil, where twelve and four persons are feared trapped respectively. Officials said that rescue operations are going on at these sites as well. Satara Collector Shekhar Singh had said on Friday that around 30 people were feared trapped in these three landslides that had occurred during the intervening night of Thursday and Friday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had on Friday evening issued a fresh 'red alert' for Satara, forecasting "extremely heavy rainfall" in the next 24 hours in the hilly 'ghat' areas of this western Maharashtra district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/five-bodies-recovered-from-ambeghar-landslide-site-in-satara-1012323.html
24-07-2021||West||Four more NDRF teams allocated for Kolhapur: Minister||Minister of State for Home and Guardian Minister of Kolhapur Satej Patil has said that additional teams of Army and NDRF have reached Kolhapur and the rescue operation is in full swing.  He said that though water level in the district has started receding, it will take 2 to 3 days for the situation to come to normal, adding that the situation is already better than yesterday. He assured that the administration is taking every step to ensure the safety of the people.   “The water level at Rajaram bund on Panchaganga river has receded to 55ft today from 56.3 ft yesterday. The discharge of the water from Almatti dam in Karnataka has been substantially increased. This had helped in improvement in the flooding situation. We are taking every step to rescue people stranded due to the flooding in Kolhapur,” he said. The minister said that upon his request, the Centre has “allocated four more teams of NDRF for Kolhapur", taking the number of NDRF teams deployed in the district to seven. "Three of them landed here in two aircraft on Saturday. Some of the NDRF deployments will be diverted to Sangli as well. As per our request, one unit of Army has already been deployed and it has been stationed at Shirol, where the rainfall is expected to affect more,” he said.  Patil thanked Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat and Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Wadettiwar for the timely help for Kolhapur. Patil has been stationed in the district from the day the heavy rainfall started lashing Kolhapur and other parts of the state. He has been holding meetings with the officials and coordinating at the district, state and national levels for effective operations. The district has witnessed heavy rainfall and flooding for three days, and over 42,000 people have been evacuated so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/four-more-ndrf-teams-allocated-for-kolhapur-minister-1012344.html
24-07-2021||West||NDRF teams strength enhanced for Maharashtra rains, flooding rescue operations||The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has enhanced the number of its teams from 18 to 26 for undertaking rescue operations in the coastal areas of Maharashtra that have been hit by heavy rainfall, flooding and landslides. A spokesperson for the federal contingency force said these teams are being deployed in Mumbai, Ratnagiri, Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Satara, Sangli, Sindhudurg, Kolhapur and Nagpur for rescue and relief work after consultation with the state administration. The eight new teams have been airlifted by an Indian Air Force (IAF) aircraft from an NDRF base in Odisha, he said. The force is constantly tracking the Indian Metrological Department's weather forecast and Central Water Commission's report with regard to Mumbai and coastal districts of the Konkan region in Maharashtra that are witnessing heavy rainfall since the last few days, the spokesperson said. An NDRF team usually has 47 personnel and they are equipped with life-saving equipment, inflatable boats and tree and pole cutters. As per the official data updated till Friday, as many as 129 people have died in rain-related incidents, including multiple landslides, in Maharashtra over the last two days, while 84,452 people under the Pune division were shifted to safer places on Friday as heavy showers continued to wreak havoc in the state. The deceased included 38 people who were killed in a landslide in a village in the coastal Raigad district's Mahad tehsil on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ndrf-teams-strength-enhanced-for-maharashtra-rains-flooding-rescue-operations-1012346.html
24-07-2021||West||Maharashtra rains: 90,000 people from evacuated from Western districts in last four days||Large stretches in the Western Maharashtra districts of Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara remained under floodwaters putting people on the edge even as multi-agency rescue and relief operations were underway. Road traffic between Maharashtra and neighbouring Karnataka hd been badly affected because of the flooding in the three districts. During the last four days, more than 90,000 people have been evacuated from flood-affected areas in the state and shifted to safer locations.  “These floods are a big unexpected tragedy that we are witnessing,” Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said. “We are making all efforts to contain the flood situation in Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara,” Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said, adding that Army, Navy, Air Force, NDRF, SDRF and other state government agencies are operating round the clock to provide relief to the people. Of the nearly one-lakh people being rescued in the state, the majority of them are from Western Maharashtra districts of Sangli (42,573), Kolhapur (40,882), Satara (734) along the Western Ghats.  In the last four days, the hill station of Mahabaleshwar has received 1,859 mm rainfall - a record of sorts resulting in increased flow to the catchment of the Koyna Dam area.  The main rivers Krishna in Kolhapur, Krishna and Koyna (Satara) and Krishna (Sangli) are overflowing at several places.  Three Guardian Ministers – Water Resources Minister Jayant Patil (Sangli), Cooperation Minister Balasaheb Patil (Satara) and Minister of State for IT and Home Satej Patil (Kolhapur) are closely monitoring the situation.  Water Resources Minister Jayant Patil is also monitoring the flow of water from the Koyna Dam and is in touch with authorities in Karnataka vis-a-vis Almatti Dam. The Cooperation Minister visited the landslide-hit areas of Satara district, where several people have died and some are yet to be rescued.  Satej Patil said that though the water level in the district has started receding, it will take 2 to 3 days for the situation to return to normal and the administration was taking every step to ensure the safety of the people.   Patil said that the situation in Kolhapur is better than on Friday and expected to normalise in the next 2-3 days.  “The water level at Rajaram bund on Panchganga river has receded to 55ft today from 56.3 ft yesterday. The discharge of the water from Almatti dam in Karnataka has been substantially increased. This has helped in improvement in the flooding situation. We are taking every step to rescue people stranded due to the flooding in Kolhapur,” he said. The minister said that responding to the request by him about four days ago, three additional teams of NDRF and one unit of Army had reached Kolhapur for the rescue operation. “Central government has allocated four more teams of NDRF for Kolhapur. This has taken the number of NDRF teams deployed in the district to seven. Three of them landed here in two aircrafts on Saturday. Some of the NDRF deployments will be diverted to Sangli as well. As per our request, one unit of the Army has already been deployed and it has been stationed at Shirol, where the rainfall is expected to affect more,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-rains-90000-people-from-evacuated-from-western-districts-in-last-four-days-1012379.html
24-07-2021||West||A pall of gloom descends upon Maharashtra's Taliye as rains ravage village||A pall of gloom descended at picturesque Taliye village in Raigad district where there were once more than 40-odd houses that came under the debris of a big landslide as heavy downpour and chain of landslides left a trail of destruction at the coastal Konkan belt and Western Maharashtra.  People could not hold back tears as rescuers managed to retrieve the body of a seven-month-old baby from the debris on Saturday morning.  Relatives were seen wailing and crying at the fringes of the village even as teams of NDRF and SDRF undertook a search, rescue and relief operation in Taliye located near Mahad.  “I was born here, my house is gone…six of my family members stayed here,” said Ankita, one among those who had rushed to the ill-fated village in search of their relatives. The main place here, Kondekarwadi, was full of life. “We can’t recognise the place…it is the place where I grew up,” said Sandhya, one of the ladies who had come there in search of her parents. “I have lost my mother, father and six relatives,” she said, breaking down.  “My family members survived but it is a big tragedy for us,” said Mahandra Pol, who pointed out that it happened all of a sudden. “The village had never thought that this could happen to them,” he said.  Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray visited the Taliye village and assured that the survivors would be rehabilitated and resettled. “You have faced a major tragedy. Hence, right now, you just need to take care of yourself. Leave the rest to the government. We will ensure that everyone is rehabilitated and compensated for their losses,” Thackeray told the villagers. Raigad district Collector Nidhi Choudhary said while the Chief Minister announced an ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh to the next of kin of those who lost their lives, Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared a compensation of Rs 2 lakh to the next of kin of the deceased. “The government would take care of the injured undergoing treatment,” she said.  Thackeray was accompanied by Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde, Transport Minister Anil Parab, Minister of State for Information Aditi Tatkare, Raigad MP Sunil Tatkare and Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte. According to the latest reports, around 50 have died in the tragedy while over 30-odd others are reported missing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/a-pall-of-gloom-descends-upon-maharashtras-taliye-as-rains-ravage-village-1012416.html
24-07-2021||West||Maharashtra development body to rebuild landslide-hit Taliye village||In a significant decision, the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA) will undertake the mammoth task of rebuilding Taliye village in Raigad district. “Announcing that MHADA, a part of Housing Ministry, will take up complete responsibility for rebuilding and resettlement of Taliye village in Mahad tehsil of Raigad district,” state Housing Minister Dr Jitendra Ahwad tweeted. कोकणामध्ये दरड कोसळून झालेल्या दुर्घटनेमुळे बाधित झाले तळीये ता. महाड हे पूर्ण गाव वसविण्याची जबाबदारी म्हाडाने स्विकारली आहे. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and NCP supremo Sharad Pawar have tasked him to undertake the job, he said. The entire Taliye village has been wiped out of the map because of a major landslide.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-development-body-to-rebuild-landslide-hit-taliye-village-1012420.html
24-07-2021||West||JEE-Main: Candidates in rain-hit areas can appear for test again, says Education Minister Pradhan||Candidates unable to reach test centres for JEE-Mains in heavy rain and landslide affected areas of Maharashtra will get another chance to appear for the engineering entrance exam, Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan announced on Saturday. "In light of the heavy rains and landslides in Maharashtra, to assist the Maharashtra student community, I have advised the @DG_NTA to grant another opportunity to all candidates who may not be able to reach the test centre for JEE (Main)-2021 Session 3," Pradhan said in a tweet. Students from Kolhapur, Palghar, Ratnagiri, Raigadh, Sindhudurg, Sangli, & Satara, who are unable to reach their test centres on 25 & 27 July 2021 for JEE (Main)-2021 Session 3 need not panic. They will be given another opportunity,and the dates will be announced soon by the NTA. "Students from Kolhapur, Palghar, Ratnagiri, Raigadh, Sindhudurg, Sangli & Satara, who are unable to reach their test centres on 25 and 27 July for JEE (Main)-2021 Session 3 need not panic. They will be given another opportunity,and the dates will be announced soon by the National Testing Agency (NTA)," he tweeted. At least 76 people died, 38 others injured and 59 are missing after many areas in Maharashtra were hit by floods and landslides triggered by heavy rains. Parts of the Raigad and Ratnagiri districts in the coastal Konkan region and Kolhapur district in western Maharashtra have been worst affected by the floods. Besides that, heavy rains have been pounding parts of the Satara district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/jee-main-candidates-in-rain-hit-areas-can-appear-for-test-again-says-education-minister-pradhan-1012435.html
24-07-2021||West||Four killed in construction elevator collapse in Mumbai||At least four persons were killed and one injured when an elevator collapsed at a construction site in the Worli area of Mumbai on Saturday evening. The incident took place around 5:45 pm at an under-construction building near BDD Chawl at Hanuman Gully in Worli. Three of the deceased were identified as Avinash Das (35), Bharat Mandal (28), and Chinmay Mandal (33). One body is yet to be identified. The injured person Laxman Mandal (35) is critical.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/four-killed-in-construction-elevator-collapse-in-mumbai-1012441.html
24-07-2021||West||Nana Patole gives much-needed impetus to Congress in Maharashtra||In the three decades of his political career, Nana Patole has earned several sobriquets—“firebrand leader”, “giant killer”, “rebel” and “pointsman”.  The 58-year-old Nana Bhau, as he is popularly known, has stood true to these words at every stage. Patole, who in February 2021, took charge as the President of Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC), has been creating ripples in the state’s political circles. He lashed out at the opposition BJP, but he did not spare Congress’s two ruling allies of Maha Vikas Aghadi—Shiv Sena and NCP. This made even Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and NCP President Sharad Pawar express displeasure over Patole’s repeated call of Congress going solo in all future local body polls and the 2024 Lok Sabha and Vidhan Sabha polls. Patole is a prominent leader of the Kunbi Maratha OBC community from the Vidarbha region of Maharashtra. A post-graduate, he made a humble beginning as a Member of Bhandara Zilla Parishad in 1990. A four-term MLA, he represents the Sakoli constituency in the Bhandara district. As an MLA, he made it a point to raise prominent issues and emerge as a “firebrand leader" who called a spade a spade. Before the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, Patole switched over to the BJP to contest the Bhandara-Gondiya seat. He defeated Pawar’s Man Friday and NCP’s General Secretary Praful Patel and emerged as the “giant killer”. However, in 2017, he was the first to raise a banner of revolt against Prime Minister Narendra Modi—the first to do so after BJP came to power in 2014 —and ultimately quit the BJP to join Congress after a series of meetings with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi.  In 2019, he unsuccessfully contested the Lok Sabha polls from Nagpur against BJP stalwart Nitin Gadkari. In the 2019 Vidhan Saha polls, he contested from Sakoli and won the polls and when the MVA came in power, he became the Speaker of the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly.  But, in February, he decided to resign from the coveted post - and take over the reins of Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee. Amid several stalwarts in the party like Sushilkumar Shinde, Prithviraj Chavan, Ashok Chavan, Balasaheb Thorat and several other top leaders, Nana has carved a niche for himself and has managed to rejuvenate the Congress in the state. On February 12, when he took over the new job, he attacked Modi describing him as “dhongi jeevi”, inviting the wrath of the state BJP leadership. While he took potshots at fellow Vidarbha politician and Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, he also sent out a message to Shiv Sena and NCP, who had sidelined Congress in the Trimurti government by calling for a solo venture in the future elections. However, Pawar, reacting to Patole’s statement that Shiv Sena-NCP is backstabbing Congress, said: "They are small people, why should I comment on them? If Sonia Gandhi had said something, then I would have commented on it." Last month, Thackeray snubbed Patole for this announcement saying that every party wants to win as many seats as possible on its own, but this is not the time for such announcements. Patole stunned the political circles when he admitted that he was an aspirant for the post of the chief minister. Besides, he accused the Shiv Sena-NCP of using government machinery to spy on him. When he met Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi, he limited himself to ensuing civic issues when cities like Mumbai, Pune, Nashik, Nagpur, Amravati, Aurangabad would go for polls—in what would be a sort of “mini-Assembly polls”. "The Lok Sabha and Vidhan Sabha elections are far away, we will contest all the ensuing civic polls independently," Patole said after meeting the Congress high command. Being a firebrand leader who would go all out against the BJP while keeping the Sena-NCP in check, he has emerged as the "pointsman" that Congress needed for a long time in Maharashtra. This was proven when last fortnight, AICC in-charge of state H K Patil and Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge rushed to Mumbai and pacified the Shiv Sena and NCP leadership. "We were feeling very low, but now Nana has given us a boost that we needed," a Congress legislator said, adding that the party high command must side with him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nana-patole-gives-much-needed-impetus-to-congress-in-maharashtra-1012445.html
24-07-2021||West||Maharashtra govt to give free ration, kerosene to flood-hit people||With the mega floods causing large scale damage to houses and rendering people homeless, the Maharashtra government has decided to provide free food-grains and kerosene to the people in the flood-hit regions. Food and Civil Supplies Minister Chhagan Bhujbal said the government will provide 10 kg wheat, 10 kg rice, five kg dal and five litres of kerosene to each family, as per a government policy of March 2019. Besides, families would have the option of availing 20 kg rice or wheat instead of 10 kg packs of each. “The kerosene will help people cook their meals since many areas are still waterlogged and without electricity and other fuel supplies due to the floods,” he said. Bhujbal added that in those areas where the MVA government-run flagship Shiv Bhojan Thali centres are submerged or washed out, the authorities will rush ready-to-consume packed meals from other nearby locations. “We have decided to double the Shiv Bhoja Thali supplies to the six districts to help the people as there are other types of shortages, muck and slush in homes, roads washed away and other problems of survival,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-to-give-free-ration-kerosene-to-flood-hit-people-1012452.html
24-07-2021||West||6 cases of 'Kappa' Covid-19 variant found in Gujarat||For the first time, six cases of 'Kappa' variant of coronavirus have been detected in Gujarat, the state health department said on Saturday. Three cases were found in Jamnagar, two in Godhra in Pahchmahal district and one in Mehsana, it said in a release. In May, the World Health Organization had named the new variant, a 'double mutant', as "Kappa", after a letter of the Greek alphabet. Genome sequencing of samples of these patients, who had tested positive for Covid-19 between March and June this year, revealed that they were infected by the new variant, the department said. Kappa is a "variant of interest" but not a "variant of concern" as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the release said. The department also traced those who came in contact with these patients. "So far, none of their contacts have been found to have Covid-19 symptoms. The health department has also undertaken intense surveillance in the areas from where the cases emerged," it said. Gujarat has so far reported 8,24,683 Covid-19 cases of which 8,14,265 patients recovered. There are 342 active cases in the state at present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/6-cases-of-kappa-covid-19-variant-found-in-gujarat-1012465.html
24-07-2021||West||Maharashtra rains: Death toll shoots to 112, over 1.35 lakh rescued||The death toll from the heavy rains, landslides and flood-related incidents in Maharashtra shot up to 112 on Saturday, even as over 1.35 lakh people have been rescued so far. The multi-agency search and rescue mission and relief operations are still underway in six worst-affected districts in coastal Konkan belt and Western Maharashtra. As many as 53 persons were injured in the chain of incidents over the last four days. Ninty-nine persons are still reported missing, according to the Chief Minister’s Office. So far, 1,35,313 persons have been rescued across the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-rains-death-toll-shoots-to-112-over-135-lakh-rescued-1012494.html
