25-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Protest staged against pontiffs' 'involvement' in politics||The members of Karnataka State Backward Classes Awareness Forum (KSBCAF) staged a protest against the pontiffs for involvement in political matters. The members led by its president K S Shivaramu wore saffron cloths and staged a protest near the district court complex in Mysuru on Sunday. The protesters ridiculed the seers for backing Chief Minister B S Yedyurappa and lobbying for his continuation as the CM. Urging the seers to wear Khadi Shivaramu said, "Saffron attire has its own significance in Indian culture and it is not right for the seers to be involved in politics." He demanded the government to nationalise the wealth of mutts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/protest-staged-against-pontiffs-involvement-in-politics-1012747.html
25-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||100% promotion: Government-run UG colleges under pressure for admissions||The government-run undergraduate (UG) colleges and University of Mysore (UoM) are likely to face pressure to accommodate all the students for the next academic year with all the students studying second Pre-University (PU) promoted this year. With the promotion percentage high, the institutions are lacking required facilities to accommodate the students. The students have started inquiring about the availability of seats in the colleges. Majority of the institutions have no laboratory, classrooms to accommodate more students and most importantly the institutions are also facing shortage of teaching faculty. The education department has promoted all the Second PU students to pursue under graduate courses without conducting examinations. This has turned into a problem for the government colleges as the institutions can't deny admissions. In Mysuru district, 34,398 students were promoted without examinations. Last year out of 34,311 students only 20,827 students were promoted after examinations. The authorities of Collegiate Education have discussed the issue with the respective college principals who have requested to increase the number of seats. Maharani's Science College for Women Principal K K Padmanabha said that the college could accommodate 1,200 girl students for first year BSc, but this time more numbers of students were likely to seek admission. “Last year, the college had received 2,000 plus applications, but this time it may go up. I have written to the authorities of Collegiate Education in this regard,” he said. "It is highly difficult to conduct practical classes for the students," he said. University of Mysore (UoM) Vice-chancellor G Hemantha Kumar said that the varsity had planned to conduct classes in two shifts. While the first shift would be between 8 am and 12 noon, the second shift would be between 12 noon and 4 pm. However, it was yet to be discussed. A total of 224 UG colleges, including private, are under the purview of UoM and the process of affiliation will be commenced soon. The varsity is ready to sanction additional seats to the colleges if requested. “In normal year, over 20,000 students will be admitted to UG courses and this time, it may go up to 25,000. We have also advised the institutions to conduct classes in shifts and the varsity will allow the institutions to take additional intake if they have minimum facilities,” the VC said. "The varsity is ready to provide needed facilities to ensure that no students will be deprived of education," he said. As per the University Grants Commission (UGC) the classes should commence only on October 1 and admissions will be open till then.   Joint Director for Collegiate Education Appajigowda said that the number of seats could be increased as per the availability of facilities. “We try to provide admission for all the students who applied for different courses,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/100-promotion-government-run-ug-colleges-under-pressure-for-admissions-1012749.html
25-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||10 lorry-loads plastic waste cleared from M M Hills||More than 300 volunteers from non-governmental organisations took part in a plastic waste clearance drive organised by the Forest department at Male Mahadeshwara Wildlife Sanctuary limits and cleared 10 lorry loads of plastic waste and debris from either side of the road. Deputy Conservator of Forest V Yedukondalu said,"The people should not litter the forest area with plastic covers and other waste especially on the roads inside the forest as it is hazardous to the herbivorous animals in the wild. They may even die after consuming plastic waste. Besides, plastic pollutes the soil. Wild animals are precious and it is the responsibility of every one to protect them." "The plastic waste had accumulated during the pre-covid period before the second wave and could not be removed due to restrictions," he said. The DCF said,"There are many who feed monkeys presuming that they do not have sufficient food in the forest and are starving. The food with spices and salt and even with chemical components may pose a threat to their lives. Besides, they throw bananas and other fruits on the roadsides to feed monkeys. There are many instances of monkeys being run over by the vehicles in their attempt to feed on the fruits," he said. ACPs Prabhakar, Vanitha, Bhagyalakshmi, Range Forest officers Sundar, Sadaf, Rajesh, Praveen Kumar, Nishchit and forest department employees were present. Several loads of plastic waste were removed from Kabini backwaters near Bandipur and Nagarahole sides. The waste deposited in Kerala was washed away in the river's flow to Karnataka, it is said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/10-lorry-loads-plastic-waste-cleared-from-m-m-hills-1012750.html
25-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Portion of temple tower collapses in Konanur||A portion of the historical Rameshwaraswamy temple tower (Rajagopura) at Ramanathapura has been damaged due to the incessant rains that lashed the region for the past few days. Popular as Chaturyugamurti temple, it is on the banks of River Cauvery and was constructed around 600 years ago during the Chola period. A head portion of a small sculpture on the rajagopura has broken and fallen. Besides, a small portion of the temple tower has also been damaged. There are complaints that some parts of the temple are in dilapidated condition and leak during the rainy season. The people here have been urging us to renovate the temple which has been constructed with a unique architectural style. MLA A T Ramaswamy visited the temple on Sunday. Speaking to reporters he said,"After observing that the temple needs renovation, I had sanctioned Rs 4 crore for repair works after getting permission from the department of Archaeology, Museums and Heritage. The works could not be taken up due to Covid situation," he said. Meanwhile, heavy rains that battered Hassan district receded on Sunday. Normal rains were reported from parts of the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/portion-of-temple-tower-collapses-in-konanur-1012751.html
25-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa agreed to release funds for APMC development: S T Somashekar||District in-Charge Minister S T Somashekar said that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had agreed to provide funds for the development of Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs). The Minister was addressing the gathering of BJP Raita Morcha state executive committee meeting here, on Sunday. "The CM has agreed to sanction funds up to Rs 15 crore from Rs 2 crore," he said. "The government has sanctioned Rs 205 crore for the development of APMCs last year. This time more funds will be given," he said and added," The government implemented an amendment to APMC Act for the welfare of the farmers.The Cooperative sector has a target to disburse Rs 20,810 crore loan to the farmers and nearly 30 lakh farmers will be benefited from this."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-agreed-to-release-funds-for-apmc-development-s-t-somashekar-1012752.html
25-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Jumbo found dead at Nugu backwaters||An elephant was found dead in a suspicious manner at Nugu wildlife range on the backwaters of Nugu under Bandipur national park limits in H D Kote taluk on Sunday. The carcass of the elephant was found near Muthigehundi and the exact reason for its death is yet to be ascertained. Assistant Conservator of Forest Ravi Kumar said that the elephant was aged around 35 years. "The reason for the death will be known after post mortem which will be conducted on Monday. As the jumbo's abdomen is found bloated, it might have died of illness," he said. "All measures have been taken to ensure that the wild animals do not feed on the jumbo till the post mortem is conducted," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/jumbo-found-dead-at-nugu-backwaters-1012753.html
25-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Suvarana Belaku Foundation supports Indian Olympians||The members of city based Suvarna Belaku Foundation extended support to Indian sports personalities taking part in the Olympic Games Tokyo 2020 by taking out a bicycle ride in Mysuru recently. Many sports personalities and others gathered at Ramaswamy Circle and extended support to the participants. Vikas Shastry, a youth representative, said that despite Covid-19 pandemic the Olympic games commenced in Tokyo and India had opened its account with a silver medal by weight lifter Mirabai Chanu. The Foundation president Mahesh, members Thejus, Pradeep, Gagan and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/suvarana-belaku-foundation-supports-indian-olympians-1012760.html
25-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||No relief from floods in north Karnataka region||The monsoon showers have subsided over most parts of north Karnataka and Konkon belt of Maharashtra, but the flood fury continued unabated in Krishna basin, thanks to heavy discharge from dams upstream. Krishna river clocked a humongous 3,57,086 cusec inflow at Kallol barrage in Chikkodi district. With the rapid increase in water level of Krishna and its tributaries, the residents, along with the livestock, of the flood-prone villages in Chikkodi taluk- Manjari, Yadur, Chandur, Yadurwadi, Ingali and surrounding areas - have been moved to the shelter homes opened at elevated places. Vast tracts of agriculture land have gone under floodwaters. The Jatt-Jamboti highway in Athani taluk has been submerged. Several villages and farmhouses are staring at floods. The swollen Hiranyakeshi river has wreaked flood havoc in the residential areas of Sankeshwar town while Ghataprabha river has rendered Gokak and Ghataprabha towns into islands. The road connectivity between Karnataka and Maharashtra has been cut off at Kagal in Maharashtra. Bennehalla stream has unleashed the flood fury in Ron and Naragund taluks in Gadag district. The driver and a cleaner had a narrow escape after a lorry toppled in the overflowing stream. The flood situation is no different in Bagalkot district, where Krishna, Malaprabha and Ghataprabha rivers have several villages and towns and crops on thousands of acres have gone under floodwaters. The old bridge on Hubballi-Vijayapura NH-218 between Govanakoppa and Konnur, and Chichkhandi bridge on Bagalkot-Mudhol road have been submerged, affecting traffic on the routes. Meanwhile, several towns and villages face flood threat in upstream and downstream Tungabhadra reservoir. Acres of paddy, maize, sugarcane and groundnut crops have been submerged in Huvinahadagali taluk following a copious inflow into Tungabhadra river. Madalagatti Anjaneya temple has been flooded. As much as 1 lakh cusec of water was released downstream Tungabhadra dam by lifting 20 of 33 crest gates. Several monuments at Unesco world heritage site Hampi face the risk of submergence. Three farmers stranded in Krishna river island in Lingasugur taluk, Raichur district, were rescued by NDRF team. More than three lakh-plus cusec of water discharged from Narayanapur reservoir has cut off several villages in Yadgir and Raichur district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-relief-from-floods-in-north-karnataka-region-1012808.html
25-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Alert crew notice landslide, stop train to avert tragedy||The presence of mind shown by the crew members of train no. 01134 (Mangaluru Jn-Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus, Mumbai) has averted a tragedy on the Dudhsagar-Sonaulim section.  General manager of South Western Railway (SWR) Gajanan Mallya has appreciated the presence of mind and swift action by the loco pilot, assistant loco pilot and guard of the train and announced a cash award for them. While driving the engine of the train from Kulem towards Castle Rock (up the Ghat), the loco pilot of the leading engine Ranjeet Kumar observed that mud was slipping ahead on the track from the side walls of the hill beside the track, due to incessant rainfall at 6.10 am on July 23. Sensing danger, he applied emergency brakes and brought the train to a halt. However, due to mud and the boulders on the track, the engine got derailed along with two sets of wheels, despite the immediate braking, said a release from SWR. The loco pilot immediately informed the station master of Dudhsagar. Upon noticing emergency brake being applied, the guard of the train Shailender Kumar applied hand brakes to the brake van, situated at the rear of the train and then proceeded to the engine. The guard and loco pilot instructed the assistant loco pilots of the leading and banking engines to place detonators at stipulated distance on the track at both rear and front, and also secured the train by tying chains to the track, placing wheel-skids etc as per standard safety protocol, the release said. On noticing mud falling on the coaches, Ranjeet and Shailender immediately shifted the passengers from the first three coaches to the rear coaches. They un-coupled these coaches from the rest of the train. The crew took instruction from their senior officers in Hubballi divisional control office and utilised the rear (banking) engine to pull the train with 345 passengers back to Kulem station. The guard, accompanied by loco pilot S D Meena and assistant loco pilot S K Saini took the train safely, along with passengers to Kulem station.  Ranjeet and his assistant Hashid K stayed back with the derailed engine, to assist in restoration work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/alert-crew-notice-landslide-stop-train-to-avert-tragedy-1012809.html
25-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Three-hour traffic jam on Charmadi Ghat||The travelers on the Charmadi Ghat had a harrowing time on Sunday with as vehicles were allowed on the route from Chikkamagaluru and Mangaluru side simultaneously. More than 2,000 vehicles were stranded in the traffic congestion more over three hours.  To add to the woes, a landslide at the sixth curve of the Ghat hindered free movement of vehicles. The police and forest personnel had a tough time in managing the traffic. A large number of vehicles tourist vehicles plied on the Ghat since it was a week-end. Moreover, movement of vehicles on Shiradi Ghat has been banned and therefore, the density of vehicles has increased on the Charmadi Ghat. Vehicular traffic is banned on Charmadi Ghat during night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/three-hour-traffic-jam-on-charmadi-ghat-1012818.html
25-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Belagavi South MLA dumps garbage in front of officer's residence||The Belagavi South Assembly constituency MLA Abhay Patil resorted to a novel protest by dumping garbage in front of the official residence of Belagavi City Corporation (BCC) commissioner on Sunday. Patil had asked the BCC authorities to remove the mounds of garbage strewn across Belagavi South. "However, my request fell on deaf ears and the corporation did not take any action even after three months," the MLA said. On Sunday, Patil got a tractor load of garbage in front of the official residence of BCC commissioner, as a mark of protest. He said that the garbage would be dumped inside the gate and subsequently in the drawing room if the problem was not addressed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/belagavi-south-mla-dumps-garbage-in-front-of-officers-residence-1012830.html
25-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Yediyurappa to exit soon? Will know by evening, says the CM||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Sunday said that the BJP high command would tell him whether or not he will be continuing as chief minister by evening even as political developments suggest his exit is imminent. Yediyurappa was in Belagavi to visit the flood-affected areas. Speaking to reporters at the airport, he said by the time he reached Bengaluru in the evening, the message from the party's top brass will be received. The CM will be reviewing the situation at Sankeshwar town in Hukkeri, Yamgarni, Kidni villages in Nippani taluk will be reviewed. The government headed by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa completes two years in office on Sunday and the writing on the wall suggests that he is spending his last days in office. Earlier this week, Yediyurappa dropped hints that he is on his way out. The past two years have been a political roller-coaster for the 78-year-old leader, who has had to fight dissidence within the party. To a question on pontiffs holding a mega conclave in Bengaluru Sunday, which is seen as expressing solidarity with him, he said, "there is no need for pontiffs to hold any meet, I have confidence in PM Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP national President J P Nadda." Questioned about a Dalit Chief Minister replacing him, Yediyurappa said, "I'm not the one to decide about it, it is for the high command to decide. Let's first see what decision they will take today..." Asked whether he was satisfied with his work for two years, he said, "if you are satisfied that's enough for me." Indicating that Monday might be his last day in office, Yediyurappa had recently said that based on the instructions that the central leaders will give him on July 25, he will get on with "his work" from July 26. His government will complete two years in office on July 26. Meanwhile, scores of pontiffs are expected to participate in a "maga conclave" to be held on Sunday, coinciding with the possible decision by the BJP central leadership on his exit. Dingaleshwar Swamiji of Balehosur mutt, who had held a press meet on July 23 to inform about the conclave with other Swamijis, had refused to connect the event directly with the possible leadership change, but it is being widely seen as an attempt to muster support to Yediyurappa and send out a message. Yediyurappa is in flood and rain ravaged Belagavi district to review the relief and rescue operation there. Noting that he will be visiting people affected by rains and floods, the Chief Minister said after visiting some affected villages and analysing the situation there, he will be heading back to Bengaluru. "By the god's grace, rains have receded both yesterday and today and if the situation continues in the same way for the next couple of days, I'm confident that things will come under control," he said, adding that rains receding in Maharashtra is a good sign. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/yediyurappa-to-exit-soon-will-know-by-evening-says-the-cm-1012602.html
25-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||People will not forget allegations if ministers are replaced, says Veerappa Moily||Former union minister M Veerappa Moily said that the BJP led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah have been using a technique to replace the ministers whenever allegations against them surfaced. “As per the tradition of the BJP, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah have knowledge on how to replace the ministers,” he said when asked on the change in leadership in Karnataka. “The change in the CM is left to the BJP,”  he told media persons after visiting former union minister and Rajya Sabha member Oscar Fernandes who is undergoing treatment at Yenepoya Superspeciality Hospital in Mangaluru. When there was an allegation of poor management of Covid-19, Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan was asked to step down. Having realised corruption charges in the IT sector, Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad was removed. The BJP thinks that by replacing the ministers, people will forget the charges against the BJP. The BJP is inefficient in its administration of the country as well as in the state. The BJP will see its own end, he said.  “I have known Oscar Fernandes since 1967. We had worked together. He had engaged himself in serving the people. He had discharged his duties effectively in the Congress. He had engaged himself in serving the people as a Lok Sabha Member, Rajya Sabha Member and Union minister.  He will recover and will engage himself in serving the people,” said Moily. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/people-will-not-forget-allegations-if-ministers-are-replaced-says-veerappa-moily-1012685.html
25-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||No information from high command on Karnataka CM change: Kateel||BJP state unit chief Nalin Kumar Kateel said that no direction or information has come from the high command on change in Chief Minister in Karnataka. Speaking to mediapersons after taking part in Hadilubhoomi Krishi Andolana (campaign of paddy cultivation on fallow land) at Parkala in Udupi on Sunday, he said: “Complaint has been filed over the alleged audio clip that went viral in social media. I do not wish to speak on the alleged audio clip.” Siddaramaiah forgot Ahinda Stating that Siddaramaiah had become Chief Minister through the Ahinda movement, Kateel said after coming to power, he forgot Ahinda and did not work for the welfare of backward classes. When the issue of Dalit CM was raised in the Congress, they defeated Parameshwar and Mallikarjuna Kharge who had worked tirelessly for the party. It is a mockery that Siddaramaiah has now challenged the BJP to make a Dalit leader as Chief Minister, said Kateel. Kateel urged Siddaramaiah to clarify the contribution of the Congress for Dalits. During the Vajpayee Government, a Muslim was the President of India. Dalit leader Ramnath Kovind was chosen as the President now. Narayanaswamy has been appointed as the Union minister. About 30 % of the ministers in the Centre hail from the SC and ST community, he said.     On the corruption charges against Minister Shashikala Jolle, the State BJP Chief said that there is a need to verify the truth in the scam in egg procurement. “After getting complete details, will decide on future course of action,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/no-information-from-high-command-on-karnataka-cm-change-kateel-1012690.html
25-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Farmers' protest politically movitvated: Rajkumar Chahar||BJP Kisan Morcha national president and MP Rajkumar Chahar on Sunday stated that the farmers' protest over agriculture related Acts was politically motivated. In a press conference here Chahar said that no farmer was participating in the ongoing protest outside Delhi. "Initially, the farmers participated in the protest in large numbers. However, they stayed away as their confusions over the Acts were cleared. But, the people opposing BJP are still protesting," he said. Blaming the Congress party, Chahar said that the contribution of the Congress to the farming community was nil. As the party was losing its existence, the leaders were trying to protect the party by protesting in the name of farmers. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been working for the welfare of the farming community and introduced schemes like PM Kisan Samman Nidhi among others. Kisan Morcha wants to strengthen the party. The Morcha workers should create awareness about various initiatives and schemes introduced by the Union government," he said. BJP Raitha Morcha State president and Rajya Sabha member Eranna Kadadi said that there was a conspiracy to project BJP as anti-farmers' outfit. Addressing the BJP Raitha Morcha State executive meeting here he said that the Union government had introduced several initiatives for the welfare of farmers and was committed to their development. The opposition parties were trying to project BJP as an anti farmers' outfit. "Agriculture sector has made a major contribution towards the country's Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Earlier, farmers' contribution was 12 % to 15%, but now it has increased to 20%. There was a huge change in the agriculture sector after BJP came to power in the country," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/farmers-protest-politically-movitvated-rajkumar-chahar-1012746.html
25-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||PM Modi, Nadda to decide change of Karnataka CM: S T Somashekar||District in-charge Minister S T Somashekar said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP president J P Nadda would take a suitable decision over the change of Chief Minister. Speaking to reporters here Somashekar said that the PM and Nadda were observing the ongoing developments in the state. "We will abide by the party's high command decision," he said. Somashekar said that there was no flood like situation in the district. The inflow and the outflow from Kabini dam in Beechanahalli in H D Kote taluk had declined as rains had receded in Wayanad region in Kerala. The outflow from the dam to River Kapila was 30,000 cusec and it would not create a flood like situation. There would be floods only if more water was released from the dam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/pm-modi-nadda-to-decide-change-of-karnataka-cm-s-t-somashekar-1012748.html
25-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Will abide by BJP high command's decision: Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa||Amidst attempts by a section of leaders in the BJP to dislodge him, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Sunday clarified that he would abide by whatever decision the party’s central leadership takes. “We are all bound by the decisions taken by the party high command. We won’t cross the line... I have enjoyed more power and positions in the party and the government than any other leader in the state. I am thankful to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP national president J P Nadda for it. I am a satisfied man and have no complaints whatsoever,” Yediyurappa told reporters on the sidelines of a flood review meeting with elected representatives and the officials here. “There are many senior leaders in the state. We are all united. I will make sincere efforts to bring the party back to power in the next Assembly election,” he said. Replying to a query on Dalit chief minister issue, Yediyurappa said, “It’s left to the high command.” On BJP national president J P Nadda lavishing praise on him in Panaji, Yediyurappa said that he was not aware of what Nadda has spoken in Goa. “Let’s wait and watch, let’s wait...” was all he said when asked whether he received any instruction/message from the party leadership. No relief for flood-hit Meanwhile, Chief minister B S Yediyurappa, accompanied by his Cabinet colleagues Govind Karjol, Laxman Savadi, R Ashoka and Umesh Katti, inspected a few flood-affected areas in the district on Sunday. The inspection ended in a few minutes much to the disappointment of the affected people who were waiting to pour out their woes to the CM. “The chief minister seemed to be in a tearing hurry, visited only an overflowing stream near Mahalakshmi Temple and left. It was just a perfunctory visit,” a few aggrieved residents of the flood-hit areas in Sankeshwar, Hukkeri taluk, expressed their displeasure. The chief minister later visited two relief centres, inspected the flooded NH-4 at Yamagarni and chaired a review meeting with the elected representatives and the officials. The chief minister did not announce any relief package to the flood-ravaged district. He however assured the affected at shelter homes of relief.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/will-abide-by-bjp-high-commands-decision-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-1012813.html
25-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||D K Shivakumar pulls up Karnataka govt over flood relief||KPCC president D K Shivakumar on Sunday accused the government of failing to aid people in times of crisis and demanded the dissolution of Assembly. "People are grappling to overcome the problems caused by the Covid pandemic and floods. BJP has failed to help them despite their continued struggles," he said. Shivakumar attacked the government for failing to compensate for the victims of previous floods along the River Krishna banks. "Why have you not been able to build houses (for flood victims)? Why are flood victims of the past two years not compensated yet? Why should the government stay in power if they can't give compensation?" Shivakumar asked. Training his guns at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he said that the PM had visited West Bengal and other states when they were hit by floods. "Why didn't he come to Karnataka? Why didn't he provide adequate relief for the state?" Shivakumar said, noting that Karnataka had elected 25 BJP MPs in the previous election. The Congress president attributed the problems in the state to political uncertainty ever since B S Yediyurappa took charge as CM of the state. Listing out the services offered by the party during the Covid pandemic, Shivakumar said that 1,225 ambulances, 12.53 lakh medical kits, 93.47 lakh food kits and 25,654 oxygen cylinders were provided by the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/d-k-shivakumar-pulls-up-karnataka-govt-over-flood-relief-1012820.html
25-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka CM aspirant Nirani in Delhi to meet BJP top brass||Nirani, a Panchamashali Lingayat leader, is planning to meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP National president J P Nadda. This is Nirani's third visit to the national capital in the past 14 days, especially after the talk of a change of leadership in Karnataka. Though he has been telling his visit to Delhi was private, sources close to him said that he has been lobbying for the Chief Minister post. "I came to Delhi on my private visit," Nirani told reporters. "Earlier also I have not met any leaders regarding political issues. Now also I have no plan to meet any leaders on political issues," he said. Hubballi-Dharwad (West) BJP MLA Arvind Bellad, who is also a Chief Ministerial aspirant, was also in the city for the past two days to meet the party top brass. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-cm-aspirant-nirani-in-delhi-to-meet-bjp-top-brass-1012826.html
25-07-2021||National||Fears as Gandhi’s ashram gears up for ‘world-class’ makeover||After decades of proposals and planning, the Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad — founded by Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi on his way to becoming Mahatma Gandhi — is set for a massive change. An ambitious redevelopment plan will alter the topography of the century-old ashram, as the Gujarat government embarks on a Rs 1,200-crore project to convert the place into a "world-class museum" and "tourist destination". While the project will change the physical structure of the ashram and other amenities, people associated with the place fear it will also alter the ethos of the ashram. Amid concerns over increased interference by the government, old-timers fear the serene spot will be reduced into an amusement park of sorts. Situated under a canopy of tress on the banks of Sabarmati River, the ashram is a quaint structure thronged by visitors from across the globe. It is literally a free world without any entry fee. Squirrels and birds — one may even spot a pair of owls, if lucky — chirp around Hriday Kunj, the hut where Gandhi once broke bread with 'harijans', or the scheduled caste community, as part of his experiment with community living in those highly conservative surroundings. The plan to redevelop the ashram with facilities of international standard threatens to alter its inherent characteristic of simplicity. There is fear that a free public space, where anyone could walk in without anyone's permission, may end up being another gated tourist spot. The plan, prepared by the city-based HCP Design and Management Pvt Ltd and  headed by architect Bimal Patel, is based on a 1949 aerial photograph of the ashram, then spread on little less than 50 acres. Officials said that at present the Sabarmati Ashram has around five acres of land, which will be expanded into 55 acres for the museum or memorial, as seen in the 1949 photo. The project has identified over 40 "congruent" buildings which will be preserved while the rest of them, roughly 200, will be demolished. The plan promises facilities like cafeteria, parking lot, parks, and the revival of Chandrabhaga river stream, closure of the road that divides ashram properties to make it a silent zone, among others. The "anxiety" over the ashram's fate officially ended earlier this week, when the Sabarmati Ashram Preservation and Memorial Trust (SAPMT), which manages the ashram, wrote to the Gujarat government agreeing to the redevelopment plan. With SAPMT's approval, the mega project is set to take off under the direct supervision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The nod came in response to a letter shot off by K Kailashnathan, principal chief secretary to Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, who asked the trust to pass a resolution in support of the project and hand over the revenue records to take the programme forward. Rupani and Kailashnathan head the executive council constituted for the Gandhi Ashram Memorial and Precinct Development Project, which is overseeing the plan. The trust replied to the government cautiously in both Gujarati and English, asking it to avoid associating words such as "world-class museum or memorial" and "tourist destination" with the ashram, as they don't sound in line with Gandhian ethos and rather have market-driven connotations. "We have agreed to the plan with a condition that it should be done in the most simple manner considering what Gandhi stood for and his basic idea behind setting up this ashram. There is no point opposing the government's effort in developing infrastructure like roads and parking for visitors. We all chose this government and now we are part of it. We have stated in the letter, written in Gujarati and English for better understanding, that we will keep the sanctity of the ashram intact and not treat it like a tourist attraction," SAPMT chairperson Ela Bhatt told DH. Besides Ela Bhatt, who is better known as the founder of the Self Employed Women's Association (SEWA), the trust's members include Sudarshan Iyengar, a Gandhian scholar and former vice-chancellor of Gujarat Vidyapith; educationist Kartikeya Sarabhai; Ashoke Chatterjee, former director of the National School of Design; and Nitin Shukla, who retired as the managing director and CEO of Hazira LNG and Hazira Port Pvt Ltd of Shell Group. Sources in the know said the trustees met at least twice and deliberated on the content of the government's letter. After several drafts, they have officially responded to the government for the first time. "There is no question of fighting with the government. They will take over anyway. Times have changed. Earlier, we hardly used to cover the path leading to Hriday Kunj, where Gandhi lived. But now, with the new government, it has become a norm of sorts. Red carpets are laid for visitors during all VIP movements. This may look like a trivial matter now, but it has wider ramifications in the days to come as far as Gandhian aesthetics are concerned," said two officials associated with the ashram. "So, we are trying to find a way through which we protect the essence of the ashram. Global leaders from Nelson Mandela to Donald Trump didn't come here to see a world-class museum or red carpets. They came to see how a man started a whole movement from a cluster of huts with the bare minimum. We don't want to turn it into an amusement park of sorts," they said. SAMPT secretary Amrut Modi, 89, agrees. "Things have changed in the past 20 years. The government's interference has increased, especially during VVIP visits. We see colourful carpets which are not required at this place," he said. There are nearly 400 families belonging to the scheduled castes and other backward castes whose forefathers settled at the ashram following Gandhi's appeal for community living. The state has offered them Rs 60 lakh as compensation to vacate the property or choose the government's housing scheme as part of the plan. The process has already begun and over 50 families have been paid compensation. A majority are said to be opting for the housing scheme, which will be inside the larger precinct.  "There are so many memories associated with this place — of my grandparents-in-law taking care of cows at the gaushala which Gandhi had started. But our families have grown over the years and therefore, we will shift to a place where we will all live together," said Lasiben Thakor, a resident of Thakor Vaas, who opted for the compensation. After returning from South Africa, Gandhi founded his first ashram at Kochrab in 1915 but had to shift to the present location due to the plague in 1917. The Sabarmati Central Jail was in the vicinity of the present location, which was a "special attraction" to Gandhi. "As jail-going satyagrahis, I liked this position. And I know that the sites selected for jails have generally clean surroundings," he said. It was from this ashram — originally known as Satyagrah Ashram — that he announced support to the mill workers' strike, inaugurated the Kheda Satyagrah, established the Gujarat Vidyapith and the Majoor Mahajan Sangh (a textile union). Gandhi also started publishing 'The Story of My Experiments with Truth' in Young India, and started the landmark Salt March or Dandi March from the ashram. All these events happened here from 1915 to 1930, the formative years of Gandhi's public life in India. He left the ashram in 1930. In 1933, he disbanded it and handed it over to the Harijan Sevak Sangh. After Gandhi's death, his close associates including Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel formed the SAPMT with the aim of preserving his intellectual works and heritage sites, and carrying forward programmes related to girl child education and sanitation.  This is how SAPMT came into existence and the place became popular as Sabarmati Ashram. Patel was one of the first trustees along with G V Mavlankar, Kasturbhai Lalbhai, among others. Along with SAPMT, Sabarmati Ashram Gaushala Trust, Harijan Ashram Trust, Harijan Sevak Sangh and Khadi Gramodyog Prayog Samiti were also formed. In the redevelopment plan, all these trusts are going to be brought together into one campus||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fears-as-gandhi-s-ashram-gears-up-for-world-class-makeover-1012537.html
25-07-2021||National||Did not know about content of Hot Shots app, Shilpa Shetty tells cops||Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty told police that she had no idea about the content of the `Hot Shots' app through which her husband Raj Kundra allegedly distributed pornographic films, sources said on Saturday. Kundra, a city-based businessman, was arrested by the Mumbai police on July 19 for alleged production of pornographic films and their dissemination through apps. In her statement given to the police on Friday, Shetty said she did not know about the content of the app, nor did she interfere in her husband's business, police sources said. She was not linked to the app business in any way, the actor said, as per the sources. She also told police that she had resigned from the post of director of Kundra's firm Viaan Industries. The police seized a laptop from Kundra's house during search on Friday and also recovered some bank statements, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/did-not-know-about-content-of-hot-shots-app-shilpa-shetty-tells-cops-1012557.html
25-07-2021||National||Blinken says US has millions of vaccines ready to be sent to India once Modi govt completes legal process||The United States has millions of Covid-19 vaccines ready to be despatched to India, President Joe Biden’s Secretary of State Anthony Blinken said ahead of his visit to New Delhi. “We have millions of vaccines ready to go to them (India) when they (the Government of India) finish their own legal process to bring them in,” Blinken said in an interview with MSNBC. He was referring to the Covid-19 vaccine doses the US allocated for India out of the 80 million doses it had promised to donate from its own stockpile to other countries. The US already started despatching the vaccines to several countries, including Pakistan, Bangladesh and others in India's neighbourhood. India, however, has not received any Covid-19 vaccines from the US so far, because Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government could not yet take a call on the issue of indemnity. The Biden Administration asked the Government of India to grant the US vaccine makers, like Moderna, Pfizer and Johnson and Johnson, ‘indemnity’ or protection of legal liability in case any person suffer from any unforeseen and unwarranted medical complication after being inoculated with the Covid-19 jabs developed by them. The US announced the distribution of the first tranche of its donation – consisting of 25 million doses of vaccines – on June 3. India and over 25 other countries were allocated altogether 13 million doses, six million directly and seven million through the COVAX – an initiative launched by the World Health Organization (WHO), Gavi, The Vaccine Alliance and the others to ensure equitable access to Covid-19 jabs around the world. Besides, India and nearly 30 other nations would receive altogether 16 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccines the US would send out in the second tranche of its donation of jabs to the foreign nations. “India has determined that it needs further time to review legal provisions related to accepting vaccine donations. Once India works through its legal process, our donation of vaccines to India will proceed expeditiously,” a spokesperson of the American Embassy in New Delhi recently said. The US also made it clear that it was not responsible for delay in the arrival of the jabs in India. The US Secretary of State also noted that it would make “a big difference” for the global fight against the SARS-CoV-2 virus when India would be able to restart sending out vaccines to the rest of the world after having adequate number of doses for its own inoculation programme. “And India is the leading country when it comes to the production of vaccines,” he said, adding: “Of course, they’re focused understandably on their own internal challenges now, but when that production engine gets fully going and can distribute again to the rest of the world, that’s going to make a big difference, too.” “So, I’ll be talking to our Indian friends about that next week,” said Blinken, indicating that he would discuss with his counterpart, S Jaishankar, the issue of restarting supply of ‘Made-in-India’ vaccines to other countries. The Modi Government sent out 107.15 lakh doses of the Made-in-India vaccines to foreign nations as grant till April 16, in addition to the 357.92 lakh doses exported commercially and 198.628 lakh doses as contribution to the COVAX led by the WHO. It, however, paused its “Vaccine-Maitri” initiative after the shortage of the jabs came to the fore and slowed down the inoculation programme in India. Blinken will arrive in New Delhi on Tuesday and meet Jaishankar and the National Security Advisor Ajit Doval on Wednesday. He is also likely to call on the Prime Minister. The US Secretary of State noted that India was a critical country in the fight against Covid-19. “The Indians stood up for us in the early days when we were having great challenges, helping to provide PPE (Personal Protection Equipment), for example. We’ve now stood up for them as they have encountered wave after wave of Covid-19, including providing more than a quarter of a billion dollars of assistance to them.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/blinken-says-us-has-millions-of-vaccines-ready-to-be-sent-to-india-once-modi-govt-completes-legal-process-1012566.html
25-07-2021||National||DH Toon | Muddled politics of Punjab ahead of polls||The political landscape in Punjab before elections has never been so muddled in the last few decades. While Congress has gone for a generational change by appointing Navjot Singh Sidhu as PCC chief, ignoring the objections of veteran Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, Shiromani Akali Dal and BSP have stitched an alliance after a gap of 25 years. The BJP, for the first time, will be contesting the polls on its own in the state after 24 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-muddled-politics-of-punjab-ahead-of-polls-1012567.html
25-07-2021||National||India is on the frontline of climate change||Swathes of India are battling deadly floods and landslides after heavy monsoon rains, just the latest example of how the vast country is on the frontline of climate change. In the first seven months of this year alone the impoverished nation of 1.3 billion people has experienced two cyclones, a deadly glacier collapse in the Himalayas, a sweltering heatwave and killer floods. In February, a ferocious flash flood hurtled down a remote Indian Himalayan valley, sweeping away homes, a hydro plant and around 200 people. Only 60 bodies have been found. Experts believe the cause was a massive chunk of glacier -- 15 football fields long and five across -- breaking off high in the mountains. A glaciologist who investigated the site told AFP the catastrophe was "clearly a fallout of climate change and in itself a tell-tale of our future". In the Indian Himalayas, about 10,000 glaciers are receding at a rate of 30 to 60 metres (100 to 200 feet) per decade as global temperatures rise. In 2013, a flash flood in the same area killed 6,000 people. Cyclones are not a rare sight in the northern Indian Ocean but scientists say they are becoming more frequent and severe as sea temperatures rise. In May Cyclone Tauktae claimed 155 lives in western India including dozens working on oil rigs off Mumbai. It was the fiercest storm to hit the area in several decades. Barely a week later Yaas, with winds the equivalent of a category-two hurricane, killed at least nine people and forced the evacuation of more than 1.5 million in the east. With waves the height of double-decker buses, hundreds of thousands lost their houses. "I have lost my home, everything," said one survivor. India's average temperature rose around 0.7 degrees Celsius (1.3 degrees Fahrenheit) between the beginning of the 20th century and 2018. It will rise another 4.4 degrees by 2100, according to a recent government report. In early July, tens of millions of people sizzled in just the latest heatwave across northern India. India's weather department has declared a heatwave almost every year in the last decade with temperatures sometimes touching 50 degrees Celsius (122 degrees Fahrenheit). The Hindustan Times newspaper reported that heatwaves had claimed more than 17,000 lives in India since 1971, according to top meteorologists. Currently, just five per cent of Indian households have air conditioning compared with 90 per cent in the United States and 60 per cent in China. But the market is forecast to boom in the coming years, driving up energy consumption in what is already the world's third-largest carbon emitter. Torrential rains have hit India's western coast in the past few days triggering landslides and a deluge of sludge, leaving more than 75 dead and dozens missing. The hillside resort of Mahabaleshwar reportedly saw nearly 60 centimetres (23 inches) of rain in a 24-hour period, a record. The neighbouring resort state of Goa is reeling under its worst floods in decades, its chief minister said. Flooding and landslides are common during India's treacherous monsoon season, which also often sees poorly constructed buildings buckle after days of non-stop rain. But climate change is making the monsoon stronger, according to a report from the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research in April. It warned of potentially severe consequences for food, farming and the economy affecting nearly a fifth of the world's population. The monsoon from June to September also brings danger from the skies. In 2019, lightning strikes killed almost 3,000 people. Earlier this month, 76 people perished including a dozen watching a storm and taking selfies at a historic fort in Rajasthan. But scientists say climate change may be making lightning more frequent. A recent study said strikes rose 34 per cent in the past year. And it's not just people. In May, lightning was blamed for the deaths of at least 18 elephants in Assam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-is-on-the-frontline-of-climate-change-1012583.html
25-07-2021||National||India sees 39,742 single-day Covid-19 cases, 535 fatalities||India added 39,742 new cases of coronavirus infection taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,13,71,901, while the death toll rose to 4,20,551 with 535 fresh fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The active cases have declined to 4,08,212 and comprise 1.30 per cent of the total infections and the national Covid-19 recovery rate has been recorded at 97.36 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A decline of 765 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. As many as 17,18,756  tests were conducted on Saturday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 45,62,89,567. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.31 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for 34 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate was recorded at  2.24 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,05,43,138,  while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 43.31 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. The 535 new fatalities include 224 from Maharashtra and 98 from Kerala. A total of 4,20551 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,31,429 from Maharashtra, 36,352 from Karnataka, 33,889 from Tamil Nadu, 25,041 from Delhi, 22,749 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,064 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-39742-single-day-covid-19-cases-535-fatalities-1012587.html
25-07-2021||National||I've been working on my aggression and technique: Sindhu||Indian badminton ace P V Sindhu on Sunday said she has worked on her aggression in the past five years and promised a very "different" version of herself after making a winning start at the ongoing Olympics. Five years back, Sindhu was not considered a medal prospect but she stunned the world with her stellar run which ended with an unprecedented silver medal on her Olympic debut in Rio de Janeiro. However, this time around, the 26-year-old from Hyderabad is India's biggest hope for a gold at Tokyo. "Mentally, physically and experience-wise, a lot has changed. Coming to (Tokyo) 2020 is completely different; back then there were no expectations," the reigning world champion said after making a winning start to her campaign on Sunday with a straight-game win over Israel's Ksenia Polikarpova. "I know that I have worked hard and given all my heart all of these years and I think it's time to show now. I've been working on my aggression and my technique and you will definitely see a different Sindhu." The soft-spoken Indian ace was not known for her aggression till five years back and it was chief national coach Pullela Gopichand, who had transformed her into an aggressive player ahead of the Rio Games. It reaped dividends as Sindhu weaved a series of stunning performances to claim the silver. "It's always nice to get that medal back then at Rio," Sindhu, seeded sixth, said. "Tokyo is a fresh start, I would say. It's always important to just be ready every single day because you can't expect that you will again be a medallist. "It's not like that because everybody is going to be on their top form and nobody is going to give it away easily." The Tokyo Olympics is being held without any spectators due to the Covid-19 pandemic and Sindhu said she will miss the crowd support. "I'm sure I'm going to miss the crowd and spectators but I'm sure everybody (back home) is giving me that support and showing me their love and hoping for the best to happen." Sindhu on Sunday beat the 58th ranked Israel's Ksenia Polikarpova 21-7 21-10 in a lop-sided opening Group J match. She will next face Hong Kong's world number 34 Cheung Ngan Yi in the group stage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ive-been-working-on-my-aggression-and-technique-sindhu-1012605.html
25-07-2021||National||Pegasus row: Rajya Sabha MP moves Supreme Court seeking court-monitored probe||Rajya Sabha member John Brittas has moved the Supreme Court seeking a court-monitored probe into reports of alleged snooping of activists, politicians, journalists and constitutional functionaries using Israeli spyware Pegasus. A massive political row has erupted after media reports claimed that Pegasus spyware was used to conduct surveillance on about 300 Indians, including ministers, political leaders, government officials and journalists. Brittas, who has filed a public interest litigation in the Supreme Court, said that recent allegations of snooping has caused concern among a large section of people in India and that snooping would have a chilling effect on free speech and expression. He has sought a court-monitored investigation into allegations of snooping using Pegasus spyware. In a statement on Sunday, Brittas, who is a CPI-M member, said that despite the very serious nature, the central government has not cared to investigate into the allegations involved in the issue but "made only a hopeful hope that the time tested processes in our country are well-established to ensure that unauthorised surveillance does not occur". "Therefore, the queries were raised in the Indian Parliament with respect to this leakage. But the government has neither denied nor admitted the snooping by the spyware," he said. Amid a row over the Pegasus spyware issue, the government had said that illegal surveillance was not possible with checks and balances in the country's laws and alleged that attempts were being made to malign the Indian democracy. On July 19, IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw told the Lok Sabha that media reports on alleged snooping published a day before the start of the Monsoon Session of Parliament "cannot be a coincidence" and stressed that there is "no substance" behind the sensationalism. However, the minister did not specify whether the Indian government was using Pegasus spyware. Brittas, on Sunday, also claimed that allegations lead to two inferences, either snooping was done by the government or by a foreign agency. If it was done by the government, then it was done in an unauthorised manner. If snooping was carried out by some foreign agency, then that is an act of external aggression and needs to be dealt in a serious manner, Brittas pointed out. The NSO, the company which owns the technology, has also "clearly rubbished the claims in the report", the minister had said. The NSO had said that the list of countries shown using Pegasus in the report was incorrect and many countries mentioned were not even the clients of the company, as per the minister's statement to the Lok Sabha on July 19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pegasus-row-rajya-sabha-mp-moves-supreme-court-seeking-court-monitored-probe-1012616.html
25-07-2021||National||PM invokes Mahatma Gandhi, says citizens should lead 'Bharat Jodo Andolan'||As the country is going to enter its 75th year of Independence, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged every citizen to lead a 'Bharat Jodo Andolan' with the mantra 'Nation First, Always First', like the way Mahatma Gandhi had led the 'Bharat Chhodo Andolan' (Quit India Movement). In his monthly radio address 'Mann Ki Baat', he said, "When one refers to the freedom movement and Khadi, remembering revered Bapu is natural. Just like the Bharat Chhodo Andolan, steered under Bapu’s leadership, every countryman today has to lead a Bharat Jodo Andolan." "It is our duty to ensure that our work helps closely knit, bind our India which is filled with diversity," he said. As part of the 75th anniversary of Independence celebrations, he said several programmes are being organised under 'Amrit Mahotsav', which is "not a programme of any government, neither a programme of any political party…it is a programme of crores and crores of Indians". With the help of this website, he said, one can render the national anthem and record it, thereby, getting connected with the campaign. "Just the way champion proponents of Freedom had joined hands for the cause, we have to come together for the development of the country. We have to live for the country, work for the country…and in that, even the smallest of efforts will produce big results. We can contribute to nation building even while performing our routine chores…such as Vocal for Local," he said. He also referred to Kargil Vijay Diwas falling on Monday. He described the Kargil war as a symbol of bravery and patience on part of India's military, which the whole world has watched. "This time this prideful day will be celebrated amid Amrit Mahotsav. That is why this day becomes all the more special. I wish you read the enthralling saga of Kargil. Let us all bow to the bravehearts of Kargil," he said. Urging people to encourage Indian athletes participating in the Tokyo Olympics, he also said they should support the Indian Olympics team on social media by joining the 'Victory Punch Campaign'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-invokes-mahatma-gandhi-says-citizens-should-lead-bharat-jodo-andolan-1012619.html
25-07-2021||National||Dalai Lama condoles loss of lives due to Maharashtra rains, writes to CM showing solidarity||Tibetan spiritual leader Dalai Lama has written to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, expressing grief over the loss of lives due to rain-related incidents in the state and also donated to the ongoing relief and rescue efforts. The death toll from the torrential rains that have battered Maharashtra's Pune and Konkan divisions over the last three days and triggered landslides in some areas rose to 112 on Saturday, including 52 in the coastal Raigad district alone. Moved by news reports about the loss of lives, damage to properties and suffering faced by so many people in Maharashtra as a result of devastating flooding over the last few days, His Holiness the Dalai Lama has written to the chief minister to offer his prayers and condolences to the families who have lost their loved ones, a statement said. “I understand that the state government and concerned authorities are making every effort to help those affected by severe monsoon rains. As a gesture of our solidarity with the people of Maharashtra, I have asked the Dalai Lama Trust to make a donation towards relief and rescue efforts,” the statement said quoting the Dalai Lama. The Dalai Lama, whose real name is Tenzin Gyatso, received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1989, and is feted worldwide for his advocacy of independence for Tibet and other causes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dalai-lama-condoles-loss-of-lives-due-to-maharashtra-rains-writes-to-cm-showing-solidarity-1012620.html
25-07-2021||National||Over 120 dead in rain-related incidents as rescuers search for missing||The death toll from flooding and landslides triggered by heavy monsoon rains in India climbed to 124 Sunday, officials said, with rescuers searching for dozens more missing. The country's western coast has been inundated by torrential rains since Thursday, with the India Meteorological Department warning of further downpours over the next few days. In Maharasthra, 114 people have been killed, including more than 40 in a large landslide that hit the hillside village of Taliye, south of Mumbai, on Thursday. Villager Jayram Mahaske, whose relatives remained trapped, told AFP that "many people were washed away as they were trying to run away" when the landslide hit. It flattened dozens of homes in a matter of minutes, leaving just two concrete structures standing and cutting off power supply, local residents told AFP. Rescuers were scouring the mud and debris for 99 others still missing. "My entire team is engaged in rescue operations now," National Disaster Response Force Inspector Rajesh Yawale, who was coordinating rescue operations in the village, told AFP Saturday. He said many bodies were washed away, with some found stuck among trees downstream. A dozen others were killed in two separate landslides, also south of Mumbai. In parts of Chiplun, water levels rose to nearly 20 feet (six metres) on Thursday after 24 hours of uninterrupted rain submerged roads and homes. Eight patients at a local Covid-19 hospital also reportedly died after power supply to ventilators was cut off by the floods. In neighbouring Goa, a woman drowned, the state government told the Press Trust of India, in what Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said were the "worst floods since 1982". In the coastal plains spanning Maharashtra and Goa, floodwater levels remained elevated after rivers burst their banks. Terrified residents climbed onto rooftops and upper floors to escape swelling waters. In Karnataka, the death toll rose from three to nine overnight, with four others missing, officials said. Power supply was disrupted in the 11 affected districts and officials added that there were crop losses across vast swathes of land. Flooding and landslides are common during India's treacherous monsoon season, which also often sees poorly constructed buildings buckle after days of non-stop rain. Four people died before dawn on Friday when a building collapsed in a Mumbai slum, authorities said. The incident came less than a week after at least 34 people lost their lives when several homes were crushed by a collapsed wall and a landslide in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-120-dead-in-rain-related-incidents-as-rescuers-search-for-missing-1012621.html
25-07-2021||National||Covid-19 effect: Schools report 20-50% dip in revenue; 55% teachers faced salary cut||With the Covid-19 pandemic leading to prolonged closure, majority of private schools across the country have reported a 20-50 per cent decrease in revenue, leading to reduction in teachers' salaries at some of them, a new report said. The report by the Central Square Foundation (CSF), an NGO working on quality school education in India, is based on a study with over 1,100 respondents (parents, school administrators and teachers) across 20 states and union territories. While over 55 per cent of schools said there was a major reduction in the number of new admissions this academic year, three-fourth of the schools have faced delays in RTE reimbursements. Non-minority private schools have to provide free admissions to students selected by the state government under the 25 per cent RTE quota. In lieu of the free admissions, the state reimburses them an amount fixed in advance. "Revenue decreased in the range of 20-50 per cent for most schools but the cost heads have largely remained the same, thus making it difficult to continue operations seamlessly. Schools' revenues were hit by the inability of parents to pay fees regularly. This was highest among the urban schools. Fifty-five per cent of schools suggest that there was a major reduction in the number of new admissions in this academic year," the report said. At least 77 per cent of schools said they are not interested in taking a loan to support school finances during Covid-19, and only three per cent have successfully accessed loans, while five per cent are waiting for their loans to be processed. "The schools reported that preferred source of loan is a public sector bank and the least preferred source is an NBFC," it said. At least 55 per cent of teachers across private schools faced a reduction in salary during the lockdown. "Schools paid teachers partially since other cost heads (bills, rent, etc.) couldn’t be avoided. Sixty-five per cent teachers' salaries were put on hold by low fee schools as compared to 37 per cent teachers whose salaries were put on hold by high fee schools. At least 54 pc teachers do not have an alternate source of income, 30 per cent supplemented their salary with private tutoring and coaching," the report said. It noted that 55 per cent of teachers are highly confident that their schools will be able to continue operations till the situation returns to normal. The confidence level significantly reduces among rural school teachers and low-fee school teachers. On the part of parents, at least 70 per cent of them reported that school fees remained the same, and only 50 per cent of parents reported paying the fees, indicating a massive dent in school revenues during the academic year, the report said. "Twenty per cent parents reported an increased expenditure on technology and infrastructure and 15 pc reported increased education expenses. Seventy-eight pc parents reported that they will be able to continue to afford their child's education at the same school," it said. Schools across the country closed in March last year ahead of a nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of the coronavirus and shifted to online learning. While in October last year, several states reopened schools partially, they were again closed down during the aggressive second wave of Covid-19 in April this year. Schools have again begun to reopen in several states, while some others have adopted a wait-and-watch policy. Education being a state subject, there was no directive regarding school fees during the pandemic by the Ministry of Education. However, a few states granted relief to parents by directing schools to charge only tuition fees or charge fees with reduced heads. According to a UNICEF report, the economic shocks of the Covid-19 pandemic have hit low-cost private schools (LCPS) especially hard. "LCPS have found themselves under significant financial stress; teachers have reported losing their jobs, having their salaries cut, or not being paid at all. Thousands of LCPS have already shut down, and thousands more are on the brink of permanent closures. LCPS also struggled to provide remote learning support to their students, and the likelihood of extensive learning losses among returning students is significant," a recent report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-effect-schools-report-20-50-dip-in-revenue-55-teachers-faced-salary-cut-1012623.html
25-07-2021||National||RBI central board short of 9 non-official directors||The central board of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is facing shortage of nine non-official directors, including seven from the category of people of eminence from various fields. The central board is the highest decision making body of the apex bank headed by the RBI governor. According to the RBI Act, the government nominates 10 eminent persons from various fields to the central board of the RBI, besides four directors (one from each of the four local boards). The government is yet to appoint seven non-official directors from the category of people of eminence from various fields while representations from local board from western and southern areas are missing. Currently, only three eminent personalities -- Tata Sons Chairman Natarajan Chandrasekaran, seasoned banker S K Marathe and chartered accountant and RSS ideologue Swaminathan Gurumurthy -- are serving the central board. They are nominated under Section 8(1)(c) of the RBI Act, 1934, according to the RBI's website. With regard to directors from local boards, eastern area is represented by Sachin Chaturvedi and northern area by Revathy Iyer, while nomination of two directors is awaited. These non-official directors are appointed for a period of four years and are eligible for re-appointment. In June last year, Chandrasekaran was re-appointed retrospectively as non-official director for a further period of two years beyond March 3, 2020. Besides, there is a provision for two government officials to be appointed on the central board. Under this category, Economic Affairs Secretary Ajay Seth and Financial Services Secretary Debasish Panda have been appointed as directors. As far as official directors are concerned, the board has full representation with the governor and four deputy governors. Taking into consideration five official directors, the central board of the RBI as prescribed by the Act can have a total of 21 directors. As many as four non-official directors, including Gujarat's former chief secretary Sudhir Mankad and Mahindra & Mahindra's former group CFO Bharat N Doshi, completed their term last year. Other two directors, Prasanna Kumar Mohanty and Dilip S Shanghvi, served on the central board till February 8, 2021, and March 10, 2021, respectively. Eminent agriculture economist Ashok Gulati and Teamlease co-founder Manish Sabharwal also completed their term earlier this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rbi-central-board-short-of-9-non-official-directors-1012629.html
25-07-2021||National||Delhi HC to hear plea against Ramdev for remarks on allopathy||The Delhi High Court will hear on Monday a plea by seven doctors' associations against Yoga guru Ramdev for allegedly spreading misinformation by his statements against allopathy amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The matter will be heard by Justice C Hari Shankar who had earlier asked the counsel for the associations to place on record the videos pertaining to the alleged misinformation. The associations before court are three Resident Doctors' Association of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences at Rishikesh, Patna and Bhubaneshwar, Association of Resident Doctors, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research, Chandigarh, Union of Resident Doctors of Punjab (URDP); Resident Doctors' Association, Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical College, Meerut and Telangana Junior Doctors' Association, Hyderabad. They alleged that Ramdev was misleading and misrepresenting to the public at large that allopathy was responsible for the deaths of several people infected by Covid-19, and insinuating that allopathic doctors were causing deaths of the patients. In their plea, the associations have submitted that the yoga guru was sowing doubts in the minds of general public with respect to the safety and efficacy of not only allopathic treatments but also Covid-19 vaccines. Being a highly influential person, it is apprehended that Ramdev's statements can influence lakhs of people and divert them from allopathic treatment which are prescribed as the standard form of care even by the government, the plea submitted. The associations alleged in the plea that the misinformation campaign was nothing but an advertisement and marketing strategy to further the sales of the product sold by Ramdev, including Coronil which claims to be an alternative treatment for Covid-19. With the third wave of Covid-19 likely to set in August, it is imperative that Ramdev's sustained misinformation campaign be brought to a halt, the association has pleaded. The court had on June 3 issued summons to Ramdev on a plea by the Delhi Medical Association in connection with his alleged statements against allopathic medicines and claims regarding Patanjali's Coronil kit. The court had refused to restrain Ramdev at that stage saying the allopathic profession was not so fragile. It had, however, orally asked Ramdev's counsel to tell him not to make any provocative statements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-to-hear-plea-against-ramdev-for-remarks-on-allopathy-1012635.html
25-07-2021||National||Blinken's India visit: Afghanistan situation, terror financing by Pakistan to figure in talks||The discussions will also focus on deepening engagement under the framework of the Quad with the possibility of a foreign ministerial meeting of the grouping expected to take place later this year, the sources said. Both sides will also take forward the Quad vaccine initiative to enable the supply of vaccines produced in India from early 2022 to countries in the Indo-Pacific region. The sources said the visit will be an opportunity to further consolidate bilateral cooperation across a vast agenda and the areas of focus will be trade and investment, healthcare, education, digital domain, innovation and security. It will be Blinken's first visit to India after assuming charge as the US Secretary of State and the second by a high-ranking Biden administration official since it came to power in January In the defence domain, both sides are expected to explore ways to deepen collaboration, the sources said. India will also press for gradual resumption of international travel while maintaining health protocols, especially for easing the mobility of students, professionals, business travellers and for ensuring family reunions, besides humanitarian cases, they said. "The need for resilient supply chains of critical medicines and healthcare equipment is likely to come up," said a source. The two sides will exchange assessments about Indo-Pacific with a focus on Covid assistance, economic slowdown and security scenario, the sources said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/blinkens-india-visit-afghanistan-situation-terror-financing-by-pakistan-to-figure-in-talks-1012637.html
25-07-2021||National||Amnesty has not ‘backtracked’ on the Pegasus list; media, BJP make false claims||India Today has claimed that Amnesty International, one of the coordinators of the Pegasus Project, has backtracked on its initial reportage into the Israeli spyware used to target journalists, activists and politicians. “Amnesty backtracks on snooping list,” wrote India Today while tweeting a broadcast where news tickers flashing on the screen read, “Snoopgate list was never real?”, “Big Amnesty U-turn” and “Amnesty pulls back of ‘list’ claims”.    “Is Pegasus spygate call database fake?” asked Times Now during a show anchored by Rahul Shivshankar. He claimed that a new ‘twist’ has been reported in the Pegasus Project and that Amnesty never linked the data to NSO.    The BJP, which is at the heart of the controversy in India as the NSO Group has said that it sells the advanced software to only “vetted governments”, attempted to completely discredit the Pegasus Project. “Amnesty International has denied this list,” the party claimed.   NSO has denied that this is not a list of their customers and has no corroborative evidence of any connection between the list in circulation. No. What does ‘potential target’ imply? Forbidden Stories founder Laurent Richard had explained this in an interview with India Today. “A list of phone numbers entered by NSO customers into the NSO system and some of those numbers have been infected. We were able to check and find some evidence inside phones,” he said. Anchor Rajdeep Sardesai questioned, “Can we say that simply the existence of a particular number on this NSO list indicates a hack? Can we say with confidence that these are the very numbers or will we have to go through forensic analysis of all these numbers?” to which Richard replied, “We never say that. We only say that those numbers were entered into the system by NSO customers. This is what we say. The second thing that we say is that when we were able to approach people, we told them we have reasons to believe that you have maybe been under surveillance. Is it possible to do some forensic on your phone? And then when we did that we were able to find some traces of infection.”   It further said, “The news organisations working on Pegasus Project were independently able to identify the owners of over 1,500 numbers across at least 10 countries. A small cross-section of these phones was forensically examined to find traces of Pegasus.”   Kanchan Gupta, senior adviser at the ministry of information and broadcasting, quote-tweeted Zetter and claimed that Amnesty “conjured” a list of possible targets. Zetter replied to him stating that he has completely misinterpreted her tweet.   You’ve misinterpreted this entirely. No one conjured the list. The list is real, and it definitely contains people on it who were spied on with the Pegasus software However, widespread use of the mistranslation of his Hebrew report was already in place. Forbidden Stories journalist Phineas James explained in a thread how the ‘twisted’ version was pushed by a section of Israeli media and “by the morning, news that the list was “indicative” of NSO clients rather than “targets of potential surveillance by NSO clients” was everywhere.”   A journalist with more than 70,000 followers retweeted this post, again without context. “Amnesty, and the journalists involved in the investigation, made it clear from the outset in very clear language that this was a list of numbers marked or targeted as numbers of interest for NSO’s customers, who are various regimes in the world,” said Naveh. Thus, a misleading narrative has been built that Amnesty backtracked on its earlier investigation. But the fact is that the organisation has always maintained that the 50,000 numbers on the list are potential surveillance targets by the NSO Group’s clients. Forbidden Stories founder said that these numbers were fed into NSO’s system, and the news organisations working on the Pegasus Project were able to identify owners of over 1,500 numbers. Out of them, the phones of 67 people went through forensic analysis and traces of Pegasus were found in 37. The BJP has suggested that the list is fake but the party is yet to deny that it used Pegasus to spy on citizens. The exaggerated emphasis on the list distracts from the primary issue – there is evidence of Pegasus being infected into the phones of journalists and human rights activists. Illegal surveillance subverts democracy and targeting organisations who are exposing the illegal surveillance, instead of questioning the governments that may have spied on their citizens, is a distraction from the truth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amnesty-has-not-backtracked-on-the-pegasus-list-media-bjp-make-false-claims-1012639.html
25-07-2021||National||Over 3.29 crore vaccine doses still available with states, private hospitals: Centre||More than 3.29 crore balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states, union territories and private hospitals, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. Over 45.37 crore vaccine doses have been provided to the states and UTs so far through all sources and a further 11,79,010 doses are in the pipeline, it said. Of this, the total consumption, including wastage, is 42,08,32,021 doses (as per data available at 8 am Sunday), the ministry said. The new phase of universalisation of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from June 21. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the government of India has been supporting states and UTs by providing them Covid-19 vaccines free of cost. In the new phase of the universalisation of the vaccination drive, the Union government will procure and supply (free of cost) 75 per cent of the vaccines being produced by the manufacturers in the country to the states and UTs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-329-crore-vaccine-doses-still-available-with-states-private-hospitals-centre-1012647.html
25-07-2021||National||Would not have had Covid vaccine situation if PM understood country's 'Mann ki Baat': Rahul Gandhi||Top Opposition leaders on Sunday targetted the Narendra Modi government on the "slow pace" of Covid-19 vaccination, with former Congress president Rahul Gandhi saying that had the country's 'Mann ki Baat' been understood, the situation would have been different. CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury also questioned the pace of vaccination as he pointed out that less than 10% of the country's adults have been vaccinated so far. The remarks came as the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said the 43.31 crore vaccine doses have been administered so far. Around 45.37 crore vaccine doses have been provided to states so far while another 11.79 lakh doses are in the pipeline. "Had you understood the country's 'Mann ki Baat', such would not have been the state of vaccinations," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi with a hashtag "Where Are Vaccines". He also shared a video along with his remark which sought to describe the slow vaccination rate, and media reports on people finding it difficult to get vaccines. The video sought to highlight that the required vaccination rate is 93 lakh per day and the actual rate in the last seven days is 36 lakh per day. It also said the actual vaccinations on July 24 at 23 lakh per day with a shortfall today of 69 lakh per day. Yechury tweeted, "Where are the vaccines PM Modi? In last 6 months less than 10% of our adults are fully vaccinated. To meet the year end target the current average daily vaccinations of 40L needs to rise to near 1 crore/day. Procure globally and accelerate vaccination drive on a war footing." To a question raised by Rahul and Trinamool Congress MP Mala Roy in Lok Sabha on Friday, Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare Dr Bharati Pravin Pawar said that no fixed timeline can be indicated for the completion of vaccination drive. However, she said in the written reply, the government expects that all those above 18 years will be vaccinated by year-end.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/would-not-have-had-covid-vaccine-situation-if-pm-understood-countrys-mann-ki-baat-rahul-gandhi-1012652.html
25-07-2021||National||'Mann ki Baat' earned Rs 30.80 crore revenue in 7 fiscals||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's monthly radio broadcast 'Mann ki Baat' has earned Rs 30.80 crore revenue for Prasar Bharati in seven fiscals since its inception on October 3, 2014. The programme, whose 79th episode was broadcast on Sunday, runs in 23 languages and 29 dialects on All India Radio (AIR) and is telecast in Hindi and other languages on various Doordarshan channels. The Prasar Bharati has not incurred any expenditure on the production of the programme as it uses existing in-house resources for production and existing translators engaged on assignment-basis for language versions. According to written responses by Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur in Rajya Sabha last week, the Prasar Bharati has earned the highest revenue of Rs 10.64 crore in 2017-18, while the lowest was in the last fiscal 2020-21 when it could generate only Rs 1.02 crore. In 2014-15, the Prasar Bharati earned Rs 1.16 crore though the programme started in October 2014, while it rose more than two times in the next fiscal 2015-16 to Rs 2.81 crore. It further increased to Rs 5.14 crore in 2016-17 and more than doubled in 2017-18. In 2018-19, it fell to Rs 7.47 crore, while 2019-20 saw a sharp decline to Rs 2.56 crore. Thakur, however, said the primary objective of the programme is to establish dialogue with the citizens on issues of day-to-day governance. The cumulative reach of viewership of the "most popular televised radio programme" has been estimated to range from six crore to 14.35 crore during 2018 to 2020, the Minister added. 34 Doordarshan channels and around 91 private channels broadcast this radio programme. The Twitter handle 'Mann ki Baat Updates' created to generate interest in the programme has made over 28,000 tweets promoting the programme. In his latest 'Mann ki Baat' address on Sunday, Modi said a study conducted by MyGov showed that the youth power is steering the programme with suggestions and messages. He said close to 75 per cent who provide suggestions for the broadcast are below the age of 35 years. "Mann Ki Baat is a medium which has positivity, sensitivity. In Mann Ki Baat, we talk about positive things, its character is collective. This activism for positive thoughts and suggestions in the youth delights me. I am also happy about the opportunity that I get through ‘Mann Ki Baat’ to know the minds of the youth," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mann-ki-baat-earned-rs-3080-crore-revenue-in-7-fiscals-1012653.html
25-07-2021||National||No contradiction among Congress leaders in Rajasthan on cabinet reshuffle: Maken||AICC general secretary Ajay Maken on Sunday said there is no conflict among the party leaders in Rajasthan on the planned cabinet reshuffle and they have left the decision on the central leadership. After meeting ministers, MLAs and office bearers at the party office here, Maken said they have expressed confidence in the party high command for the reshuffle decision. Maken did not disclose any date for the cabinet expansion, but he will again be in the state capital on July 28. "I can say that there is no conflict among the party leaders and they all have left the final decision about the cabinet expansion to the party high command," he told reporters. Maken, together with AICC general secretary (organisation) K C Venugopal, arrived at the party office in Jaipur for the meeting. He said issues like inflation and the Pegasus matter were discussed. "People of the country are suffering from high inflation, many have lost jobs during the pandemic, and instead of spending money and resources for people, the central government misused the resources for snooping and spying on leaders, journalists and judiciary. This is highly condemnable," he said. To a question on the BJP's allegations against PCC chief and Education Minister Govind Singh Dotasra of influencing the interview process of the Rajasthan Administrative Services 2018 examination in favour of two relatives, Maken said Dotasra is being cornered as he had targeted RSS leader Nimbaram and the BJP. Nimbaram, the regional pracharak of the RSS, is named in an FIR registered with the Anti-Corruption Bureau in a matter related to graft, and recently, Dotasra had said that the state government would give "treatment" to the RSS leader. By saying "treatment", he apparently meant action against the leader. Maken said he would come to Jaipur on July 28 to hold discussions with MLAs on the appointment of district and block presidents of the party. Venugopal and Maken late on Saturday night held discussions on the issues of cabinet reshuffle and political appointments with Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot at his residence. After Punjab, the party high command has shifted its focus to Rajasthan, where demands for Cabinet expansion and political appointments have gained momentum after reports of resentment in the camp led by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, who along with 18 MLAs had rebelled against the leadership of Gehlot last year. Three days back, Pilot had indicated that the Congress would take suitable steps soon to address issues raised by him. He had said that he is in touch with the party high command over the issues raised by him and hoped that the required steps would be taken soon. Pilot was sacked as the deputy chief minister and Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief in July last year after he rebelled against the leadership of Gehlot. After a one-month-long political crisis, the party high command announced to form a three-member committee to look into the issues raised by him. Last month, MLAs from the Pilot camp said that the party should fulfil the promises made to Pilot last month, following which the demand for Cabinet expansion and political appointments gained momentum. At present, there are 21 members in the council of ministers, including the chief minister, and nine slots are vacant. Rajasthan can have a maximum of 30 ministers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-contradiction-among-congress-leaders-in-rajasthan-on-cabinet-reshuffle-maken-1012660.html
25-07-2021||National||Health ministry urges community radio stations to bust myths surrounding Covid-19 vaccination||The Union health ministry hosted a communication awareness workshop for representatives of community radio stations from 16 states for creating campaigns about Covid-appropriate behaviour and busting myths surrounding vaccination particularly among people residing in remote areas of the country. The workshop was conducted by the ministry in partnership with UNICEF, an official statement said. The thematic session highlighted the need to create meaningful awareness campaigns about Covid-appropriate behaviour and bust myths surrounding Covid vaccines and vaccination particularly among communities residing in remote and difficult to reach areas in the country. In his opening remarks, Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal acknowledged the contribution of community radio stations in supporting the world's largest vaccination drive, the statement said. The programmes in regional languages aimed at educating communities about the importance of Covid-appropriate behaviour, addressing myths and misinformation linked to vaccines and creating awareness on vaccination progress is resulting in uptake of vaccination among many tribal districts, it said. The radio stations were urged to highlight community-led positive initiatives and role models to strengthen vaccine trust among communities that they cater to. The issue of mental health linked to Covid-19 was also focused upon, the statement said. The collective responsibility to address mental health issues among communities through informative programming by engaging with subject experts from the state and national level was stressed on, it said. The radio stations were asked to continuously remind listeners about the need to strictly follow Covid-appropriate behaviour as the second wave is still not over: the virus can strike back as soon the society ignores health advisories and lowers its guard against Covid safety protocol, it said. The representatives were encouraged to produce innovative programmes and create a ‘Jan Andolan’ (public movement) by featuring and acknowledging community role models. The participants shared how they allayed apprehensions and concerns of their audiences about Covid vaccines and motivated them to get the jab. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-ministry-urges-community-radio-stations-to-bust-myths-surrounding-covid-19-vaccination-1012661.html
25-07-2021||National||100% of adult population vaccinated in Khajuraho, says MP CM; tourism industry upbeat||All people aged 18 and above have been vaccinated against Covid-19 in Khajuraho town of Madhya Pradesh, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said, leading the tourism industry to be optimistic about the business gaining momentum at the world-famous destination in the coming days. While making the announcement on Saturday, Chouhan attributed the success in vaccination to the awareness of people of Khajuraho, located in Chhatarpur district, about 375 km from the state capital Bhopal. The Khajuraho temples, which are a UNESCO world heritage site, are situated in the backward Bundelkhand region of the state. Tourism industry stakeholders feel the business will now pick up in the area. "During the pandemic, all big and small hotels in Khajuraho were completely shut as the local hospitality business is dependent on visitors from outside. Now, being a 100 per cent vaccinated town, we can expect some tourist influx in the coming days,” Ajay Kashyap, a travel agent in Khajuraho, told PTI on Sunday. He said domestic visitors have started visiting the temple town since the second Covid-19 wave subsided. "Khajuraho gets the largest foreign tourist footfalls in Madhya Pradesh. But, the return of foreign visitors to Khajuraho may take time in view of the air transport restrictions due to Covid-19 and other restraints in their own country,” he said. Chhatarpur Collector Shilendra Singh said 13,659 people aged 18 years and above have been vaccinated in Khajuraho. Volunteers in the fight against Covid-19 were honoured for their contribution in raising awareness about vaccination, he said. According to health department officials, 2,77,07,815 vaccine doses against Covid-19 have so far been administered in Madhya Pradesh. On Saturday, MP reported six new cases of coronavirus, which took its tally of infections to 7,91,738, as per the state health department. With no fresh casualties, the toll stood at 10,512, while the count of recoveries reached 7,81,077, an official earlier said, adding that the state is currently left with 149 active cases||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/100-of-adult-population-vaccinated-in-khajuraho-says-mp-cm-tourism-industry-upbeat-1012663.html
25-07-2021||National||Trains running with highest frequency daily as during pre-Covid time: DMRC||Notwithstanding the restrictions on number of passengers to be carried, the DMRC is running maximum trains, performing over 5,100 trips with highest frequency daily as was available during pre-Covid time, officials said on Sunday. As the city government announced further lifting of restrictions on Saturday in view of an improved coronavirus situation, the Delhi Metro has said that its services will now run with full seating capacity from July 26, but there will still be no provision for standing travel for commuters. The DMRC has been running trains with 50 per cent seating capacity since June 7 when the services had resumed after a long hiatus. Crowds of passengers have been reported at various stations since then, but the urban transporter has maintained that it's on account of maintaining the Covid norms. The DMRC, in a statement, reiterated that despite being permitted to carry restrictions on numbers of passengers, it is still running maximum trains performing over 5,100 trips with highest frequency daily as was available during pre-Covid times, when over 60 lakh passenger journeys were performed daily, contrary to the general belief that the DMRC at present is running its services with reduced trains due to travel restrictions. Also, the guidelines pronounced by the authorities are binding on the Delhi Metro, it said. And, even with these revised guidelines, a maximum of 50 passengers per coach are permitted, as against 300 prior to the Covid-19 pandemic. Entry to stations will continue to be regulated, the DMRC said. "As a result, though the queues may slightly reduce, these might still be there outside stations, especially during peak hours owing to the compliance and adherence to the Covid-appropriate behaviour inside metro premises as per the government guidelines," it said. As and when further relaxations are announced by the authorities, the DMRC will ensure that all steps are taken from its end to provide ease of entry and convenient travel to the general public, the officials said. The DMRC again appealed to the public to travel by the metro "only when it is absolutely necessary and observe all Covid-related travel protocols in place for their own and everyone else's safety in this fight against the pandemic". DMRC services were fully suspended from May 10 in view of the Covid-induced lockdown in Delhi. It was first imposed on April 19, and successively extended by the city government. Metro services initially ran partially, catering only to people from the field of essential services, but from May 10, it was suspended in view of the rising cases amid the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. However, from June 7, it has been running with 50 per cent seating capacity and no provision for standing travel for commuters. The DMRC has 10 lines spanning 242 stations, and 264 stations, including the Rapid Metro in Gurgaon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trains-running-with-highest-frequency-daily-as-during-pre-covid-time-dmrc-1012684.html
25-07-2021||National||3.2 crore saplings planted on K T Rama Rao's birthday||The 'Green India Challenge', (GIC)-- one of the major green initiatives in the country, planted as many as 3.2 crore saplings across Telangana to mark the birthday of state IT Minister KT Rama Rao. The GIC, which undertook the task under the Mukkoti Vriksharchana, (planting three crore saplings) programme said it has reached yet another milestone through this massive plantation drive. "With the help of TRS cadre and volunteers, we successfully organised the mammoth task of planting 3.20 crore saplings on the occasion of KTR garus birthday (July 24)," Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) Rajya Sabha MP Joginipally Santosh Kumar and GIC founder said in a release on Sunday. The Forest department said it took up plantation of 40.343 lakh saplings inside forests as part of the programme on Saturday. Rama Rao, son of Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao is also referred to as KTR. Santosh Kumar had launched the Green India Challenge, a green campaign, which has now stepped into its fourth year and as part of it crores of saplings have been planted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/32-crore-saplings-planted-on-k-t-rama-raos-birthday-1012698.html
25-07-2021||National||Many now have immunity against Covid but don't lower guard: Experts||While a large number of people now have immunity against coronavirus due to previous infections or vaccination, a guarded approach is needed in terms of implementing restrictive measures to avoid a second wave-like crisis, experts said. Dr Yudhyavir Singh, who has been managing the Covid-19 ICU at AIIMS New Delhi, said it is important to lift a few restrictions to resume economic activities when cases are low. "However, one should not lower their guard … Adopt a guarded approach in terms of following Covid-19-appropriate behaviour and implementing restrictive measures," he said. Dr Singh added that Delhi may have already achieved herd immunity, considering the massive number of cases seen during the second wave. However, Dr Pooja Khosla, senior consultant (Department of Medicine), Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, said the second wave of the coronavirus has taught us that cases can increase suddenly. "There are warning signs from different parts of the world. In India too, a small increase in cases has been recorded. Infections can increase exponentially anytime. I think one should not assume anything and make all efforts to prevent a second wave-like crisis, which was a nightmare," she said. "Opening everything is not appropriate … everyone has been saying the third wave is a couple of days away," Dr Khosla added. Pragya Sharma, professor (Department of Community Medicine) at the Maulana Azad Medical College, said a third wave is a certain thing but the number of people it will infect will depend on the implementation of preventive measures and the pace of vaccination. "Even if there are breakthrough infections among vaccinated people, the severity will be less and hospitals will not be overwhelmed," she said. Sharma thinks the implementation of preventive and restrictive measures is an issue. "People either don't wear mask or don't wear it properly. Most of them use cloth mask, which doesn't serve any purpose. There is hardly any vigil being maintained in crowded areas," she said. After a devastating second wave of the coronavirus, people had started taking vaccination seriously. There would be queues at vaccination centres, but things have changed again. There is laxity on the part of the people, Dr Sharma said. "At the inoculation centre at MAMC, only around 50 people are getting vaccinated a day, while we can vaccinate around 200 people every day. Vaccines are available but people are not coming forward," she said. Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the Community Medicine department, Safdarjung Hospital, said around 80 per cent of people have immunity against the virus, either due to previous infection or due to vaccination. "The Delta variant of coronavirus was responsible for up to 60 per cent of the cases during the second wave. We haven't observed any major difference between Delta and Delta Plus variant. So, a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases is not expected, until a new, more infectious variant emerges," he said. Still, there is a percentage of people who have not been infected or did not develop enough antibodies despite getting vaccinated, due to various reasons. This set of people, which is almost 30 per cent of the population in Delhi, is likely to get infected. "Two cases are possible – first, the virus continues to infect people slowly until heard immunity is attained, and second, a new, more infectious variant leads to an increase in cases till everyone has immunity. But it seems the third wave won't be as severe as the second," he said. With the lifting of restrictions, people from rural areas have started coming to Delhi or those who have remained isolated so far are stepping out. "If such people go to crowded places, then there is a possibility of a spike in cases," he said. There is also a possibility that a new variant bypasses the immunity achieved through vaccination and previous infection. If that happens, it will a huge problem then, Dr Kishore added. Niti Aayog member Dr V K Paul has also told the Delhi government to remain watchful as the next three months are important and unlocking activities can lead to an increase in Covid-19 cases. However, a third wave of Covid-19 is “unlikely to be as severe as the second wave”, Dr Samiran Panda of the Indian Council of Medical Research had told the Delhi Disaster Management Authority during a meeting on July 9. He had mentioned that a substantial third wave would be plausible if any new, more infectious variant of the coronavirus emerges and escapes prior immunity in the absence of adequate lockdown measures. Dr Panda had suggested that vaccination efforts be ramped up to strongly mitigate the impact of a possible third wave. Delhi battled a brutal second wave of the pandemic that claimed a massive number of lives, with the shortage of oxygen at hospitals across the city adding to the woes. On April 20, Delhi had reported 28,395 cases, the highest in the city since the beginning of the pandemic. On April 22 the case positivity rate was 36.2 per cent, the highest so far. The highest number of 448 deaths was reported on May 3. The capital has recorded 2,369 cases of the coronavirus in the last 30 days (since June 24), 79 cases a day on an average.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/many-now-have-immunity-against-covid-but-dont-lower-guard-experts-1012703.html
25-07-2021||National||Now your Covid vaccination certificate shows dates of both doses||Recently, the government announced an upgradation in the Covid-19 vaccination certificate which will now include the dates of both vaccine doses. The Covid-19 vaccination certificate is issued as a proof of vaccination with a QR code which secures it from forgery. Earlier, the Covid-19 vaccination certificate on the Co-WIN app showed ‘partially vaccinated’ after the first dose and ‘fully vaccinated’ after the second one. As per the upgrade, the certificate will show both the doses dates on the certificate, the government announced it on Twitter. Aarogya Setu, government’s Covid-19 contact tracing mobile application, tweeted, "Now your Covid Vaccination Certificate on http://Cowin.gov.in displays dates of both doses.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/now-your-covid-vaccination-certificate-shows-dates-of-both-doses-1012705.html
25-07-2021||National||73% rise in healthcare facilities in tribal areas between 2005 and 2020: GoI data||There has been a 73 per cent increase in healthcare facilities in tribal areas between 2005 and 2020 as compared to a 10 per cent increase across the country, according to government data. The number of sub health centres (SHC) in tribal areas increased by 78 per cent, from 16,748 in 2005 to 29,745 in 2020. The "all-India" number of SHCs increased by nine per cent during this period, from 1,42,655 to 1,55,404, the government data showed. The number of primary health centres (PHCs) in tribal areas rose by 50 per cent, from 2,809 to 4,203, in these 15 years. PHCs across "all-India" increased by eight per cent, from 23,109 to 24,918. Community health centres in tribal areas increased from 643 in 2005 to 1,035 in 2020, a rise of 61 per cent. All-India, the number of CHCs rose from 3,222 to 5,183 during this period. Under the National Health Mission (NHM), tribal areas enjoy relaxed norms for setting up public health facilities. According to population norms, there should one SHC for every 5,000 people, one PHC for every 30,000 people and one CHC for every 1.2 lakh people. In tribal and desert areas it is 3,000, 20,000 and 80,000. Also, all tribal majority districts where composite health index is below the state average have been identified as High Priority Districts (HPDs) and these districts receive more resources per capita under the NHM as compared to the rest of the districts. These districts receive higher per capita funding, have enhanced monitoring and focused supportive supervision and are encouraged to adopt innovative approaches to address their peculiar health challenges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/73-rise-in-healthcare-facilities-in-tribal-areas-between-2005-and-2020-goi-data-1012715.html
25-07-2021||National||Social media posts advocating ISIS ideology: NIA conducts searches in Tamil Nadu||The NIA has conducted searches at six locations in four districts of Tamil Nadu in a case related to Facebook posts by an extremist advocating the ideology of the Islamic State terror group and fundamentalist organisation Hizb-Ut-Tahrir, an official said on Sunday. The searches were carried out in Thanjavur, Madurai, Theni and Tirunelveli districts at the residences of arrested accused Abdullah and his associates, the official of the NIA said. In April, a complaint was received at Theppakulam police station that Abdullah had posted incendiary messages on Facebook, instigating people on religious grounds to wage war against India and establish Khilafat, thus threatening the unity, security and sovereignty of India, the official said. The extremist advocated the ideology of the ISIS terror group and Hizb-Ut-Tahrir, the official of the premier investigation agency said. An FIR was lodged by the Tamil Nadu Police in Madurai and the case was later taken over by the NIA. During searches, 22 digital devices, including mobile phones, hard disks, memory cards, pen drives, laptops and many booklets containing incriminating materials have been recovered, the NIA official said, adding that further investigation in the case continues. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/social-media-posts-advocating-isis-ideology-nia-conducts-searches-in-tamil-nadu-1012717.html
25-07-2021||National||66% schools in country have tap water connection: Government||A total 66 per cent of schools and 60 per cent anganwadi centres in the country have received tap water supply under the centrally-sponsored Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM). 6.85 lakh (66 per cent) schools, 6.80 lakh (60 per cent) anganwadi centres (AWCs) and 2.36 lakh (69 per cent) Gram Panchayats and Community Healthcare Centres (CHCs) in villages across the country have been provided with tap water under the Mission, the Jal Shakti Ministry said in a statement. As many as nine states – Andhra Pradesh, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Punjab, Sikkim and Tamil Nadu, and one union territory – Andaman & Nicobar Islands, have successfully provided 100 per cent tap water connection to all schools and anganwadi centres. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on September 29, 2020, appealed to all states and union territories to a provide tap water connection to every school and anganwadi centre on mission mode. The Jal Jeevan Mission, launched on August 15, 2019, aims at providing potable tap water connections to each individual household and school by 2024. When the scheme was launched, only 3.23 crore rural households out of 18.98 crore households in the country, had a tap water connection.   Due to the aggressive implementation of JJM, a total 7.8 crore (41.14 per cent) households in the country have so far gotten tap water supply. Goa, Telangana, Andaman & Nicobar Islands and Puducherry have achieved 100 per cent tap water connection in rural households. At present every rural household has a tap water connection in 74 districts and about 1.04 lakh villages, the Ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/66-schools-in-country-have-tap-water-connection-government-1012721.html
25-07-2021||National||CPM MP moves SC for probe into Pegasus snooping allegations||CPM Rajya Sabha MP John Brittas has filed a PIL in the Supreme Court seeking a direction to the Union government to conduct an immediate investigation through an SIT under the court's monitoring into the recent allegations on use of Pegasus spyware for snooping activists, journalists and other prominent persons.  The plea claimed that the recent Pegasus snooping allegations were causing huge apprehensions and great agony for the citizens as it violated freedom of speech under Article 19(1)(a) as well as personal liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution. Only a proper court-monitored investigation can alleviate these apprehensions and agonies, the plea by Brittas, senior journalist and managing director of Kairali TV, added. Snooping, phone tapping, wiretapping, line bugging, monitoring of the phone or internet-based conversations by a third party, often by covert acts are critical invasions into an individual’s privacy, it pointed out. "Tapping has become a weapon against activists, journalists, and politicians either to spy on or discredit them. There is no data protection law in India and in the absence of the same the only refuge for the citizenry from such snooping is judiciary alone," the PIL said. It contended there was an apprehension that Pegasus spyware was illegally installed for the aid of the governmental agencies. The phones of CBI officers and other agencies were allegedly intercepted, so the court should order SIT probe to create a trust in the eyes of general public, the plea added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cpm-mp-moves-sc-for-probe-into-pegasus-snooping-allegations-1012741.html
25-07-2021||National||28% Indians plan to travel in Aug-Sept; risk of third Covid-19 wave set to rise: Report||With as many as 28 per cent Indians planning to travel in August-September, which is also the time for some of the major festivals in the country, the risk of the third wave of the pandemic is set to rise, according to a survey. In a statement, online platform LocalCircles also said its survey on April 12 had outlined the immediate second wave risk suggesting governments to impose travel restrictions. To estimate the risk once again in light of a potential third Covid-19 wave and to understand people's travel plans for the coming months, LocalCircles conducted another survey. It also sought to understand the reason for their travel amid the second wave of the pandemic, it said. The survey received over 18,000 responses from citizens residing in 311 districts, with 68 per cent of respondents men and the rest women. LocalCircles said 28 per cent citizens are planning to travel during August-September though only five per cent have made their bookings. It added that during the second wave of the outbreak, many citizens faced teething issues to cancel their travel plan for the summer. In many cases, the travel agent or the airline did not refund anything, and some citizens lost the complete ticket amount, while some were able to retrieve a partial amount, and others were asked to re-book the ticket for a later date, it stated. As many citizens now look forward to travelling in August and September, the first question in the survey was to know about their current plan. "In response, it received from 9,146 people, 63 per cent of citizens said they don't have a plan to travel during these two months. "Five per cent said they have plans and have booked the tickets, along with stays, while 23 per cent said they have a plan to travel during these two months but have not booked tickets and they stay yet. Nine per cent  said they are undecided," LocalCircles said in the statement. During this time, many parts of India have holidays for festivals and there is a good bit of travel that takes place. Many also tend to club these holidays with weekends by taking a day or two off, it stated. The survey also asked citizens about what kind of personal travel do they plan to undertake in the next two months. "In response, 13 per cent citizens said 'holiday destination', 39 per cent citizens said 'visit family and friends' and 22 per cent said 'other travel'," it said. The report added that the results of the survey indicate that of those who plan to travel in August-September, 54 per cent will be visiting friends and family. On an aggregate basis, if the data of those planning to travel in August-September is analysed, it indicates that 54 per cent plan to 'visit family and friends', 26 per cent will be travelling to 'holiday destinations', and 32 per cent will be undertaking other kinds of travel, according to the statement. In summary, with the decline in daily Covid-19 caseload, 28 per cent citizens plan to travel in August-September. As indicated by the findings of the survey, 23 per cent of citizens plan to travel in the next two months, though they haven't booked their tickets yet and only 5 per cent of citizens surveyed have booked their tickets and accommodation, it stated. Of those who are planning travel, the majority of 54 per cent citizens are planning to meet their friends and family, while 26 per cent plan to travel to a holiday destination, LocalCircles said. "The government must continue to create awareness among people about limiting non-essential travel till the time the risk of a third Covid-19 wave greatly reduces. "The biggest challenge with travel when the virus is spreading was observed in March and April during the Kumbh Mela when as devotees went back to their hometowns, many came back with the infection," LocalCircles said. The platform said it will also submit the findings of this survey with central and state governments, so that the same can be used as an input in policy decisions in regard to mitigating the risk of the third Covid-19 wave in India. Although the daily cases in India have declined significantly for nearly two months from four lakh to 40,000 range, infections in some districts continue to remain on an upward trajectory, particularly in Kerala and Maharashtra, said LocalCircles. "The test positivity rate in as many as 45 districts across India is reportedly still 10 per cent or higher. "PM Narendra Modi earlier this month expressed concerns about overcrowding at tourist destinations and markets and about the Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra and Kerala, as they have been reporting an increasing number of infections," it stated. It can be recalled that the spread of infection was highly concentrated in Maharashtra at the start of the second wave but the impact was later felt all across the country, the online platform said. It added, "PM Modi has told the Council of Ministers that there should be no space for carelessness or complacency and directed the ministers to take all possible precautions to contain and mitigate the spread." Experts have warned that with crowds building up, low adherence to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, the third wave is inevitable, and it could hit the country in August-September. Some experts have also highlighted the danger of Delta Plus variant spreading. However, so far, the number of cases of Delta Plus variant identified via genome sequencing across India have been less than 500, according to the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/28-indians-plan-to-travel-in-aug-sept-risk-of-third-covid-19-wave-set-to-rise-report-1012761.html
25-07-2021||National||State responsible to enforce right of citizens to clean water: NGT||The state has the responsibility to take remedial measures to enforce the right of the citizens to clean water, the National Green Tribunal has observed. The NGT Principal Bench headed by its chairperson Justice Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel made this observation while hearing a plea about polluted groundwater at a village in Punjab's Sangrur district. Insisting that it is the responsibility of the state to take remedial measures to enforce the right of the citizens to clean water, the NGT has formed a committee and directed it to submit a report on the status of groundwater in  Aloarakh village, Block Bhiwanigarh, District Sangrur in Punjab. A plea was made to the NGT against failure to take remedial measures against contamination of groundwater in the village. The applicant referred to the media report stating that the groundwater is contaminated and coloured water is coming out of the tubewells which has the potential to impact public health. Hearing the plea,  the NGT also noted that the problem has been existing for more than 10 years and according to the state pollution control board, a private factory that was closed 15 years ago, is responsible for the contamination. It is also reported that this tribunal had imposed compensation of Rs two crore on the said factory for restoration of the environment but the amount was not recovered, the bench noted. "If the report is correct, polluted water has the potential for adversely affecting the inhabitants. In such a situation, it is the responsibility of the State to take remedial measures to enforce the right of the citizens to clean water," the bench said. (With inputs from PTI) Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/state-responsible-to-enforce-right-of-citizens-to-clean-water-ngt-1012772.html
25-07-2021||National||No conflict in Rajasthan unit, says Congress; questions on Pilot's future persist||Two emissaries from Congress high command sent to fix Rajasthan's power tussle in the party-led government asserted there is "no conflict" among the state leaders and indicated a resolution to the standoff between Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and former PCC chief Sachin Pilot by the end of the month. "There is no conflict among the party leaders and they have left the final decision regarding Cabinet expansion to the party high command," said AICC general secretary for Rajasthan Maken after a late Saturday night meeting he held with AICC general secretary (organisation) K C Venugopal and Gehlot. On Sunday, the two leaders from the AICC had a meeting with party MLAs, ministers and office bearers at the Congress state office after which he said the party's strategy on issues like inflation and the Pegasus were discussed. Maken will be returning to the state capital on July 28 and will have one to one meetings with Congress MLAs over district and block appointments. The central leadership is keen that these appointments are made with direct feedback from local leaders. Even in the appointment of members of Boards and Corporations, the inputs will be taken from the legislators. While Maken stressed in the meeting that all leaders have spoken in one voice that whatever high command decides is acceptable to them and there is "no conflict, no disagreement", there was still no word about the rehabilitation of Pilot, who was removed from the posts of PCC chief and Deputy Chief Minister after he with 18 MLAs had rebelled against Gehlot in July last year. On Sunday night when Maken and Venugopal, had a meeting with CM Gehlot at his residence, Cabinet expansion was discussed threadbare. Implementation of promises made in the manifesto before the next polls was a key point in the discussions. The manifesto committee of AICC will soon hold a meeting to review the progress in the implementation of the party manifesto of Rajasthan. The leaders recognised the need to make political appointments in various boards and corporations as soon as possible with discussion and consensus of elected public representatives, state office bearers and senior leaders of the party. After resolving the internal feud in Punjab Congress, the Congress high command has shifted its attention to the desert state, where a power tussle is brewing for the last two years that had started soon after Congress came to power wresting the state from BJP in 2018. Congress is keen to avoid a repeat of the Madhya Pradesh scenario in which the party, forming a government in the state after a gap of 15 years, lost in less than one and a half years, as one of the triumvirates of its state leadership Jyotiraditya Scindia left the party and joined the BJP with his band of supporting MLAs following a bitter rivalry with Digvijay Singh and Kamal Nath. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-conflict-in-rajasthan-unit-says-congress-questions-on-pilots-future-persist-1012793.html
25-07-2021||National||2nd wave not over, Covid-19 can strike again if we lower guard: Health Ministry||Community Radio Stations (CRS) were asked to continuously remind listeners about the need to strictly follow Covid Appropriate Behaviour (CAB) as the second wave is still not over and the virus can strike back as soon society ignores health advisories and lowers its guard against Covid-19. With Covid-19 vaccination coverage crossing the landmark of 43 crore on Saturday, the government feels it can be better if vaccination hesitancy goes away from rural areas. Cumulatively, 43,31,50,864 vaccine doses were administered through 52,72,431 sessions till early Sunday morning while the total number of vaccine doses administered in 24 hours till Sunday morning was 51,18,210. The workshop emphasised the role of collective responsibility to address mental health issues among communities through informative programming by engaging with subject experts from the state and national level. Government plans to highlight the community-led positive initiatives and role models to strengthen vaccine trust among communities that they cater to. Targeting uptake of vaccination among many tribal districts of India, Government has launched CRS programs in regional language aimed at educating communities about importance of Covid Appropriate Behaviour, addressing myths and misinformation linked to vaccines and creating awareness on vaccination progress. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2nd-wave-not-over-covid-19-can-strike-again-if-we-lower-guard-health-ministry-1012797.html
25-07-2021||National||India to defend its human rights, religious freedom record during Blinken visit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government is set to defend its records in upholding democratic principles and protecting human rights when United States Secretary of State Antony Blinken will raise during his visit to New Delhi the issues related to the state of freedom of expression and religion in India. Blinken will arrive in New Delhi on Tuesday. He is likely to raise during his meeting with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and National Security Advisor Ajit Doval the issues related to democracy and human rights in India. The Modi government, however, is preparing to respond to the US Secretary of State, underlining that issues such as human rights and democracy were universal and extended beyond a particular national or cultural perspective, a source in New Delhi said on Sunday. India is “proud of its achievements in both domains” and is “always glad to share experiences”, New Delhi is likely to convey to the Biden Administration during the visit of the US Secretary of State. The source in New Delhi took a dig at the US, stating that India had “a long-standing pluralistic society” and would be ready to engage with those who “now” recognised the value of diversity. That democracy and human rights will be on the agenda of Blinken’s talks with Jaishankar and Doval in New Delhi was confirmed by Dean Thompson, the acting Assistant Secretary for South and Central Asian Affairs of the US State Department, during a briefing for journalists in Washington D.C. Three US lawmakers—Senator Ed Markey, Representative Marie Newman and Representative Andy Levin—of late took part in a panel discussion and expressed concern over the crackdown on free speech. Besides, another group of over 20 members of the Senate and House of Representatives recently wrote to the US Secretary of State over the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-defend-its-human-rights-religious-freedom-record-during-blinken-visit-1012843.html
25-07-2021||National Politics||PM must make statement on Pegasus in Parliament, clarify whether snooping was done: Chidambaram||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Sunday said the government should either call for a joint parliamentary committee probe into the Pegasus snooping allegations or request the Supreme Court to appoint a sitting judge to investigate the matter, and demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi make a statement in Parliament clarifying whether there had been surveillance or not. The former home minister said he was not sure that one can go to the extent of saying that the entire electoral mandate of 2019 was vitiated by the "unlawful snooping" but added that it may have "helped" the BJP to score that victory which has been "tainted" by the allegations. In an interview with PTI, Chidambaram also said a probe by a joint parliamentary committee (JPC) can be more effective than an investigation by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology, asserting that the former would be more empowered by Parliament. Asked about Parliament IT panel head Shashi Tharoor's remarks that the subject is “already on the mandate of my committee” and a JPC is not required, Chidambaram expressed doubts whether the IT panel with a majority of BJP members will allow a full investigation into the matter. "The parliamentary committee rules are rather strict. For example they cannot take evidence openly but a JPC can be empowered by Parliament to take evidence in public view, to cross examine witnesses, and to summon documents. So I think a JPC will have far more powers than a parliamentary committee," he said. At the same time, he said he is not diminishing the role of the parliamentary committee to the extent it can probe the matter and is welcome to do so. Last Sunday, an international media consortium reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers, including of two ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders besides scores of businesspersons and activists in India, could have been targeted for hacking through the Pegasus spyware of the Israeli firm NSO. The government has been denying all Opposition allegations in the matter. On the government's response to the allegations, Chidambaram referred to IT and Communications Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw statement in Parliament, saying he is obviously a very "clever minister" and, therefore, the statement has been "very cleverly worded". "He (Vaishnaw) denies that there was any unauthorised surveillance. He does not deny that there was surveillance. He does not deny that there was authorised surveillance. Surely the minister knows the difference between authorised surveillance and unauthorised surveillance," the Congress leader said. Posing questions for the government, he asked whether there was surveillance at all and whether snooping was done through Pegasus. "If Pegasus spyware was used, who acquired it? Was it acquired by the government or by one of its agencies," he asked. The Rajya Sabha member also asked the government to come clean on the amount paid to acquire the spyware. "These are simple, straightforward questions which the average citizen is asking and the minister should answer that directly. After all, France has ordered an investigation when it was revealed that President (Emmanuel) Macron's number was one of the numbers that were hacked. Israel itself has ordered an investigation by its National Security Council," he said . If two major countries can order investigation, why should India not order a probe and find answers to the four simple questions, he asked rhetorically. Chidambaram said the matter also raises issues of national security because, if the government says that it did not conduct surveillance, then the question arises who conducted the snooping. "Was it a rogue agency in India doing it without the knowledge of the government or was it a foreign agency hacking into Indian telephones without the knowledge of the government. Either way...it is a more serious matter than the government conducting the surveillance," he said. Asked about the Opposition's demand of a Supreme Court-monitored probe and whether the top court should take it up suo motu, Chidambaram said he would not want to comment on what the court may or may not do, but pointed out that there is already a public interest litigation filed by one or two persons, separately, asking it to take suo motu cognisance of the Pegasus revelations. "Be that as it may, the government should request either Parliament to constitute a JPC or the government should request the Supreme Court to spare an honourable judge to conduct the investigation," he said. Asked about Home Minister Amit Shah's assertion that the allegations were aimed at humiliating India at the world stage, Chidambaram said the home minister chose his words very carefully and did not deny that there was surveillance. "He (Shah) does not deny that a certain number of telephones in India were hacked using Pegasus software. So, in fact, rather than what the home minister said, what he did not say is more important," he said. If the home minister is unable to categorically deny that Indian telephones were infiltrated by the spyware, then obviously he must take responsibility for this "scandal" happening under his watch, Chidambaram said. Asked about the logjam in Parliament over the issue and calls from Opposition ranks that the PM should make a statement on the Pegasus issue, he said Modi should have made a statement on the first day of Parliament's Monsoon Session itself when the allegations came to the fore. "There are only a few agencies which could have done this surveillance. All the agencies are under the prime minister's control," he said. "Each minister knows only what is under his department. The PM knows what is happening under all departments. So, it is the prime minister who should come forward and say whether there was surveillance or not and if there was surveillance whether it was authorised or not," Chidambaram said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-must-make-statement-on-pegasus-in-parliament-clarify-whether-snooping-was-done-chidambaram-1012680.html
25-07-2021||National Politics||Who funded Pegasus snooping? asks Sanjay Raut, compares it with Hiroshima bombing||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday asked who funded the alleged snooping of politicians and journalists by Pegasus and compared it with the Hiroshima bombing, saying while the attack on the Japanese city had resulted in death of people, the spying by the Israeli software led to "death of freedom". "The modern technology has taken us back to slavery," Raut said in his weekly column 'Rokhthok' in the Sena mouthpiece Saamana. He said the Pegasus case is "no different from the atomic bomb attack on Hiroshima". "People died in Hiroshima, while in the Pegasus case, it led to the death of freedom," he claimed. He said politicians, industrialists and social activists fear they are being spied upon, and even the judiciary and media are under the same pressure. "The atmosphere of freedom in the national capital ended a few years ago," said Raut, who is the executive editor of Saamana. He also sought to know who paid for the alleged snooping by the Israeli spyware. Quoting a media report, he said the Israeli company NSO charged Rs 60 crore annually as license (fee) for the Pegasus software. By way of one license, 50 phones can be hacked. Hence, to tap 300 phones, six to seven licenses are required, the Rajya Sabha member said. "Was so much money spent? Who paid for it? The NSO says it sells its software only to governments. If it is so, which government in India purchased the software? Rs 300 crore were spent for spying on 300 people in India. Does our country have the capacity to spend so much money on spying?" Raut asked. He also said BJP leader (and former Union IT minister) Ravishankar Prasad had justified spying by saying 45 countries in the world used Pegasus. Raut, whose party shares power with the NCP and Congress in Maharashtra, claimed that journalists who criticised the Modi government were snooping targets. An international media consortium had recently reported that several verified mobile phone numbers, including of some ministers, journalists, opposition leaders, and scores of business persons and activists in India could have been targeted for hacking using Pegasus software/spyware. The government has, however, dismissed allegations of any kind of surveillance on its part on specific people, saying it "has no concrete basis or truth associated with it whatsoever".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/who-funded-pegasus-snooping-asks-sanjay-raut-compares-it-with-hiroshima-bombing-1012694.html
25-07-2021||National Politics||Pegasus snooping allegations baseless; opposition left with no issue: Nadda||He also said that although the Centre was ready to hold talks over different issues, the “disappointed” and “issueless” opposition parties led by the Congress were disrupting the proceedings of Parliament. Nadda was speaking to reporters here at the end of his two-day Goa visit. Replying to a question over the Pegasus snooping row, he said, “It is baseless…It is issueless. The opposition parties led by the Congress do not have any issue which they want to raise for people. That is why they raise this kind of issue.”   Last Sunday, an international media consortium had reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers, including of two ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders besides scores of businesspersons and activists in India, could have been targeted for hacking through the Pegasus spyware of the Israeli firm NSO. However, the government has been denying all Opposition allegations in the matter. Speaking about frequent disruptions of the parliamentary proceedings, Nadda said, "We are ready for all types of discussion, but Congress along with other opposition parties, has become disappointed and issueless and hence resorts to such disruptions…They do not know what to do. They want to stop Parliament over issueless things.” “But people know that despite all their efforts, the productivity of Parliament has broken all the records under the dynamic leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, the business has broken all the records,” he added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pegasus-snooping-allegations-baseless-opposition-left-with-no-issue-nadda-1012704.html
25-07-2021||National Politics||Mamata Banerjee wants to meet PM to beg for funds: Dilip Ghosh||West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Sunday claimed Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, having "misused" central resources, now wants to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi "to beg for funds with folded hands". His remark, however, drew flak of the ruling party, which said that Ghosh should be having a "better understanding of the federal system", under which a head of the state can always meet the PM. Ghosh, while talking to reporters, also alleged that TMC members have siphoned off money from state coffers and left it near-empty. "She has misused the funds that were allocated by the Centre and now she wants to meet the PM to ask for more with folded hands as the state has gone virtually bankrupt," the senior BJP leader said when asked about Banerjee’s slated visit to the national capital. West Bengal is facing a financial crisis due to large-scale corruption on the part of the Mamata Banerjee government, Ghosh maintained. “Given the financial situation in the state, and the rising factionalism within the TMC camp, Didi has realised that she won’t be able to run the state well ahead of 2024 Lok Sabha polls,” he added. Expressing shock over the state BJP president’s assertions, TMC state spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said he is known for such “ignorant” comments. "Does he understand about the federal set up where the head of a state can always meet the PM? Dilipda should check facts... Bengal has mopped up more revenue under the TMC rule than in the past,” he noted. Echoing him, state minister and TMC MLA Chandrima Bhattacharya sought to know “if the CM has whispered into the ears of the BJP leader the purpose of her visit”. Banerjee had told reporters on Friday that the prime minister has granted her time for a meeting during her scheduled Delhi visit in the last week of July, but did not specify the date.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamata-banerjee-wants-to-meet-pm-to-beg-for-funds-dilip-ghosh-1012709.html
25-07-2021||National Politics||No decision on tie-up with Shiromani Akali Dal (United) in Punjab: AAP||No decision has been taken on an alliance with the Shiromani Akali Dal (United) and no such talks are going on, AAP's Punjab co-incharge Raghav Chadha clarified on Sunday following a report on a possible tie-up ahead of the assembly polls in the state. "As the co-incharge of AAP Punjab, I would like to make it clear that no decision has been taken on an alliance with the Shiromani Akali Dal (United) and we are not in talks," Chadha tweeted. He took to Twitter to make the clarification, tagging a report on a possible tie-up between the two parties ahead of the Punjab assembly polls next year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-decision-on-tie-up-with-shiromani-akali-dal-united-in-punjab-aap-1012711.html
25-07-2021||National Politics||Regional parties should form national front for 2024 Lok Sabha polls: Sukhbir Singh Badal||Regional parties should come together and form a national front to take on the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, Shriomani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal said on Sunday and asserted that his party's story with the saffron party was over. Underlining that issues of farmers are at the core of the SAD ideology, Badal said his party can never compromise on these and, therefore, severed its decades-old alliance with the BJP and moved out of the government at the Centre over three contentious farm laws. "SAD is a farmers' party and their issues are core of our ideology. Whatever may happen and whatever cost we may have to pay, we wouldn't let these laws be implemented in Punjab," Badal told PTI in an interview. The Centre's three farm laws have triggered a protest by farmers. In September last year, Badal's wife Harsimrat Kaur quit as Union minister in protest against the legislations. The protesting farmers claim these laws will do away with the minimum support price system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations. Over 10 rounds of talks with the government, which has been projecting the laws as major agricultural reforms, have failed to break the deadlock between the two sides. Talking about the SAD's new alliance with the Mayawati-led Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), Badal said the alliance between the two parties is permanent and that the Akali Dal's story with the BJP was over. On the party's future course of action, Badal said that the SAD is talking to various regional parties so that they all can come on one platform before the 2024 general elections. "There is a need for regional forces to get together. Regional forces are more connected to the ground and have better understanding of the people. We have been talking to various parties. Regional parties should come together and form a front before the 2024 general elections. And I am sure before 2024 this front will emerge as very strong force," he said. Badal further said it would be a second front rather than a third front as the main opposition Congress is no more a pan-India party. The BJP will be the new front's main target. In the upcoming assembly elections in Punjab, Badal said, farm laws will be the main issue for the Akali Dal and "if the party is voted to power, it will provide government job to a family member of all those farmers who lost their lives during the ongoing protest against the laws." In addition, the government will provide free education to the children of the deceased farmers and pension to the parents of those who died young, Badal said. He also said the SAD will bet big on new and young faces and will try to field as many women as possible in the assembly elections slated for early next year. On a question about reports of alleged snooping on politicians, activists and journalists using Pegasus spyware, Badal termed it an attack on democracy and demanded establishment of a Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) headed by an opposition MP to probe the matter. "This entire snooping episode is an attack on the Constitution, democracy and rights of the people. It is completely unethical and a JPC should be formed headed by an opposition MP to investigate it," Badal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/regional-parties-should-form-national-front-for-2024-lok-sabha-polls-sukhbir-singh-badal-1012727.html
25-07-2021||National Politics||4 years on, panel probing Jayalalithaa’s death makes no headway||The Justice A Arumughaswamy Commission came into being in August 2017 to probe the “circumstances that led to the death” of former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa. The one-man commission will turn four next month, but no proceeding has taken place in the past two years due to a stay granted by the Supreme Court on a plea by Apollo Hospitals. On Friday, the commission got its 11th extension – this time for six months – in four years of its existence. Neither the Tamil Nadu government, helmed by DMK since May 7, nor the Commission has knocked the door of the Supreme Court for the past two years asking for the stay to be lifted. In the four years, Rs 3 crore has been spent on the functioning of the committee, a reply to an application through RTI has said. The Commission was constituted purely for political reasons. Setting up a panel to probe the “mysterious death” of Jayalalithaa was one of the conditions set by the then rebel O Panneerselvam for merging his faction with that of Edappadi K Palaniswami. Though it was OPS who demanded the constitution of a commission, the former deputy chief minister never appeared before the panel despite several summons. He had alleged that Jayalalithaa was hospitalised on September 22, 2016, under mysterious circumstances. Over 100 witnesses, including Health Secretary J Radhakrishnan, and the then government officials, deposed before the Commission and recorded their statements. Ousted AIADMK interim general secretary V K Sasikala recorded her version of the events by submitting a voluminous document before the Commission. OPS evading the Commission led to criticism that he had no proof to prove his allegation that there was a mystery in Jayalalithaa’s death. Jayalalithaa’s death is one of the most politicised issues in Tamil Nadu in the past few years with DMK also demanding a “fair probe” into the AIADMK leader’s demise. The DMK also raked up Jayalalithaa’s death in the run-up to the polls and at one time, the party also demanded a CBI probe. By extending the tenure of the commission by another six months, political analysts said, the ruling party is also “playing politics” on the issue. They sought to know why the government has not moved the Supreme Court seeking to lift the stay on the proceedings of the Commission. “DMK is no exception when it comes to playing politics on the issue of Jayalalithaa’s death. It is OPS who betrayed the Commission by not appearing before it. The government should have set a specific deadline for submitting the report by the commission,” Prof Ramu Manivannan, Head of the Department of Politics and Public Administration, University of Madras, told DH. It is clear that the DMK is trying to fish in the troubled AIADMK waters, Prof Manivannan said, adding that the best thing that the government can do is to shut the commission as it serves no public cause. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/4-years-on-panel-probing-jayalalithaa-s-death-makes-no-headway-1012736.html
25-07-2021||National Politics||Congress alone can politically challenge BJP, provide alternative to people: Pilot||Congress leader Sachin Pilot said on Sunday that his party alone can politically challenge the BJP and provide an alternative to people. Talking to reporters in his Tonk assembly constituency, the former deputy chief minister of Rajasthan also targeted the Modi government over alleged shortage of coronavirus vaccine. India is the hub of vaccine manufacturing but the government has failed to ensure supply of doses in adequate quantity for inoculation of people, he said. "People are suffering from inflation and they want change. Congress is the only political party which can challenge the BJP and give an alternative to people," he said. Asked about his expectations from a likely reshuffle of the Rajasthan Cabinet and organisational rejig, Pilot said such issues are discussed at the right platform within the party. "AICC (All India Congress Committee) general secretary in charge of Rajasthan Ajay Maken has held a meeting of PCC (Pradesh Congress Committee) today and has talked in detail. Nothing is left to say now,” he said. During his visit to Tonk, Pilot held a meeting with district administration and police officials and discussed various issues. Earlier in the day, Pilot attended the PCC meeting which was addressed by Maken and senior leader K C Venugopal. Maken and Venugopal also held discussions about the Cabinet expansion and political appointments with Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot Saturday night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-alone-can-politically-challenge-bjp-provide-alternative-to-people-pilot-1012794.html
25-07-2021||National Politics||Sonia to have a 'chai-pe-charcha' with Mamata amid growing signs of Congress and Trinamool Congress coming closer||With the signs of the two parties coming closer becoming increasingly visible, Congress president Sonia Gandhi is likely to have a “chai-pe-charcha” with Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee, who will arrive in New Delhi on Monday. Banerjee is also likely to meet Nationalist Congress Party president Sharad Pawar during her first visit to the national capital. Banerjee led the Trinamool Congress to a landslide victory against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the assembly elections in West Bengal in March and April and took over as the Chief Minister of the State for the third consecutive term since 2011. The leaders of other opposition parties, including the Samajwadi Party, Aam Aadmi Party, Rashtriya Janata Dal, Shiv Sena and others, are also expected to meet her in New Delhi. She is keen to use her visit to the national capital to build on her success in stalling the BJP’s juggernaut in West Bengal and signal her and Trinamool Congress’s intent to play a more prominent role in national politics, particularly in uniting the political parties opposed to the BJP. Her meeting with Gandhi is likely to take place at the residence of the Congress president, who, according to the sources, invited her for a cup of tea. The Congress on Sunday also signalled its willingness to close ranks with the Trinamool Congress with a tweet slamming Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government for allegedly shortlisting the phone of Banerjee’s nephew and newly appointed national general secretary of her party, Abhishek Bandopadhyay, for surveillance during the elections in West Bengal. The Congress campaigned against the Trinamool Congress after forging an alliance with the Left Front and the Indian Secular Front to contest the assembly elections in West Bengal. But neither the grand old party nor its communist partners could win a single seat in the State Assembly. The Congress and the Trinamool Congress, however, reached out to each other over the past few weeks. The Congress high-command purportedly asked the party’s West Bengal unit chief Adhir Chowdhury to tone down criticism against the Trinamool Congress and its supremo, in view of the larger goal of building a nationwide coalition against the Modi Government. When Banerjee addressed a virtual rally to observe the Trinamool Congress’s annual Martyrs’ Day on July 21, P Chidambaram and Digvijay Singh of the Congress drove to the Constitution Club in New Delhi to listen to her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sonia-to-have-a-chai-pe-charcha-with-mamata-amid-growing-signs-of-congress-and-trinamool-congress-coming-closer-1012836.html
25-07-2021||National Politics||Attacks on BJP workers continue unabated in Bengal, party to carry on protests: Dilip Ghosh||Giving a call for a week-long demonstration against post-poll violence in Bengal, the BJP on Sunday said “TMC goons” continue to attack its workers, notwithstanding the admonishments by the Calcutta high court and the NHRC. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh claimed over 30 members of the saffron camp were killed in attacks orchestrated by the state's ruling party since the assembly results were declared on May 2. Ghosh, who attended the BJP youth wing meeting during the day, said his party, as part of its ‘Paschimbanga Banchao Saptaho' programme (weeklong stir to save Bengal), will take out rallies in different parts of the state from August 9-16. “Law and order has collapsed in the state. The ruling party continues to attack BJP workers, despite the high court chiding and the observations made by the National Human Rights Commission,” he said. Thousands of BJP activists and their families have been rendered homeless since May 2, he stated. An inquiry panel, formed by the NHRC chairman on a direction of the Calcutta High Court, has stated in its report that the situation in the state of West Bengal is a "manifestation of law of ruler, instead of rule of law". It has recommended a CBI probe into "grievous offences like murder and rape". Seeking to know why the Mamata Banerjee government has chosen August 16 to mark its ‘Khela Hobe' Divas, the senior BJP leader said it was on this date in 1946 the Muslim League had given a call for Direct Action Day. "The BJP will continue its democratic protests against the murderous TMC government, which is now conspiring to increase the ferocity of its attacks in the garb of ‘Khela Hobe Divas'. August 16 reminds us of the Great Calcutta Killings. The Muslim League had proclaimed Direct Action day on this date in 1946, and the waters of Hooghly river had turned red with blood." He further said that the BJP would observe 'Paschimbanga Banchao Divas' (Save West Bengal Day) August 16 – the last day of the weeklong agitation – and pay tribute to the party's ideologue Shyamaprasad Mukherjee, also the founder of Jana Sangh, as he had played a pivotal role in saving Bengal from the clutches of Muslim League. Echoing him, Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) state president Saumitra Khan said the youth wing of teh saffron party will organise 'Kolkata Chalo' programme in August "to protest the misrule of the Mamata Banerjee government". Slamming the BJP over its assertions, TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said the BJP is trying to give a communal colour to August 16 for no reason, as the TMC has already announced that it would dedicate the day to 16 young football lovers who were killed in violence during a match on August this day in 1980. "They (BJP leaders) are like vultures eyeing carcasses on the dumping ground. People of Bengal are aware of their intentions," he added. Earlier in the day, the state BJP chief, when approached by reporters, said Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has sought an appointment with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to "beg for funds with folded hands, having misused central resources". The CM had told reporters on Friday that the prime minister has granted her time for a meeting during her scheduled Delhi visit in the last week of July, but did not specify the date.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/attacks-on-bjp-workers-continue-unabated-in-bengal-party-to-carry-on-protests-dilip-ghosh-1012842.html
25-07-2021||North and Central||With seven months to go, UP politicians begin temple hopping in hope of winning Assembly polls||Come the elections and politicians of all hues, even those who are otherwise not seen frequenting temples, start visiting seers and saints, holding special pujas, including 'tantrik' (occult) rituals, and hopping famous temples to seek divine blessings to win the polls. Although assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh are still a good seven months away, politicians from the BJP, BSP, Congress and Samajwadi Party (SP) have already either started visiting temples and seers or drawn plans to do so shortly. On Friday, BSP leaders, including its general secretary S.C.Mishra, visited the makeshift Ram Temple and several other famous temples in Ayodhya. He also visited the 'ashrams' of some prominent seers to seek their blessings. On Saturday, it was the turn of the BJP leaders to do so. BJP leaders, including MLAs and office bearers, felicitated seers and saints across the state, visited temples and ashrams in different parts of UP and also organised special pujas. According to the reports, BJP leaders performed a 'tantrik puja' at the famous 'Batuk Bhairav' temple in Varanasi for the victory of thier party in the forthcoming assembly polls. Liquor is offered to the deity at Batuk Bhairav temple. SP leaders said that party supremo Akhilesh Yadav also planned to visit Varanasi and pay obeisance at the famous Kashi Vishwanath Temple there in the near future. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra may also visit Varanasi and pay obeisance at the Kashi Vishwanath Temple. Priyanka had, earlier this year, taken a dip at the holy 'Sangam' (the confluence of Ganga, Yamuna and the mythical Saraswati rivers) on the occasion of 'Mauni Amavasya' (a scared day on which millions take dip in holy rivers across India) at Prayagraj, about 200 kilometres from here. She had also paid obeisance at the famous 'Mankameshwar Temple' in the town. Hindus believe that the wishes of the person are fulfilled by paying obeisance at this temple.  ''Temple hopping by the politicians ahead of the elections is very common.....it is an attempt to send the message that they are god fearing people and devoutly follow their religion,'' says J.P. Shukla, a Lucknow based political analyst.  It remains to be seen whose prayers will be finally heard by the gods and who will be blessed with victory in the crucial assembly polls in the state due early next year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-seven-months-to-go-up-politicians-begin-temple-hopping-in-hope-of-winning-assembly-polls-1012632.html
25-07-2021||North and Central||MP: Bus skids off overflowing bridge; passengers safe||A bus with around 50 people on board skidded off an overflowing bridge in Madhya Pradesh's Sheopur district following heavy rains, but all the passengers were safely evacuated, police said on Sunday. The incident took place on Saturday evening when the bus was crossing the newly constructed small bridge over the Mithi river in the district. While passing through the inundated bridge in Bargavan village, located about 70 km from the district headquarters, the bus landed into a pothole and came to a halt, local police station's inspector Mamta Gujar told PTI. Due to the heavy flow of water, its rear wheels skidded off the bridge, she said. After being alerted, the police reached the spot and evacuated the bus passengers safely with the help of locals, the official said. The bus had to be later pushed off small bridge, she said. "All the passengers are safe. No one has lodged any complaint with police,” the official said. River and drains in Sheopur and neighbouring areas swelled following heavy rains over the last few days. The rainfall activity subsided in Sheopur in the last 24 hours, according to the India Meteorological Department's (IMD) Bhopal office. The district received 10 mm downpour in the 24-hour period ending at 8.30 am Sunday, the IMD said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-bus-skids-off-overflowing-bridge-passengers-safe-1012655.html
25-07-2021||North and Central||President Kovind in Srinagar on four-day visit to Jammu & Kashmir||President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday arrived in Srinagar for a four-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir during which he will also travel to Ladakh on the 22nd anniversary of Kargil Vijay Diwas. He arrived in Srinagar at 11:15 am and was received by Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha and senior officers of the police and the civil administration. He was also accorded the guard of honour. After his arrival, the President visited Badami Bagh cantonment housing Army’s strategic 15 Corps, also called Chinar Corps, officials said. The President then travelled to the governor’s house where he will be staying amid the picturesque forest and Zabarwan mountain range. As part of security measures for the President's visit, traffic on the two approach roads to Raj Bhawan where Kovind will stay has been diverted between Sunday and Wednesday. On Monday, President Kovind will pay homage to the indomitable courage and sacrifice of the Indian armed forces during the Kargil conflict in 1999 at the Kargil War Memorial Drass (Ladakh) on the 22nd anniversary of the Kargil Vijay Diwas, they said. On Tuesday, the President will grace and address the 19th Annual Convocation of the University of Kashmir in Srinagar. The President is also expected to visit the ski resort of Gulmarg in north Kashmir though the details are not fully clear, officials told DH. He will be travelling back to Delhi on the morning of July 28.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/president-kovind-in-srinagar-on-four-day-visit-to-jammu-kashmir-1012656.html
25-07-2021||North and Central||Bengal excludes Guv, CM, Speaker, Calcutta HC CJ from chart of VIPs who can use beacon lights||The West Bengal Transport Department has not included the governor, chief minister, assembly speaker and Calcutta High Court chief justice in its fresh list of VIPs who can use beacon lights atop their vehicles. State Transport Minister Firhad Hakim, however, justified it saying that the notification did not mention the four dignitaries as they are "above such lists and will continue to use beacon lights". "The notification mentioned only those who are engaged in emergency or disaster management duties. The governor, chief minister, assembly speaker and Calcutta High Court chief justice will continue to use the beacon lights as these VVIPs are above such lists. There should not be any confusion on that," Hakim said. In West Bengal, the four dignitaries have been allowed to use beacon lights despite the Centre's ban on the use of it by anyone other than those involved in emergency or disaster management duties. A senior transport official said that the new list was published after the arrests of several people posing as senior government officers and using blue beacon lights atop their vehicles to "gain exemption and advantages". "There is no scope for any controversy. We have published this list only to ensure that the rules are not violated by unauthorised people. It has the names of VVIPs and officials involved in emergency and disaster management duties. "That does not mean that dignitaries like the governor, CM, speaker and Calcutta High Court chief justice will not be allowed to use beacon lights. It goes without saying that they are all obviously on the list," the official said. As per the notification issued on Friday, all ministers, the chief secretary, officials in the rank of additional chief secretary and principal secretary are eligible to use beacon lights atop their vehicles during emergency duties. Also, all the divisional commissioners in their respective jurisdictions, DGPs, ADGP, IGPs, the DG of Fire services, the commissioners of Excise and Commercial Taxes, and all the district magistrates can use beacon lights, it said. The list also includes all SPs, SDOs, SDPOs and police patrol cars, escort vehicles and fire tenders. The notification, however, has not mentioned the colour of beacon lights that could be used by the listed officials. The official, however, did not divulge whether the department has any plans to bring out the second list of VVIPs who can use beacon lights. The notification stated that any deviation from the list "shall be considered a violation of law and will be liable for prosecution accordingly".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bengal-excludes-guv-cm-speaker-calcutta-hc-cj-from-chart-of-vips-who-can-use-beacon-lights-1012677.html
25-07-2021||North and Central||Kashmir's drug problem worsens as even 10-year-olds fall prey to heroin abuse||Children as young as 10 years old are falling prey to heroin abuse in Kashmir raising alarm bells for doctors and parents, who foresee a doomsday scenario if the problem is not nipped in the bud. When doctors examined Shahid (name changed), a 10-year-old boy from north Kashmir at the drug de-addiction Center of SMHS Hospital in Srinagar, they were shocked to know that he was a heroin abuser. Shahid was brought to the hospital by his father and uncle, who themselves are chronic drug abusers. The 10-year-old boy is currently on Opioid Substitution Therapy (OST), a treatment regimen that makes it possible to give up heroin and other opium derivative drugs, highly addictive and with life-threatening consequences. Dr Yasir Rather, a consulting psychiatrist at Government Medical College (GMC) Srinagar, says Intravenous heroin at such a young age is devastating.  “The boy had seen his family (father and uncle) abuse heroin through syringes. The curiosity and availability (of heroin) made him take such a step that could cost him his life,” he told DH. Dr Arshid Hussain, Professor of Psychiatry at IMHANS, who has been among the first doctors in Kashmir to have worked on drug addiction, said in the last few years not only the age of starting experimenting with drugs has lowered, but now deadly substances like heroin has replaced Cannabis, shoe polish, and correction fluids. “Before 2015 there were hardly any heroin abusers in Kashmir. Cannabis, shoe polish, and correction fluids were used as drugs. Most of the addicts then had a dark past, were affected by the violence and belonged to a particular socio-economic background,” he said. But now, Dr Hussain said, the situation has changed entirely. People are taking deadly drugs like heroin and there are educated ones as well which include government officials, students and those from well-off families.  “The number of cases of young people addicted to dangerous drugs like heroin has increased since 2018 and young boys in early teens consuming drugs is now common,” Dr Hussain added. Nayeem Ahmad, a parent whose son studies in a prestigious missionary school in Srinagar, says the law-enforcing agencies every now and then confiscate a haul of heroin and claim it a “success” against “narco-terrorism.” “But unfortunately, the menace is spreading. I am always concerned about my son as the menace has spread its tentacles deep in Kashmiri society. There is no tangible effort to nip the evil in the bud neither from civil society nor from the authorities,” he rued. A senior police officer said that the heroin is coming into Kashmir from Pakistan and Afghanistan. “There are no labs to manufacture heroin here. All of it comes from Pakistan and Afghanistan. They (drug dealers) have a network spread from the Line of Control to the Valley, and it is spreading across India too,” he revealed. As per J&K police data, in 2020, 36.08 kilograms of pure heroin and 49.7 kilograms of brown sugar were recovered from different parts of the Valley. In the first six months of this year, heroin worth hundreds of crores of rupees has been seized in Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmirs-drug-problem-worsens-as-even-10-year-olds-fall-prey-to-heroin-abuse-1012679.html
25-07-2021||North and Central||Pakistan trying to maintain supply lines to terror groups using drones: J&K Police chief||The improvised explosive device (IED) dropped using a drone along the Indo-Pak border on July 23 was meant for triggering at a crowded market in Jammu region, and it shows that Pakistan is maintaining its supply lines to various terror groups despite the February ceasefire agreement, Jammu and Kashmir Police chief Dilbag Singh said on Sunday. Singh, a 1987-batch IPS officer, said terror groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) have been running short of arms and ammunition after the police and other security agencies managed to choke it by arresting many of their modules of Over Ground Workers (OGWs). "We see that some of the state actors in Pakistan have adopted the use of drones for dropping arms, ammunition and even cash to cater to the demands of terror groups since September last year," he told PTI here. The police managed to shoot down a hexa-copter that had come from Pakistan in Kanachak area of Jammu region along the International Border on July 23. It carried an IED, weighing five kg, that was almost ready to be used and the intelligence suggested that the Jaish-e-Mohammed terror group wanted to trigger it in a crowded place in Jammu for inflicting maximum casualties, he said. The police chief said that despite the ceasefire agreement along the Line of Control and the International Border since February this year, some "state actors" have been helping Pakistan-based terror groups operating in Jammu and Kashmir, by trying to maintain their supply chain of arms, ammunition and cash. The police chief said there was a difference of single digit in the flight controller serial numbers of the drone shot down on July 23 and another brought down a year ago in Kathua's Hiranagar sector in Jammu region. Some parts of the assembled unmanned aerial vehicle brought down last week were from China and Taiwan. He said since drones have added a new dimension to the security threats from terror groups, more efforts are required to ensure this new and emerging threat is neutralised effectively. The police chief had earlier said that the signatures of explosive material used in the June 27 bombing of an Indian Air Force station clearly indicated involvement of the ordnance factory of Pakistan in fabricating it. "Drones have come recently, say in September last year. First, it came as a big surprise, but we were able to gear up our resources to counter that threat. I am happy to report that in cases of use of drones carrying weapons and narcotics and other explosives... our security grid, intelligence grid of police and security agencies were very effective in taking countermeasures," the Director General of Police (DGP) said. With the shooting down of another drone, the security agencies have been able to intercept around 33 sorties out of roughly 41 sorties which were made so far, the police chief said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-trying-to-maintain-supply-lines-to-terror-groups-using-drones-jk-police-chief-1012682.html
25-07-2021||North and Central||Chhattisgarh Class XII exam results announced, 97.43% students pass||The Chhattisgarh Board of Secondary Education (CGBSE) on Sunday declared results of the Class XII examination, which was conducted on an 'exam from home' pattern due to the second wave of Covid-19. The overall pass percentage is 97.43 per cent, with girls outshining boys by achieving 98.06 per cent against the latter's pass percentage of 96.69, a government official said. State School Education Minister Premsai Singh Tekam, who announced the results of CGBSE Higher Secondary School Certificate Examination here through video conferencing, said 2,89,023 students had registered for the exams and 2,86,850 appeared for it. "Of these, results of 2,84,107 students were declared and 2,76,817, or 97.43 per cent, have passed. Of those who have passed, 2,71,155, or 95.44 per cent, qualified in Grade I category, while 5,570 aspirants passed in Grade II and 79 in Grade III, which is 1.63 per cent and 0.03 per cent respectively of those passed," he said. Due to the pandemic, the CGBSE Class XII main exam was held in an 'exam from home' pattern under which students were allowed to collect the paper from centres, take them home and submit answer sheets within five days. Since the exam was conducted under this new pattern, no merit list was announced for this year, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-class-xii-exam-results-announced-9743-students-pass-1012683.html
25-07-2021||North and Central||Landslides in Himachal's Kinnaur kill 9, PM announces Rs 2 lakh ex gratia||Nine tourists were killed on Sunday after heavy boulders fell on their tempo traveller in a landslide near Basteri in Kinnaur district of Himachal Pradesh, police said. Multiple landslides triggered by recent rains occurred near Basteri on Sangla-Chitkul road at 1.25 pm, resulting in a bridge collapse and damage to some vehicles, they said. A video of a bridge collapse in Basteri has gone viral on social media. In the video, boulders could be seen rolling downhill, causing the bridge to collapse. According to the police, nine people died and two others were injured after heavy boulders fell on a tempo traveller. The passengers were going to Sangla from Chitkul. In a similar incident, a pedestrian was injured in another landslide in Kinnaur district, they added. President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed condolences over the death of people due to the landslides in Kinnaur. "Deeply saddened by the news of the death of many people in a landslide in Kinnaur, Himachal Pradesh. Express my deepest condolences to the bereaved families and wish the injured people a speedy recovery,” Kovind tweeted in Hindi. Modi said all arrangements are being made for the treatment of those injured and announced an ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh each for the next of kin of the deceased and Rs 50,000 to the injured from the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund. Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur also expressed grief over the deaths and asked the district administration to ensure immediate relief and rescue operations. He said the prime minister telephoned him and inquired about the incident. The PM also prayed to the Almighty to grant peace to the departed souls and speedy recovery of the injured, the CM added. The police said all the deceased were tourists from different parts of the country. The deceased have been identified as Maya Devi Biyani (55), her son Anurag Biyani (31) and daughter Richa Biyani (25) of Rajasthan, Pratiksha Sunil Patil (27) of Maharashtra, Deepa Sharma (34) of Jaipur, Amogh Bapat (27), Satish Katakbar (34) of Chhattisgarh, driver Umrab Singh (42) of West Bengal and Kumar Ulhas Vedpathak (37).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/landslides-in-himachals-kinnaur-kill-9-pm-announces-rs-2-lakh-ex-gratia-1012687.html
25-07-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh BJP MLA questions own government on deaths caused by oxygen shortage||The BJP was left red-faced when one of its own legislators sought to dismiss the NDA government's claim that no deaths were caused by shortage of oxygen in the country. Shyam Prakash, BJP MLA from Gopamau seat in Uttar Pradesh's Hardoi district, said that hundreds had died owing to the shortage of oxygen when the second wave of Covid-19 was ravaging the country. ''Hundreds died owing to oxygen shortage....no one feels the pain and anguish of MLA Raj Kumar Agarwal and lakhs others,'' Shyam Prakash wrote on his Facebook page on Sunday. Agarwal, who was also a BJP MLA from Hardoi, lost his son to Covid-19 a few months back. Agarwal had then alleged that the hospital where his son was admitted ran out of oxygen, which led to his son's death. He had also lodged a complaint with the police in that regard. Union Minister of State for Health Dr Bharti Praveen Pawar had a few days back said in a written reply in the Parliament that no deaths due to shortage of oxygen had been specifically reported by the states and UTs. The statement triggered sharp reactions from the opposition parties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-bjp-mla-questions-own-government-on-deaths-caused-by-oxygen-shortage-1012716.html
25-07-2021||South||Flex board outside temple dubbing CM Vijayan as 'God of Kerala' sparks row||The CPM has found itself in a soup over a flex board outside a temple in Malappuram hailing Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan as the 'God of Kerala;' According to media reports, the flex board located outside the entrance of the Pachiri Maha Vishnu temple in the northern city's Valanchery area has a large portrait of Vijayan reading: "You asked who is God. The people said one who provides food." Raveendran M, the temple's president told TOI that the second board (saying that the temples have turned red) sparked protests as calls to burn it down grew wide. It was subsequently taken down, while the other board was shifted 20m away from the temple arch.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/flex-board-outside-temple-dubbing-cm-vijayan-as-god-of-kerala-sparks-row-1012648.html
25-07-2021||South||Protection of rivers, water bodies fundamental duty of State: Kerala HC||Protection of rivers and other water sources is the fundamental duty of the state as well as the concerned local bodies with whom they are vested, the Kerala High Court has said. The observation came while directing the Kerala government and three municipalities of Kottayam to take steps to maintain purity of water of the 'Meenachil' river there and remove all encroachments from the riverbank. "Protection of rivers and other water sources are the fundamental duties of the State as well as the concerned local bodies, to whom they are vested," a bench of Chief Justice S Manikumar and Justice Shaji P Chaly said. The bench also directed the state and the local bodies to carry out periodical inspections, once in three months, and submit a report to the District Collector of Kottayam. With the direction, the bench disposed of the plea by an organisation of a group of persons who, in their plea, claimed to be interested in safeguarding the river and protecting it from encroachments by adjacent landowners. According to the petitioners, they had initially requested the District Collector and the Survey Deputy Director to conduct survey and to re-fix boundaries of the Meenachil river in light of the revenue records and to evict encroachment if any. However, the Survey Deputy Director directed the petitioner organisation to approach the Taluk offices and complete the survey by paying the expense from their pockets. Terming the direction as "highly illegal", the petitioner organisation contended it was the duty of the state and local authorities to conduct survey and fix boundaries of the river and preserve it from all kinds of encroachments. Though it is the primary duty of the Local Self Government Institutions, to protect the river and keep it clean, adequate funds are not provided in the plan fund, they alleged. The municipal bodies, in their defense, told the bench that steps have been taken to address the grievances raised in the plea.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/protection-of-rivers-water-bodies-fundamental-duty-of-state-kerala-hc-1012654.html
25-07-2021||South||Fake Kerala woman lawyer represents bar association for 3 years||A 27-year-old Kerala woman has been practising as a fake lawyer for nearly three years but was even appointed as an advocate commission in several cases. She even took away the forged documents submitted to join the Alappuzha Bar Association as she was elected as an office-bearer of the association and was given charge of the association's library where the documents are kept. Though she turned up to surrender before the court, she managed to make her way out of the courtroom. Sessy Xavier, a native of Ramankarry near Kuttanad in Alappuzha, who was practising under an Alappuzha-based senior lawyer since 2018, was found to be not holding an LLB degree. Though she did the LLB course, she was learnt to have not cleared the exams. However, she joined the Alappuzha Bar Association using forged documents. An anonymous letter received by Alappuzha Bar Association leaders recently exposed the fraud. By that time Xavier managed to take away the forged documents she submitted. The Kerala Bar Council enrollment number she gave was found to be that of a Thiruvananthapuram-based lawyer. Alappuzha North circle inspector Vinod K P, who is investigating the case, said that she joined the Alappuzha Bar Association using forged photocopies of qualification and enrolment. Efforts to nab her were progressing, he said. Xavier initially joined as an intern under a senior lawyer in Alappuzha in 2018 and later she joined as a junior lawyer under him claiming that she cleared the LLB exams. The senior lawyer said that it used to be normal practice for junior lawyers to serve under seniors to gain experience. Most of them join after being recommended by known persons. Hence most seniors hardly verify the education documents. She was learnt to be appointed as advocate commission by courts from a panel submitted by the bar association. But since she is now found to not be a lawyer, her findings may also now be challenged by affected parties, said a senior lawyer. Alappuzha Bar Association president K Jayakumar said that though Xavier was not known for her performance as a lawyer, she maintained a cordial relationship with all and hence she was even elected as an office-bearer and was elected unopposed as the association library's in-charge. Thus, she might have managed to take away the forged documents submitted for registration. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/fake-kerala-woman-lawyer-represents-bar-association-for-3-years-1012708.html
25-07-2021||South||Telangana's Ramappa temple conferred UNESCO heritage tag||The architectural magnificence and sculptural splendor of the eight centuries old Ramappa Temple in Telangana is now recognised as world heritage. The Rudreshwara temple, popular as Ramappa temple after the name of the sculptor of the early 13th century structure, was on Sunday inscribed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site. It has now become the 39th such site in India and the first one from Telangana. The temple built during the Kakatiya dynasty rule is located at Palampet village, in Mulugu district of present day Telangana, about 210 km North East of Hyderabad. Ramappa temple, an engineering marvel believed to be built with bricks that float in water, is the only nomination from the government of India for the UNESCO label for 2019.  The decision conferring the world heritage tag was taken at the 44th session of the World Heritage Committee of UNESCO. “Just inscribed as World Heritage Site: Kakatiya Rudeshwara (Ramappa) Temple, Telangana in India. Bravo!” UNESCO announced in a tweet. Expressing his happiness, Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged people to visit the majestic temple complex and get a first-hand experience of its grandness. "Excellent! Congratulations to everyone, especially the people of Telangana. The iconic Ramappa Temple showcases the outstanding craftsmanship of the great Kakatiya dynasty,” Modi said in a tweet. Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao hailed the UNESCO decision. “The spiritual and cultural property developed by the Kakatiya Kings with tremendous creativity, sculptural value has a very special place in the country’s cultural heritage,” Rao said. Union minister of culture and tourism Kishan Reddy, who is a Lok Sabha MP from Telangana, thanked PM Modi for “his guidance and support” in getting the UNESCO acknowledgment. Reddy also congratulated the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) team and the Ministry of External Affairs for the achievement. Reddy credited the success to the "goodwill" PM Modi has built with UNESCO member countries during his tenure. Owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, the UNESCO World Heritage Committee meeting could not be conducted in 2020. The nominations for 2020 and 2021 are currently under consideration in a series of online meetings. The discussion on Ramappa Temple took place on Sunday.  The recognition of the global cultural organisation is expected to make Ramappa a major attraction on India's tourism map, drawing even international travelers in large numbers. The Rudreswara temple was constructed in 1213 AD during the reign of the Kakatiya Empire led by Recharla Rudra, a general of Kakatiya king Ganapati Deva. The presiding deity is Ramalingeswara Swamy. It is popular as Ramappa temple, after the sculptor who executed the temple work in 40 years.  The temple stands on a six feet high star-shaped platform with walls, pillars and ceilings adorned with intricate carvings that attest to the unique skill of the Kakatiyan sculptors. European merchants and travelers were mesmerised by the beauty of the temple and one such traveler had remarked that the temple was the "brightest star in the galaxy of medieval temples of the Deccan". The temple complexes of Kakatiyas have a distinct style, technology and decoration exhibiting the influence of the Kakatiyan sculptor. The Ramappa Temple is a manifestation of this and often stands as a testimonial to the Kakatiyan creative genius. The sculptural art and decoration, specific to the time and Kakatiyan Empire, have an outstanding universal value. The distinct style of Kakatiyas for the gateways to temple complexes, and it being unique only to this region, confirm the highly evolved proportions of aesthetics in temple and town gateways in South India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telanganas-ramappa-temple-conferred-unesco-heritage-tag-1012723.html
25-07-2021||South||President Kovind to unveil Karunanidhi’s portrait in Tamil Nadu Assembly on August 2||President Ram Nath Kovind will on August 2 participate in an event commemorating the centenary year of the Madras Legislative Council and unveil a portrait of former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M Karunanidhi inside the Assembly premises. The DMK government wants to commemorate the centenary year of the establishment of the Madras Legislative Council in 1921 under the then British rule. Kovind along with Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit will participate in the event to be held at the Assembly premises in Fort St George, the state secretariat. During the event, Kovind will also unveil a portrait of Karunanidhi, a five-time Chief Minister. The Assembly already has portraits of 15 prominent personalities in the country including Mahatma Gandhi. The erstwhile AIADMK government had installed a portrait of former Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa in the Assembly. “President Ram Nath Kovind will participate in an event to mark 100 years of establishment of the Tamil Nadu Assembly on August 2,” Speaker M Appavu said. Stalin had met Kovind in New Delhi last week and personally invited him for the event. The Madras Legislative Council was established in 1921 and inaugurated by the Duke of Connaught after the first elections to the council were held in November 1920. The Justice Party, which is a precursor to the now ruling Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), rode to power in the first, second, and fourth elections held to the council. The last and the fifth council saw a Justice Party running a minority government. During the event on August 2, Kovind is also likely to lay the foundation stone for the construction of a world-class library in Madurai, a super speciality hospital in Chennai in memory of Karunanidhi, and a memorial tower to mark 75 years of Independence on Marina Beach. The library and hospital are part of announcements that Stalin made on the birth anniversary of his father Karunanidhi on June 3. A multi-speciality hospital with 500 beds will be established at the King Institute campus in Guindy in south Chennai. The hospital will be built at Rs 250 crore. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/president-kovind-to-unveil-karunanidhi-s-portrait-in-tamil-nadu-assembly-on-august-2-1012740.html
25-07-2021||South||Free Covid vaccines at private hospitals: Tamil Nadu CM to launch scheme on July 28||Chief Minister M K Stalin will launch the scheme at Kauvery Hospitals in Chennai on Wednesday with a popular hotel chain sponsoring 1,000 vaccine shots to be administered. The state has so far collected over Rs 4 crore from various companies to buy vaccines from private hospitals that are unused and administer them to people free of cost. “We will launch the scheme in Chennai on Wednesday. This is just the beginning. The response to the government’s appeal to companies to use their CSR funds to vaccinate people is good, and this scheme will be extended to other districts of the state immediately,” Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said. Not just corporate and private firms, the government is allowing interested individuals to sponsor vaccines to people who need them. The state came up with the idea to ensure that all doses that are allotted to private hospitals are administered to the people. The Union Government follows a 75:25 vaccination distribution formula under which it supplies 75 per cent doses to the states free of cost and 25 per cent to private hospitals. Lakhs of vaccine doses at private hospitals in Tamil Nadu are not used owing to a slew of factors including its high cost, while the supplies given to the state government run out quite fast. The state government has asked the Union Government to revise the 75:25 formula to 90:10 so that the state government can continue with its vaccination drive without any hindrance. The state has so far administered 2.07 crore vaccines shots of which 13.88 lakhs are from the private sector. Of the 17 lakh doses allotted for private hospitals in July, they have paid money only for 5 lakh doses of which 2.42 lakh have been administered. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/free-covid-vaccines-at-private-hospitals-tamil-nadu-cm-to-launch-scheme-on-july-28-1012755.html
25-07-2021||South||OPS, EPS to meet PM on Monday, cases against party leaders on agenda?||AIADMK leaders O Panneerselvam and Edappadi K Palaniswami will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi on Monday, amid speculation that the DMK government could fast-track investigation in cases related to alleged corruption during the party’s tenure. Panneerselvam and Palaniswami are likely to be accompanied by senior party leaders when they meet Modi at around 11 am on Monday. Though party sources said the meeting was a “simple courtesy call” as EPS and OPS did not meet the Prime Minister after the assembly elections, speculation mounted about the agenda of the discussion.  The meeting assumes significance in the wake of the Directorate of Anti-Corruption and Vigilance (DVAC) filing a disproportionate assets (DA) case against former transport minister M R Vijayabhaskar. The filing of the case was preceded by day-long searches at 26 places in the state during which unaccounted cash to the tune of Rs 25 lakh was seized.  The raids at premises belonging to Vijayabhaskar are billed as the beginning of a long-drawn action by DVAC against alleged corruption deals during the AIADMK government. The AIADMK had termed the raids as “politically motivated”, but the DMK says the party’s manifesto has promised to set up a special court to try all corruption cases. The DMK, while in Opposition, had submitted a “charge sheet” against half-a-dozen AIADMK ministers accusing them of corruption to Governor Banwarilal Purohit. The meeting of OPS-EPS with Modi also comes close on the heels of ousted AIADMK interim general secretary V K Sasikala announcing her re-entry into active politics. “The raids at Vijayabhaskar’s residence and the impending action against AIADMK big-wigs are likely to be the agenda at the meeting. What else do they have to discuss now?” a senior party leader asked.  AIADMK and BJP have shared close relations after the death of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa in 2016. It was at the insistence of the BJP, two factions of the AIADMK – one led by Panneerselvam, and another headed by Palaniswami merged in 2017. The parties signed a formal electoral alliance in 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ops-eps-to-meet-pm-on-monday-cases-against-party-leaders-on-agenda-1012762.html
25-07-2021||South||LDF coalition partner INL splits in Kerala after party meet ends up in clash||The Kerala unit of the Indian National League (INL), which is a coalition partner of the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) in Kerala, has split after a meeting of the party senior leaders at Kochi on Sunday ended up in clashes between two sections of the party. In an embarrassment to the ruling front, Ports Minster Ahammad Devarkovil, who is the lone minister from the INL, was present at the meeting held flouting social distancing norms, that too when weekend lockdown is in place in Kerala. A police case was likely against the meeting. After a section boycotted the party meeting, the workers clashed on the roads. The simmering differences among the party leaders aggravated after the elevation of Devarkovil to the Cabinet as well as sharing of other posts received by the party like one member in the Kerala Public Service Commission (KPSC) and selection of members to the personal staff of the minister. While party state president Abdul Wahab said after the eventful meeting of the party-state leaders in Kochi that general secretary Kasim Irikkur was removed from the post, Irikkur announced that Wahab was expelled from president's post. Devarkovil is a loyalist of Irikkur. Hence the political developments are assuming much significance. The CPM and LDF leadership had cautioned the INL leadership to amicably settle the internal issues in the party from aggravating further. INL was inducted into the LDF only a couple of years back and the lone MLA from the party was made a minister in the Pinarayi Vijayan Cabinet. The internal feuds in the party kicked off mainly following allegations that vote trading by some leader led to party president Abdul Wahab's defeat in the election. It aggravated following differences between the factions over the selection of members to the personal staff of the lone minister from the party as well as Kerala PSC chairman's post.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ldf-coalition-partner-inl-splits-in-kerala-after-party-meet-ends-up-in-clash-1012795.html
25-07-2021||South||Kerala Congress MP allegedly flouts Covid-19 norms by hosting party meeting at hotel during lockdown||A Congress MP from Kerala, Ramya Haridas, has allegedly dined with a group of party workers at a hotel flouting the Covid-19 lockdown restrictions. A video of the MP and Congress local leaders and workers dining at a hotel in Palakkad town in Kerala on Sunday has gone viral. Some Congress workers could be also seen manhandling a couple of youths who questioned the MP for dining and flouting Covid protocol. But the MP, who represents Alathur in Palakkad, could be heard saying that she was waiting for a parcel. Owing to the Covid-19 situation, dining at hotels has been restricted in Kerala. The local police registered a case against the hotel for violating lockdown rules.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-congress-mp-allegedly-flouts-covid-19-norms-by-hosting-party-meeting-at-hotel-during-lockdown-1012804.html
25-07-2021||South||Minority scholarship issue puts LDF-led Kerala government in tight spot||Putting the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) in Kerala in a tight spot, prominent Muslim outfits in the state, including those backing the left front, have raised objections against the new formula of the state government on scholarship for students of minority communities. After the Kerala High Court scrapped the 80:20 ratio being followed by the state government among Muslim and backward classes among the Christian community for the scholarship, the state government decided to restructure the ratio based on the 2011 census—26.56 per cent Muslim community and 18.38 per cent Christian community. Even as the state government assured that it will ensure that the existing number of scholarships being received by the Muslim community would not be affected when implementing the new ratio, the Muslim outfits have raised apprehensions. They continue to demand a higher proportion for the Muslim community on the basis of the Sachar Committee considering the backwardness of the Muslim community. The government is handling it with the utmost sensitivity. While the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) and some Muslim outfits formed an action council for joint stir demanding adequate share for the community, Sunni leader Kanthapuram A P Aboobacker Musliyar called on Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday and urged that the Muslims should be given 80 per cent share of the scholarship. He later told reporters that the faction would initiate legal measures if required, but was not for a stir against the government. As many as 12 Muslim factions including the Indian Union Muslim League decided to form the action committee to press for a scholarship based on Sachar Committee. A demonstration would be staged in front of the government secretariat on August 3. The Muslim outfits flayed that the government was trying to frame their protests as an attempt to create a communal divide.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/minority-scholarship-issue-puts-ldf-led-kerala-government-in-tight-spot-1012828.html
25-07-2021||State||Labour dept to buy vaccines under pvt quota for 25 lakh workers||Taking a cue from Tamil Nadu's efforts to utilise all Covid-19 vaccines allocated to private hospitals by paying for them using corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds, Karnataka chief secretary has asked the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA) to use labour welfare funds to buy such vaccines and inoculate labourers free of cost. Out of the 14.99 lakh doses allotted to them in the state in July, private hospitals have paid for and bought only around four lakh doses. Confirming the development to DH, Labour Commissioner Akram Pasha said, "There is very less supply of vaccines in the government quota which will cause a delay in vaccinating all 25 lakh labourers in Karnataka. Despite labourers being a part of the government's priority groups, we are not able to vaccinate them completely. We have been told to buy private quota vaccines and jab the workers." Pasha pointed out that the existing welfare activities or schemes won't be affected because of this diversion of funds, as the department has a surplus. "We have a huge budget of Rs 7,000 crore although we spend only Rs 1,000 crore to Rs 2,000 crore every year. We will tie up with private hospitals once we get the government order. We have 19 labour welfare schemes for the education and health of workers. We'll be using the budget outside of these schemes," he added. Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar did not respond to calls. Barring some construction labourers working for builders like Prestige Group who have already been vaccinated, the department will target garment workers and many other categories of labourers. PHANA president Dr H M Prasanna told DH, "The government wants us to reach out to the unvaccinated among the 25 lakh registered labourers in the state as there is a huge part of private quota vaccines that hasn't been bought. Now, since the labour department is ready to pay, such vaccines can be utilised to inoculate the vulnerable." In all, 12,44,460 doses of Covishield and 2,55,160 doses of Covaxin have been allocated to the state in July under the private quota. "At the steering committee on vaccination with the chief secretary, we learned that at least 10 districts have CSR funds of Rs 1 crore to Rs 2 crore available with them. This can be used to purchase vaccines under the private quota and give them free of cost to the public. But they haven't been given a green signal to use these funds like in Tamil Nadu," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/labour-dept-to-buy-vaccines-under-pvt-quota-for-25-lakh-workers-1012527.html
25-07-2021||State||Karnataka's rural areas beat urban centres in vaccinations||In a welcome sign, more vaccine doses are being given in rural areas than urban areas in the state. Data from the CoWIN portal shows though the graph for doses administered was higher for urban areas from July 9 to July 16. But from July 17, a spike was seen in rural areas. On July 17, 1.93 lakh doses were given in rural areas over 1.66 lakh in urban areas. Ever since, the graph has been on the higher side for rural areas. Though 63% of vaccination centres are in villages, only 46% of the doses in Karnataka have been given in these centres between May 1 and June 23, the Union Health Ministry had said in an affidavit in the Supreme Court recently. Panchayat Raj Principal Secretary Uma Mahadevan attributed this to multiple orientation programmes (conducted for all 6,008 gram panchayat taskforces) on Covid management, the importance of vaccination and Covid appropriate behaviour. There are over 92,000 local elected representatives who also aided in increased vaccine uptake. The GP taskforces actively urge people to get vaccinated, arrange registration, and if necessary, even arrange transport to the vaccination centres (especially for the disabled and elderly), and support vaccination teams in all required ways. “Local elected representatives have themselves taken the vaccine with strong visibility to dispel any fears among the rural public. Folk modes of communication like vaccination rangoli, street plays etc have also been used. This has greatly helped to reduce vaccine hesitancy except in isolated pockets. Even in adivasi Soliga settlements in Chamarajnagar, for example, people are coming for vaccination,” Mahadevan said. Initially, people from urban areas may have been coming to villages for vaccination but not anymore, she said. “And especially after the second wave, people have realised the importance of vaccination,” she added. Dr Prashant NS, assistant director (research) and faculty, Institute of Public Health, Bengaluru, said rural vaccination coverage is 40% in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnatakas-rural-areas-beat-urban-centres-in-vaccinations-1012534.html
25-07-2021||State||PM Modi, Nadda to decide on Karnataka CM post: S T Somashekar||Mysuru District in-charge Minister S T Somashekar said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP president J P Nadda will take a suitable decision over the change in the post of Chief Minister of Karnataka. Speaking to reporters, Somashekar said, "The PM and Nadda are monitoring the ongoing developments in the state. We will be abiding by the party's high command decision."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pm-modi-nadda-to-decide-on-karnataka-cm-post-s-t-somashekar-1012676.html
25-07-2021||State||CBI opposes murder-accused ex-minister Vinay Kulkarni's bail plea in SC||The CBI has opposed before the Supreme Court a plea made by former Karnataka Minister and state Congress leader Vinay Kulkarni for bail in a case related to the murder of a BJP worker in 2016 in Dharwad. The agency claimed that he is an influential person and could intimidate witnesses. He had already forced the victim's wife to turn hostile. "There is no ground for the petitioner for release from jail as he would intimidate the witnesses, tamper with the evidence and jeopardise the trial," the agency said in an affidavit filed in the top court. It said the High Court has rightly rejected the bail of Kulkarni and there can't be any parity of him with the co-accused. "In fact, wife and brother of the deceased turning hostile is another evidence which corroborates the role and influence of the petitioner. The wife of the deceased was made to turn hostile by paying money in lakhs and assisting her in getting a post or position in local administration of the Congress party," the CBI alleged. Further, the petitioner also attempted to influence the brother of the deceased by arranging a meeting with a close acquaintance of his, it claimed. "The petitioner was arraigned as accused because of his active participation in the conspiracy which led to murder of the deceased," it said. A bench led by Justice U U Lalit is to take up the matter on Monday. Yogeshgouda Goudar, 26, a member of district Panchayat, was hacked to death on June 15, 2016 at his gym in Saptapur in Dharwad after immobilising him by throwing chilli powder on his face.  The victim's family members suspected the role of former Minister and Congress leader Kulkarni in the murder.  The B S Yeddyurappa government, within a couple of months of assuming charge, ordered a CBI probe on September 6, 2019.  The top court had earlier on February 21, 2020, stayed the Karnataka High Court's order of November 21, 2019 that suspended the probe by the central agency into the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cbi-opposes-murder-accused-ex-minister-vinay-kulkarnis-bail-plea-in-sc-1012758.html
25-07-2021||State||BIAL inks deal with IBM to set up ‘Airport in a Box’ platform||To create a new ‘Airport in a Box’ platform that supports end-to-end travel experience for passengers at the Kempegowda International Airport, IBM has entered into a a 10-year partnership with IBM and Kyndryl. The partnership is designed to help the Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL) improve its productivity, automate its information technology services, increase operational flexibility to handle future growth in passenger traffic and reduce costs, a BIAL spokesperson said. The airport operator chose IBM Global Business Services, IBM hybrid cloud capabilities and Kyndryl, the new, independent company that will be created following the separation of IBM's Managed Infrastructure Services business, to design and implement a next generation architecture with a dynamic delivery model. BIAL said the new platform will enable it to improve employee productivity, upgrade utilisation of IT assets, reduce costs through streamlined inventory control and improve incident management. Enabled by an open hybrid cloud approach from IBM and supported Red Hat Ansible Automation, the platform will also generate Artificial Intelligence-powered insights from IBM Maximo enterprise asset management technology to optimise inventory management and total cost of ownership. IBM and BIAL, the airport operator said, will work to support sustainability projects and the community at large. BIAL had recently achieved its goal of net energy neutral status in the 2020-21 financial year, consuming energy from renewable sources. The platform will be advanced once the ecosystem is fully operational. IBM works with over 150 airports globally for innovative transformations. It was named World's Leading Airport Travel Technology Provider 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bial-inks-deal-with-ibm-to-set-up-airport-in-a-box-platform-1012801.html
25-07-2021||State||Reduced Jakkur runway will shut government flying training school flights: Experts||To make way for the airport metro, the government’s move to reduce the Jakkur aerodrome runway width to an estimated 413m will mean a shutdown of all flights at the Government Flying Training School (GFTS), aviation experts have warned. The state is likely to file an affidavit before the High Court of Karnataka in this regard. The Airports Authority of India (AAI) had found after a survey that the proposed airport metro’s elevated section would be an obstacle to the runway’s approach funnel. The flying school’s new boundary wall and the elevated stretch of the national highway are also obstacles, the authority had concluded. GFTS sources told DH that the runway length required for the flying club aircraft to operate safely is about 600m. “Flying a four-seater aircraft, it would be impossible for a trainee to take off on a 413m runway from both the 2-6 (towards highway direction) and 0-8 (opposite direction),” a pilot explained to DH. On the existing 854m runway, aircraft take off at about 500 to 550m. “Take-offs will be impossible if the runway length is reduced to 413m particularly in the afternoon when the heat increases and air pressure and density drops. The aircraft will then need more length to gather power.” The more fuel an aircraft carries, the longer the required runway length. Since GFTS students fly long distances, the aircraft usually take off with a full tank in the morning. The existing runway length is ideal for this operation. 'Highly risky' However, a reduction to 413 m could jeopardise safety, both the pilot and other GFTS sources warned. “The students are mostly trainees without any flying experience. If this kind of a runway is given to them, there can be big safety issues.” GFTS sources were apprehensive whether the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) would permit flight operations on a reduced runway carrying such risks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/reduced-jakkur-runway-will-shut-government-flying-training-school-flights-experts-1012802.html
25-07-2021||State||Physical classes for Karnataka higher education institutions set to resume from July 26||This is applicable to all the years of degree, post-graduation, engineering and polytechnic colleges. "Students who have received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine are eligible to attend the regular classes and staff should also have received vaccination at least once," Narayan said. Students who are willing to attend off-line classes have to submit the consent letter duly signed by parents in the prescribed format, he was quoted as saying by his office in a release. Noting that the Standard Operation Procedure (SOP) has been issued and institutions have been issued strictly follow it, the DCM who also hold Higher Education portfolio said, while conducting physical classes, physical distance between person to person should be maintained at all times during the class hours including entry and exit of the students. The institutions should take into account the total number of students and available number of classrooms and accordingly make arrangements to maintain the physical distance, he said, adding students who are not willing to attend physical classes shall continue to attend online classes and contact classes will be conducted to facilitate getting any doubts clarified. Narayan also said that 74 per cent students, who are above 18 have been vaccinated and the remaining will be inoculated soon. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/physical-classes-for-karnataka-higher-education-institutions-set-to-resume-from-july-26-1012814.html
25-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No crisis in Karnataka, Yediyurappa has done good work: Nadda||BJP national president J P Nadda ruled out any crisis in the Karnataka unit of the party, claiming that B S Yediyurappa had done a good job at handling state and party affairs in the southern state. "He has done good work. Karnataka is functioning well. Yediyurappa is handling everything," Nadda told a press conference in Panaji. When asked if he could comment on the ongoing leadership crisis in the party's affairs as far as Karnataka is concerned, Nadda said: "You feel (it's a crisis) so. I do not". Chaos has been reigning in the Karnataka BJP over the leadership of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, with the party considering replacing the aging party leader, who belongs to the influential Lingayat community. Nadda who was in Goa to oversee the party's preparations for the 2022 state assembly polls, also dropped a major hint singling out Chief Minister Pramod Sawant leading the party into the upcoming elections. "Pramod Sawant has done a good job. There has been all round development under Pramod Sawant's leadership. We are moving ahead with his leadership," told reporters. Nadda ,however, also added a rider to his endorsement of Sawant, adding that all such decisions related to election candidature are taken by the party's highest decision-making body, the BJP parliamentary board. When asked to comment on demands being made by local BJP leaders, who have been seeking the return of senior BJP leader and Union Minister of State for Tourism and Ports Shripad Naik to state politics ahead of the assembly polls, Nadda scoffed at the possibility. "He is doing a very good job in Delhi and he is taking care of things... Everybody has an interest, but the interest has to be taken care of by the party. He (Naik) has been assigned a job in Delhi, which he is doing very well," the BJP national president said. Naik is one of the seniormost BJP leaders in the state and has represented the North Goa parliamentary seat since 1999.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-crisis-in-karnataka-yediyurappa-has-done-good-work-nadda-1012696.html
25-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Seers extend support to Karnataka CM Yediyurappa amid talks of his exit||The seers of various mutts threw their weight behind Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, on Sunday, urging the BJP high command to continue him till the end of his term. At a convention held at Palace Grounds here, Dingaleshwar Swami of Balehosur Mutt said that it was the view of seers from all communities that Yediyurappa should not be changed mid-way into his tenure. The seer said that the meeting was not in favour or against anyone. This convention is not against the union government and BJP high command, he said.“The seers are not holding this meeting as a show of strength,” he said, dismissing allegations that it was organised at the behest of Yediyurappa and his son B Y Vijayendra. It is a voluntary meeting, he said. Yediyurappa has given more grants to mutts to provide social and educational services, the seer said, noting that he was the first to provide grants to mutts for the purpose. Mallikarjun Swamiji of Murugha Mutt, Dharwad, said that in case the party wanted to remove Yediyurappa, they should make sure that a leader from Veerashaiva-Lingayat community is appointed the next CM. In another meeting, Nidumamidi Veerabhadra Channamalla Swami said that it was improper for the BJP leadership to remove Yediyurappa as CM, citing his advanced age as the reason. “Right now, there is no leader in BJP who can match Yediyurappa’s stature,” he said. Meanwhile, Rudramani Shivacharya Swami of Mushtur Mutt urged the BJP high command to consider appointing a mutt head as CM, like in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/seers-extend-support-to-karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-amid-talks-of-his-exit-1012713.html
25-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Whether I continue as CM or not will be known by Monday: B S Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said on Sunday that a decision on whether he will continue in office or not will be known by Monday, but asserted that he would continue to work for the BJP for the next 10-15 years. The 78-year-old Lingayat strongman said this evening that he was yet to receive the "message" from the party's central leadership on whether he should continue in his post or quit. He expressed confidence that the communication may come by tonight or be known on Monday morning. Yediyurappa said he had offered to resign two months ago and reiterated that he would he would continue in the post if the high command so desired and quit if they asked him to resign and go about doing party work. "I will work for the party day and night for the next 10-15 years. Let there be no doubt about it", he said. He said he will speak on the achievements of his government at a function, as planned earlier, on Monday. "After that, other things you will come to know". On what he would do if the "message" does not come from the high command, Yediyurappa said "I will take a decision then". Earlier, speaking to reporters at the district headquarters town of Belagavi, he said he would abide by the decision of the high command, that he was "content and satisfied" and would not cross the disciplinary line. "I got most of the positions in the party, which no one else might have got in Karnataka, for which I express my gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and party president J P Nadda", Yediyurappa said. He said he has the "lone target" of toiling for the next two years and bringing the BJP back to power in Karnataka, where Assembly elections are due in 2023. Yediyurappa agreed with BJP national general secretary C T Ravi's statement that everyone in the BJP was an ordinary party worker and he would abide by the party's instruction. "He is 100 per cent right. We will not exceed the disciplinary line. We have been following it and would do so in future as well", the Chief Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/whether-i-continue-as-cm-or-not-will-be-known-by-monday-b-s-yediyurappa-1012733.html
25-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Let's go for polls, let the people decide: Shivakumar challenges BJP in Karnataka||Accusing the BJP government in Karnataka of having failed in its handling of the flood situation and providing compensation to those affected over the last couple of years, state Congress chief D K Shivakumar on Sunday challenged the ruling party to go for polls and get a fresh mandate. "BJP does not have the honour or capability to rule the state, they don't know how to serve the people...when there is difficulty and people are dying and are losing properties, this government has completely failed. Come let's go for polls, to give a new administration," Shivakumar said. Speaking to reporters here, he said, "let's go before the people and let them decide." The KPCC president was attacking the government, questioning its inability to give compensation to flood victims for the last two years. Also accusing the central government of neglecting the state with respect to providing compensation, he said, "Why did not the prime minister come (to assess the flood situation in the state), don't want, did they (centre) at least give the money? Why didn't these MPs (25 BJP MPs) go (asking for compensation), what had happened to these MPs?" This is the fourth consecutive year that parts of Karnataka have been battered by torrential rains resulting in floods and landslides.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lets-go-for-polls-let-the-people-decide-shivakumar-challenges-bjp-in-karnataka-1012769.html
25-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Flood situation in Karnataka still grim, 10 dead in last 2 days||The flood situation in Karnataka continued to remain grim with 10 people losing their lives in rain related incidets and two reported missing over the past two days,even as Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said on Sunday that he would write to the Centre to release funds for carrying out flood relief work. Belagavi, Uttara Kannada, Dharwad and Haveri bore the brunt of the heavy downpour among the 11 affected districts, officials said. Karnataka State Natural Disaster Management Authority commissioner Dr Manoj Rajan said 10 people have lost their lives in the state so far while two are still missing. He said 46,425 people have been evacuated to safety while over 31,000 people have been put up in 246 relief camps. "We are receiving excellent coordination from SDRF, NDRF, Fire forces, Coast Guard, Navy, Army, Police, Dam authorities with untiring efforts of the District administration," Rajan told PTI. He said KSDMA is monitoring and managing the flood risk, rescue and relief operations. Meanwhile, Yediyurappa told reporters after inspecting flood affected areas in Belagavi district that he would write to the Centre to release funds to enable the state carry out relief work in the flood hit regions. The Chief Minister said 19,035 people in the district have been evacuated, while 8,975 people have been shifted to 89 relief centres. Food and accommodation for them has been taken care of, he said. "Today I visited places like Nipani and Sankeshwara and flood relief centres. We had discussed the problems and the prevailing flood situation in Belagavi. Flood-related damage has occurred in 113 villages in seven taluks of Belagavi," Yediyurappa said. He attributed the floods to release of excess water from dams in the Krishna river in Maharashtra, where catchment areas had received torrential rain. He said officials here were in touch with their Maharashtra counterparts and were keeping an eye on the discharge. "We are keeping an eye on the flow of water. Since all the dams on Krishna have filled up, the outflow has been increased, due to which there is flood situation in various parts of the district," the Chief Minister He cautioned that the intensity of flood may increase. About the flood relief measures in the district, he said seven NDRF and 15 SDRF teams, fire and emergency services, helicopters, Coast Guard and members of village level disaster management teams have been pressed into rescue and evacuation operations. The Chief Minister said he would arrange for release of more funds and added that which is required for the time being will be released immediately to repair roads and bridges. He said he would write to the Centre to release funds. "I am expecting funds from the Centre," he said. The Chief Minister said he would visit Karwar, the district headquarters town of Uttara Kannada district, on Monday afternoon following large scale flood damage there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/flood-situation-in-karnataka-still-grim-10-dead-in-last-2-days-1012796.html
25-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Fund release delay hits welfare schemes schemes in Karnataka||The delay in release of grants from the union government for schemes sponsored by it has affected several welfare schemes in Karnataka, hurting its already stretched finances. A recent review of such schemes by the state government identified 10 programmes, in which release of grants from the Centre was lesser than the budgetary allocation. The schemes include Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS) and National Health Mission (NHM). While the Centre had allocated Rs 10,729 crore for these schemes for the 2020-21 financial year, it has released Rs 8,553 crore till date. An amount of Rs 2,175 crore - which is one-fifth of the total allocation - is yet to be released. The lion’s share of these allocations - around 60% - was for MGNREGS. Owing to an increased demand for jobs in rural areas due to the migration caused by the Covid-induced lockdown, the Centre had increased allocations for the scheme in the middle of the fiscal. Of the Rs 6,445 crore allocated for MGNREGS, the Centre has released Rs 5,605 crore till date and Rs 840.95 crore is pending. Budgetary allocations of NHM were also not released in full despite the pandemic. While Rs 1,208.54 crore was allocated, Rs 1,076 crore was released till date. For 2020-21, Rs 1,001.49 crore was budgeted by the Centre for ICDS and its supplementary nutrition programme. However, only Rs 680.63 crore is released. Receiving less than half the allocation was the CSS for development of infrastructure facilities for the judiciary being implemented by the Public Works Department. While the first scheme was promised an allocation of Rs 425.84 crore, only Rs 21.22 crore was released. Reduction in the Centre’s share in several CSSs has also hit the state’s finances. Reacting to a query on the issue following the review of CSSs, Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar said mid-day meals programme in schools was among the few schemes where the Centre’s share is reduced. Apart from funds for CSSs, reduction in the release of GST devolution and GST compensation funds has also affected the state’s finances.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/fund-release-delay-hits-welfare-schemes-schemes-in-karnataka-1012799.html
25-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Yogeshgouda murder: CBI opposes Vinay Kulkarni's bail plea||The CBI has opposed before the Supreme Court a plea made by former Karnataka minister and Congress leader Vinay Kulkarni for bail in a murder case related to a BJP worker in 2016 in Dharwad. It claimed that he is an influential person and could intimidate witnesses. He had already forced the victim’s wife to turn hostile, the CBI said. “There is no ground for the petitioner for release from jail as he would intimidate the witnesses, tamper with the evidence and jeopardise the trial,” the agency said in an affidavit filed in the top court. It said the High Court rightly rejected bail of Kulkarni and there can’t be any parity of him with the co-accused. “In fact, wife and brother of the deceased turning hostile is another evidence which corroborates the role and influence of the petitioner. The wife of the deceased was made to turn hostile by paying money in lakhs and assisting her in getting a post or position in local administration of the Congress party,” the CBI alleged. Further, brother of the deceased was also tried to be influenced by arranging a meeting with close acquaintance of the petitioner, it claimed. “The petitioner was arraigned as accused because of his active participation in conspiracy which led to the murder of the deceased,” it said. A bench led by Justice U U Lalit is to take up the matter on Monday. Yogeshgouda Goudar, 26, a member of district Panchayat, was hacked to death on June 15, 2016 at his gym in Saptapur in Dharwad. The victim’s family members suspected role of former minister and Congress leader Kulkarni in the murder. The B S Yeddyurappa government, on September 6, 2019, ordered the CBI probe. The top court had earlier on February 21, 2020 stayed the Karnataka High Court’s order of November 21, 2019 that suspended the probe by the central agency into matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/yogeshgouda-murder-cbi-opposes-vinay-kulkarnis-bail-plea-1012806.html
25-07-2021||West||Six bodies recovered as death toll in Satara landslide rises to 28||With six bodies being recovered from the landslide-hit Mirgaon village, the death toll in rain-related incidents in Western Maharashtra's Satara district rose to 28 by late Saturday evening while at least 14 persons are still missing, an official said. As many as 379 villages in the district were affected due to heavy rains over the last three days and more than 5,000 people were shifted to safer places, as per the local administration. Search for four more persons is underway at Mirgaon, the official said. Earlier, 11 bodies had been recovered at the site of landslide at Ambeghar village and four from Dhokawale. All three villages, struck by landslides on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday following torrential rains, are in Patan tehsil. Besides, three people died in Wai tehsil, two in Jawli tehsil, while one fatality each was reported from Patan and Mahabaleshwar. According to the district administration and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), the search operation at Dhokawale was over. Collector Shekhar Singh said three teams of NDRF are currently deployed in the district. The administration has demanded more teams, he said. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday evening issued a fresh 'red alert' for Satara, forecasting "extremely heavy rainfall" in the hilly 'ghat' areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/six-bodies-recovered-as-death-toll-in-satara-landslide-rises-to-28-1012556.html
25-07-2021||West||1,450 ha mangroves to come under Maharashtra Forest Dept fold for protection||Under pressure from the Bombay High Court and activists, Maharashtra government agencies have initiated the process of notifying over 1,450 hectares of mangroves as reserve forests in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). To begin with, CIDCO will hand over 219 hectares of mangrove stretches in Kamothe and Panvel to the Maharashtra Forest Department for conservation, announced Virendra Tiwari, additional chief principal conservator of forests. Speaking as the chief guest at an online discussion organized by NGO NatConnect Foundation ahead of the UNESCO-driven International Mangrove Conservation Day which is being observed on July 26, Tiwari said MMRDA has also agreed to transfer 300 hectares of mangroves. JNPT has also agreed in principle to hand over the mangroves under it after ascertaining through a high-resolution mapping by Maharashtra Remote Sensing Application Centre (MRSAC). The port has already confirmed in an RTI response to NatConnect that it has over 913 hectares of mangroves under its jurisdiction. Tiwari confirmed that while 15 hectares of mangroves have been declared as reserve forest in the Panvel area, not a single plant in Uran taluka has been notified. Delivering the keynote address at the Mangrove Day special session, BNHS Director Dr Bivash Pandav appreciated the activists’ pressure on the officials to keep them on their toes. “Otherwise, the system tends to relax,” he observed. NatConnect Director  B N Kumar said that, as a matter of policy, not a single mangrove should be hacked. Development should not be at the cost of environmental destruction which will destroy the same development. “Once notified, strict vigil has to be kept on mangroves with CCTV network and Drone surveillance,” he said. Stalin Dayanand, director of NGO Vanashakti called for a holistic approach to mangrove protection by taking care of habitat conservation. There is a need to ensure that species such as crocodiles and turtles that thrive on mangroves return while conserving the sea forest, he said. Nandakumar Pawar, head of Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan, decried the urban planners’ attempt to take the environment for granted and thus neglect it. He cited the scrapping of the River Regulation Zone (RRZ) and the dilution of Environment Impact Assessment and said such policies are detrimental to the environment. Sunil Agrawal of Save Navi Mumbai Mumbai Environment regretted the absence of accountability on part of the so-called responsible government officials who dilly-dallied to implement even Court orders. Kharghar-based activist Naresh Chandra Singh pointed out that despite the ban on aquaculture in CRZ zones, the practice is rampant in MMR. Environment lover Jyoti Nadkarni said it is important to take the local population along the coastal villages into confidence on the importance of preserving mangroves.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/1450-ha-mangroves-to-come-under-maharashtra-forest-dept-fold-for-protection-1012569.html
25-07-2021||West||Maharashtra rains: Search ops on for missing people in Satara||The rain intensity reduced in Maharashtra's Satara district on Sunday and authorities continued search operations for those missing after landslides, while traffic remained suspended on the Mumbai-Bengaluru highway as a stretch in neighbouring Kolhapur was still inundated, officials said. The death toll in rain-related incidents at Satara in western Maharashtra rose to 28 by late Saturday evening while at least 14 people are still missing, they said. Till Saturday night, 11 bodies were recovered from Ambeghar village after a landslide there, six from Mirgaon village and four from Dhokawale village. Besides, seven people died in other rain-related incidents in Satara district, officials said. The search operation at Dhokawale was completed on Saturday night, as per the district administration and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF). Satara Superintendent of Police (SP) Ajay Kumar Bansal said, "The search operation for those missing has begun since morning. We will be able to complete the operation by noon. Since last evening, there is relief due to less or no rain which will help in speeding up the search operation." As many as 379 villages in the district were affected due to heavy rains over the last three days and more than 5,000 people were shifted to safer places, as per the local administration. In adjoining Kolhapur also, the rainfall activity ebbed and the water level of the Panchganga river at Rajaram weir came down to 52 feet, but it was still flowing above the danger mark of 43 feet, as per the district disaster cell. "The vehicular traffic remained suspended on the Mumbai-Bengaluru highway as the stretch near Shiroli village continued to be inundated,” Kolhapur SP Shailesh Balkawade said. District Guardian Minister Satej Patil on Saturday said over 74,000 people were shifted to safer places from the flood-hit regions. Six teams of the NDRF and a column of the Army were carrying out rescue operations in the flood-hit areas. In neighbouring Sangli district, the Krishna river at Irwin bridge was flowing at 54.5 feet, as against the danger mark of 45 feet, according to the local administration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-rains-search-ops-on-for-missing-people-in-satara-1012612.html
25-07-2021||West||Maharashtra-Konkan rain fury: Centre assures help in mitigating flood crisis||The Centre on Sunday assured help to mitigate the crisis in the wake of mega-floods in the Konkan and Western Maharashtra. "The Centre will surely help," Union Minister for MSMEs Narayan Rane said. He said the Centre and State will rebuild the Taliye village, he said. Rane, along with Leader of Opposition in Assembly Devendra Fadnavis and his counterpart in Council Pravin Darakar, visited Taliye village in Mahad in Raigad district and inspected the rescue and relief works. Rane, a former Maharashtra Chief Minister, said that before arriving here,  Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to him. "He told me to visit and on return submit a report...the Centre will surely help people," he said. Asked why such chain of tragedies happened, he said: "It is not a time for blame game...no one would have ever thought that this hill will come down."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-konkan-rain-fury-centre-assures-help-in-mitigating-flood-crisis-1012638.html
25-07-2021||West||Maharashtra landslide toll rises to 73; 47 still missing: NDRF||Seventy-three bodies have been retrieved and 47 people are missing following landslides triggered by heavy rainfall in the coastal regions of Maharashtra, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) said on Sunday. S N Pradhan, the Director General (DG) of the federal force, tweeted the latest data of its operations being undertaken in Raigad, Ratnagiri and Satara districts of the state. As per the data, NDRF rescuers have retrieved a total of 73 bodies from these areas with the highest number of 44 from the worst-hit Taliye village under Mahad tehsil of Raigad. Forty-seven people have been reported missing in these three districts, as per the data posted at 12:19 pm on Twitter. The force has deployed 34 teams for relief and rescue operations in the affected regions of Maharashtra. The NDRF is operating in landslide-affected Taliye in Raigad, Porase in Ratnagiri and Mirgaon, Ambeghar and Dhokawale in Satara district, the data said. As per state government figures updated till Saturday, the death toll from the torrential rains that battered Maharashtra's Pune and Konkan divisions, triggering landslides in some areas stands at 112, including 52 in the coastal Raigad district alone. As many as 1,35,313 people have been shifted to safer places, including 78,111 in western Maharashtra's Sangli district, followed by 40,882 in Kolhapur district. The Krishna river in Sangli and Panchganga in Kolhapur are in flood though the rains were reported to have subsided on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-landslide-toll-rises-to-73-47-still-missing-ndrf-1012636.html
25-07-2021||West||Maharashtra's Taliye residents recall landslide horror, mourn death of loved ones||For Pratibha Nilesh Kondhalkar, it was like a bolt from the blue when she heard a loud sound and ran out of her house along with her six-year-old daughter after heavy rains pounded Taliye village in Maharashtra's Raigad district a few days back. She later got to know it was a landslide, which flattened 32 houses in the village and claimed several lives. "My father, mother and other relatives died in the landslide," the distraught woman told PTI on Sunday. The woman said she had recently come from an adjoining village to stay with her parents in Taliye, the site of the deadliest landslide following heavy rains in Maharashtra. So far, 42 bodies have been found following the landslide in Taliye on Thursday, while 42 others are still missing. The deceased included 17 women, as per the district administration. Another local Baban Sakpal said he also heard a loud sound and after some people said there was a landslide, he ran out of his house along with his three children. Sakpal now thanks God for his family having survived the tragedy. According to some locals, 10 children who were enrolled in a pre-primary school and 12 of a high school in Taliye village of Mahad taluka also died in the landslide. "The school building is safe, but now there is no student left to come to the school," a local villager said. Amol Kondhalkar, who works in an armed force, said his father, mother and wife are missing following the landslide in Taliye village. "I arrived here yesterday after getting news of the incident and have been searching for my family members," he said. In Hirkaniwadi village, located near the Raigad Fort, around l00 houses developed cracks after a landslide there on Saturday, as per the district administration. Besides, a landslide was reported in Ambemachi village in Mahad taluka of Raigad on Saturday, following which 87 villagers were safely rescued by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF). Following the heavy showers and landslides, the Mahad taluka has been facing shortage of drinking water. Some social groups are sending essential items to the affected places. The rain intensity has now reduced in the area, according to the district administration. As landslides proved fatal in many parts of the state, the government would come up with a plan to permanently relocate people living in hilly areas, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray told reporters in Taliye village on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-taliye-residents-recall-landslide-horror-mourn-death-of-loved-ones-1012662.html
25-07-2021||West||Centre, Maharashtra govt assure relief after floods lash state||Amid the worst downpour and chain of landslides to hit the west coast in the past several decades, the Centre and Maharashtra government on Sunday assured all the necessary help and wherewithal to rebuild flood-affected areas and extend immediate and long-term relief to the people. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh for calling him, assuring support and putting multiple agencies on the job. “The Army, Navy, Air Force is on the job, the NDRF and Coast Guard is working 24x7…the SDRF and other state government and district agencies are working round-the-clock,” Thackeray told reporters in flood-affected Chiplun town of Ratnagiri District. Asked whether he will seek any package from the Centre, Thackeray said that for two consecutive days on Saturday and Sunday he had visited the Konkan region and will visit Western Maharashtra on Monday. “Let me complete my on ground assessment…we will sit and put up a realistic demand (before the Centre)…because of Covid-19 pandemic, the economy is sluggish…we all know about it…we would need Centre’s help in long-term mitigation measures,” he said. “Just for publicity I will not make any announcement now…there would be a complete review and what and how much is needed would be conveyed to the Centre,” Thackeray said. However, till that time, the state government will continue to do its job and help out people in distress, he said, adding, that he has asked officials to ensure that “technical issues” do not come in the way of extending relief. Meanwhile, Union MSMEs Minister Narayan Rane assured that the Centre will provide necessary help. Rane, accompanied by former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition in Assembly Devendra Fadnavis and his counterpart in Council Pravin Dareker visited landslide-affected Taliye village of Raigad district. “The Centre will surely help…the Prime Minister has asked me to visit (flood-affected areas) and in return (to New Delhi) submit a report,” said Rane, a former Chief Minister and ex-Leader of Opposition, who is known for his administrative capabilities. “It is a difficult situation…Rane is a senior leader, he will table a report…definitely help will come from Centre,” said Fadnavis. Asked why such a chain of tragedies happened, Rane said: “It is not time for blamegame…who would have ever thought that this hill will come down.” Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/centre-maharashtra-govt-assure-relief-after-floods-lash-state-1012678.html
25-07-2021||West||Pornography case: Actress Gehana Vashishth, 2 others fail to appear before police||Actress Gehana Vashishth and two other persons, who were summoned by the Mumbai crime branch in connection with a pornography case, failed to appear for questioning on Sunday, a police official said. Notably, the police recently arrested businessman Raj Kundra, husband of Bollywood actress Shilpa Shetty, in connection with a case, which it said, related to alleged creation of pornographic films and publishing them through some apps. The Malwani police had filed FIRs on the basis of complaints received from two women, while another one woman had submitted a complaint at the Lonavla police station, around 120 km from Mumbai, he said. The Mumbai crime branch had started an investigation into the case after some victims approached the Malwani police station in February 2021, he said. During the investigation it came to light that some small-time artistes were lured by giving them break in some web series or short stories, he had said. These actors were called for auditions and were asked to give 'bold' scenes, which later turned out to be semi-nude or nude scenes, which were against the wishes of the actors, the official had said. During the investigation, it also came to light that there were many porn-related apps that were operating in the cyber world, he said. The police then arrested producer Roma Khan, her husband, actress Gehana Vashishth, director Tanveer Hashmi and Umesh Kamath (who used to look after India operations of Kundra's firm), he had said. Vashishth was later granted bail. At least 11 persons have been arrested so far in the case, according to the police. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pornography-case-actress-gehana-vashishth-2-others-fail-to-appear-before-police-1012691.html
25-07-2021||West||Centre's help is needed: Uddhav on flood situation||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday sought the Centre's help as part of 'long term measures' to mitigate the crisis emanating out if the devastating floods. Thackeray, who toured the Konkan region on Saturday and Sunday would be in Western Maharashtra on Monday to see the ground situation. "We would have an assessment...a realistic assessment of the situation and inform the Centre," he said. Thackeray also thanked the Centre saying that over then last few days Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh spoke to him. "The NDRF, Army, Navy, Air Force, Coast Guard was mobilised," he said, adding that 24x7 relief measures are underway under difficult circumstances and inclement weather.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/centres-help-is-needed-uddhav-on-flood-situation-1012695.html
25-07-2021||West||GSM-based PA system helped 3.5 lakh people during flood in Kolhapur: Satej Patil||Brainchild of Minister of State for Home and Information Technology Satej Patil, who is the Guardian Minister of Kolhapur, the citizens of the district have expressed satisfaction over the foresight shown by the minister. Keeping the experience of the 2019 flooding in the district, the administration had recently installed the GSM-based Public Address System in 57 places in Shirol and Karvir tehsils. The system has been funded from the annual plan of the District Planning Committee headed by Patil. The system was activated during the flooding and heavy rainfall to address people and direct them to take precautions such as not venturing out of their homes, shifting to safer places if required. The system was installed in 21 villages in Karavir including Ambewadi, Balinge, Bhuye, Chikhali, Hanmantwadi, Nigave and 36 villages including Aurwad, Akiwat, Kurundwad, Nrusinhwadi, Rajapur, Shirol and other Shirol tehsil. These villages face the risk of flooding during monsoon every year. “The system has benefited 3.5 lakh as they received timely intimation about the potential risk of the flood. The villagers were informed about their shifting to safer places in  advance and helped the administration in smooth transition of the villagers. Similarly, they were also informed about the precautions they require to take during heavy rainfall and waterlogging. The system is operated from the District Disaster Management Control Room or other offices of the district collectorates. Besides the low cost of its operation, the system runs on solar power and does not require electricity. It is an added advantage of the system as the power outage during natural disasters is a common phenomenon,” said Patil, who is also Minister of State for Home and Information Technology. Meanwhile, Patil, who has been continuously monitoring the flood situation in Kolhapur over the last few days, informed that seven people have died in rain-related incidents in Western Maharashtra's Kolhapur district so far while more than 75,000 people have been shifted to safer places. As many as six teams of the NDRF and a column of the Army carried out rescue operations in the flood-hit areas, said Patil. As the intensity of rains has reduced, the water level of the Panchganga river at the Rajaram weir near Kolhapur city further dipped to 53.10 feet at 9 pm on Saturday. The vehicular traffic on the Mumbai-Bengaluru highway, however, remained closed as a stretch near Shiroli village in the district was underwater. Talking about the evacuation, Patil told reporters that 67,111 people from flood-affected areas chose to go to their relatives' places, while over 8,000 were shifted to government shelters. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gsm-based-pa-system-helped-35-lakh-people-during-flood-in-kolhapur-satej-patil-1012712.html
25-07-2021||West||3 drug peddlers arrested in Mumbai with large quantities of narcotics||As part of its sustained efforts against the drug trade in Mumbai, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has arrested three notorious drug suppliers and peddlers with large quantities of contraband and cash Rs 17.5 lakh. NCB’s Mumbai Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede led the operation and arrested the accused from Jogeshwari suburb of Mumbai. The accused were identified as Sameer Mukhtar Sayyed alias Sam Langda, Zakir Sayyed alias Zakir Takla alias Zakir Chikna and Mohammed Amed Shamsuddin Shaikh. From them, NCB seized 1.2 kgs of Charas of commercial quantity, an intermediate quantity of Mephedrone along with cash Rs 17.5 lakh. On reliable information, a team of NCB Mumbai mounted surveillance at Jogeshwari East and intercepted the trio. At the time of interception, Zakir tried to jump from the 1st floor but he was intercepted by NCB officers after jumping. Sam Langda is a notorious, organised drug mafia and a disabled person. “In the garb of being challenged, he was running his notorious drug trade,” NCB officials said. Sam Langda is wanted by the NCB in a previous case. In that case, NCB Mumbai seized a total of 15.1 kgs of Charas (Hashish) along with cash Rs 4.40 lakh and arrested 5 persons. Sam Langda was running a cartel that consisted of various drug peddlers and criminals under his command.    NCB Mumbai had received complaints from Residents of Jogeshwari regarding the drug activities of Sam Langda and his activities involving children in drug trafficking.   Zakir Takla is a history-sheeter and was earlier booked 2 NDPS cases in 2010 – 10 kgs Charas and 2016  - 250 grams by Anti-Narcotic Cell (ANC) of Mumbai Police. In that case, NCB Mumbai seized a total of 2.029 Kg Mephedrone along with cash Rs. 1,15,500, huge quantity of foreign currency, two luxuries vehicles and arrested 3 persons namely Shahrukh Khan alias Shahrukh Bullet, Shadab Farooque Shaikh alias Shadab Batata and Ajaz Khan. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/3-drug-peddlers-arrested-in-mumbai-with-large-quantities-of-narcotics-1012714.html
25-07-2021||West||Rescue operations under way round the clock in Western Maharashtra||Helicopters hovered in the air, columns of Army moved along large stretches and rescued people, daring personnel of NDRF moved in uncharted areas in orange-rafts, Navy divers remained on the job as the massive search and rescue operation and relief measures continued in Kolhapur and the neighbouring twin districts of Sangli and Satara.  Battered by continuous rains, particularly in the catchment areas, large stretches of the three districts of Western Maharashtra remained under floodwaters.  More than 1.5 lakh people in the three districts have been evacuated and moved to safety in public halls, marriage halls, schools and colleges.  Medical aid was being provided to the people who have been moved to safety.  “We have lost everything. We won’t be able to recover,” said a woman with a young infant on her lap as he disembarked from a raft after being rescued from Shirol village.  Several people have been brought to safety from Shirol, Palus, Hatkanangale and Miraj areas.  “It was difficult for us… there is water everywhere, no power, no drinking water, no milk, no food,” said a group of people who were rescued after being in a cliffhanger situation for two days.  Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar is personally monitoring the situation in the three Western Maharashtra districts. Pawar also spoke to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and informed him of the ground situation in the region. “I am going to Satara today and tomorrow I will go to Sangli and Kolhapur. We are constantly in touch with Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg officials,” he said.  Water Resources Minister Jayant Patil visited Satara and Sangli and moved around in rafts, a motorcycle and even an open truck to reach out to people wading in knee-deep waters.  “There has been some left up in the rains resulting in decrease in water level of the Panchganga river…We hope in the next couple of days the situation would improve to a large extent,” said Minister of State for IT and Home Satej Patil, who is the Guardian Minister of Kolhapur district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rescue-operations-under-way-round-the-clock-in-western-maharashtra-1012738.html
25-07-2021||West||Who will rebuild Taliye? Rane says Centre will rebuild village||Who will rebuild the Taliye village in Mahad in Raigad district, that has been wiped out of the map because of a landslide after a chunk of hill on the village came down because of the heavy downpour in the Konkan region? Union MSMEs Minister Narayan Rane, who inspected the village at the instructions of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, said that the village would be rebuilt under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. The statement comes a day after Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray visited Taliye after which the government announced rebuilding by the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority. “Announcing that MHADA, a part of Housing Ministry, will take up complete responsibility for rebuilding and resettlement of Taliye village in Mahad tehsil of Raigad district,” state Housing Minister Dr Jitendra Ahwad had tweeted. According to him, Thackeray and NCP supremo Sharad Pawar have tasked him to undertake the work of building the village.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/who-will-rebuild-taliye-rane-says-centre-will-rebuild-village-1012742.html
25-07-2021||West||Flood-affected people of Chiplun appeal for help||As Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray flew down to Chiplun town in the flood-ravaged Ratnagiri district, he faced an impromptu ‘gherao’ by locals who wanted him to listen to their plight. On his part, Thackeray gave a patient hearing to them and assured them that the government is with them and would do everything possible. With tears in their eyes and voice choking with emotions and often tempers running high, the Chiplunkars narrated their woes to the Chief Minister. Chiplun is the business and industrial hub of the South Konkan coastal belt. “We are standing with you to ensure you get back up on your feet,” Thackeray assured the group of traders and shopkeepers of the town, who had suffered heavy losses as large parts of Chiplun was inundated because of heavy rains that resulted in flooding from the Vashishti river. “Let all the MPs and MLAs donate two months of their salary….the entire city would be rebuilt,” said a lady. “It is sad…we have lost everything…and everything means everything…we do not want mere assurances, we want concrete work,” she said. “For the last three days, no one came to conduct the panchnama. Now, with the water level receding, we are clearing the debris from our homes and shops. If the officials come later and find our area clean, will they give us compensation?,” she said. “The shopkeepers and small businesses have lost everything…we have nothing....please help us,” said a shopkeeper, breaking down. Thackeray gave a patient hearing to the people - even as the police had to beef up security arrangements. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/flood-affected-people-of-chiplun-appeal-for-help-1012829.html
25-07-2021||West||Mumbai-Bengaluru highway shut for traffic for 3rd day, vehicles stranded||The Mumbai-Bengaluru highway continued to be shut for vehicular traffic for the third day on Sunday as its stretch near Shiroli village in rain-battered Kolhapur district of Maharashtra remained submerged, a police official said. As a result, around 2,000 Karnataka-bound vehicles, including trucks, are stranded on the national highway, the district police said. The highway has been shut for traffic since Friday after part of it got submerged due to rising water level as a result of incessant rains in the district. "The stretch near Shiroli continued to be closed for the vehicular movement near Shiroli village as the bridge near there remained inundated," Kolhapur Superintendent of Police (SP) Shailesh Balkawde said. He added that if the water level of the Panchganga river in Kolhapur goes down further, there could be chances of water receding at the stretch. The stretch of this highway in Belgaum district of Karnataka is also under water, he said. Arrangement to provide food, water and other necessary things to the stranded people is being done with the help of the social organisations, Balkawade said. Meanwhile, officials said that the water level of the Panchganga river at Rajaram weir came down to 50.7 feet, although it is still above the danger mark of 43 feet. The district administration said that four automatic gates of upstream Radhanagari dam were opened and water was being released at 6,900 cusec rate on Sunday night. So far, over 1.45 lakh people, who were stranded in the flood-hit areas of Kolhapur, have been shifted to safer places, it said. The Indian Army has stepped up its relief and rescue operations in Sangli, Kohlapur, and Ratnagiri districts. The flood-relief columns in coordination with the civil administration evacuated over 80 stranded locals from the flood-affected areas of Bastwad in Kolhapur, a defence release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-bengaluru-highway-shut-for-traffic-for-3rd-day-vehicles-stranded-1012832.html
25-07-2021||West||Floods leave shocking trail of destruction in Maharashtra as death toll mounts to 149||The mega-floods in the twin geographically diverse regions of Konkan and Western Maharashtra have left a shocking trail of destruction with the toll mounting to 149 even as 64 persons are still reported missing. With traffic affected because of breaches in roads and large parts still inundated it would take some time for people to return to normalcy. In Chiplun and Mahad towns in Ratnagiri and Raigad districts, respectively, where water has receded, people could be seen cleaning out the slush from their houses.  As many as 50 persons are undergoing treatment in various hospitals, according to Maharashtra government officials.  Around 2.30 lakh people have been rescued to safety so far. The Raigad and Satara districts, which were rocked by a series of landslides have reported the maximum deaths - 60 and 41, respectively.  Ratnagiri has reported 21 deaths, followed by Thane 12, Kolhapur 7, Mumbai 4, and Sindhudurg and Pune, two each. The cattle deaths reported stood at 3,248 while poultry deaths were pegged at 17,300.  As of now, the teams in action are — 33 from NDRF, 6 from SDRF, 5 from the Navy, 3 from the army and two from the Coast Guard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/floods-leave-shocking-trail-of-destruction-in-maharashtra-as-death-toll-mounts-to-149-1012835.html
