26-07-2021||First Edit||Medical graduates must swallow rural pill||The Karnataka High Court has rightly dismissed a batch of petitions questioning the state government’s rule making it compulsory for medical graduates to serve in rural areas for one year after the completion of their course. Though the court had earlier upheld the Karnataka Compulsory Service Training by Candidates Completed Medical Courses Act, 2012, which came into effect in 2015, students have been challenging the provisions on one ground or the other to avoid postings in rural areas. The court has now held that the legal relationship between the petitioners and the state is that the latter would provide medical education at subsidised fees on the condition that qualified doctors would serve in rural areas. This has to be taken as a composite bargain between the state and the student, Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum observed. Having walked in with their eyes open and having voluntarily signed a bond, it is unfair on the part of students to now back out of their commitment. Under the Act, students who fail to complete the mandatory rural service are liable to be fined Rs 15 lakh to Rs 30 lakh. A section of students claims that the new rule which makes rural service compulsory even for those admitted under the management quota is unjustified as they have not availed of any concessions from the government. The government argues that this is consistent with the Act as the main objective is to ensure the availability of doctors in rural areas, where there is an acute shortage of medical professionals. In the instant case which pertains to students who have executed bonds, the court called for “responsible colleagueship” and held that doctors should be a ray of hope for the public at large in the context of the pandemic and a possible third wave. “The doctors have a duty to treat and the state is looking upon them to come forward and counter this pandemic. We have already seen a disaster which has threatened humanity and loss of valuable lives,” the court said while rejecting the petitions. The mandatory rural service rule makes health care accessible to those in remote villages and also exposes students to real-life situations, outside an academic environment. The government for its part should provide certain basic amenities, since one of the reasons why trainees shy away from rural service is the lack of proper accommodation. While the students may be eager to earn huge pay-packets — and there is nothing wrong in it — they should also realise that the first motto of the profession they have chosen, is service to mankind.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/medical-graduates-must-swallow-rural-pill-1012869.html
26-07-2021||In Perspective||Can cost-push inflation become demand-pull too?||The devastating second wave of the pandemic was accompanied by large-scale lockdowns in most parts of the country. Consequently, households suffered from a loss of livelihood. Unfortunately, a high level of inflation for certain essential commodities further enhanced the pain of the low- and middle-income households. The pandemic has made many avoid public transport and the triple-digit price of petroleum is burning holes in everyone’s pockets, directly or indirectly. Petrol price, according to the RBI report, was Rs 83.34 a litre in July 2020 which increased to Rs 101.79 in July 2021, registering a whopping 22% rise. The price of an LPG cylinder was Rs 604 in July 2020, but it increased by as much as 40% to Rs 845 in July 2021. The price of another item of daily use, edible oil, has increased steadily since 2019, but a sharper increase was visible from June 2020. Similarly, other items of daily use, such as pulses, registered a substantial price rise. Though the overall CPI inflation in June stands at 5.58% (food and beverages), several commodities in isolation have displayed much higher inflation rates; these include eggs (19%), oil and fats (35%), fruits (12%), and pulses (10%). These year-on-year consumer price-based inflation rates (for June 2021) vary across regions too and most southern states experienced higher inflation than the national average. For example, the state of Karnataka had a CPI inflation rate of 6.6% as against the all-India average of 6.26. Even higher rates prevailed in Tamil Nadu (7.49%) and Telangana (7.37%). Similarly, in the east, the inflation rate in West Bengal was (6.74%). A look at the causes of price rise reveals supply-side problems. Supply cuts by the OPEC countries (from April 2020 onwards) explain the rise in prices of petrol and diesel. Even moderate revivals of the advanced economies (which appear to have occurred in the West, starting with the US) raise the demand for crude oil and hence its price, unless crude supply rises. In these economies, there are now demand generated inflationary pressures for other commodities as well. A rise in such inflationary pressures has the potential to raise the prices of imported goods in India. There are global supply-side reasons for the significant rise in edible oil prices too and India being a net importer faced the brunt of this phenomenon. Data reveal that there has been an 89% year-on-year increase in import cost in Q1 2021-22 for vegetable oil in India. Within the domestic market as well, there has been a rise in cost due to supply chain disruptions and an increase in transportation costs owing to the rise in fuel price. Simultaneously, lockdown and covid protocols have snowballed production costs. Since many production units are restricted to run at 50% capacity, producers are losing the benefits of economies of scale as well. As noted above, moderate improvements in the US and other advanced economies are generating inflationary pressures there. The Federal Reserve Bank is responding to this by ushering in a tighter monetary policy leading to a rise in the interest rate. As a consequence, portfolio investors are warily moving their funds to the US. For an emerging market economy like India, this leads to excess demand for dollars (to be invested in the US). Since dollars need to be purchased with rupees, the phenomenon causes the exchange rate to move against the rupee, making dollars more expensive. On the one hand, the rise in the price of crude oil is inflating our import bill. On the other hand, to add fuel to fire, the rupee price of the dollar, too, is threatening to move upwards on account of the hawkish policy pursued by the US monetary authority. Our import bill is facing a compounded rise as it were. According to the RBI Bulletin for July 2021, India’s trade balance has been (-)3.8% of GDP in 2020-21. Inflation is an inevitable outcome of cost increases. However, one worries if such cost-push inflation will not be accompanied by demand pulls as well. The possibility of aggregate demand rise cannot be ruled out even in India, since the Central government has declared a dearness allowance and relief hike to 28% from July 1, which had been earlier frozen due to the pandemic. What with production going through a slowdown, the higher demand will most likely raise prices even more. One suspects therefore that inflation has not come to roost merely in the short term. It could grow worse and stay longer. Such inflation will hurt the informal sector far more than the formal sector, needless to say. The only silver lining though is that a rise in commodity demand might translate into a rise in labour demand. Unemployment could fall therefore but unless Covid is brought under control, the silver lining could soon turn grey on account of workers falling prey to infections. (Dasgupta is former professor of economics, Indian Statistical Institute, and Meenakshi is a professor at Institute for Social and Economic Change, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/can-cost-push-inflation-become-demand-pull-too-1012870.html
26-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||459 projects to be taken up under Jal Jeevan Mission in Dakshina Kannada||As many as 459 projects under the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) will be initiated in Dakshina Kannada district. The JJM is envisioned to provide safe and adequate drinking water through individual household tap connections by 2024 to all households in rural India. The aim is to provide water connections to 53,000 households in Dakshina Kannada district during 2020-21. Out of 459 works, 40 works have been completed, said Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Dr Kumar. Out of 2.89 lakh households in the district, several households have their own drinking water sources. Tapped water connections need to be provided to 1.50 lakh households. The projects under the Mission will be taken up in three phases, Kumar added. The estimated cost of the project during 2020-21 is Rs 149 crore. Out of 459 works in the district, 149 works will be taken up in Bantwal taluk at an estimated cost of Rs 33.74 cr, 71 works in Belthangady (Rs 14.86 cr), 84 works in Mangaluru (Rs 78.83 cr), 60 works in Puttur (Rs 5.47 cr) and 95 works in Sullia (Rs 16.26 cr). In 2021-22, the target is to provide water connections to 38,000 households. The Detailed Project Report (DPR) will be prepared for the same shortly. While in 2022-23, a total of 59,000 households will be covered under the project. The JJM aims at the development of reliable drinking water sources or the augmentation of existing sources to provide long-term sustainability of the water supply system. It also looks into recharge and reuse through grey water management, water conservation and rainwater harvesting methods as well, according to officials.   During the recently concluded Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee (Disha) meeting, DK MP Nalin Kumar Kateel had directed the officials to accelerate the works under the mission. Citing Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat who pulled up the state government for ‘under-performance' in the Jal Jeevan Mission, the MP said that targeted works should be completed at the earliest. The district should not lag behind in the implementation of the ambitious project of the central government. As it takes time for the construction of overhead tanks, steps should be taken to accelerate the works, he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/459-projects-to-be-taken-up-under-jal-jeevan-mission-in-dakshina-kannada-1012971.html
26-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka Health Minister Dr Sudhakar lauds staff of Kollamogru PHC for their dedication||Karnataka Health Minister Dr Sudhakar lauded the staff of Kollamogru Primary Health Centre (PHC) in Sullia taluk for their exemplary performance despite the flood situation.. The Karnataka Health Department had tweeted the photo of the staff wearing PPE kit crossing a delicate wooden bridge above a swollen water body. The staff of the health department had been to Idyadka in Kalmakaru to collect the swab for Covid-19 test. Sudhakar lauded the staff for their dedication amid the flood situation. "The service mind of the personnel is laudable," he tweeted. Kollamogru PHC lab staff Navya, Auxiliary Nursing Midwifery Chandravathi and Asha workers Yashoda and Hemavathi had been to collect swab for testing Covid-19 by crossing the delicate wooden bridge. Kollamogru is a interior village and the residents had to use the delicate wooden bridge and Kuccha road to reach the interior villages coming under Kollamogru PHC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-health-minister-dr-sudhakar-lauds-staff-of-kollamogru-phc-for-their-dedication-1012974.html
26-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||University of Mysore joins Google Cloud career readiness program||The century-old University of Mysore (UoM) has joined the Google Cloud career Readiness program. The Google Cloud career readiness program enables students of all backgrounds with the ability to prepare for cloud careers through industry-recognised training, skill badges and certification.  The students can build deep expertise in business and technical domains related to cloud infrastructure, application development, big data, and machine learning. To enable students to prepare for cloud careers in business and technical domains related to cloud infrastructure, application development, big data, and machine learning, the Google Cloud career readiness program offers the Associate Cloud Engineer track and Data Analyst track. The cloud engineering track is ideal for students aspiring to launch careers in engineering and management roles related to cloud infrastructure, cloud-native application development, and data engineering. The data analyst track is ideal for students keen on pursuing careers in data analytics, business intelligence and management.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/university-of-mysore-joins-google-cloud-career-readiness-program-1013025.html
26-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Boating suspended at Ranganathittu bird sancutary as Cauvery water level rises||With more than 35,000 cusec inflow into Krishnarajasagar (KRS) dam in Srirangapatna taluk, over 10,000 cusec is being let into the river. As the water level of River Cauvery has increased, the Ranganathittu Bird Sanctuary in the taluk has suspended boating as a precautionary measure.  Bird Sanctuary Range Forest Officer K Surendra said as the water level has increased boating has been suspended from Friday. However, bird watching, photography, butterfly park and others will be open for the public, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/boating-suspended-at-ranganathittu-bird-sancutary-as-cauvery-water-level-rises-1013034.html
26-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Colleges reopen after four months in Mysuru, students attend amidst Covid fear||Degree, postgraduate, engineering colleges and polytechnics resumed after a gap of four months on Monday. The attendance was less on Day One. The students followed Covid norms and attended the classes. The education institutions have taken measures as per the direction of the state government to ensure the safety of the students and faculty members. The students, who have obtained at least one dose of the Covid vaccination, are allowed to attend classes. Those not willing to attend physical classes are allowed to attend online classes. Many parents are worried about the health of their children. Suhas, a degree student, said that he was a little worried before attending the class, but now he was relaxed once he entered the college. "All safety measures were in place and only two students were allowed to sit on a bench. All students were provided hand sanitiser. Only 10 of my classmates attended the class on Day One," he said. N S Yashaswaini, a student of Maharani’s College, said that her parents were worried due to the pandemic and advised her not to attend the class on Day One. "But I managed to convince them,” she said. In rural areas of Mysuru district, the students were welcomed by the teaching faculty members. The colleges were decked up with flowers to mark reopening. University of Mysore (UoM) Registrar R Shivappa said that the varsity had taken measures as per the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the government. "The institutions are directed to take measures to ensure the safety of the teaching faculty and students by strictly following social distance and sanitising classrooms. In addition, furniture also was sanitised before allowing the students to enter the classroom," he said. A total of 224 UG colleges, including private ones, are under the purview of the UoM.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/colleges-reopen-after-four-months-in-mysuru-students-attend-amidst-covid-fear-1013095.html
26-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||18 persons dead due to Black fungus in Mysuru||As many as 18 persons died of mucormycosis (black fungus) in Mysuru district till July 26. The district reported a total of 125 cases since the outbreak of Black Fungus. While 29 cases are active and are undergoing treatment, 78 persons recovered and were discharged from hospitals. The doctors have operated 78 cases so far. The district administration and the authorities of the Health department have taken necessary measures to treat the patients, said an officer. Dedicated wards are reserved at  KR Hospital and other private hospitals, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/18-persons-dead-due-to-black-fungus-in-mysuru-1013097.html
26-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Kargil Vijay Diwas celebrated in Mysuru||Various organisations celebrated the 22nd Kargil Vijay Diwas in parts of the city on Monday. Mysore Ex-Servicemen Movement celebrated the day at Martyred soldier Prashanth Park. Prashanth’s parents were felicitated on the occasion. Harish, who was with Prashanth when he was martyred, explained how the former sacrified his life for the country. MLA S A Ramadass said that there were plans to develop Prashanth Park into Kargil Park at the cost of Rs one crore. "The equipment related to the army and war field will be displayed at the park. The Defence Minister will be brought to lay the foundation stone for the works," he assured. Corporator Chayadevi, Ex-serviceman Rajesh, Mysore Ex-Servicemen Movement founder V Mahesh and others were present.  A motorbike rally was taken out from the park and culminated near DC's office. MLA L Nagendra honoured ex-servicemen at Oval Grounds. He also submitted a memorandum to DC urging to develop a war memorial.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kargil-vijay-diwas-celebrated-in-mysuru-1013099.html
26-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Two killed in lorry mishap in Chamarajanagar||Two persons were killed on the spot when a gravel laden tipper lorry hit an under construction overbridge on Nanjangud road in Chamarajanagar on Monday. Sudesh (30), driver of Chinchahalli and Lokesh (23), the owner of the tipper lorry of R S Doddi are the deceased. The tipper was bound for Hanur via the bypass road at around 6 am when the driver lost balance over the vehicle. The lorry toppled and hit the wall of the overbridge. Both Sudesh and Lokesh died on the spot, according to police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-killed-in-lorry-mishap-in-chamarajanagar-1013100.html
26-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Bukankere turns silent as Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa announces resignation||Bukanakere village in KR Pet taluk, the native of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, went into silent mode with some of his ardent followers breaking into tears when he announced his resignation on Monday. As Yediyurappa turned emotional while announcing his resignation during the BJP convention in Bengaluru, the eyes of the people here were filled with tears. There was silence on the main roads of Bukanakere and some people closed their shops voluntarily. B K Madhusudhan, president of B S Yediyurappa Abhimanigala Sangha, a resident of Bukanakere, said,"Nobody knew about the BJP in Karnataka. Yediyurappa worked from the grassroots level and built the party brick by brick. The high command is sending him home. Several persons are waiting to enjoy the fruits of the tree nurtured by Yediyurappa. A family member of Yediyurappa should be given the CM's post. Otherwise, the BJP will be destroyed in Karnataka". A few persons have expressed their disappointment on the social media that Yediyurappa failed to revive the historical MySugar factory in his native district Mandya. He would assure that resuming MySugar was his aim. However, he failed to keep by his promise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bukankere-turns-silent-as-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-announces-resignation-1013101.html
26-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Value addition to banana: Lessons for Mysuru from PM's ‘Mann Ki Baat’||'Mann Ki Baat' of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on July 25, Sunday, had a few lessons for Mysuru district as he spoke about banana and value addition to the perishable horticulture produce. It has to be noted that banana is selected for Mysuru, under Pradhan Mantri Formalisation of Micro food processing Enterprises (PM-FME) Scheme of Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, under 'One District-One Product’ format for self-reliance. Raw banana powder Modi spoke about an initiative in the Lakhimpur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh to train women to manufacture fibre from waste banana stems, amidst the Covid-19 crisis. He spoke about ‘Bakahu’ (Balekayi Hudi), meaning raw banana powder, prepared and marketed by women of Uttara Kannada and Dakshina Kannada districts of Karnataka. The efforts of women self-help groups to make the best out of waste was appreciated by the PM. Banana fibre is extracted by cutting the false stem of a plant with the help of a machine, like jute or flax. Handbags, mats, rugs and other items are made from fibre. SHGs given loan The initiative, by the Uttar Pradesh government, is a step towards 'One Block One Product', inspired by the 'One District One Product' initiative of the Centre. Banana is cultivated on a large scale in Isanagar block. After harvesting bananas, the farmers usually throw away the stem. The discarded stem is now a source of employment for rural women, who draw fibres from them. The self-help groups were given a loan from the Countryside Loan Fund (CLF) and the machines were sourced from Surat, Gujarat, in November 2020. When production started in December 2020, contacts were made in Surat, Ahmedabad and Kanpur, as banana fibre is used mostly in paper and textile industries. Earlier mention Earlier also, the PM had spoken about banana fibre in his ‘Mann Ki Baat’, on February 28, referring to P M Murugesan from Melakkal village, Vadipatti taluk, Madurai district of Tamil Nadu. In 2009, Murugesan came up with an idea to make ropes with banana fibre. He developed four types of machinery to make ropes from plantain waste, three of which are patented. The prime minister had said, "Murugesan's innovation would not just solve the waste disposal problem, but will also open up new avenues of income for farmers”. Modi also made mentioned dishes like Dosa and Gulab Jamun, made from 'Bakahu' or banana flour. “Women in Uttara Kannada and Dakshina Kannada districts of Karnataka are manufacturing 'Bakahu',” he said. Mysuru initiatives It has to be mentioned here that innovators, scientists, entrepreneurs and agro-industrialists of Mysuru and its neighbourhood are also exploring ideas to add value to get good returns on bananas. Mysuru-based CSIR-Central Food Technological Research Institute (CSIR-CFTRI) has already conducted a training series, under the PM-FME scheme. It has trained a total of 500 entrepreneurs, in batches of 50 persons each for six days, from across Karnataka. Some Mysureans have been trained on banana-based products under the series. Four products The CSIR-CFTRI has already developed four products of banana, including raw banana powder. The other products are fortified banana bar; banana pseudostem beverage and beverage blends; and banana pulp. As per CSIR-CFTRI officials, the raw banana powder is a rich source of carbohydrates, fibre, minerals and vitamins, free from sugars. The CSIR-CFTRI technology facilitates the manufacture of raw banana powder under controlled conditions. Unripe, mature bananas, free from spoilage, with firm texture of any edible varieties, Cavendish, Nendran, Elakki, Rasbal or Poovan can be used. Apply for loan Bananas are washed, peeled, pretreated and dehydrated. Raw banana powder is packed in glass bottles or flexible food-grade packaging materials in unit packs. It can be used as a food for different age groups and also in various culinary preparations, thickening agent, bakery products, desserts and other food preparations. It is used to make gruel or soup for children. The powder has a shelf-life of four months. “Bank loans up to Rs 10 lakh is available for new units, based on banana, PM-FME scheme. 35% of the loan amount will be provided by the Agriculture department as a subsidy. Applications can be submitted online at http://www.pmfme.mofpi.gov.in/pmfme/#/Home-Page.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/value-addition-to-banana-lessons-for-mysuru-from-pms-mann-ki-baat-1013102.html
26-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Former Hampi Kannada University VC Lakkappa Gowda passes away||H G Lakkapa Gowda (83), former vice chancellor of Hampi Kannada University, passed away due to age related ailments at his residence in Mysuru on Monday. He leaves behind wife Kamalamma, a son and a daughter. The last rites will be conducted at the burial ground in Kuvempunagar at 1 pm on Tuesday, according to family sources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/former-hampi-kannada-university-vc-lakkappa-gowda-passes-away-1013130.html
26-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Shiradi Ghat opens for light vehicles||Deputy Commissioner R Girish issued orders giving permission for the movement of Light Motor Vehicles at a speed of 30 kilometre per hour on Bengaluru-Mangaluru highway on NH-75. Car, jeep, tempo, mini vans, two wheelers, ambulance and passenger buses have been given permission to ply. The vehicles bound for Mangaluru from Bengaluru can ply via Anemahal-Kesaganahalli-Kyanahalli-Heggade route. The vehicles bound for Bengaluru from Mangaluru can ply through route 1 via Maranahalli-Kyamanahalli-Anemahal and on route 2 via Doddatappale-Kumbaradi-Anemahal. Movement of vehicles was suspended on Shiradi Ghat due to landslide near Donigal on NH 75. The movement of heavy vehicles is banned till further notice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shiradi-ghat-opens-for-light-vehicles-1013131.html
26-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Flood situation remains grim; Hampi ruins go under swollen Tungabhadra river||The floodwaters in the upstream of Krishna river have begun subsiding following a rain break in Konkan belt of Maharashtra and Khanapur taluk. But the flood situation in downstream areas remained grim. There is no respite from flood fury in Chikkodi, Raibag and Athani taluks of Belagavi district though. Ramanagouda Patil (55), a resident of Savadi in Athani taluk, was feared swept away in Krishna river floods while moving to a safer place along with essentials. NDRF personnel shifted the stranded Kallol villagers to safety in the inflated boats. A massive 3.92 lakh cusec of water flowed into Krishna river at Kallol barrage, thanks to heavy discharge from Maharashtra's Rajapur barrage.Crops on thousands of acres continue to remain under flood waters in Nippani, Chikkodi and Athani taluks. However, the Pune-Bengaluru highway (NH-4) was cleared for traffic on Monday afternoon as floodwaters receded at Yamgarni, Kagal and Sankeshwar, Belagavi SP Lakshman Nimbargi told DH. Meanwhile, Ghataprabha, Malaprabha, Hiranyakeshi and Markandeya rivers have continued to unleash flood havoc in Gokak, Mudalgi, Hukkeri and Ramdurg taluks. The Chikkoli bridge, a lone link to Gokak Falls, has suffered irreparable damage in Markandeya river flooding. Malaprabha river has flooded a couple of government schools in Ramdurg taluk. Heavy outflow from Naviluthirtha reservoir (Malaprabha) has flooded a Hubballi-Vijayapura highway stretch near Konnur in Gadag district, affecting the traffic on the busy route. A good 1,40,000 cusec of water was discharged from Tungabhadra reservoir by lifting all 33 crest gates, putting the villages and towns downstream on flood alert. The Kampli bridge on Hosapete-Gangavathi road may go under flood waters anytime soon. Many monuments, including the bath ghat near Virupaksha Temple, Chakrathirtha, Vijayanagar-era bridge, Purandara Mantap, have gone under the swollen Tungabhadra river. The Huvinahadagi and Sheelahalli bridges downstream Narayanapur reservoir are still underneath the overflowing Krishna river, cutting off the road link between Kalaburagi and Raichur districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/flood-situation-remains-grim-hampi-ruins-go-under-swollen-tungabhadra-river-1013171.html
26-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||JD(S) MLAs conduct special homas at KRS to ward off evil eye||JD(S) legislators conducted special homas to ward of the evil eye (drishti dosha) on the Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam in Srirangapatna taluk, Mandya district on Monday. MLAs Ravindra Srikantaiah, C S Puttaraju, M Srinivas, Annadani, Sureshgowda, MLC K T Srikantegowda, N Appajigwoda and JD(S) district president D Ramesh participated in the ritual, conducted on the premises of the dam. A team of priests, led by astrologer Bhanuprakash Sharma, conducted the rituals. Panchamrutha Abhisheka was performed on goddess Cauvery idol. Bhanuprakash Sharma said that the ritual was conducted for the prosperity of the country. MLA Ravindra Srikantaiah said there was anxiety among the leaders and the public over the safety of KRS dam after a few claimed that there were cracks on the dam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/jds-mlas-conduct-special-homas-at-krs-to-ward-off-evil-eye-1013174.html
26-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||University of Mysore launches Google ​​Cloud Centre of Excellence||The University of Mysore has launched Google Cloud Centre of Excellence to prepare students for cloud careers. Google Cloud Centre of Excellence is an initiative to transform the career support services provided to students, alumni of the varsity and its 220 affiliate colleges. The varsity has entered into a strategic partnership with Google Cloud to give its students a head start, said UoM Vice Chancellor G Hemantha Kumar. The centre will provide students with access to technology and services to learn more about Google Cloud. It will run two flagship programmes - "Google Cloud Career Readiness" and "Google Cloud Computing Foundations." The VC said that the Google Cloud Career Readiness programme offers Associate Cloud Engineer track and Data Analyst track to prepare students for cloud careers in business and technical domains. The cloud engineering track is ideal for students aspiring for a career in engineering and management roles related to cloud infrastructure. The data analyst track is suitable for students keen on pursuing career in data analytics, business intelligence and management.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/university-of-mysore-launches-google-cloud-centre-of-excellence-1013195.html
26-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||B S Yediyurappa announces resignation as Karnataka Chief Minister||In an emotional announcement, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa announced that he would resign, drawing curtains on the uncertainty that surrounded his future. “I have decided to resign from the post of chief minister,” a tearful Yediyurappa said while concluding his speech on the occasion of him completing two years in office. “I’m resigning not out of pain, but happiness. A 75-year-old Yediyurappa was allowed to become the CM for two years. So, words can’t express my gratitude to PM Modi, Amit Shah and JP Nadda,” Yediyurappa said. “I pray with God that this Modi-Shah duo should win again. Modi and Shah should win, become PM and take the country forward,” he said. There is little clarity on who will replace Yediyurappa. During his speech, Yediyurappa recalled his days as a young BJP worker. “Back then, not even 300-400 people would attend our programmes,” he said. “Now, the BJP has come to power because of all our efforts.” Yediyurappa said BJP stalwart Atal Bihari Bajpayee wanted him to become a union minister. “I told him that I want to stay in Karnataka and build the party,” he said in tears. He vowed to help bring the BJP to power in the state again with an absolute majority.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/b-s-yediyurappa-announces-resignation-as-karnataka-chief-minister-1012942.html
26-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||How B S Yediyurappa's charismatic leadership opened the southern gate for the BJP in 2008||“I have decided to resign from the post of chief minister,” a tearful Yediyurappa said while concluding his speech on the occasion of him completing two years in office. It is interesting to note that it was he who brought the BJP to power for the first time in south India in 2008. Such success is yet to be emulated in any other southern state. More importantly, he has also ensured that in every Lok Sabha election since 2004, the BJP has garnered more than 50 per cent of 28 Lok Sabha seats from Karnataka, which reached a peak of 25 seats in the 2019 elections. If he were to stay in active politics, as he as indicated, he will also play a key role in the BJP's ambition to win the 2023 Assembly elections. During his speech today, Yediyurappa recalled his days as a young BJP worker. “Back then, not even 300-400 people would attend our programmes,” he said. “Now, the BJP has come to power because of all our efforts.” Yediyurappa said BJP stalwart Atal Bihari Bajpayee wanted him to become a union minister. “I told him that I want to stay in Karnataka and build the party,” he said in tears. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/how-b-s-yediyurappas-charismatic-leadership-opened-the-southern-gate-for-the-bjp-in-2008-1012955.html
26-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||In a parting shot, Yediyurappa blames Centre for rocky start||Bookanakere Siddalingappa Yediyurappa, arguably the BJP’s tallest leader in Karnataka, will hang up his boots as chief minister, a post he held four times. Making the announcement on the occasion of him completing two years in office, Yediyurappa fired a salvo at the Centre as he described his tenure as ‘trial by fire’. “It was an agniparikshe from day one,” he said. “As soon as I took charge as CM, the state witnessed unprecedented floods. But the Centre didn’t allow me to form my Cabinet. I had to handle the situation all by myself,” he said. This was Yediyurappa’s fourth stint as chief minister, and the second since the Assembly election results were out in May 2018. His first time as CM lasted nine days in 2007. His second tenure lasted from May 2008 to July 2011. His third innings lasted three days in May 2018 when he resigned because he lacked the numbers to prove majority in the Legislative Assembly. On July 26, 2019, Yediyurappa became the CM for the fourth time. Yediyurappa, a Lingayat, was born February 27, 1943 at Bookanakere village in the KR Pet taluk of Mandya district. But politically, Yediyurappa belongs to the Shivamogga district where he started his work as a swayamsevak of the RSS in 1965. He was 29 when he first entered public office as the Shikaripura taluk president of the Janasangh. Yediyurappa was first elected to the Legislative Assembly in 1983 and has since represented Shikaripura seven times. He also represented Shivamoga in Lok Sabha. Along with the late Ananth Kumar, Yediyurappa is credited with building the BJP from scratch in Karnataka. The party went from just two members in the Legislative Assembly in the 1980s to 105 now, in which time Yediyurappa became the state BJP president thrice (1988-91, 1998-99 and April 2016 to now). In 2013, Yediyurappa broke away from the BJP to head the Karnataka Janata Paksha (KJP), which heavily dented the saffron party’s poll prospects by bagging nearly 10% vote share. He came back to the BJP in 2014, ahead of the Lok Sabha polls. In all this, the BJP leader has changed the spelling of his name from ‘Yeddyurappa’ to ‘Yediyurappa’. The ‘i’ is meant to bring him luck because the extra ‘d’ has not been helpful, given that his previous tenures as CM have been incomplete. This time, too, he fell short of completing his tenure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/in-a-parting-shot-yediyurappa-blames-centre-for-rocky-start-1012956.html
26-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||As B S Yediyurappa resigns, BJP to pick new CM keeping Lingayats' vote in mind||Karnataka's politics has been dominated by a few communities and among them, Lingayats are said to be one of the more prominent ones. Even a former Congress minister, Shivashankarappa, met Yediyurappa to thank him for the government’s decision to install 12th century social reformer Basavanna’s statue in Vidhana Soudha. Basavanna is considered as the founder of the Lingayat sect. Another former Congress minister MB Patil also warned the BJP against removing Yediyurappa. “BJP may face the wrath of Lingayats if they ill treat tall leader BS Yediyurappa. BJP should value the contribution of Yediyurappa and treat him with dignity. This is my personal opinion, understanding that the proposed changes may be internal matters of the BJP,” Patil said. Kudalasangama-based Panchamasali Mutt Seer Jagadguru Basava Jaya Mrityunjaya Swami demanded from the BJP to accord chief minister post to a leader from Lingayat community belonging to North Karnataka if B S Yediyurappa has to be replaced. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/as-b-s-yediyurappa-resigns-bjp-to-pick-new-cm-keeping-lingayats-vote-in-mind-1012960.html
26-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||What Yediyurappa told BJP top brass during his last visit to Delhi||B S Yediyurappa's exit plan was firmed up even before his visit to New Delhi earlier this month. It is said, Yediyurappa wanted more time as he was keen on inaugurating some developmental works in Shivamogga, his political home. The 79-year-old Lingayat strongman's sudden trip to Delhi during which he met national leadership, had raised questions in some quarters if the party was working out a succession plan. Yediyurappa had called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and BJP president J P Nadda in the national capital during his two-day visit and held discussions on issues ranging from politics to Mekedatu balancing reservoir across the Cauvery river, which is a bone of contention between Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. The meetings came at a time when political circles were abuzz with speculation of Yediyurappa being replaced as the chief minister after he completes two years in office on July 26. However, Yediyurappa had described rumours about his resignation as chief minister as "not at all true" and said the discussions at these meetings revolved around strengthening the BJP in Karnataka and ensuring that it returns to power in the state. "We discussed about the development of the party in the state. He asked me to give special emphasis on bringing the BJP back to power in Karnataka. The same was told by the prime minister also. A detailed discussion took place," Yediyurappa said after his meeting with Nadda. He said his meeting with Singh was on similar lines and added that Shah told him: "We will win cent per cent in Uttar Pradesh and in Karnataka, there is a bright future and we are with you." "He (Shah) has asked us to work hard in Karnataka and ensure more seats in the Lok Sabha polls. He has asked me to take the responsibility of strengthening the party in Karnataka. (Shah said) our blessings are with you," he said after meeting the Union Home Minister. "It is the duty of a chief minister to come to Delhi to discuss state issues and get clearances. I will come again in the first week of August," he said. After landing in Bengaluru, he told reporters that the central leaders of the BJP have asked him to continue as the chief minister. Denying that any discussion took place on alternative leadership, he asserted that there is no dearth of substitute leaders in the saffron party. Disgruntled leaders within the Karnataka BJP have been targeting Yediyurappa and his family with accusations of corruption and interference in the administration, which have embarrassed the party and the government, despite warnings of disciplinary action by the leadership. Another section of the party was demanding the replacement of Yediyurappa citing his age and the need of projecting a new chief ministerial face ahead of the 2023 Assembly polls, sources had said. Yediyurappa, who is also seen as BJP's only leader with a "mass leader" stature in South India, wields considerable influence over the Veerashaiva-Lingayat community, the BJP's core support base in the state. While Assembly polls in Karnataka are slated to take place in 2023, the Lok Sabha election will be held in 2024. (With DHNS/PTI inputs) Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/what-yediyurappa-told-bjp-top-brass-during-his-last-visit-to-delhi-1012976.html
26-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||When B S Yediyurappa broke away from the BJP||There seems to be no "closure" for B S Yediyurappa, the BJP's "comeback man" in Karnataka, as he could never complete a full term in office, despite becoming the Chief Minister four times, surmounting odds. A hardboiled RSS swayamsevak, B S Yediyurappa, who is often credited for BJP's success in the state, had in 2012 broken his decades-long association with the saffron party and formed the Karnataka Janata Paksha (KJP) before the next Assembly polls in 2013, heavily denting the saffron party’s poll prospects. Fondly called "Raja Huli" (King Tiger) by his followers, he joined the RSS when he was barely 15 and rose his stature as BJP's only leader with a "mass leader" stature in South India, wielding considerable influence over the Veerashaiva-Lingayat community. He could have landed in the hot seat in 2004 when the BJP emerged as the single largest party, but the Congress and JD(S) of former prime minister H D Deve Gowda formed an alliance, and a government was formed under Dharam Singh. Known for his political acumen, Yediyurappa joined hands with H D Kumaraswamy, Deve Gowda's son, in 2006 and brought down the Dharam Singh government. Under a rotational chief ministership arrangement, Kumaraswamy became the CM and Yediyurappa his deputy. Yediyurappa became CM for the first time in November 2007 but his term lasted just seven days as Kumaraswamy reneged on a power sharing pact and walked out of the alliance. He became the chief minister once again after the BJP came to power in May 2008 but had to step down in July 2011 following his indictment by the then Lokayukta N Santosh Hegde in an illegal mining case. In the 2008 polls, Yediyurappa had led the party to victory, and the first BJP government in the south was formed under him, with the help of "Operation Kamala" (Operation Lotus) -- an alleged attempt of the BJP to engineer defection of opposition legislators to ensure the stability of the government. In 2011, he surrendered before the Lokayukta court after it issued a warrant against him in connection with alleged land scams, and was in jail for a week. Sulking after having been made to quit, Yediyurappa broke his association with the BJP and formed the KJP. Back to BJP in 2014 However, ploughing a lonely furrow, he failed to make the KJP a force to reckon with in state politics but wrecked the BJP's chances of retaining power in the 2013 polls, winning six seats and polling about 10 per cent votes. As Yediyurappa faced an uncertain future and the BJP looked for a leader with a formidable reputation to lend its campaign the required heft ahead of the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, the two cosied up to each other, leading to the KJP's merger with the BJP on January 9, 2014. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/when-b-s-yediyurappa-broke-away-from-the-bjp-1012997.html
26-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||B S Yediyurappa's replacement: Party observers to visit Bengaluru soon||The BJP Parliamentary Board will decide about who should be the next chief minister of Karnataka, Arun Singh, BJP National General Secretary (in-charge Karnataka) said on Monday. The saffron party named Dharmendra Pradhan and Arun Singh as the central observers for the Karnataka leadership issue.  Speaking to reporters, Singh said, "Party observers will visit Bengaluru soon and take the view of the legislators and will submit a report to the party high top brass." Based on the observer report, the party parliamentary board will take a decision on the next chief minister. He refused to comment to a question on who should be the next chief minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/b-s-yediyurappas-replacement-party-observers-to-visit-bengaluru-soon-1013022.html
26-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||BSY resigns as CM: Shivamogga fails to break jinx again||With the exit of B S Yediyurappa, a legislator from Shikaripura, as Chief Minister on Monday, Shivamogga, which has the distinction of being the only district in the state that has given four chief ministers, failed to break the jinx of none of them completing their full term. However, unlike the other three -- Kadidal Manjappa, J H Patel and S Bangarappa -- B S Yediyurappa served as chief minister four times. Nevertheless, he could not complete a full term even once. In 2004, BJP had emerged as the single largest party with 79 seats, Congress had 65 and JD(S) 58 seats. As per the agreement between the JD(S) and the BJP, Yediyurappa had taken oath as chief minister for the first time in November 2007. But his tenure lasted only for seven days as the JD(S) did not extend support. The Assembly was dissolved and the state went to elections. BJP emerged as the single largest party with 110 seats in 2008, but it needed three more seats to prove majority. However, Yediyurappa took oath as chief minister on May 30, 2008 for the second time and formed the first BJP government in South India with the support of independents. But he had to step down from the post after serving for over three years following his indictment by the Lokayukta in an illegal mining case. In 2018, he took oath as chief minister for the third time on May 17. But he stepped down from the top post after two days as he had no majority in the House. H D Kumaraswamy had become chief minister of the coalition government. On July, 26, 2019, he took charge as chief minister for the fourth time after JD(S)-Congress coalition government was defeated in trust vote. After serving in the office for two years, he stepped down from the top post.   Kadidal Manjappa served as chief minister of the then Mysore state from August 19, 1956 to October 31, 1956. Later, J H Patel, legislator from Channagiri, part of Shivamogga district then (now part of Davangere district) took oath as chief minister on May 31,1996 after the then chief minister H D Deve Gowda became prime minister. But Patel dissolved the Assembly in 1999, a few months ahead of the end of its tenure in the wake of rebellion against him. Bangarappa had taken oath as chief minister on October 17, 1990 after the then chief minister Veerendra Patil was removed. But Bangarappa had to step down in 1992 following a direction from the Congress high command.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bsy-resigns-as-cm-shivamogga-fails-to-break-jinx-again-1013035.html
26-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Prasad criticises Siddaramaiah, asks if only he is honest||Criticising the Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah for his statements, MP V Srinivas Prasad asked whether Siddaramaiah was the only honest person. "Siddaramaiah should remember that he was defeated when he was the CM. His ministers too tasted defeat," Prasad said.  "What would be the situation if he was defeated in the Badami Assembly segment? Though I was a senior leader, I was targeted. I have learnt a lesson,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/prasad-criticises-siddaramaiah-asks-if-only-he-is-honest-1013096.html
26-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||In veiled attack on MP Sumalatha, JD(S) MLAs conduct Homas at KRS||In a veiled attack on Mandya MP A Sumalatha, JD(S) legislators peformed special Homas to ward off the evil's eye (Drishti Dosha) on Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam in the taluk on Monday. MLAs Ravindra Srikantaiah, C S Puttaraju, M Srinivas, K Annadani, Suresh Gowda, MLC K T Srikantegowda, N Appaji Gowda and JD(S) district president D Ramesh participated in the ritual. A team of priests, led by scholar Bhanuprakash Sharma, conducted the rituals, including Panchamrutha Abhisheka to the idol of Goddess Cauvery. Sharma said the ritual was conducted for the prosperity of the country. Ravindra Srikantaiah said, "There was anxiety among the leaders and the public over the safety of the KRS dam after a few persons claimed that there were cracks on the dam. Hence, the Homas were performed to ward off the evil eyes." He did not mention the name of the MP. The Cauvery Neeravari Nigam officials, however, stayed away from the ritual.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/in-veiled-attack-on-mp-sumalatha-jds-mlas-conduct-homas-at-krs-1013103.html
26-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||B S Yediyurappa holds key to prevent Lingayat backlash||Caretaker Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa showed no indication of retiring from active politics, having vowed that he would get busy right away with organising the party.  The Lingayat strongman is in no mood to take up a gubernatorial position. He said he was not an aspirant for any such post. “I will travel across the state and work to strengthen the party,” he said. Party observers note that Yediyurappa might try to wield his clout through a section of MLAs loyal to him. Also, he might look to secure the future of his sons, Shimoga MP B Y Raghavendra and BJP vice-president B Y Vijayendra. In any case, the new chief minister will have to find a way to work with Yediyurappa. However, reports of the BJP central leadership’s refusal to yield to Yediyurappa’s demands such as elevating Raghavendra as union minister could throw a spanner in his future plans. While the Yediyurappa loyalists maintain that he will continue to be a behemoth with significant electoral pull spread across communities, the opposite camp read this as the end of Yediyurappa influence in politics. One of the remarks by Yediyurappa after his resignation reflected his ambition to continue in electoral politics as he vowed ensure that the party wins 120-130 seats in the next election. Party hardliners now expect a complete reshuffle of the Cabinet. According to one legislator, Yediyurappa “will not be in any position to create trouble as the new CM will be empowered directly by the central leadership.” Also, pontiffs rallying behind Yediyurappa in the run up to his resignation has not gone down too well with the central leadership, it is said. “Yediyurappa might have rattled the high command with the drama he did over the last week or so,” the legislator pointed out.  According to political analyst Chambi Puranik, Yediyurappa, by nature, will be active in the party. “BJP will use him to prevent a backlash from Lingayat community. He may bring some advantages to his son Vijayendra also in the process,” he said. However, BJP cannot be without Yediyurappa at the moment as he will play a role in keeping the government or party together, he added. Sources added that cases against the outgoing CM being heard in various courts could also play a role in keeping any further disgruntlement at bay. “He could get in legal tangle in no time,” a source said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/b-s-yediyurappa-holds-key-to-prevent-lingayat-backlash-1013185.html
26-07-2021||Main Article||India's population dilemma||India has experienced an unprecedented and accelerated growth of population. Various attempts were made to find the right solution to overpopulation, but with time, all of them bit the dust. More than 30 proposals, measures and legislation qua Private Members’ Bill were introduced in legislative bodies in the last decade, but nothing proved suitable enough. At least 12 states, at some point of time, implemented the two-child policy for government employees or for people contesting local elections. Uttar Pradesh has become the latest to present a legislation for population control on the World Population Day. The UP Population (Control, Stabilisation and Welfare) Bill 2021 aims to bring down fertility rate among women to 2.1 by 2026 and 1.9 by 2030, from the current rate of 2.7. The much-awaited policy is also aimed at decreasing the Total Fertility Rate (TFR), which is 1.8 in urban areas and 2.3 in rural areas right now, increasing use of contraception from the current 31% to 52% by 2030, and decreasing maternal and infant mortality rate. It also promotes the two-child policy by debarring people with more than two kids from contesting local elections and bringing disincentives in government jobs and subsidies. The other provisions of the bill are: Increase accessibility of contraceptive measures, provide a proper system for safe abortion, better education, health and nutrition for adolescents aged between 11 and 19 years. The bill also provides for several incentives like out-of-turn promotions, two extra increments and paternity leave of 12 months with full salary and allowances, and 3% increase in employer’s contribution under the National Pension Scheme. Citizens who are not government employees will get benefits like rebates in taxes on water, housing, home loans, etc. Another important provision is the constitution of a state population fund and the introduction of population control as a compulsory subject in all secondary schools. However, the policy has come under severe criticism as it may lead to rise in foeticide, female infanticide and a skewed sex ratio. The government must check social, scientific and demographic developments in order to make this legislation a success without political motivations. It is a well-established fact that fertility rates are linked to social and economic indicators like poverty, health and literacy. The National Family Health Survey shows that fertility rates are higher among Scheduled Tribes, Dalits, Muslims and OBCs. Further, women in sections of population with the lowest income have the highest fertility rate. In other words, they are both poor and socially oppressed. Section (8) of the bill denies benefits of government-sponsored welfare schemes to those who break the two-child norm; it provides for denial of government jobs and even promotions. This is framed as an open-ended clause, which means that right to housing, education and various social security schemes can be denied if a third child is conceived after the law comes into force. A specific sub-clause states that subsidised rations will be given to only four units. This is in clear violation of the Food Security Act that has no such conditions. The law also debars people with more than two children from applying for government jobs, and dismisses government employees if they violate this policy. To circumvent this and other similar issues, the bill has an obnoxious clause — that it "overrides any other law in force". The Supreme Court had also upheld the legislation debarring people with more than two children from contesting elections in Javed & Ors v/s State of Haryana & Ors, 2003, contradicting the historic International Conference on Population and Development held in Cairo in 1994, which gave the slogan of “development is the best contraceptive”. The declaration was adopted by 179 countries including India. This approach was reflected in the National Population Policy 2000 adopted during Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s time, which committed the government to a “target-free approach” based on “informed and voluntary choice of citizens”. As recently as December 2020, in an ongoing petition in the Supreme Court, the Union Health Ministry stated in its affidavit that “the ministry will not implement a mandatory two-child policy by denying government jobs and subsidies”. The UP legislation, if implemented, can put women’s health and well-being at risk. It is likely that female sterilisation will increase further. It can lead to unsafe abortions given the strong son preference in India. At the same time, it’s a harsh truth that overpopulation exerts strain on limited resources. It is, therefore, necessary that the provision for basic necessities —which includes affordable food, safe drinking water, decent housing, livelihood and a secure living — is accessible to all citizens. It is an undeniable fact that overpopulation in India is causing poverty, unemployment, underemployment, low per capita Income, shortage of food, burden on non-renewable resources, decline in the standards of living, slow economic development and political unrest. But we cannot destroy or remove or take coercive action against our large population through legislation by infringing basic constitutional rights or by depriving citizens of their choices. On the other hand, the measure that can be adopted to control population is family planning through a motto like “child by choice and not by chance” or “child by aspiration and not by accident". The benefits of birth control methods, marriage at a higher age, advantages for small family and provision of social security should be included in the curriculum. Population control should be done with an affirmative approach of providing people with incentives, tax relaxation and better standards of living rather than forcing them through deterrent provisions of debarring them from their rights and choices. (Abhinav Narayan Jha is a law scholar and political analyst, Thakur Ankit Singh is an advocate)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/indias-population-dilemma-1012859.html
26-07-2021||National||Speak Out: July 26, 2021||BJP national president J P Nadda ruled out any crisis in the Karnataka unit of the party, claiming that B S Yediyurappa had done a good job at handling state and party affairs in the southern state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/speak-out-july-26-2021-1012871.html
26-07-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Winning medals in hurdle race'||Mirabai Chanu ended India's 21-year wait for a weightlifting medal at the Olympics by clinching a silver medal in the 49 kg category to open the country's account at the Tokyo Games on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-winning-medals-in-hurdle-race-1012882.html
26-07-2021||National||Centre yet to pay Rs 215.82 crore in pending advertisements bills||The Centre is yet to pay Rs 215.82 crore for advertisements it placed in various media platforms with the print media topping the list with Rs 147.73 crore, according to response to a Right to Information Act query. The figure would rise to Rs 232.82 crore if one adds Rs 17.74 crore pending bills to outdoor publicity agencies. These details, which are part of response given under Right to Information Act, 2005 to law student Aniket Gaurav, shows that there are 76,434 pending bills with respect to print media, out of which the oldest one was dated 4 August, 2004. The RTI response from the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting showed that there were pending bills to the tune of Rs 67.34 crore to electronic media. Among the central ministries, the Ministry of Defence is the highest defaulter when it comes to print media. Its 12,271 bills worth Rs 16.19 crore are pending. The Ministry of Finance emerged second with 6,668 pending bills worth Rs 13.06 crore to print media while the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting owed Rs 9.99 crore in 4,876 bills to print media. Another big defaulter is the Department of Higher Education, which has 5,881 unpaid bills of Rs 9.36 crore, followed by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, which has 5,634 unpaid bills worth Rs 8.63 crore. On electronic media, RTI said a full list of the number of outstanding bills was not readily available.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-yet-to-pay-rs-21582-crore-in-pending-advertisements-bills-1012904.html
26-07-2021||National||India logs 39,361 new Covid-19 cases, 416 deaths||India saw a single-day rise of 39,361 coronavirus infections taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,14,11,262, while the daily positivity rate was recorded above 3 per cent after 35 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The Covid-19 death toll rose to 4,20,967 with 416 more fatalities, the ministry said. The active cases have increased to 4,11,189 and comprise 1.31 per cent of the total infections and the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.35 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. An increase of 2,977 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 11,54,444 tests were conducted on Sunday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 45,74,44,011, while the daily positivity rate has increased to 3.41 per cent. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.31 per cent, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 3,05,79,106 while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, according to the data. The cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 43.51 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4 and 3 crore on June 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-39361-new-covid-19-cases-416-deaths-1012909.html
26-07-2021||National||Kargil Vijay Diwas: Venkaiah Naidu pays tribute to war heroes||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Monday paid tributes to the heroes of the 1999 Kargil War, recalling their valour and sacrifice. In 1999, the Indian armed forces defeated attempts by Pakistan to capture strategic heights in Kargil. It was named 'Operation Vijay' (victory). "On Kargil Vijay Diwas, I join the nation in remembering our armed forces' saga of valour & gallantry. I salute the heroes of the Kargil war & Operation Vijay and pay my respectful homage to the martyrs for their supreme sacrifice," the Vice President Secretariat tweeted, quoting Naidu. "The nation will remain forever grateful to them & their families," the vice president said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kargil-vijay-diwas-venkaiah-naidu-pays-tribute-to-war-heroes-1012917.html
26-07-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi pays tributes to Kargil martyrs on Vijay Diwas||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday paid tributes to the soldiers who laid down their lives in the Kargil War, and said the country will always remember their supreme sacrifice. In 1999, the Indian armed forces defeated attempts by Pakistan to capture strategic heights in Kargil. It was named 'Operation Vijay' (victory). हमारे तिरंगे की गरिमा में अपनी जान देने वाले प्रत्येक सेनानी को दिल से श्रद्धांजलि। देश की सुरक्षा के लिए आपके व आपके परिवारों के इस सर्वोच्च बलिदान को हम हमेशा याद करेंगे। On the occasion of Kargil Vijay Diwas, Gandhi tweeted, "Heartfelt tributes to every soldier who laid down his life for the dignity of our tricolour." "We will always remember yours and your family's supreme sacrifice for the security of the country. Jai Hind," the former Congress chief said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-pays-tributes-to-kargil-martyrs-on-vijay-diwas-1012925.html
26-07-2021||National||Mamata pays tribute to Kargil martyrs||As the nation observed the 21st anniversary of Kargil victory, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday paid tributes to the soldiers who had laid down their lives during the war. She said that India will remain indebted to them forever. "On Kargil Vijay Diwas, I salute the heroes who made the supreme sacrifice to protect our country. India will forever remain indebted to the bravehearts," Banerjee tweeted. On Kargil Vijay Diwas, I salute the heroes who made the supreme sacrifice to protect our country. India will forever remain indebted to the bravehearts. July 26 is celebrated as Kargil Vijay Diwas every year to mark India's triumph over Pakistan in 'Operation Vijay'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-pays-tribute-to-kargil-martyrs-1012943.html
26-07-2021||National||Kargil Vijay Diwas: President Kovind's visit to Drass cancelled due to bad weather||Bad weather on Monday forced the cancellation of President Ram Nath Kovind's visit to Drass in Ladakh to pay homage to martyrs on the 22nd anniversary of the Kargil Vijay Diwas, officials said here. It is for the second time in three years that the President could not fly to Drass for the Kargil Vijay Diwas celebrations. Officials said the President's flight could not take off to Drass due to bad weather. In 2019, bad weather had prevented Kovind from visiting Drass and instead, he paid tributes by laying a wreath at a war memorial at the Army's 15 Corps headquarters in Badamibagh here. The celebrations were not held in 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The officials said the plan B was put into motion following the cancellation of the plan A (visit to Drass) and the President visited the Baramulla War Memorial in north Kashmir to pay homage to the martyrs. In 1999, the Indian armed forces defeated attempts by Pakistan to capture strategic heights in Kargil. It was named 'Operation Vijay' (victory). The President is also likely to visit the High Altitude Warfare School (HAWS) at the famous ski-resort of Gulmarg after Baramulla and will also interact with troops there, the officials said. Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha accompanied the President. From Gulmarg, he will fly to the Badami Bagh Cantonment wherefrom he will go to the Raj Bhavan, they said. After lunch at the Raj Bhavan, the President is likely to interact with the members of the Unified Head Quarters, the top-level security group, in Jammu and Kashmir. On Tuesday, Kovind will address the 19th annual convocation of the University of Kashmir at SKICC auditorium here, the officials added. He would leave for Delhi on Wednesday morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kargil-vijay-diwas-president-kovinds-visit-to-drass-cancelled-due-to-bad-weather-1012946.html
26-07-2021||National||Lok Sabha adjourned till 2 pm amid Opposition sloganeering||Proceedings of the Lok Sabha were adjourned till 2 pm on Monday after Opposition members trooped into the Well of the House raising slogans and placards on the Pegasus snooping row and farmers' issue. The House ran for nearly 30 minutes taking up some questions during the Question Hour when Speaker Om Birla adjourned the proceedings till 2 pm amid the continuous din. As soon as the House met, Birla paid tributes to the armed forces personnel for their valour and sacrifice during the 1999 Kargil War. Members observed silence for those who made the supreme sacrifice. He also congratulated Mirabai Chanu for winning a silver in Tokyo Olympics. Soon thereafter, opposition members trooped into the Well raising slogans, disrupting the proceedings. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-adjourned-till-2-pm-amid-opposition-sloganeering-1012953.html
26-07-2021||National||Jharkhand Congress MLA claims he was offered Rs 1 crore to topple Soren government||A day after the arrest of three people in Jharkhand for allegedly planning against the coalition government, Congress MLA Naman Bixal Kongari claimed that he was approached by unknown people who requested his help to topple the state government in exchange for Rs one crore in cash and a ministerial berth. “Three people had approached me through my party workers stating that they worked for some companies. Despite me asking them to go away, they used to find a way to come back…. Once, they offered me more than Rs one crore in cash,”  the MLA said to the publication. “I immediately informed CLP (Congress Legislature Party) leader Alamgir Alam, and Congress Jharkhand in-charge R P N Singh. I also informed Chief Minister Hemant Soren ji about it,” he told the publication. “They had approached me stating that apart from the money, I will get a ministerial post and support for all our agendas related to minority and tribal affairs. They also told me they were doing this for the BJP. However, none of the BJP workers approached me,” he said Even as fears that the coalition government may be weakened grow, General Secretary and Chief Spokesperson JMM, Supriyo Bhattacharya said that the government is stable and the BJP stands exposed in the case. "There is no threat to the government and all such elements who have been trying to topple the government stand exposed," he said. Chief Minister Hemant Soren has so far maintained a silence over the issue. Earlier on Saturday the Ranchi police arrested three persons - Abhishek Dubey, Amit Singh and Niwaran Prasad Mahato , on a complaint filed by Congress’s Bermo MLA Kumar Jaimangal, under IPC sections 419, 420, 124A and 120B among others for conspiracy, cheating etc. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jharkhand-congress-mla-claims-he-was-offered-rs-1-crore-to-topple-soren-government-1012961.html
26-07-2021||National||First uncrewed mission of Gaganyaan programme not possible in December: ISRO||The launch of the first uncrewed mission planned in December, as part of the human spaceflight programme 'Gaganyaan', will be delayed due to the COVID-19-induced disruption in delivery of hardware elements for the ambitious venture, ISRO confirmed on Monday. "Definitely it will not be possible in December. It's delayed", Chairman of ISRO (Indian Space Research Organisation), K Sivan, told P T I here. "It (uncrewed mission) will shift to next year". According to sources in the Bengaluru-headquartered space agency, under the Department of Space, delivery of hardware by the industry was hit due to the lockdown imposed in several States to contain the pandemic in recent months. As part of the mandate of Gaganyaan, two uncrewed flights are planned to test the end-to-end capacity for the manned mission. "Design, analysis and documentation are done by ISRO while hardware for Gaganyaan is fabricated and supplied by hundreds of industries across the country," the sources said. The objective of Gaganyaan is to carry a crew of three to Low Earth Orbit (LEO), perform a set of predefined activities in space, and return them safely to a predefined destination on earth. Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of Space, Jitendra Singh said in February this year that the first unmanned mission is planned in December 2021 and the second unmanned one in 2022-23, followed by the human spaceflight demonstration. Four Indian astronaut-candidates (Test Pilots of Indian Air Force) have already undergone generic space flight training in Russia as part of the Gaganyaan programme. ISRO's heavy-lift launcher GSLV Mk III has been identified for the mission. Formal announcement of the Gaganyaan programme was made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his Independence Day address on August 15, 2018. The initial target was to launch the human spaceflight before the 75th anniversary of India's independence on August 15, 2022. Meanwhile, the four Indian astronaut-candidates are getting ready to kick-start the Indian leg of the mission- specific training that focuses on physical, mental, psychological and technological aspects. An expert team has defined the training curriculum. "Mostly, it will start next month", Sivan said. "The training will happen at different locations. Academic training, aircraft trials, Navy trials, survival trials, simulation trials... the training is repeated, updated till they fly." The crew management activities are being taken care of by Indian Air Force. ISRO has signed MoU with seven labs of Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) for design and development of human centric products. It has signed a similar agreement with academic institutes for development of Microgravity payloads. The human-centric products include space food and potable water, crew health monitoring system, emergency survival kit, and crew medical kit. ISRO is also taking the help of French, Russian and US space agencies in "some of the crucial activities and supply of components", sources said. Sivan said engines are getting tested and being qualified as part of human rating of the launch vehicle. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/first-uncrewed-mission-of-gaganyaan-programme-not-possible-in-december-isro-1012966.html
26-07-2021||National||Supreme Court refuses to stay Delhi High Court's order against Gautam Gambhir Foundation in Covid drugs hoarding case||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to entertain a plea by the Gautam Gambhir Foundation against a Delhi High Court's order, allowing proceedings against it for alleged hoarding of drugs like Fabiflu and oxygen for distribution among patients during the second Covid wave. "People were running helter skelter for medicines drugs etc, suddenly a trust comes and says we will give you medicines. This is not done," a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah told Foundation's counsel senior advocate Kailash Vasdev. The counsel sought a stay on the High Court's order based on which Drug Controller had inquired and prima facie found the foundation and some AAP MLAs guilty of hoarding Fabiflu and oxygen for distribution among patients. "You can pursue your remedies in High Court. But we cannot help you. How can we stay the process," the bench asked the counsel.  Gambhir, a former cricketer, is at present a Lok Sabha MP from Delhi. The bench also pointed out people were compelled to pay high prices during the crisis. "We did not want to say this but we also have our ears to the ground. It is a process you have to go through. You are in public life," the bench added. The Delhi High Court had in May said politicians have no business to hoard stocks of Covid-19 medicines and oxygen in view of shortage in supply.  Delhi police, in its initial inquiry, gave a clean chit to cricketer-turned-MP Gautam Gambhir, Delhi Congress President Anil Kumar Chaudhary, Ex MLA Mukesh Sharma, BJP leader Harish Khurana, AAP MLA Dilip Pandey and Youth Congress chief Srinivas among others. The questioning of Srinivas had created a huge political storm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-refuses-to-stay-delhi-high-courts-order-against-gautam-gambhir-foundation-in-covid-drugs-hoarding-case-1012970.html
26-07-2021||National||CBI lodges FIR against ex-Kerala police chief in framing of ISRO scientist, SC told||The CBI on Monday told the Supreme Court that it has registered an FIR against former Kerala Police chief Sibi Mathew and others for their alleged involvement in framing former ISRO (Indian Space Research Organization) scientist, Nambi Narayanan in an espionage case in 1994. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna allowed the CBI to upload the copy of the FIR on its website on a request made by the agency. "We permit that the FIR will be uploaded during the course of the day," the bench said, adding that the "law will take its own course". During the hearing, the court also clarified that the CBI would have to collect materials independently as Justice D K Jain Committee report itself would not be the basis to proceed in the matter. Kaliswaram Raj, a lawyer for one of the accused, said that the CBI is proceeding on the report against him. To this, the bench said that they can’t proceed on the report, they have to investigate on their own. "Report is only an initial information. It can’t be the basis. Ultimately the investigation have to be done in the case," the court said. The top court had in its order on April 15 directed the CBI to probe into the alleged involvement of some Kerala police officers in framing the former ISRO scientist, Narayanan, who was accused of spying in 1994, and file a detailed status report before it in the case. The court had then taken into record the report submitted by the three-member panel, headed by Justice Jain, which stated that it was a serious issue and required further investigation. Seventy-nine-year-old Narayanan fought a long battle against the Kerala police officers who accused him of being a Pakistan spy in 1994. Besides appointing the panel, the top court had in 2018 directed the Kerala government to pay Rs 50 lakh compensation for causing immense humiliation to Narayanan. The ISRO spy case surfaced in 1994 when Narayanan was arrested on charges of espionage along with another senior official of ISRO, two Maldivian women and a businessman. The CBI had held that the then top police officials in Kerala were responsible for Narayanan's illegal arrest. The panel examined the circumstances leading to Narayanan's arrest. It was alleged that confidential documents on India's space programme was allegedly transferred to foreign countries. Narayanan had maintained that Kerala police fabricated the case and the technology he was accused to have stolen and sold in 1994 case did not even exist at that time. The Modi government awarded the scientist Padma Bhushan. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-lodges-fir-against-ex-kerala-police-chief-in-framing-of-isro-scientist-sc-told-1012992.html
26-07-2021||National||India to miss end-July Covid-19 vaccination target as Bharat Biotech lags||The government said in May it would make 51.6 crore shots available by the end of July. It wants to inoculate all its estimated 94.4 crore adults by December. To meet the July-end target, however, authorities will have to more than triple the average daily vaccinations to 1.4 crore doses a day. But that will not be possible, based on the latest supply projections for Bharat Biotech's Covaxin vaccine. The government had been counting on deliveries of 6-7 crore Covaxin doses monthly from July or August. But Bharat Biotech will only supply 2.5 crore doses this month and 3.5 crore in August as a new production line in the southern city of Bengaluru takes time to come online, Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya told Parliament last week. Mandaviya added that the supply shortfall "would not affect our immunisation programme". The Health Ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Bharat Biotech declined to comment on its production. The government is counting on 50 crore doses of another vaccine, Covishield, from the Serum Institute of India (SII) and 40 crore doses from Bharat Biotech between August and December for its vaccination campaign. India's drug regulator controversially approved Bharat Biotech's Covaxin for emergency use in early January without efficacy data. But it has missed nearly all its supply commitments to the government. Immunisation efforts have also been hobbled by a delayed rollout of Russia's Sputnik V vaccine. And legal obstacles have prevented India from receiving U.S. donations of Moderna and Pfizer vaccines. After halting exports in mid-April to meet domestic demand, the SII has nearly doubled output in the past three months. Nearly 88% of all vaccine doses administered in India to date have been SII's Covishield shot, a version of the AstraZeneca vaccine. The government expects the company to raise supplies of its Covishield vaccine to about 12 crore doses in August from 10 crore doses in June. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-miss-end-july-covid-19-vaccination-target-as-bharat-biotech-lags-1012996.html
26-07-2021||National||Heavy rainfall activity likely in north, east India over next 3-4 days: IMD||Heavy rainfall activity is expected over north and east India during the next three-four days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday. The low pressure area over northwest Madhya Pradesh has become less marked. However, the associated cyclonic circulation over northwest Madhya Pradesh and neighbourhood persists. Another cyclonic circulation lies over North Bay of Bengal. Under its influence, a low pressure area is likely to form over North Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood around July 28. Due to the influence of these two systems, widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is very likely over Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Uttar Pradesh till July 29 and its intensity will reduce thereafter. Isolated extremely heavy rainfall is also likely over Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand on July 27 and 28 and over northwest Uttar Pradesh on July 27. Fairly widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls are likely to continue over east Rajasthan and west Madhya Pradesh till July 26 and reduce thereafter. There will be an enhanced rainfall activity with fairly widespread to widespread rainfall and isolated heavy to very heavy falls likely over east and adjoining central India including Odisha, Gangetic West Bengal and Jharkhand from July 27. Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls are very likely over Konkan, Goa, the ghat areas of central Maharashtra during the next three days and increase to isolated heavy to very heavy falls over the region from July 29. Scores of lives have been lost due to landslides and floods in Maharashtra in the last two weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heavy-rainfall-activity-likely-in-north-east-india-over-next-3-4-days-imd-1013002.html
26-07-2021||National||Rajya Sabha pays tributes to soldiers who laid down lives in Kargil on Vijay Diwas||The Rajya Sabha on Monday paid glowing tributes to Indian soldiers who lost their lives in the 1999 Kargil War against Pakistan, with Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu saying the unparalleled valour and gallantry of the country's troops in defeating the enemy will inspire generations. When the House met for the day, Naidu mentioned that July 26 is the 22nd anniversary of the Kargil Vijay Diwas. "On this day in 1999, our brave and fearless soldiers defeated the enemy forces who had occupied our territories and retrieved Kargil heights resulting in a momentous victory for our country," he said. "The display of exemplary courage, selfless dedication and unflinching determination towards the mission by our soldiers in treacherous terrain and inclement weather will remain etched in our memory forever. "The saga of their unparalleled valour and gallantry will continue to inspire generations after generations to dedicate themselves to the cause of the nation," he said. Further, Naidu lauded the "indomitable spirit and supreme sacrifices" of the brave soldiers. Members rose in their places and observed silence as a mark of respect to the memory of all the soldiers who laid down their lives in the war. Rajya Sabha also congratulated Mirabai Chanu for winning a silver medal in the women's 49 kg category weightlifting event at the Tokyo Olympic Games. "With her spectacular performance, Mirabai Chanu not only opened the medal tally for the country in this Olympics but also ended a long wait of 21 years for a medal in a weightlifting event at the Olympics," Naidu said amid thumping of desks by MPs. He described Chanu as an "epitome of hard work, grit and determination" whose achievement will boost the morale of Indian sportspersons in the Olympic Games. "I wish Mirabai Chanu success in her future endeavours and hope that she will continue to bring many more laurels to the country," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-pays-tributes-to-soldiers-who-laid-down-lives-in-kargil-on-vijay-diwas-1013015.html
26-07-2021||National||Kumartuli artisan makes 10 ft fibreglass Durga idol for Indian community in San Francisco||A Kumartuli artisan has chiselled a 10-feet idol of Goddess Durga for the expatriate Indian community in San Francisco. He claimed that the idol is the tallest made for Durga pujas organised by the expatriate Indian community. Claymodeller Kaushik Basu, who only makes Durga idols for pujas outside the country, said on Sunday that he made the fibreglass Durga idol a bit taller than the standard size as requested and one cannot make out the idol was not made from earth. Basu who is making 15 idols ordered by diaspora Indians abroad, said due to the possibility of damage to a taller idol, both the artist and organiser are conscious and idols within 6 feet height are more popular for the same reason. He said the 10 feet Durga idol has already left on the sea route. A spokesman of Kumartuli Mritshilpi Samity said the height of idols being taken in ships or flights are normally not over and above 8 feet. Very few pujas could take place due to last year's pandemic but this year the situation seems to have eased a bit in Europe and America, he said. Claymodeller Mintu Pal of Kumartuli said he already got bookings of three pujas this year, unlike one last year. He said 40-50 idols were made for overseas pujas in Kumartuli this year, unlike half of that figure last year, when pandemic struck large parts of the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kumartuli-artisan-makes-10-ft-fibreglass-durga-idol-for-indian-community-in-san-francisco-1013023.html
26-07-2021||National||Electoral war over 'Bandit Queen' Phoolan Devi's legacy erupts in poll-bound UP  ||An electoral war has erupted over the legacy of Phoolan Devi, popularly known as the 'Bandit Queen', among the 'Nishad' (boatmen, fishermen) community leaders in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh. Apparently eyeing the 'Nishad' community votes, which are the deciding factor in over two dozen Assembly constituencies, mainly in the eastern UP districts, the 'Nishad' outfits, as well as some major political players, have been vying with each other to claim the legacy of Phoolan, who hailed from the same community and was hugely popular among them. In a bid to prove that it was the only party that had a legitimate claim over Phoolan's legacy, the Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP), an NDA ally in Bihar, had decided to install her statues in different parts of UP ahead of the Assembly polls in the state, which were scheduled to be held early next year. The police however foiled the plan and seized dozens of statues, which were brought from Bihar by VIP leaders and also arrested a few leaders of the party citing apprehensions of breach of peace.  The party chief, Mukesh Sahni, who was a minister in the NDA government in Bihar, was detained at Varanasi airport when he arrived to take part in programmes to celebrate July 25, the day Phoolan Devi was assassinated, as martyrdom day. He was sent back to Patna on Sunday. Apparently not to allow any competition, the UP-based Nishad Party, which too was an ally of the BJP in the state, said that some people were trying to 'divide' the community. "The 'Nishads' in UP have chosen their leader and party,'' Nishad Party chief Sanjay Nishad said on Monday. Not wanting to be left behind, the BJP and the Samajwadi Party (SP) have also staked claim over Phoolan's legacy and said that they had always tried to protect the interests of the community. SP supremo Akhilesh Yadav had a few days back unveiled a statue of Manohar Lal, who was considered to be one of the tallest 'Nishad' community leaders in UP, at Unnao. Akhilesh said that SP governments in the state had always given due respect to their community leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/electoral-war-over-bandit-queen-phoolan-devis-legacy-erupts-in-poll-bound-up-1013033.html
26-07-2021||National||Covid-positive mothers should continue breastfeeding, maintain physical distancing with baby rest of the time: Expert||A Covid-19 positive mother should continue to breastfeed her baby but is advised to keep the infant at a distance of six feet from her the rest of the time, a senior doctor has said. Dr Manju Puri, Head of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Lady Hardinge Medical College, New Delhi, also said there is no evidence to support the concerns about the foetus contracting Covid-19 from the mother, but stressed that pregnant women must take all possible precautions to prevent the infection. Addressing the issue of vaccine hesitancy, she asserted that the Covid-19 vaccines do not have any adverse effect on reproductive organs or fertility. Puri talked about the recent decision to administer Covid-19 vaccination during pregnancy and what precautions a Covid-positive mother should take to protect her newborn. "A mother should continue to breastfeed the baby but is advised to keep the baby at a distance of six feet from her when she is not breastfeeding," Puri was quoted as saying in a health ministry statement. A caregiver who is tested negative can also help in taking care of the newborn. Before breastfeeding the newborn, she should wash her hands, wear protective gear such as a mask, face shield. She should also sanitise her surroundings frequently. "If there is no one else to take care of the child, a mother should wear a mask all the time, and maintain physical distance from the child as much as possible. The mother and the child should stay in a well-ventilated room. And she should regularly wash her hands and sanitise the surroundings," Puri said. On the possibility of the foetus contracting the infection, she cited studies conducted in this regard. "We have done a couple of studies and found that the placenta, an organ that is formed in the uterus in which a foetus grows, acts as a protective barrier. There are a few cases where the newborns were found infected but we are not sure whether those babies got the infection inside the mother's womb or soon after the birth. "Having said that, as I have explained that pregnant women must take all possible precautions to prevent the infection as Covid-19 can affect her and her child in many other ways," Puri was quoted as saying in a health ministry statement. On how Covid-19 vaccines can help pregnant women, Puri said during the second wave, more women contracted Covid-19 during pregnancy compared to the first wave.  "If severe, the infection can lead to serious complications during pregnancy, especially during the last trimester as the uterus is enlarged and presses on the diaphragm, compromising a woman's ability to cope with a fall in oxygen saturation," she said. This may lead to a sudden fall in blood oxygen saturation and risk the lives of both the mother and the child, she said. Puri stressed the need for vaccination, saying it will help prevent severe diseases in pregnant women. "Also, vaccinating a mother is likely to give some degree of protection to the newborn as the antibodies developed in the mother's body post-vaccination will pass on to the developing foetus through her blood.  "In the case of lactating mothers, an infant gets these antibodies through the mother's breast milk," Dr Puri said. About the fears of the possible effect of the vaccines on fertility, Puri said, "These are rumours that get circulated on ubiquitous social media. Misinformation is far more dangerous than the virus itself". Though the Covid-19 vaccines are relatively new, these have been developed using time-tested techniques, she said.  "Vaccines help the body develop immunity against a specific pathogen, it does not affect any other body tissue. "In fact, we give some vaccines such as hepatitis B, influenza, pertussis vaccine to women even during pregnancy to protect them and their unborn child from various diseases," she said. Besides, regulators have approved the administration of the vaccines during pregnancy only after they were confident of their safety, she said. "There is no scientific data or studies that show that vaccines can cause infertility. These vaccines do not affect the reproductive organs in any way," she said. Puri said that while pregnancy and childbirth are social events in Indian society, expectant mothers should take adequate precautions, including wearing masks and maintaining physical distancing even at home. "It is because she may not be going out, but her family members could be going out for work and she can contract the infection from them," she said. "So, women should use all Covid precautions during pregnancy, and after childbirth, as it can prevent them from catching the infection and related complications," she said. On what a pregnant woman should do if she shows symptoms of Covid-19, Puri said, first, if they have any symptoms of Covid, they should get themselves tested at the earliest, "as the sooner we diagnose, the better we can manage the disease".  The management of Covid-19 is almost the same during the pregnancy as it is for others, but it should be done only under the strict supervision of a doctor, she said. "A woman should isolate herself, drink plenty of fluids, check her temperature and oxygen saturation every 4-6 hours. If the temperature does not come down even after taking paracetamol, she needs to contact the doctor. "If there is a fall in oxygen concentration or if there is a decreasing trend for example if it is 98 in the morning 97 in the evening, and then drops further the next day, she needs to get in touch with her doctor," Puri said. Besides, women who have associated illnesses such as diabetes, high blood pressure, cardiovascular disease, obesity, etc, need to be more careful, as they may need hospitalisation. "So, consult your doctor and keep in touch with your doctor throughout the recovery period. We strongly recommend an overall health check-up post-Covid recovery to ensure that the mother and the foetus are doing fine," she said. The doctor further said there is an increase in mental health problems among women during pregnancy and post-childbirth. These are times when a woman undergoes a lot of hormonal and physiological changes.  She has poor coping skills and needs social support. In the absence of this social support, she can feel lonely, helpless, and depressed. Isolation for 15 days is difficult for everyone, but more so for pregnant women and postnatal mothers. During this time, the additional anxiety about her child's health can severely affect her mental status. So, it is important to provide constant support and assurance to women during this time. The family should stay in touch through video calls, and observe any change in her mood and seek medical help if she looks and feels depressed. Asked about the main advice to women patients, Dr Puri said, "We ask them to stay safe, take adequate precautions and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. Take vaccine as and when it is available to them. Avoid meeting many people." "If they have symptoms suggestive of Covid such as fever, sore throat, loss of taste or smell or exposure to a Covid-positive person they need to seek medical help immediately, should not delay the diagnosis and should not self-treat.  "And lastly, we also counsel all our pregnant women about various contraceptive methods during pregnancy and offer them postpartum Intra-Uterine Device (Cu T), which can be inserted immediately after childbirth or caesarean delivery. "It saves them of an unnecessary visit to the hospital after childbirth and reduces the risk of an unplanned pregnancy," Puri stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-positive-mothers-should-continue-breastfeeding-maintain-physical-distancing-with-baby-rest-of-the-time-expert-1013051.html
26-07-2021||National||From The Newsroom: B S Yediyurappa resigns as Karnataka CM||In your evening news update, B S Yediyurappa resigns from the post of Karnataka Chief Minister; Maharastra government says the death toll in rain-related incidents in the state rose to 164 and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee says her government has formed a two-member inquiry commission to look into allegations of snooping on politicians, officials and journalists using Israeli spyware Pegasus.  Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa resigned from the post today, drawing curtains on the uncertainty that surrounded his future. Soon after, Karnataka Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot accepted his resignation and asked him to continue as caretaker CM. Replacing Yediyurappa, the BJP risks losing the support of Lingayats, the party’s largest vote bank in Karnataka. The party also hopes to win over the Vokkaligas, the other dominant community, to gain an edge over the JD(S) and Congress. Meanwhile, Arun Singh, BJP National General Secretary (in-charge of Karnataka), said today, The BJP Parliamentary Board will decide who should be the next chief minister of Karnataka.     The Maharastra government said the death toll in rain-related incidents in the state rose to 164 today after the recovery of 11 more bodies in Raigad and two each in Wardha and Akola, while 100 people were still missing. So far, 2,29,074 persons have been evacuated from the affected areas. Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar toured various rain-hit villages in Sangli district today and used a rescue boat to reach out to flood victims in some areas. Pawar also interacted with the flood-affected people and assured them of rehabilitation and all help from the state government.     West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said today her government formed a two-member inquiry commission to look into allegations of snooping on politicians, officials and journalists using Israeli spyware Pegasus. The two-member commission will be headed by former Calcutta High court Chief Justice Jyotirmay Bhattacharya. Former Supreme Court judge Madan Bhimrao Lokur is its other member. Banerjee said, "Names of people from West Bengal have figured on the Pegasus target list. The Centre is trying to snoop on everyone. The commission will find out details about this illegal hacking.” Source: DHNS/PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-b-s-yediyurappa-resigns-as-karnataka-cm-1013065.html
26-07-2021||National||Lok Sabha passes two bills amid din||After a week of disruptions, Lok Sabha on Monday passed two bills amid sloganeering by opposition members as the Modi government made a bid to salvage its legislative agenda for the Monsoon Session. The government has lined up 25 bills, including three to replace ordinances, during the Monsoon Session which is expected to continue till August 13. With protests over the Pegasus project revelations, demands for repeal of three farm laws and price rise derailing Parliamentary business in the first week of the Monsoon Session, government managers reached out to the opposition parties to end the stalemate in the House. Although the opposition refused to tone down the protests, they did not object to the government getting the Lok Sabha nod for certain non-controversial legislations. Accordingly, the Lok Sabha on Monday passed the Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill that seeks to permit non-banking financial companies other than NBFC-Factors to undertake factoring business. The other Bill to get Lok Sabha nod was the National Institute of Food Technology Entrepreneurship and Management (NIFTEM) Bill that seeks to bestow 'Institute of National Importance' status on NIFTEM, Kundli and Thanjavur. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman also introduced the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Bill that seeks to replace an Ordinance. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Prahlad Joshi made appeals to the opposition in both the Houses to participate in the debate on the bills and assured that the issues raised by them could be taken up. Rajya Sabha also witnessed multiple adjournments as opposition members staged vociferous protests on the alleged snooping on phones, the farmers' protests and other issues. Leader of the Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal said he had reached out to opposition leaders in an attempt to ensure smooth proceedings of the House, but no consensus could be reached. The government has turned down opposition demands for a discussion on the Pegasus revelations about alleged snooping attempts contending that IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw had already made a statement on the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-passes-two-bills-amid-din-1013075.html
26-07-2021||National||India pays tributes to Kargil War bravehearts||President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday led the nation in paying glowing tributes to the martyrs of the 1999 Kargil War saying they have scripted "exceptional stories" of indomitable courage, bravery and sacrifice. “The nation salutes the soldiers and officers of the 19th Infantry Division, who have been safeguarding our borders in the most hostile terrains under adverse weather conditions as our frontline troops. They have scripted exceptional stories of indomitable courage, bravery and sacrifice,” he said. Kovind said the Dagger War Memorial evokes profound respect for the brave fighters who laid down their lives for the safety and security of our country. “I am sure that this memorial will educate the people of India about the highest values of the Indian Army and inspire them. Jai Hind!” he wrote in the visitors' book at the memorial. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also paid homage to the Kargil martyrs saying "their bravery motivates us every single day". "We remember their sacrifices. We remember their valour. "Today, on Kargil Vijay Diwas we pay homage to all those who lost their lives in Kargil protecting our nation. Their bravery motivates us every single day," the prime minister tweeted from his handle. As many as 527 soldiers laid down their lives while over 1,300 sustained injuries during Operation VIJAY as the Indian Army repulsed an attack by Pakistani intruders in Kargil sector in 1999. Vice President Venkaiah Naidu, while paying tributes to the soldiers, said the nation will remain forever grateful to them and their families. Leaders from various parties, union ministers, chief ministers, governors were among the prominent people who paid homage to the martyrs. Ceremonies were held in several parts of the country to mark the occasion. Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah, remembering all the brave soldiers of Kargil war, said," Your indomitable courage, valour and sacrifice made it possible to gloriously unfurl the tricolour again on the inaccessible and challenging heights of Kargil”. “A grateful nation bows to your dedication for keeping the integrity of the Nation intact," he said in a tweet. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh paid homage to the martyrs at the National War Memorial in New Delhi. "Their supreme sacrifice will always be remembered and inspire coming generations," Singh tweeted. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also lauded the martyrs and their families. "My heartfelt tribute to every soldier who laid down his life while upholding the esteem of our Tricolor. We will always remember the supreme sacrifice for the security of the nation made by you and your families," Gandhi tweeted in Hindi. हमारे तिरंगे की गरिमा में अपनी जान देने वाले प्रत्येक सेनानी को दिल से श्रद्धांजलि। देश की सुरक्षा के लिए आपके व आपके परिवारों के इस सर्वोच्च बलिदान को हम हमेशा याद करेंगे। A solemn ceremony to celebrate the 22nd anniversary of the Kargil Vijay Diwas was held at the Kargil War Memorial at Drass, the sector which witnessed some of the key battles between Indian army and Pakistani intruders. Lt Governor, Ladakh, R K Mathur was the chief guest on the occasion who laid a wreath and paid his tributes to the fallen soldier, in a ceremony symbolising ‘Shradhanjali’ from the entire nation to the brave hearts. This years' celebrations were unique in two ways as the Kargil Vijay Diwas coincided with the ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh Victory Flame’ reaching the Kargil War Memorial, a defence spokesman said. The journey of the Victory Flame across the country commemorates 50 years of triumph in the 1971 Indo-Pak War. The proceedings at the Kargil War Memorial commenced with the reception of the ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh Victory Flame’ by Chief of Defence Staff, General Bipin Rawat, in the presence of Lt Gen Y K Joshi, GOC-in-C Northern Command, Lt Gen PGK Menon, GOC 14 Corps, Lt Gen DP Pandey, GOC 15 Corps and Lt Gen M V Suchindra Kumar, GOC 16 Corps, other officers, gallantry awardees, Veer Naris, relatives of martyrs and civil dignitaries, the PRO Defence said. He said it was followed by a wreath-laying ceremony by civil and military dignitaries. The gallantry awardees of the Kargil War, next of kin of brave hearts, and 'veer naris' also paid their tributes to the fallen heroes with tearful nostalgia, the spokesman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-pays-tributes-to-kargil-war-bravehearts-1013088.html
26-07-2021||National||Court frames terror charges against PDP leader Waheed Para||A special court has framed terror charges against Waheed-ur-Rehman Para, a senior PDP leader and close aide of former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, based on a police charge sheet claiming that he was an asset for Pakistan-based terror groups and that his 13-year journey as a journalist and politician from 2007 was a "saga of subterfuge, deceit and double-dealing". The court had heard arguments on the framing of charges from the defence and the prosecution earlier this month and it allowed framing of charges against Para, who is alleged to have established a nexus with terrorists. He sought support from terrorists for political gains and reciprocated by providing a range of help which led to terror strikes. The eight-page order made available on Monday stated that "prima facie there is sufficient evidence against the accused for alleged commission of offences under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and Indian Penal Code." The special NIA judge charged him with being a member of a terror group, raising funds for them as well as aiding an outfit. He was also charged under sections related to waging of war against the country, spreading disaffection against the government and criminal conspiracy. "I have gone through the police report as well as the statements of the witnesses of the prosecution and have applied my mind into the present facts and circumstances levelled in the police report...as well as statements of the witnesses and the digital evidence against the accused, there is sufficient evidence against the accused for alleged commission of offences...," the judge said in his order. With the help of five protected witnesses and technical intelligence, the Criminal Investigation Kashmir (CIK), a wing of the CID Department, submitted a charge sheet before the court alleging that Para was hand in glove with terrorists to further the agenda of Pakistan-based terror groups and also to ensure that his political adversaries are neutralised. The 19-page charge sheet, with hundreds of pages of annexures, has given instances of his attempts to eliminate political opponents and to help his party leaders by paying terror groups to swing the electoral battle in his party's favour. His lawyer Shariq Reyaz has denied all these charges and said that he would contest the order against his client. The charge sheet has highlighted his links to Pakistan-trained Abu Dujana and Abu Qassim, who were killed in separate encounters with security forces, and went on to allege that he used to meet them personally as well as through Over Ground Workers (OGWs). The police tracked his journey from 2007 when he went to Pakistan and interviewed banned Hizbul Mujahideen's chief Syed Salahuddin and broadcast it on his local media channel which was being operated from Pulwama, his home district in south Kashmir. Para joined the PDP in 2013 and "once ensconced in the safety of a recognised political party..., the accused systematically went about strengthening himself by craftily deepening his roots on two sides of the divide -- India and Pakistan". "...Para had the permission of the Pakistani establishment to keep throwing crumbs at India, allowing them petty tactical gains and systematically pushing the overall situation, slowly but surely, in favour of Pakistan in a strategic sense. What played out over 13 years (2007-2020) was a saga of subterfuges, deceit and double meaning," the charge sheet alleged. The CIK, which is mandated to probe cases under the UAPA and the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), took sanction for Para's prosecution from the Jammu and Kashmir Home Department under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). The CIK had filed a case last year against unknown politicians and others based on "reliable and confidential sources" who said some political functionaries were misusing their power and helping militants. In March this year, Para was charge-sheeted by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and it was alleged that the PDP youth leader had paid Rs 5 crore to the son-in-law of hardline Hurriyat Conference leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani for keeping Kashmir in turmoil after the death of Burhan Wani, a commander of the Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist group, in 2016. The NIA accused Para, who was arrested last November, of being involved with banned terrorist groups such as the Hizbul Mujahideen and the Lashkar-e-Taiba. The NIA alleged that after the death of Wani, who was killed in an encounter with the Army in July 2016, Para got in touch with Altaf Ahmad Shah, alias Altaf Fantoosh, and asked him to ensure that the valley was kept on the boil with widespread unrest and stone-pelting. In January this year Para was granted bail by the NIA court, which said there was no reference to him in the original as well as the supplementary charge sheets presented in July and October last year respectively. However, he was arrested by the CIK Wing in the case related to nexus between mainstream politicians and secessionists, and he continues to be in jail since then. His bail was rejected by the NIA court in Srinagar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/court-frames-terror-charges-against-pdp-leader-waheed-para-1013091.html
26-07-2021||National||Krishna, Bhima river basins receive record rainfall||The Krishna river basin has received massive rainfall with the Koyna Dam catchment witnessing never-seen-before downpour -- perhaps the highest in a century’s time within three days.  The Krishna is the second-largest eastward draining inter-state river basin in Peninsular India, situated in the Deccan Plateau covering large areas in the states of Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.  The Bhima river basin, which merges with the Krishna river basin, too received heavy rainfall.  “Last week, the Krishna and Bhima river basins received unprecedented rainfall.  The stock, as on date, is around 85 per cent, much higher than that of last year... most of the dams are filled to be brim,” deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar told reporters in Sangli district.  State’s water resources and command area development minister Jayant Patil was personally monitoring the levels and discharges from the dams. The Maharashtra government in consultation with the neighbouring Karnataka government had deputed a senior officer in the Almatti Dam.  Between July 22-24, the coastal Konkan and Western Maharashtra region received heavy rainfall. “In fact, in the Koyna catchment area received too received heavy rainfall... While the total capacity of Koyma is 100 TMC, it received nearly 16.5 TMC in a short span of time... It is the highest-ever recorded in Koyna Dam area... officials have said that it is perhaps the highest in 100 years’ time in that area,” said Pawar. During the worst three days of the flood situation, three big rivers - Panchganga in Kolhapur district and Krishna and Koyna in twin districts of Sangli and Satara caused flooding.  It may be mentioned that the hill station of Mahabaleshwar in Satara district, which is the origin of five rivers - Krishna, Koyna, Venna, Savitri and Gayatri - had received 1,859 mm rainfall in three days.  “The water levels are receding now and massive 24x7 search and rescue operations and relief measures are in progress,” he said.  Pawar also said that the landslides that occurred in Raigad and Satara districts, did not fall in landslide-prone areas.   “In fact, no deforestation had taken place there,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/krishna-bhima-river-basins-receive-record-rainfall-1013092.html
26-07-2021||National||Supreme Court nixes Karnataka's plea against HC order on land belonging to Maharaja of Mysore||The Supreme Court dismissed a plea by the Karnataka government against a High Court's judgement which declared ownership of 1561.31 acres of prime land at Mysuru in favour of 'Maharaja of Mysore'.  The state claimed the High Court's order was against accession treaty of 1950 and British government's decision of 1881-1883 declaring the area as 'Kharab' land meant for public purposes. The High Court had then overturned the district commissioner's order, which declared those as government land. Rejecting the state's plea, a bench of Justices U U Lalit and Ajay Rastogi said the state government can't wake up after decades when the land has already been purchased by the people.  The top court also said the state itself has acquired the lands after 1950 which means it has acknowledged these lands were of Maharaja. With this development, the people who bought the land out of 1561.31 acres would continue to enjoy fruits of their properties as the government's efforts to get control over those lands have been rejected. In its special leave petition, the state government questioned validity of the High Court's division bench order of December 15, 2020, saying it overlooked the fact that questions viz - who is the owner of a land and whether the land in question in a 'Kharab' or not -- need to be answered independently.  Out of total extent of 1563.31 acres, more than 600 acres of land comprises government and public properties such as lakes, forest land, State Administrative Training Institute (ATI), State Institute of Rural Development (SIRD), mounted police, jockey quarters, roads, zoo, horse park, race course, Lalith Mahal Palace, helipad, shooting range, masjid, Motor section of Police department, public lakes such as Karanji, and Tavarekatte.  The state, represented by senior advocate Ranjit Kumar, contended that the lands in Kurubarahalli Village were classified as B - 'Kharab' land in the Survey held during the British government in the year 1881-1883. Even in the resurvey held in the year 1921, the said lands were classified as such only. "The High Court by mixing and clubbing the issue of ownership of with the issue of its classification as 'Kharab' and declaring that from ownership itself the status of 'Kharab' is decided; has committed grave mistake resulting in miscarriage of justice and passing of erroneous orders," it said. In fact, there are lakhs of Record of Rights (RORs) in Karnataka where the survey number is private but, at the same time, has 'Kharab' classification, it added. Advocate Nishanth Patil appeared for residents of Kurubarahalli Village, Vasanthi Hegde and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-nixes-karnatakas-plea-against-hc-order-on-land-belonging-to-maharaja-of-mysore-1013098.html
26-07-2021||National||UK High Court declares Vijay Mallya bankrupt for Indian banks to realise debt||A British court on Monday granted a bankruptcy order against Vijay Mallya, paving the way for a consortium of Indian banks led by the State Bank of India (SBI) to pursue a worldwide freezing order to seek repayment of debt owed by the now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines. "As at 15.42 [UK time], I adjudicate Dr Mallya bankrupt," Chief Insolvencies and Companies Court (ICC) Judge Michael Briggs said in his ruling during a virtual hearing of the Chancery Division of the High Court. The Indian banks, represented by the law firm TLT LLP and barrister Marcia Shekerdemian, had argued for the bankruptcy order to be granted in favour of the Indian banks. The 65-year-old businessman, meanwhile, remains on bail in the UK while a "confidential" legal matter, believed to be related to an asylum application, is resolved in connection with the unrelated extradition proceedings. His barrister, Philip Marshall, sought a stay as well as an adjournment of the order while legal challenges remain ongoing in the Indian courts. However, the requests were turned down by the judge who concluded that there was "insufficient evidence" that the debt will be paid back to the petitioners in full within a reasonable period of time. He also put forward an application seeking permission to appeal against the bankruptcy order, which Judge Briggs refused as there was no "real prospect of success" of an appeal. The petitioners were made up of SBI-led consortium of 13 Indian banks, including Bank of Baroda, Corporation bank, Federal Bank Ltd, IDBI Bank, Indian Overseas Bank, Jammu & Kashmir Bank, Punjab & Sind Bank, Punjab National Bank, State Bank of Mysore, UCO Bank, United Bank of India and JM Financial Asset Reconstruction Co. Pvt Ltd as well as an additional creditor, had been pursuing a bankruptcy order in the UK in relation to a judgment debt which stands at over GBP 1 billion. Mallya’s legal team contended that the debt remains disputed and that the ongoing proceedings in India inhibited a bankruptcy order being made in the UK. The debt in question comprises principal and interest, plus compound interest at a rate of 11.5 per cent per annum from June 25, 2013. Mallya has made applications in India to contest the compound interest charge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-high-court-declares-vijay-mallya-bankrupt-for-indian-banks-to-realise-debt-1013116.html
26-07-2021||National||India's poor face outsized air pollution death risk||The poorest 10 per cent of Indians face a risk of dying from air pollution that is nine times higher than for the richest 10 per cent, according to research released Monday. Fine particles (PM2.5) generated from burning fossil fuels, farming practices and wood-burning stoves contribute to a host of health problems and are behind most of the eight million air pollution-related deaths worldwide each year. Previous research has shown that the richest individuals bear an outsized responsibility for air pollution due to their consumption-heavy lifestyles. Researchers based in Europe and the US wanted to see how wealth is linked to air pollution exposure in Earth's second most populous nation. They examined data expenditure for different income groups and used a sophisticated computer model to estimate the pollution that such spending habits were likely to have produced. They produced a map of anticipated air pollution then used it to generate the estimates of related health impacts. Unsurprisingly, the team found that while higher net-worth individuals contributed most to air pollution levels, it was poorer individuals who suffered the most from it. The study, published in the journal Nature Sustainability, estimated that air pollution from outside and inside sources contributed to the deaths of 1.19 million people in 2010, the last year for which emissions and expenditure data were directly comparable. They also defined a new pollution inequity index, which measured the ratio of premature deaths against the amount of ambient air pollution each income group contributed. For the highest-earning 10 per cent, the index predicted an estimated 6.3 premature deaths per unit of pollution it contributed. For the poorest 10 per cent, that figure was 54.7 deaths -- nearly nine times higher. To test the best ways of reducing air inequality, the team examined two scenarios: one in which clean technology was applied to all pollution sources except cooking stoves, and one in which solid-fuel stoves were replaced with electric ones. Perhaps unexpectedly, the modelling showed the second scenario -- simply doing away with wood- and coal-burning stoves -- had the greatest reduction in air pollution-linked deaths. "A single intervention that would effectively address air pollution-related deaths, especially for the poor: offering cheap, clean cooking stoves and fuels," Fabian Wagner, lead study author from the International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis (IIASA) in Austria, told AFP. With millions of Indians moving from rural areas to cities in search of work since 2010, Wagner said it was hard to quantify the net effect air pollution was having on that migration. "Urbanisation leads to higher population densities -- i.e. more people getting exposed to the same bad air," he said. "Hence, total exposure may go up."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-poor-face-outsized-air-pollution-death-risk-1013127.html
26-07-2021||National||JEE-Advanced 2021 to be held on October 3||The Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Advanced 2021 for admission in IITs will be held on October 3, Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan announced on Monday. Pradhan said that the exam will be conducted adhering to all Covid-related protocols. The JEE-Advanced, earlier scheduled for July 3, was postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Earlier this month, IIT Kharagpur which is the administering authority for the examination, had released the information brochure for the exam. Students who had cleared the JEE-Mains 2020 but could not appear for the JEE-Advanced last year have been permitted to register directly for the JEE-Advanced 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jee-advanced-2021-to-be-held-on-october-3-1013128.html
26-07-2021||National||Low green leaf price hits small tea growers in Assam, West Bengal||Low green leaf price offered by tea factories and rising cost of production has left over 2.5 lakh small tea growers, mostly in Assam and Bengal worried and gasping for government's help. In a letter to union industry minister, Piyush Goyel, the Confederation of Indian Small Tea Growers Associations (CISTA) has said that factories were paying an average Rs. 15 to 17 per kg of green leaf from small tea growers, mostly in Assam and Bengal whereas their average cost of production increased upto Rs. 19 per kg following a hike in wage and fertilisers.  "The biggest challenge being faced by the small tea growers is that the dictated price they get from green leaf is never sufficient to meet their cost of production, threatening their income security and plunging them into chronic indebtedness," president of CISTA, Bijaygopal Chakravarty said in the letter. CISTA said there are more than 2.5 lakh small tea growers (less than one hectare) and they contribute 51 per cent of total tea production in the country. Assam and Bengal has maximum number of small tea growers. Most of the small tea growers don't have their factories and so depend on leaf factories to sell their green leaf. The CISTA said the monthly benchmark minimum price fixed by Tea Board of India was also not helping as the tea factories are not paying prices as per the board's norm. The CISTA urged the Centre to declare Rs. 25 per kg as the minimum support price for green tea leaf for small tea growers. "Kenya recently declared minimum support price for over 5 lakh small tea growers," it said. "The fact that this is a national phenomenon hints at structural reasons for the failure in making tea cultivation sustainable," Chakravarty said. Assam MLA, Akhil Gogoi also demanded that minimum support price be offered to the small tea growers to secure their income and their livelihood.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/low-green-leaf-price-hits-small-tea-growers-in-assam-west-bengal-1013132.html
26-07-2021||National||Army, Navy, Air Force lost 184 personnel to Covid-19; no special compensation||The Indian Army, Navy and Air Force lost 184 of its personnel to the Covid-19 but the bereaved family of none of them were given any special compensation, the Government informed the Rajya Sabha on Monday. The Government also informed the upper house of Parliament that 98% of the defence personnel had already been fully vaccinated. “No special compensation for deaths occurring due to infectious disease is provided to the personnel of the armed forces, while they are in service. However, all such cases of death while in service are provided terminal benefits,” Ajay Bhatt, the Union Minister of State for Defence, informed in a written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha. Altogether 42,527 personnel of the Indian Army got infected with Covid-19 so far and 133 of them succumbed to it. The Indian Air Force (IAF) lost 47 of its personnel out of the 13,249, who got infected with the virus so far. The Indian Navy recorded 6,688 cases of Covid-19 among its personnel so far and four of them died. Bhatt also informed the Rajya Sabha in response to a separate question the government had started administering anti-Covid-19 vaccines to all the serving defence personnel, including the ones deployed on the borders. The personnel of the Border Roads Organization were also being vaccinated against the SARS-CoV-2 infection, he added. While all the defence personnel have already been administered the first dose of the anti-Covid-19 vaccines, just about 98% of them also received the second dose, the minister informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-navy-air-force-lost-184-personnel-to-covid-19-no-special-compensation-1013140.html
26-07-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: India to miss vaccination target for July end||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-india-to-miss-vaccination-target-for-july-end-1013141.html
26-07-2021||National||India short of over 1 lakh soldiers, 9,000 officers in defence forces: Govt||India is short of more than 9,000 officers and over 1,00,000 soldiers in the Army, Air Force and Navy even as the country tackles two enemies simultaneously. The maximum vacancy of 7,912 officers was in the Indian Army followed by 1,190 vacancies in the Indian Navy and 610 in the Indian Air Force, the Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt informed the Rajya Sabha on Monday. This comes at a time when India has been battling China’s People’s Liberation Army on the northern and eastern borders, particularly in Ladakh while there is a sign of revival on terrorist activities in Jammu and Kashmir despite the uneasy calm on the western front. Bhatt said the Centre had taken a number of steps to increase the recruitment numbers in the armed forces including improvement in the promotion prospects. But the shortfall goes beyond the officer cadre incorporating ordinary soldiers and medical doctors. For instance, there is a vacancy of 109,671 soldiers in all the three services with Indian Army topping the list with 90,640 vacancies followed by the Indian Navy (11,927) and the IAF (7104). In the medical and dental branch where doctors are recruited as officers, there is a vacancy of 444 officers along with 693 nurses in the military nursing service. Meanwhile, the Defence Ministry informed the Parliament that 29 women officers who didn’t opt for the Permanent Commission in the Army were released from the service. Out of 29, three officers were released without pension based on their willingness as they had served between 10-14 years, Bhatt said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-short-of-over-1-lakh-soldiers-9000-officers-in-defence-forces-govt-1013144.html
26-07-2021||National||Goa, Delhi Power Ministers publicly debate tariffs in both states||In a unique political face-off, Delhi Power Minister Satyendar Jain on Monday faced Goa Power Minister Nilesh Cabral on Monday in a public debate over the pros and cons of power tariff models in place in both the states. The debate follows a public dare made last week by Cabral for a debate with the AAP Power Minister, after Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in a major poll announcement earlier this month, had said that if his party forms a government in the coastal state, it would provide free electricity to the tune of 300 units for domestic consumers. During the debate between the two Power Ministers, Cabral maintained that if a government provides freebies or heavily subsidises essential commodities like power, then it would have to make good the loss of revenue by taxing the residents of the state via other clandestine means. “Nothing is free in this world. Whatever they are providing for the people of Delhi is taken from the taxpayers of Delhi and besides their government's borrowings run into crores of rupees... The Delhi government at the same time is subsidising power rates to benefit the private power distribution companies who are rakingin profits," Cabral alleged. The Goa Power Minister also said that the state already had one of the cheapest power tariff structures in the country. “In Goa, our tariff structure is different. Here, the Goa government is itself the distributor and we have kept rates low. Our power tariff no matter how many units one uses doesn’t go beyond Rs 4 per unit for the consumer. In Delhi, if you cross 200 hundred units, even after the subsidy from the government, the rate is higher than what is paid for the same number of units in Goa,” the Goa Minister said. Responding to the charge, Jain claimed that 87 per cent of the population in Goa would stand to benefit from the AAP poll promise of zero charges for the first 300 power units. "87 per cent households in the state would get a zero bill. This would result in huge savings for households," Jain said. “For how long you are going to keep giving excuses? The people of Goa will judge whose plan for Goa is better,” Jain also said. The roots of the public debate between the two Ministers comes two weeks after Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in a major pre-poll announcement announced free 300 units of power for domestic consumrs in Goa, if the party comes to power in the 2022 state assembly polls. Kejriwal also promised 24x7 uninterrupted electricity, as well as waiver of outstanding power bills and free power for farmers in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-delhi-power-ministers-publicly-debate-tariffs-in-both-states-1013145.html
26-07-2021||National||Agitating farmers announce 'Mission UP, Uttarakhand'||Ahead of elections next year, farmers protesting against agricultural reforms on Monday announced 'Mission Uttar Pradesh & Uttarakhand', taking the agitation to every village of the two states. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), spearheading the eight-month protests at Delhi's borders, was also planning a farmers' meeting at Muzaffarnagar in western Uttar Pradesh, the hub of communal riots in 2013, in a bid to put up a show of unity. “We want to strengthen the farmers' movement as it has happened in Punjab and Haryana,” Rakesh Tikait, leader of the Bhartiya Kisan Union, said. The choice of Muzaffarnagar as the venue of the Kisan Mahapanchayat is also seen as an attempt to heal the Jat-Muslim divide caused by the 2013 riots. BJP has swept Uttar Pradesh in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections and the 2017 assembly elections. The sustained farmers' agitation on the borders of the national capital has also seen coming together of Jats and Muslims, a move that could benefit the opposition ranks. The SKM also announced a tractor rally on Independence Day at Ghazipur, located on the border of Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, where the agitating farmers have planned a flag hoisting ceremony. The SKM has divided the movement into four phases. In the first phase, contact and coordination will be established with the organisations active in the movement in the states and in the second phase there will be division-wise farmers' convention and district-wise preparatory meeting. In the third phase, a “historic” mahapanchayat of farmers from across the country would be organised in Muzaffarnagar on September 5 and in the fourth phase, a mahapanchayat would be organised at all the divisional headquarters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/agitating-farmers-announce-mission-up-uttarakhand-1013169.html
26-07-2021||National||Docs surgically insert 3D printed hip implant in Tanzanian woman||Doctors at a private facility surgically inserted a customised 3D printed hip implant in a 60-year-old Tanzanian woman as her pelvic bone had been badly damaged, according to a statement from the hospital. The hospital claimed this is the first time that such a large implant has been used for a hip surgery in India. Such a customised implant was required as the patient's pelvic bone had been badly damaged due to three previous hip surgeries, the statement from Fortis Memorial Research Institute in Gurgaon said. The surgery was carried out in seven hours. These three failed hip replacement surgeries left very little bony support for the new readily available hip implants. The hip prosthesis was lying loose in the pelvis and the patient was not even able to sleep because of the pain due to constant irritation of the surrounding muscles around the implant, the statement said. Her leg was short by 6 cm because of the damage to pelvic bone. Besides this, she was also drained of her finances. After securing the required financial assistance from the government, she sought the opinion of Dr Subhash Jangid, the director and unit head of Bone and Joint Institute in Fortis Memorial Research Institute in Gurgaon. After detailed examination and investigations, it was determined that there was a need for a custom-made 3D printed hip implant for her third time revision of the hip prosthesis, the statement said. It was the only hope for her to move again without any support and lead a normal life, it added. The team of doctors performed this "difficult and challenging surgery", which took around seven hours. "This is the first time such a large 3D printed customised implant has been used for a hip surgery in India. Such cases are very rare and complicated. We had to do a meticulous dissection of the important vessels and nerves supplying the limb as they were very close to old prosthesis and embedded in the scar tissue of the previous surgery. Any damage to these important structures would have disastrous consequences as either the limb may get paralysed or severe bleeding from major intra pelvic vessels can be life threatening. We were able to save all important vessels, nerves and intra pelvic organs of the patient," said Dr Jangid. The senior doctor said the team conducted several tests and had multiple virtual discussions (because of the coronavirus pandemic) with a team of engineers. The final prosthesis came after 15 days with all certifications and quality checks. "She started walking with support from the next day with equal limb lengths (her 6 cm shortened leg was made equal with this surgery). Sutures were removed after three weeks. She started walking with the support of a cane after six weeks of surgery," the doctor said. Soon after that, she was flown to her home country via a special flight because of the pandemic situation, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/docs-surgically-insert-3d-printed-hip-implant-in-tanzanian-woman-1013189.html
26-07-2021||National||Nehru's messenger of peace stand cost India dearly: Maharashtra governor||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Monday said the first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru used to consider himself as a "shantidoot" (messenger of peace) and this stand cost the country dearly for several years. "Nehru's contribution to the nation and the freedom struggle was huge. But he started believing himself as a messenger of peace and this cost the nation dearly for several years. His peace initiatives hurt India," Koshyari said at a function to mark the Kargil Diwas at Raj Bhavan here. Senior Congress leader and Maharashtra minister Ashok Chavan slammed Koshyari. "This is unfortunate. The governor's remark is based on half-truth and contradictory to reality. Promoting peace doesn't mean being weak. If that is so then what Koshyari thinks about Atal Bihari Vajpayee traveling to Lahore by bus to promote peace, dialogue and harmony, L K Advani doing an ideological turnaround by visiting (Pakistan founder) Jinnah's grave, and PM Narendra Modi going to Nawaz Sharif's birthday uninvited. Does Koshyari think these (events) show weakness?" Chavan questioned. He said if Nehru is considered weak for promoting peace then the same yardstick should be applied to former prime minister Vajpayee, ex-home minister Advani and PM Modi. "Koshyari's remarks that governments before Vajpayee were not serious about national security is an insult to former prime ministers of the country," Chavan added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nehrus-messenger-of-peace-stand-cost-india-dearly-maharashtra-governor-1013204.html
26-07-2021||National Politics||Two Colonels, ex-BSF chief, BSF IG, former RAW official, Kejriwal's aide under Pegasus scanner: Report||The then BSF Director General, an Inspector General in BSF, an ED official, a key staff of Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal as well as a retired RAW official and two Army Colonels who took the government to court on various issues were on a leaked list of potential targets for surveillance using the controversial Israeli spyware Pegasus. The Wire reported that the persons who were potential targets of snooping were the then BSF Director General K K Sharma, BSF Inspector General Jagdish Maithani, former ED official Rajeshwar Singh, IAS officer and Kejriwal's aide V K Jain, retired RAW official Jitendra Ojha and Colonels Mukul Dev and Amit Kumar and one each officials in the Prime Minister's Office and NITI Ayog. The phone number of the current chief of Bihar cricket, Rakesh Tiwary, considered close to those at the helm of cricket administration in India, has been identified in the leaked database that was analysed by the Pegasus Project, The Wire reported. "Journalists, political opponents, members of the judiciary, cabinet colleagues...now, not even the ARMY spared. There is no ambiguity here. This is a Crime. Who is responsible? #Pegasus. Discuss this in #Parliament today. Prime Minister-Home Minister must answer," Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha leader Derek O'Brien tweeted. Journalists, political opponents, members of the judiciary, cabinet colleagues... now, not even the ARMY spared. There is no ambiguity here. According to The Wire, Sharma's number appeared in the leaked list a month after his controversial attendance in uniform at a conference organised by RSS-affiliated outfit in Kolkata on February 11, 2018. However, post retirement, the Election Commission appointed him as a special central police observer for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections in West Bengal and Jharkhand, but was replaced following complaints. Three phone numbers used by Sharma, one of which he still uses after his retirement in 2018, were in the leaked database. ED official Singh, who was investigating sensitive cases like 2G spectrum and Aircel-Maxis case involving former Finance Minister P Chidambaram, came under the scanner in 2017-19. Phones of his wife and two sisters, including Mumbai-based lawyer Abha Singh were also on the radar. Singh had accused the then top Finance Ministry official Hansmukh Adhia of aiding scamsters by allowing investigation of disproportionate assets against him. Kejriwal's aide Jain, who is an IAS officer, came under the scanner after he became a witness in the case of assault on the then Chief Secretary Anshu Prakash at the Chief Minister's residence. Colonel Dev was identified as a potential target for surveillance in 2019. He had in 2017 sent a legal notice to the Defence Secretary arguing against the government's order to scrap free rations for officers who are posted in peace areas. Colonel Kumar was also selected for potential surveillance at around the same time as Dev. He had filed a petition in the Supreme Court on behalf of 356 Army personnel against what they apprehended was an impending dilution of the Armed Forces (Special Forces) Act (AFSPA), The Wire reported. BSF IG Maithani, who has been associated with the Ministry of Home Affairs' smart fencing project, also appeared in the list.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/two-colonels-ex-bsf-chief-bsf-ig-former-raw-official-kejriwals-aide-under-pegasus-scanner-report-1012931.html
26-07-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi drives tractor to Parliament to protest farm laws||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Monday drove a tractor to Parliament along with other party MPs demanding that the three controversial farm laws be repealed, as the farmers' protest entered the eighth month today. Congress MPs Pratap Singh Bajwa, Ravneet Singh Bittu and Deepinder Singh Hooda among others carried banners and raised slogans accompanying Rahul. "If you force you to sell the land, then the tractor will run in Parliament -- we will grow the crops of truth!  Withdraw the anti-agriculture law. #FarmersProtest," Rahul tweeted after the protest. अगर खेत बेचने पर मजबूर करोगे, तो ट्रैक्टर संसद में चलेगा- सत्य की फ़सल उगाकर रहेंगे! Congress leaders Randeep Surjewala and Youth Congress chief BV Srinivas among others were detained by Delhi Police outside Parliament and taken to Mandir Marg police station. "These laws are aimed at helping only two-three industrialists. The entire country knows for whom these laws have been brought. These laws are not for the benefit of farmers and that is why they have to be withdrawn," Gandhi told reporters outside Parliament. Surjewala said the Congress leaders will not be cowed down by actions taken on them by police. "This struggle will continue under the leadership of Rahul Gandhi and we will not allow the Modi government to hand over the rights of 62 crore farmers to three-four industrialists," Surjewala said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-drives-tractor-to-parliament-to-protest-farm-laws-1012950.html
26-07-2021||National Politics||Only govt 'unconcerned' about snooping allegations is that of India: Chidambaram||Amid reports that French President Emmanuel Macron spoke with Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett on the Pegasus snooping allegations, senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Monday attacked the Centre, saying the only government that is "unconcerned" over the issue is that of India. French President Macron has spoken to Bennett over reports that Morocco's security forces may have used the Pegasus spyware to snoop on his cellphones. Macron telephoned Bennett on July 22, and asked him to ensure that "the issue was being taken seriously", Israel's Channel 12 has reported. Reacting to the reports, Chidambaram tweeted, "President Macron of France called PM Bennett of Israel and demanded to know full information about alleged use of Pegasus spyware to hack phones in France, including the President's." PM Bennett promised to come back with the "conclusions" of their own investigations, the former home minister said. "The only government that is unconcerned is the Government of India!" Chidambaram said. Is it because the government was fully aware of the snooping and does not need any more information from Israel or the NSO Group, he asked. Chidambaram on Sunday had said the government should either call for a joint parliamentary committee probe into the Pegasus snooping allegations or request the Supreme Court to appoint a sitting judge to investigate the matter. In an interview with PTI, he had also demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi make a statement in Parliament clarifying whether there had been surveillance or not. Last week, an international media consortium reported that over 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including of two ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders besides scores of businesspersons and activists in India, could have been targeted for hacking through the Pegasus spyware of the Israeli firm NSO Group. The government has been denying all Opposition allegations in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/only-govt-unconcerned-about-snooping-allegations-is-that-of-india-chidambaram-1012978.html
26-07-2021||National Politics||Delhi's autocracy decides CMs: Congress on Yediyurappa's resignation||The Congress on Monday took a swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over B S Yediyurappa's resignation as Karnataka Chief minister, and said the Lingayat leader is the latest victim who was forced to retire. Congress general secretary (incharge Karnataka) Randeep Surjewala took twitter to attack BJP and said "The ignominy, torment and insult being heaped upon Sh. B.S.Yediyurappa by Modi ji, dictating him to tender his resignation, makes him PM's latest victim and member of the 'forced retirement club." 4/4The ignominy, torment & insult being heaped upon Sh. B.S.Yediyurappa by Modi ji, dictating him to tender his resignation, makes him PM’s latest victim and member of the ‘forced retirement club’. "The stark reality is that Modiji habitually insults and compulsorily throws senior BJP Leaders in dustbin of history," the Congress leader alleged. "Modiji's record is replete with painful and forcible retirements of Advaniji, M.M.Joshiji, Keshubhai Patelji, Shanta Kumarji, Yashwant Sinhaji and many others. The list of Modiji's victims in BJP doesn't end here," Surjewala said. He also cited the names of Sumitra Mahajan, Sushma Swaraj, Uma Bharti, C.P.Thakur, A.K.Patel, Haren Pandya, Harin Pathak, Kalyan Singh as those leaders who have been retired by the top brass of the BJP. 2/nThe stark reality is that Modiji habitually insults & compulsorily throws Senior BJP Leaders in dustbin of history. He said the latest "victims" are Harsh Vardhan, Ravi Shankar Prasad and Sushil Modi. "It is Delhi's autocracy that decides chief ministers and not the will of BJP's MLA's," he said. Surjewala also alleged that the BJP government in Karnataka was an "illegitimate" one as it was born out of "defection and corruption". Taking on the BJP over the Pegasus spying issue, Surjewala said, "Malady is with BJP's corrupt Government and appalling maladministration in Karnataka, for it is an illegitimate Government born out of “defection and corruption”." "Will merely changing the face change the diabolical character of the BJP Government synonymous with mal governance and decay," he said. Congress leader Mallikarujun Kharge, however, termed the resignation of Yediyurappa as an internal matter of the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/delhis-autocracy-decides-cms-congress-on-yediyurappas-resignation-1012989.html
26-07-2021||National Politics||Govt introduces Bill to amend insolvency law in Lok Sabha||The government on Monday introduced a bill in the Lok Sabha to amend the insolvency law and provide for a pre-packaged resolution process for stressed MSMEs. The proposed amendments would enable the government to notify the threshold of a default not exceeding Rs 1 crore for initiation of pre-packaged resolution process. The government has already prescribed the threshold of Rs 10 lakh for this purpose. The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Bill, 2021 -- which was introduced by Corporate and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman -- will replace the ordinance that was promulgated on April 4 as part of efforts to provide relief for MSMEs adversely impacted by the pandemic. The bill, which was introduced in the Lower House amid Opposition din over various issues, seeks to have a new chapter in the Code to facilitate pre-packaged insolvency resolution process for corporate persons that are Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs). Generally, under a pre-packaged process, main stakeholders such as creditors and shareholders come together to identify a prospective buyer and negotiate a resolution plan before approaching the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). All resolution plans under IBC need to be approved by NCLT. As per the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the bill, it seeks to specify a minimum threshold of not more than Rs 1 crore for initiating pre-packaged insolvency resolution process as well as provisions for disposal of simultaneous applications for initiation of insolvency resolution process and pre-packaged insolvency resolution process, pending against the same corporate debtor. There would be a penalty for fraudulent or malicious initiation of pre-packaged insolvency resolution process or with intent to defraud persons, and for fraudulent management of the corporate debtor during the process. Further, punishment would be meted out for offences related to pre-packaged insolvency resolution process. According to the Statement of Objects and Reasons, the MSME sector is critical to the economy considering their significant contribution to the country's gross domestic product and generation of employment to a sizeable population. "It has, therefore, been considered necessary to urgently address the specific requirements of the sector by providing an efficient and alternative framework under the Code for quicker, cost-effective insolvency resolution process that is least disruptive to the businesses, ensuring, among other objectives, job preservation," it noted. Against this backdrop, the government had promulgated the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021, on April 4 and the bill seeks to replace the ordinance. Rajiv Chandak, Partner at Deloitte India, said the bill covers provisions pertaining to pre-packaged insolvency process for MSME units. "Lenders are awaiting similar provisions for larger corporates. Pre-packaged insolvency can help in resolving stress early and cut resolution time for corporates staring at default," he added. Anoop Rawat, Partner, Insolvency & Bankruptcy at Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co said the amendments are in line with the IBC ordinance that was promulgated on April 4, 2021. The time line for completion of the pre-packaged insolvency resolution process is shorter than the normal Corporate Insolvency Resolution (CIR) period. "Unlike the CIR Process where the control is transferred to the Interim Resolution Professional, in this process, the control remains with the existing management and only in case of fraud the NCLT may shift control to Resolution Professional. The process is intended to be swift and efficient. It gives better visibility of resolution as compared to a normal CIR process since a base resolution process need to be in place prior to initiation of the process at NCLT," Rawat noted.  In the wake of the pandemic, the government has taken various steps including increasing the minimum amount of default to Rs 1 crore for initiating a corporate insolvency resolution process. Besides, the government had suspended fresh filing of corporate insolvency resolution applications in respect of defaults arising during the period between March 25, 2020 and March 24, 2021. To deal with emerging market realities, the Code has been amended on earlier occasions also. The Code, which came into force in 2016, was enacted to consolidate and amend the laws relating to reorganisation and insolvency resolution of corporate persons, partnership firms and individuals. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-introduces-bill-to-amend-insolvency-law-in-lok-sabha-1012990.html
26-07-2021||National Politics||Lok Sabha adjourned till 3 pm amid disruptions by Oppn members||Lok Sabha proceedings were adjourned for a third time on Monday after Opposition members trooped into the Well of the House raising slogans and showing placards on the Pegasus snooping row and farmers' issue. With Opposition members shouting slogans against the government, Rama Devi, who was chairing the proceedings, asked them to return to their seats and allow the House to function. However, with protesting MPs not relenting, she adjourned the proceedings till 3 pm. Before that the House met at 2 pm and ran for a few minutes as papers were laid on the table and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman introduced the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Bill, 2021. Kirit Solanki, who was in the Chair, adjourned the proceedings till 2:45 pm after protesting MPs refused to go back to their seats. Earlier in the day, as soon as the House met, Speaker Om Birla paid tributes to personnel of the armed forces for their valour and sacrifice during the 1999 Kargil War. On the 22nd anniversary of 'Operation Vijay', mounted to flush out Pakistani troops from the heights of Kargil, Speaker Birla also expressed his gratitude to the family members of the heroes of the war. Members observed silence for those who made the supreme sacrifice. He also congratulated Mirabai Chanu for winning a silver medal at the Tokyo Olympics. Soon thereafter, opposition members trooped into the Well raising slogans, disrupting the proceedings. While the Pegasus snooping row remained the dominant issue with the Opposition members, they also raised slogans and displayed placards in support of agitating farmers. Some opposition members demanded the presence of the prime minister in the House and raised slogans such as "Modi sarkar jawab do" (Modi government please answer) on the Pegasus issue. "The government wants to give a reply. If you want a reply, please go back to your seats ... people choose you to raise their issues. You are raising slogans ... this hurts the dignity of the House," Speaker Birla said. He had then adjourned the proceedings till 2 pm. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lok-sabha-adjourned-till-3-pm-amid-disruptions-by-oppn-members-1013007.html
26-07-2021||National Politics||Over 90 MPs denied opportunity to raise issues due to disruption so far: Naidu||Concerned over the continuous disruption in Parliament, Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Monday said around 90 MPs who submitted notices to raise issues of public importance were denied opportunity in the House due to the protests by Opposition MPs. As the sloganeering continued amid Opposition MPs rushed to the Well of the House during Zero Hour, he said 69 Zero Hour mentions, including 12 admitted for Monday, and 23 Special Mentions by as many members were admitted since July 19 when the Monsoon Session started but could not be raised due to persistent disruptions. In four sittings last week, Naidu said, he had admitted notices on 57 matters by 63 MPs, covering wide-ranging issues like shortage of Covid-19 vaccines, need for time bound completion of Covid-19 vaccination, unemployment due to the continuing pandemic and problems of students in availing online education among other issues. Issues like hike in process of petroleum products and the resultant increase in prices of essential commodities, alleged attacks on the freedom of press, situation in Lakshadweep, attacks on and killing of Indian in South Africa and sharing of Cauvery river water between States were also admitted by the Chairman, he said. Out of the 31 Special Mentions admitted so far, he said before adjourning the House till 12 noon, only eight could be laid on the Table of the House on Tuesday last week while the rest could not be mentioned in the House. The issues sought to be raised under this category include abolition of posts in Indian Railways, functioning of the National Medical Commission and racial slurs against the people of North Eastern States. He also expressed concern over the MPs of the House being denied opportunity to seek clarifications from Minister of Information Technology Ashwini Vaishnaw on the statement laid on the Table of the House on Thursday last week regarding Pegasus spyware issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/over-90-mps-denied-opportunity-to-raise-issues-due-to-disruption-so-far-naidu-1013038.html
26-07-2021||National Politics||Don't create an atmosphere of anarchy by misleading farmers: Tomar tells Rahul Gandhi||Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Monday attacked Rahul Gandhi for his demand to scrap the three new farm laws and said the Congress leader should not try to create an atmosphere of anarchy in the country by misleading farmers. Earlier in the day, Gandhi drove a tractor to Parliament along with other party MPs and demanded that the three contentious farm laws be repealed. About Gandhi's tractor ride, Tomar said the Congress leader neither has any experience of rural India nor has concern for the poor and the farmers. Referring to the Congress party's election manifesto of bringing similar farm reforms, Tomar asked Gandhi, a former Congress President, to tell whether Congress was lying in the manifesto or lying "now". "I want to tell Rahul Gandhi that he should not try to mislead farmers and create an atmosphere of anarchy in the country. Because of such habits and shallow understanding, he is not even a unanimous leader in Congress," the minister said. On the ongoing farmers' protest at Delhi borders since late November of 2020, Tomar said the unions do not have any proposal and that is why they are not coming forward for discussions with the government. The minister reiterated that the government was always open to talks with the protesting farmers. Several farmer unions are protesting against the three farm laws passed by Parliament last September saying the legislations were against the interest of the farming community. They are insisting on repealing the laws. On the other hand, the government has ruled out repealing the laws but is ready to address their objections to provisions in the laws. In January this year, the Supreme Court suspended implementation of the three farm laws. Tomar also highlighted that the Modi government has done a lot of work for the benefit of farmers in the last seven years. Congress leaders said that Gandhi's tractor ride to Parliament was aimed at highlighting the cause of farmers and extending their support to them. "These laws are aimed at helping only two-three industrialists. The entire country knows for whom these laws have been brought. These laws are not for the benefit of farmers and that is why they have to be withdrawn," Gandhi told reporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dont-create-an-atmosphere-of-anarchy-by-misleading-farmers-tomar-tells-rahul-gandhi-1013154.html
26-07-2021||National Politics||Mamata arrives in Delhi on 5-day visit, to meet PM Modi, opposition leaders||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee arrived in the national capital on Monday on a five-day visit and is likely to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday. According to a schedule provided by her Trinamool Congress, Banerjee is slated to meet Modi at 4 pm on Tuesday. She is also scheduled to meet a host of Congress leaders, including Kamal Nath, Anand Sharma and Abhishek Manu Singhvi, on Tuesday. Banerjee is likely to meet President Ram Nath Kovind and Congress chief Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday, sources said. During her visit to Delhi amid the Monsoon session of Parliament, she is likely to meet leaders of other opposition parties as well. The Trinamool Congress supremo, who apparently seeks to take up a larger role in national politics prior to the 2024 Lok Sabha election, is visiting Delhi for the first time after leading her party to power in West Bengal for the third time in a row.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamata-arrives-in-delhi-on-5-day-visit-to-meet-pm-modi-opposition-leaders-1013202.html
26-07-2021||National Politics||Mamata to meet Modi first time after Centre-State slugfest over West Bengal Chief Secretary||Trinamool Congress supremo and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi on Tuesday, two months after the last encounter between the two at the Kalaikunda Air Force Station triggered a political slugfest between the Centre and the State Government. Banerjee, who arrived in New Delhi, will meet Modi at the residence of the Prime Minister on Tuesday. She is expected to urge the Prime Minister to ensure expeditious and uninterrupted supply of adequate number of doses of Covid-19 vaccines to West Bengal, in addition to demanding more funds from the Union Government for the state. This is Banerjee’s first visit to the New Delhi after she led the Trinamool Congress to win the assembly elections in West Bengal in March-April this year – trouncing the Bharatiya Janata Party, despite its aggressive campaigning spearheaded by the Prime Minister and the Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Banerjee and Modi had personally attacked each other while campaigning for their respective parties during the elections in West Bengal. Just a few weeks after she took over as the Chief Minister for the third consecutive term, Banerjee briefly met Modi at the Kalaikunda Air Force Station in West Bengal on May 28 during the Prime Minister’s visit to assess the loss and damages caused by the cyclone Yaas in the State. She had handed over a memorandum to the Prime Minister detailing the State Government’s assessment about the loss and the assistance it expected from the Centre, but did not attend the meeting chaired by him and instead left to continue her own tour to the affected areas. She was accompanied by the then Chief Secretary of the State, Alapan Bandopadhyay, who had also left with the Chief Minister. The Modi Government had reacted by recalling Bandopadhyay, an Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer, to the Centre. The State Government, however, did not release him. As the Centre-State conflict escalated, Bandopadhyay resigned from government service and Banerjee reappointed him as her advisor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamata-to-meet-modi-first-time-after-centre-state-slugfest-over-west-bengal-chief-secretary-1013205.html
26-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi Metro trains start running with 100% seating capacity; standing not allowed in coaches||In view of the improved coronavirus situation, the Delhi Metro services began running with full seating capacity from Monday, but there is still no provision for standing travel for commuters, officials said. The DMRC, till Sunday, was running trains with 50 per cent seating capacity since June 7 when the services had resumed after a long hiatus. Also, to handle increase in volume of commuters, 16 additional entry gates have been made operational at 16 stations (one at each station) across the network from Monday onwards to facilitate the movement of passengers. The DMRC is already facilitating passenger entry at all its stations through 260 gates. These 16 gates are in addition to the already operational gates, so, now 276 gates will be operational, official said. The stations at which additional gates became operational include, Janakpuri West, Karol Bagh, Vaishali, Kashmere Gate, Central Secretariat, M G Road, the DMRC said. As and when further relaxations are announced by the authorities, the DMRC will ensure that all steps are taken from its end to provide ease of entry and convenient travel to the general public, officials said. In view of the latest guidelines issued on Saturday by the of city government regarding Covid containment, services began this morning with full seating capacity. However, there is still no provision for standing travel inside coaches, as has been since June 7, they said. Around 8 am, the DMRC tweeted: "Mild tremors were confirmed around 6.42 AM in the morning. As a standard procedure, trains were run on cautionary speed and stationed at next platform. The services are now running normally". Mild tremors were confirmed around 6.42 AM in the morning. As a standard procedure, trains were run on cautionary speed and stationed at next platform. The services are now running normally. Sources earlier had said, each coach has a capacity of about 300 riders, 50 seated and 250 standing. Since, standing commuters are not allowed, a maximum of 50 people can ride in each carriage. Effectively, the carrying capacity is about 17-18 per cent which was 10 per cent since June 7 due to 50 per cent rule, they said. According to the 50 per cent rule, passengers were to sit on alternate seats to ensure social distancing. The DMRC again appealed to the public to travel by the metro "only when it is absolutely necessary and observe all Covid-related travel protocols in place for their own and everyone else's safety in this fight against the pandemic". As travel in standing position is still not permitted by the authorities, entry at stations will also continue to be regulated through identified gates as per the ongoing practice, officials said. DMRC services were fully suspended since May 10 in view of the Covid-induced lockdown in Delhi. It was first imposed on April 19, and successively extended by the city government. Metro services initially ran partially, catering only to people from the field of essential services but from May 10, it was suspended in view of the rising cases amid the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic and resumed services with 50 per cent seating capacity from June 7 onwards. The Delhi Disaster Management Authorities (DDMA) on Saturday announced further lifting of restrictions, in view of the improved coronavirus situation. No death due to Covid-19 was recorded in Delhi on Saturday, while 66 fresh cases were reported with a positivity rate of 0.09 per cent, according to data shared by the city health department. This was the second time, since the starting of the second wave of the pandemic in the national capital, when zero fatality had been been logged in a day. On July 18 too, no death was recorded, while the city had registered 51 cases. DMRC has 10 lines spanning 242 stations, and 264 stations including the Rapid Metro in Gurgaon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-metro-trains-start-running-with-100-seating-capacity-standing-not-allowed-in-coaches-1012907.html
26-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi Metro services briefly delayed due to mild tremors: DMRC||Delhi Metro train services, which began operating with full seating capacity from Monday, were briefly delayed due to mild tremors reported in the morning, officials said. A senior DMRC official said, there are protocols in place for such situations, and the delay happened on account of it. In view of the latest guidelines issued on Saturday by the of city government regarding Covid containment, services began this morning at 6 am, with 100 per cent seating capacity. However, there is still no provision for standing travel inside coaches, as has been since June 7, officials said. Around 8 am, the DMRC tweeted that "mild tremors were confirmed around 6.42 am in the morning. As a standard procedure, trains were run on cautionary speed and stationed at next platform. The services are now running normally". According to protocol, the moment a train operators learns of any tremor, the train is then run with a cautionary speed and brought to halt to the immediate next station, the official said. So, on Monday morning, a delay of 10-15 minutes happened in services, as every system needs to be thoroughly checked before resumption of services, he said. However, there were no immediate details from the National Centre for Seismology (NCS) on it. An official said that it must have been a minor tremor. The DMRC, till Sunday, was running trains with 50 per cent seating capacity since June 7 when the services had resumed after a long hiatus. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-metro-services-briefly-delayed-due-to-mild-tremors-dmrc-1012977.html
26-07-2021||North and Central||65-year-old woman tied up, raped in Uttar Pradesh||A woman, in her mid-sixties, was allegedly tied up and raped in Kabrai town here, police said on Monday. After receiving information about the incident, police reached the spot and found the woman, aged around 65 years, in a critical condition with her hands and feet tied. She was rushed to a hospital for treatment, Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) Rajendra Kumar Gautam said. The woman identified the accused as Bharat Kushwaha (45), who has been taken into custody, police said, adding a case was lodged against him under relevant Sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/65-year-old-woman-tied-up-raped-in-uttar-pradesh-1012984.html
26-07-2021||North and Central||Women farmers hold 'Kisan Sansad' at Jantar Mantar in Delhi||Nearly 200 women farmers from Delhi's neighbouring states of Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana gathered at Jantar Mantar in the national capital for a 'Kisan Sansad' on Monday to continue the agitation against the Centre's contentious agricultural laws. They raised slogans demanding scrapping of the three farm laws -- the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The focus of Monday's 'Kisan Sansad' was the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 and the farmers' demand for the enactment of a law guaranteeing remunerative minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. The women's 'Kisan Sansad' was moderated by politician and speaker Subhasini Ali. It commenced with the singing of the national anthem, followed by the observation of a two-minute silence in the memory of the farmers who have died during the eight-month agitation. "Today's 'sansad' will showcase the strength of women. Women can farm as well run the country, and today everybody here is a politician," Ali said. Asserting that the farmers protest against the three "black laws" and their demand for MSP will continue, she said, "The government keeps calling us (farmers) by different names like terrorists, Khalistanis, etc. but if they have the strength, then they should not eat the food produced by these terrorists and Khalistanis." Neetu Khanna, a farmer leader, said it is shameful that the government is "mistreating" the farmers when "they are the ones who keep the country alive". "I would like to put forward the demand for a legal guarantee for MSP because if we don't have MSP, the common man will suffer," she said. Another participant, Nav Kiran, demanded the withdrawal of the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, claiming it is "anti-woman, anti-poor, and anti-common man". Explaining how the law is anti-woman, she said, "We have seen how the prices of cooking oil and cooking gas have gone up because of this law. It will not allow women the scope to save whatever little money they could manage to earlier from their monthly expenses." The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act deregulates food items like cereals, pulses, oilseeds, edible oils, onion and potatoes by removing them from the list of essential commodities. The amendments to the six-and-half-decade law provide that stock holding limit on commodities will only be imposed under exceptional circumstances like national calamities, famine with a surge in prices, the government had said in Parliament last year. The government had said the amendments will boost investment in the agriculture sector and will also create more storage capacities to reduce post-harvest loss of crops. Actress and activist Gul Panag, who also attended the 'Kisan Sansad', said with the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, the government has made the original law passed in 1955 "toothless". "The new law will promote hoarding and black marketing. What people are not understanding is that this new law will not affect the farmers but the middle class," she said. "Also, we are not interested in amendments made to the laws that were not made through due process. These laws have to be repealed," she added. The 'Kisan Sansad' is part of the farmers' agitation against the agricultural laws. As part of 'Kisan Sansad', farmers from the protest sites at Delhi borders, where they have been camping since November last year, have been gathering at Jantar Mantar to raise their voices against the agricultural laws while the Parliament's Monsoon session is underway. Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal has given special permission for the demonstration by a maximum of 200 farmers at Jantar Mantar, a few metres away from the Parliament complex, till August 9.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/women-farmers-hold-kisan-sansad-at-jantar-mantar-in-delhi-1013019.html
26-07-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan announces financial aid for Himachal landslide victims' kin||The Rajasthan government on Monday announced a financial assistance of Rs 2 lakh to the next of kin of the four people from the state who died in a landslide following rains in Himachal Pradesh. The four were among nine tourists who died in the landslide incident in Kinnaur district of Himachal Pradesh on Sunday. While Ayurveda doctor Deepa Sharma (34) was from Jaipur, three members of a family- Maya (55), her son Anurag Biyani (31) and daughter Richa Biyani (25)- were from Sikar. Shortly before the incident, Sharma had tweeted pictures of her trip with a caption "Life is nothing without mother nature".|  Chief minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted that she used to contact his office several times to get help for the needy. He said that Sharma was active in social service. She was living with her mother in Shanti Nagar here. According to her relatives, Sharma was on a solo trip to Himachal Pradesh. Three members of the Biyani family were from Bajaj Road of Sikar and were on a vacation to Himachal Pradesh. The chief minister expressed condolences on the deaths and announced a financial assistance of Rs. 2 lakh for the next of kin of the four deceased. Multiple landslides triggered by recent rains occurred near Basteri on Sangla-Chitkul road on Sunday, resulting in a bridge collapse and damage to some vehicles. A video of a bridge collapse in Basteri has gone viral on social media. In the video, boulders could be seen rolling downhill, causing the bridge to collapse.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-announces-financial-aid-for-himachal-landslide-victims-kin-1013020.html
26-07-2021||North and Central||On Kargil Vijay Diwas, President Kovind pays tributes to martyrs||President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday saluted the valor of soldiers who laid down lives for the country's safety and security. During his visit to Dagger War Memorial in north Kashmir’s Baramulla district, Kovind said it evokes profound respect for the brave fighters who laid down their lives for the safety and security of the country. The President, who is on a four-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir, was scheduled to visit the War Memorial at Drass in Ladakh to pay homage to Army soldiers, who laid their lives for the country in the 1999 Kargil war. He was to be accompanied in his visit by Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, according to a statement by the Rashtrapati Bhavan. “”The nation salutes the soldiers and officers of the 19th Infantry Division, who have been safeguarding our borders in the most hostile terrains under adverse weather conditions as our frontline troops,” he wrote in a message in the visitor’s book at the Dagger War Memorial. The nation celebrates Kargil Vijay Diwas on July 26 every year to mark the anniversary of the Indian Army's victory against Pakistan on this day in 1999, after more than two months of armed conflict on the highlands of Kargil in Ladakh. On Tuesday, the President will grace and address the 19th Annual Convocation of the University of Kashmir in Srinagar. He will be travelling back to Delhi on the morning of July 28.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/on-kargil-vijay-diwas-president-kovind-pays-tributes-to-martyrs-1013031.html
26-07-2021||North and Central||UP polls: SP to hold meetings in Uttar Pradesh to woo Brahmins||With an eye on the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections, the Samajwadi Party will hold a series of meeting of intellectuals as part of its Brahmin outreach programme. The BSP has already started a series of 'prabuddh sammelans' (intellectual meets) under the leadership of its Brahmin face and party general secretary Satish Chandra Misra from Ayodhya. Senior SP leaders belonging to the Prabuddh cell of the party and those of the Parshuram Peeth met SP chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday and the party president has given a go ahead to hold a series of meetings beginning from Ballia next month, party spokesman Rajendra Chaudhary said. Unlike the BSP, SP Prabudh Sabha had been working with the people since the past one year. The Parshuram peeth led by former party MLA Santosh Pandey had also expressed the desire to hold such meetings and the party president has given a go ahead, Chaudhary said. There is a lot of anger among the people over the continued "harassment" of Brahmins and others and also alleged atrocities during the BJP government, he said, adding that the people will be made aware that they will get justice only under the SP led government in the state. Senior Brahmin leaders including former speaker of the state Assembly Mata Prasad Pandey, president of the intellectuals cell Manoj Pandey, Sanatan Pandey and others will be chalking out the party's strategy on these sammelans. The leaders will also be launching tours and conferences in different parts of the state to connect with the upper castes before the coming elections and apprise people of the works done by the party during the government led by it . Earlier, BSP chief Mayawati had announced a campaign from Ayodhya to reach out to Brahmin voters and urge the community not to be "misled" by the BJP. Mayawati had claimed that the people from the "upper castes" were repenting voting for the BJP in the last state elections and said their interests will be safeguarded if her party comes to power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-polls-sp-to-hold-meetings-in-uttar-pradesh-to-woo-brahmins-1013043.html
26-07-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan Cabinet rejig: Dotasra hints in a video he may be dropped from Gehlot's team||Ahead of a likely Cabinet expansion in Rajasthan, school education minister and state Congress president Govind Singh Dotasra is heard saying in a video clip that he may have to step down from his ministerial post. Dotasra was apparently caught on camera in Ajmer where he had gone on Saturday to declare the results of the Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) exam. In the purported clip on social media, he is heard telling RBSE chairman D P Jaroli to come and meet him and get all pending files cleared, stressing that he may not be around as education minister for too long. "The files will not remain at my office for even an hour. You come on Monday. I will dispose of all your files in a minute,” he says. “Mein do-paanch din ka mehmaan hoon" (I may be around only for a few days), he says, adding, “Whatever you want done, get it done from me." The video has surfaced just ahead of Congress general secretary Ajay Maken’s planned trip to Jaipur on Wednesday, his second visit in recent days. Maken, who is in charge at the AICC of the party’s state unit, and another general secretary K C Venugopal visited Jaipur on Sunday amid the lobbying for vacant posts in Ashok Gehlot’s council of ministers. After meetings with state Congress leaders, Maken said there is no conflict among them over a cabinet expansion. He said they had left the decision on the party high command. Former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot’s supporters are seeking a share of the vacant berths in the ministry and other posts, following last year’s truce between his camp and Gehlot loyalists. In the video, Dotasra is seen sitting next to Pilot camp MLA Rakesh Pareek and chatting with a group over tea. Dotasra’s detractors had questioned his appointment as Rajasthan Congress chief, saying he is only a “junior” member of the Gehlot Cabinet. The Congress leader recently faced barbs from opposition after two of his relatives got the same marks in interviews for the Rajasthan Administrative Service (RAS), and questioned the selection process. However, no evidence of any wrongdoing was presented.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-cabinet-rejig-dotasra-hints-in-a-video-he-may-be-dropped-from-gehlots-team-1013081.html
26-07-2021||North and Central||Rakesh Tikait says farmers will 'boycott' BJP in UP polls||Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Monday said that the farmers would 'boycott' the BJP in the forthcoming assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Speaking to reporters here, Tikait said that the farmer leaders would be visiting every corner of UP and Uttarakhand and appeal to the people not to support the BJP and its alliance partners in the upcoming assembly elections. ''Despite our repeated appeals, the BJP government at the Centre has not repealed the new farm laws.....the farmers, therefore, will boycott the BJP and its allies in the polls,'' he added. Tikait said that farmers would organise 'mahapanchayats' in every division in UP in the next few months. ''Like Punjab and Haryana, the two poll-bound states of UP and Uttarakhand will also become centres of our agitation,'' he said. The BKU leader accused the Yogi Adityanath government in the state of backtracking on its promise to clear the dues of the cane farmers and purchase the wheat produced by them. ''The prices of cane have not been increased in the past four years...there have also been irregularities in wheat purchase in the state,'' he alleged. "Electricity is the costliest in UP. Inflation has adversely hit the people. The stray cattle has also become a huge problem for the farmers,'' Tikait added. Thousands of farmers have been on an indefinite dharna on the UP border demanding withdrawal of the new farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rakesh-tikait-says-farmers-will-boycott-bjp-in-up-polls-1013086.html
26-07-2021||Oasis||Tackle development woes with holistic, spiritual approach||Urbanisation is a growing trend the world over. By definition, urbanisation refers to the process by which rural areas become urbanised as a result of economic development and industrialisation. As economic development creates more opportunities in the services and industrial sectors, and with farm incomes stagnating or growing at a marginal rate, more and more people are now moving from rural areas to cities in search of better means of earning their livelihood. However, cities cannot absorb an unending influx of people, because large-scale migration of people requires constant expansion of infrastructure in terms of housing, water and power supply, sanitation and transport etc, in addition to schools, shops, health facilities and public places of recreation to ensure a minimum standard of living. But this has proved impossible in poor countries, where governments have been unable to provide even basic amenities to their people. The growth of most large cities in these countries has been accompanied by a deterioration in the quality of life. As their populations grew, the cities' infrastructure got stretched and began to collapse. In India, the lack of foresight on the part of local governments and the absence of any policy to check rural migration to cities has resulted in the unplanned and haphazard growth of most urban centres. Even in cities where there is adequate infrastructure for their residents, the very fact of a large number of people living in a small space creates many problems. The hurried pace of life, minimal or superficial social interaction and unhealthy lifestyles of city dwellers all together creates a negative effect on their minds, making them insensitive and callous. In the light of various problems created by urbanisation, it would be worthwhile if governments try to make rural areas more livable. The development of villages will result in the uniform growth of the country, rather than creating crowded spots in the form of cities that absorb resources from surrounding areas, leaving them poor. This approach offers the only hope of achieving sustainable development for the whole country. People in power should thus realise that the woes of development need to be tackled with a holistic and spiritual approach and our narrow plans driven by ego and greed need to be broadened with farsightedness and implemented with a humane attitude in order to bring about a value-based and sustainable development.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/tackle-development-woes-with-holistic-spiritual-approach-1012866.html
26-07-2021||Opinion||Farming, shooting, govt jobs and medals in Western UP||On the first day of the Tokyo Olympics, all eyes were on pistol shooter Saurabh Choudhary. Hopes were high that he would repeat his 2018 Jakarta-Palembang Asian Games feat. Focused and on target, the 19-year-old was among the first to shoot his 60 pellets in the qualifying round. He entered the top-eight field in the finals on the number one position. Unfortunately, a medal was not to be. Choudhary exited early in the finals at the Asaka shooting range.  Despite the loss, Choudhary's journey from the sugarcane belt of western Uttar Pradesh to the shooting ranges of Tokyo is one of determination, persistence and motivation. The region has ten sugar mills that make sugarcane cultivation the primary source of livelihood. However, finite landholdings have made government jobs, especially those in the armed forces, the most sought after to supplement incomes from agriculture.   For the last decade and a half, youngsters in and around Baghpat have turned to shooting sports to secure jobs in the army or paramilitary forces under the sports quota. The trend started in the late 1990s with a shooting range coming up in the Johri village, the birthplace of shooting in Baghpat's rural belt. Now there are 15 ranges in Johri and nearby villages, the most for a rural pocket in the country. These ranges still lack shooting infrastructure and are non-air-conditioned shooting ranges with outdated electrical pulleys. However, this does not deter youngsters who train for hours in scorching heat motivated that honing their skills might someday give them a shot at government jobs. But Choudhary's Asian Games triumph changed that perspective, heralding a second revolution in the area. Youngsters now dream bigger, thronging the ranges to become champions in the Asian continental games and even represent the country in the Olympics. It isn't merely jobs, but the Olympics medal is on their radar. "Saurabh's success in the sport changed people's worldview in the Baghpat region. Now, the kids want to learn shooting to be an Asian Games champion or to compete in the Olympics like him," shooting coach Amit Sheoran had said a couple of days before the start of the Tokyo Olympics. The beginning Rajpal Singh, a retired Ayurvedic practitioner, introduced the sport in the region in 1998, and Johri village's Sheoran is from the initial batches. He competed in the two nationals in 2000 and 2002. In 2010, Sheoran opened a shooting in village Binauli, around 7 km from Johri. "I am not sure about the count, but the number of those who got jobs under the sports quotas in various government departments over the last 15 years would be over 200 shooters," said Sheoran. The sport has also played a role in women's empowerment in the region. The biopic 'Saand Ki Aankh' based on the life of octogenarian dadi (grandmothers) shooters Prakashi Tomar and Chandro Tomor (she passed away this year in April) has brought national fame for the rural areas of Baghpat. "Dadi Chandro used to accompany me to the range, and eventually, she, along with her sister-in-law Prakashi started learning the sport. I participated in my first North Zone shooting competition along with Dadi Chandro in 1999. I won gold in junior and dadi won silver in veterans," recalls Shefali Tomar, the first international from the clan. Her cousin, international shooter Ruby Tomar is a sub-inspector in Punjab Police. She got the job under the sports quota. Shefali represented the country in pistol shooting in 2006 and 2007. "Shooting has helped over 30 to 40 girls to get government jobs," she says. Choudhary was not an exception when he had joined Sheoran's shooting academy at the age of 13 in Binauli village, around 15 km from his native Kalina village on the Baghpat-Meerut border. His initial objective was to work towards a government job under the sports quota, but his target shifted after a few months of training to eyeing a berth in the national squad. Subsequently, gold medals in all three age categories, youth, junior and senior, in the very first national at Pune brought the Olympics in focus. When Choudhary's elder brother Nitin brought him to the shooting range, their target was to get a job in the Indian army under the sports quota, reminisces Sheoran. "But Saurabh soon started shooting 360-365 points (out of 400), which was quite a good score for a beginner. I told his brother that Saurabh is made for bigger things, and they should drop the idea of securing a sports quota job in the army," says Sheoran. The family gave serious thought to the coach's advice. Choudhary used a common pistol on the range until then, but the family bought him a personal pistol. "He became the national champion in his very first nationals in 2016. Since then, the Olympics came into our focus, and I knew he would be there in Tokyo," says Sheoran. Saurabh Choudhary is the name of a new shooting revolution in the rural belt of Baghpath. "He is already a hero, a symbol of hope for the youngsters coming from a humble farming background," Sheoran says. (The writer is a senior sports journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/farming-shooting-govt-jobs-and-medals-in-western-up-1013029.html
26-07-2021||Opinion||Time to scrutinise public finances over security||The Pegasus spyware, designed by an Israeli company, NSO, is in the news after revelations that it was used to hack the phones of over 1,000 Indians, including opposition leader Rahul Gandhi, journalists, Buddhist monks and politicians. One of my Sangh Parivar contacts, usual to his style of defending the central government, told me, "This is nothing new. All governments have been doing this in the past." Is what he said true? Not really. I recall an incident that happened to me during my stint as the deputy mayor of Shimla from 2012 to 17. The Inspector-General of Himachal Police (Law and Order) called me one day and said, "You better be careful. We have put your phones under surveillance." He meant both the mayor and my phones were under surveillance as the two of us belonged to the CPI (M). The government in the state was that of the political party that is our ideological opponent. He informed me because of the strong bond that both of us had, and he wanted to alert me of the designs of the state government. I asked him what should I do and should I complain? He said no, but abuse the government as much as you can, and that will be sufficient for them to stop listening to your conversations. The point that my Sangh Parivar friend has not understood, and what I wish to highlight here is this. There is a big difference between surveillance and what is happening now with the Pegasus infiltration. What is happening now is hacking. Importantly, it is being done to serve a party's interests and not, as portrayed, in national security interests. At a protest meeting held at the Press Club of India on July 22, one of the speakers pointed out that it is like corporatisation of the spying business. The corporate company doing this task can even compromise the security of the nation. They said that some journalists must knock at the court's doors as this entire exercise is illegal. We now know that the national security advisor had visited Israel before the prime minister's visit in March 2017. Inferences are being drawn that the budget for the national security council secretariat was enhanced to Rs 333 crore in 2017-18 from Rs 33 crore the previous year. The Congress and CPI(M) have asked, "Was this hike related to purchasing Israeli spyware?" Edward Snowden, the US whistleblower, warned about these malware developers and how they are connected to profit-making enterprises. He said: "An industry that should not exist...If you don't do anything to stop the sale of this technology, it's not just going to be 50,000 targets. It's going to be 50 million targets, and it's going to happen much more quickly than any of us expect." A global moratorium and that too immediately to be adopted was the cry. Its been four years since 2017 when Snowden pulled the rug off the US NSA, but the cyber malware and attacks continue to haunt not just India but the world. Two issues come to the fore. The first is the budgetary spending on the security council, as this is hardly screened either by the public accounts committee or supervised by Parliament. The second pertains to the response of the government in the entire episode. In his address to the Himachal Pradesh Assembly in Shimla to celebrate its golden jubilee, Pranab Mukherjee had said not a penny in the country can be spent without the legislature's consent. Hence, the elected legislature must be cautious while determining that. The Constitution gives this power to spend, and the legislature has to do it judiciously, he said while referring to the role of the states' public accounts' committees.  However, there is one grey area in the guise of security that escapes public scrutiny in India. It is high time we discuss this. In many of the developed nations, parliamentary supervision vets spending on security concerns. Take, for example, in the US and UK, where these committees are reasonably democratic.  But in India, as pointed out earlier, the spending on security concerns evades proper scrutiny. The country does not know if money is being spent by the state for prudent security concerns or to snoop on its citizens to benefit the ruling dispensation. The second issue is that of an inquiry into the episode. France has probed the snooping of its former prime minister, Édouard Philippe. In India, where there are accusations that the malware compromised opposition leader Rahul Gandhi's phone and many others, the Indian government is in complete denial mode.  The government must explicitly state that it has not bought the software, and it did not allow a private company to do this snooping exercise. In that case, a charge of treason should be slapped on the company. But the NSO group has categorically stated that its clients are governments. Else, the government must admit this was done at its behest. If that be the case, it should tender an apology to the nation and its people. However, what the central government is doing is precisely the inverse. It has started raiding the offices of the press and intimidating them with dire consequences. It is a scary and challenging situation where the government that had uttered such proverbial phrases as "minimum government maximum governance" faces allegations of exhibiting the worst form of snooping governance. (The writer is a former deputy mayor of Shimla.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/time-to-scrutinise-public-finances-over-security-1013052.html
26-07-2021||Panorama||What should happen to our data when we die?||The new Anthony Bourdain documentary Roadrunner is one of many projects dedicated to the larger-than-life chef, writer and television personality. But the film has drawn outsize attention, in part because of its subtle reliance on Artificial Intelligence (AI) technology. Using several hours of Bourdain’s voice recordings, a software company created 45 seconds of new audio for the documentary. The AI voice sounds just like Bourdain speaking from the great beyond; at one point in the movie, it reads an email he sent before his death by suicide in 2018. “If you watch the film, other than that line you mentioned, you probably don’t know what the other lines are that were spoken by the AI, and you’re not going to know,” Morgan Neville, the director, said in an interview with The New Yorker. “We can have a documentary-ethics panel about it later.” The time for that panel may be now. The dead are being digitally resurrected with growing frequency: As 2D projections, 3D holograms, CGI renderings and AI chatbots. A holograph of rapper Tupac Shakur took the stage at Coachella in 2012, 15 years after his death; a likeness of a 19-year-old Audrey Hepburn starred in a 2014 Galaxy chocolate ad and Carrie Fisher and Peter Cushing posthumously reprised their roles in some of the newer Star Wars films. Few examples drew as much attention as the singing, dancing hologram that Kanye West gave Kim Kardashian West for her birthday last October, cast in the image of her late father, Robert Kardashian. Much like Bourdain’s vocal doppelgänger, the hologram’s voice was trained on real audio recordings but spoke in sentences never uttered by Kardashian; as if communicating from the afterlife, the hologram expressed pride in Kardashian West’s pursuit of a law degree and described Kanye West as “the most, most, most, most, most genius man in the whole world.” Daniel Reynolds, whose company, Kaleida, produced the hologram of Kardashian, said that costs for projects of its nature start at $30,000 and can run higher than $1,00,000 when transportation and display are factored in. But there are other, much more affordable forms of digital reincarnation; as of this year, on the genealogy site MyHeritage, visitors can animate family photos of relatives long dead, essentially creating innocuous but uncanny deepfakes for free. Though most digital reproductions have revolved around people in the public eye, there are implications for even the least famous of us. Just about everyone these days has an online identity, one that will live on long after death. Determining what to do with those digital selves may be one of the great ethical and technological imperatives of our time. Whose data is this? Ever since the internet subsumed communication, work and leisure, the amount of data humans create daily has risen steeply. Every minute, people enter more than 3.8 million Google search queries, send more than 188 million emails and swipe through Tinder more than 1.4 million times, all while being tracked by various forms of digital surveillance. We produce so much data that some philosophers now believe personhood is no longer an equation of body and mind; it must also take into account the digital being. When we die, we leave behind informational corpses, composed of emails, text messages, social media profiles, search queries and online shopping behaviour. Carl Ohman, a digital ethicist, said this represents a huge sociological shift; for centuries, only the rich and famous were thoroughly documented. In one study, Ohman calculated that — assuming its continued existence — Facebook could have 4.9 billion deceased users by the century’s end. That figure presents challenges at both the personal and the societal level, Ohman said: “It’s not just about, ‘What do I do with my deceased father’s Facebook profile?’ It’s rather a matter of ‘What do we do with the Facebook profiles of the past generation?’” The aggregate data of the dead on social media represents an archive of significant humanitarian value — a primary historical resource the likes of which no other generation has left behind. Ohman believes it must be treated as such. He has argued in favour of designating digital remains with a status similar to that of archaeological remains — or “some kind of digital World Heritage label,” he said — so that scholars and archivists can protect them from exploitation and digital decay. Then, in the future, people can use them to learn about the big, cultural moments that played out online, like the Arab Spring and the #MeToo movement, and “zoom in to do qualitative readings of the individuals that took part in these movements,” Ohman said. Public social media profiles are one thing. Private exchanges, such as the email read in the Bourdain documentary, raise more complicated ethical questions. “We don’t know that Bourdain would have consented to reading these emails on camera,” said Katie Shilton, a researcher focused on information technology ethics at the University of Maryland. “We don’t know that he would have consented to having his voice manipulated.” She described the decision to have the text read aloud as “a violation of autonomy.” Posthumous privacy As Jean-Paul Sartre once put it: “To be dead is to be a prey for the living.” It’s a sentiment that philosophers are still mulling over today, and one that Patrick Stokes, author of Digital Souls, sees as directly related to digital remains. As he sees it, creating a digital version of a deceased person requires taking qualities from the dead that are meaningful to the living — such as their conversations and entertainment value — and leaving the rest behind. “We’ve crossed into replacing the dead,” said Stokes, a senior lecturer in philosophy at Deakin University. “We’ve crossed into not simply finding a particularly vivid way to remember them, but instead, we found a way to plug the gap in existence they’ve left by dying.” In the case of public figures, there is an obvious financial incentive to create their digital likenesses, which is why their images are protected by posthumous publicity rights for a certain period of time. In California, it’s up to 70 years after death; in New York, as of December 2020, it’s 40 years post-mortem. If a company wants to use the image of a deceased person sooner, it requires consent from the deceased’s estate; resulting collaborations can be mutually profitable. As such, moral guardianship can be complicated by financial motives. Some artists are explicitly expressing their desires. Robin Williams, for instance, who died in 2014, filed a deed preventing the use of his image, or any likeness of him, for 25 years after his death as an extra layer of protection on top of California’s law. Consumers are also making their opinions known. The company Base Hologram, which has produced hologram shows of Roy Orbison, Buddy Holly and Maria Callas, reversed plans to put likenesses of both Whitney Houston and Amy Winehouse on tour after they were criticised as exploitative. Just because producing such performances is legal doesn’t mean audiences will accept them as ethical. Currently, United States federal law does not recognise the dead’s right to privacy, said Albert Gidari, a lawyer and former consulting director of privacy at the Stanford Center for Internet and Society. As a way of asserting agency over their digital legacies, some people are choosing to create their own AI selves using a growing number of apps and services. A chatbot app, Replika, creates avatars that mimic their users’ voices; over time, each of those avatars is meant to become the ultimate empathetic friend, ever-available by text (free) and voice calls (for a fee). The service gained traction during the pandemic, as isolated people sought out easy companionship. This is all happening in the midst of a pandemic that has radically altered the rites around death. For many families, final goodbyes and funerals were virtual in 2020, if they happened at all. When digital-afterlife technologies begin to enter mainstream use, they may help ease the process of bereavement, as well as foster connections between generations past and present and encourage the living to discuss death more openly with each other.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/what-should-happen-to-our-data-when-we-die-1012868.html
26-07-2021||Panorama||Favouring credit cooperatives over producer: Putting the cart before the horse||Only a few statements are memorised and repeated without being understood, such as “mitochondria is the powerhouse of the cell” or “the Earth revolves around the Sun". If one were to mention the term ‘Cooperatives’ to an academic, a pre-recorded message will be played: Cooperative movement is a failure in India. However, the government favours cooperatives, while the academia disapproves of it, making the dichotomy apparent. Adding to the confusion, the Union government has minted a new ministry, sparking a nationwide dialogue. While debates rage over the federal structure and effectiveness of cooperatives, there is hardly any squeak on producer cooperatives, not even on the venerable Amul. All the debates are on: How strong is the effect of credit cooperatives on financial services, their seemingly astronomical tunes of credit disbursal (more than one-third of total Union Budgetary receipts), the importance of institutional credit and so on. On the other hand, discussions are hot on what constitutes a Centre-state relationship and who infringed upon whose rights. A recent Supreme Court verdict striking down an amendment on the issue could not have come at a better time. Yet, politics will always find ways to nestle itself wherever there are people and most importantly, where money is. It is no secret that control of credit translates to control of power. Credit is not everything; a farmer might receive timely and institutional credit but still hang himself, unable to repay loans due to a crash in prices or loss of the produce. Both the government and academia need to understand that subsistence farming is not a business activity; it is the last resort of a helpless peasant. Rejoicing over profits accumulated in banks accrued through interest from farmers is myopic. Enrichment through usury is not a long term solution. Therefore, it is indeed appalling to see the producer/marketing cooperatives being kicked to the curb, despite being the most significant contributors to the farmer and rural incomes, wherever they are active. A producer cooperative society is a cooperative organisation where producers, generally farmers or artisans, come together to prevent exploitation from both pre-harvest and post-harvest swindling and losses. Since there isn’t any employer-employee relationship in the cooperative, principal-agent problems and the problems of moral hazard do not arise. This empowers the farmers to utilise economies of scale and even contribute significantly to knowledge sharing and social cohesion. Producer/marketing cooperatives such as Amul, Karnataka Milk Federation, Co-optex of Kancheepuram saree fame, IFFCO and many others have directly transformed the lives of many Indians, especially the poor. The minister for cooperation said that the government is determined to empower cooperatives and had already directed IFFCO and KRIBHCO (both fertiliser cooperatives) to work in seed production. However, what the producer cooperatives need is support and not directives, they’ve got enough of the latter. Empowerment needs to be tangible and real— devoid of lip service. A new ministry implies a new budgetary allocation and the cooperative sector needs massive investments in organising new cooperatives and building capacities in the existing ones. Going by the figures of the Union Budget, the Budget deficit itself is 20.87 lakh crore (Receipts: Rs 14.24 lakh crore, expenditure: Rs 35.11 lakh crore); suffice to say for every rupee we earn, we spend Rs 2.5. It needs to be seen how much of the monetary empowerment a cash-strapped government is willing to provide to a fledgling but ambitious ministry in a pandemic year. The credit cooperatives are monitored and in turn supported by NABARD, RBI, the Union and the state governments through actions such as loan waivers that naturally solve the defaulters and NPA problems. In Karnataka alone, loan waivers have been implemented about four times in the last 15 years. No such support has been shown towards the producer/marketing cooperatives that have been gasping for want of material and legal aid. In Karnataka, ‘Transport Cooperative Society, Koppa’ was a renowned organisation, whose fame was reported in India and abroad. It successfully served the needs of service-deprived people of the Western Ghats of Karnataka. It now begs for help and assistance as it lost its mortgaged assets, including buses, owing to the pandemic. When such an illustrious organisation met such an unceremonious end, it is difficult to believe that a newly minted ministry sitting thousands of miles away will aid crucial cooperatives in similar waters. Academicians’ contempt Researchers and academics have been gradually tilting towards the economic right for quite a few decades now. Possibly, this bias prevents them from actually verifying and valuing a truly social mode of production and consumption. Granted that government has no business in business, but cooperatives are a political creature— they have the elements of both unionisation and election. Most importantly, cooperatives aren’t expected to work as an everyday company— they are an equitable vehicle of development, not merely an instrument for shareholder wealth maximisation. As long as this dichotomy isn’t appreciated in academic circles, our politicians will steal the thunder. With the current information at hand and the track record, it does not seem that producer cooperatives will receive their deliverance this time either. Like flies attracted to manure, politics is attracted to money. In this case, it was attracted to the politically and financially rich credit cooperatives but neglected the much-needed producer cooperatives. Does the government favour cooperatives? Yes, with regard to credit but not with regard to producers, thus, creating a classic case of putting the cart before the horse, again. (The writer is part of the PES University faculty)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/favouring-credit-cooperatives-over-producer-putting-the-cart-before-the-horse-1012872.html
26-07-2021||Right in the Middle||When patience was a virtue||How easily do children and adults of today’s Digital Age lose patience if the internet is down or 4G/Wi-Fi or WhatsApp stops working even for a few minutes? If hours, those around have to listen to curses and worse. They ask you wondering: “how did you guys exist without a TV, micro, mixie, cell-phone, multiplexes, malls etc.” All this makes me look back over the years. Take just the case of a telephone. Most didn’t have a connection. In a mile-long street, maybe just 2 or 3, unless some shops with phones were interspersed. To get a connection, you had to wait for eternity beside, greasing the palms; begging and scraping before P&T staff. To make a call, you lifted the handset and the operator in a 200-500 line exchange would respond by asking “number please, sir”. He will ring the other party and plug both of you in. He wouldn’t wait to check if the other party has attended. If it rang, his duty was done. To book a trunk call, you stood in a queue at a Post Office, paid in advance for three minutes. And then wait, once again eternally. If you needed to speak to a particular person, it was a PP Call and charges were double. To test physical fitness, there were no chairs/benches. Once inside the glass booth, after shouting hello a few times, you started your conversation; two minutes would pass and the counter clerk would tap on the glass and remind you to extend but only a maximum of three more minutes. If the line dropped, an altercation would ensue and the others in the queue would be annoyed with you, rather than the clerk or telephone department. In the army of the Sixties, we had Field Telephones called J&L. They had a small handle and to make a call, you moved it a little. A tiny shutter would fall in the Switch Board Magneto 10 Line Exchange, sounding a warning to the operator, who would plug the cord in and say “Number please, sir”, though there were no numbers but only appointment designations. He would connect the other party first and then call you. Procedure demanded that called party comes on the line first, but if he happened to be a few ranks above you, he would insist you come on the line first. The operator would be stuck between two egos. If a very senior commander wished to call, the Signal Officer would check repeatedly if his voice was audible and intelligible. Woe betide if the senior officer was unable to hear. My experience of just one army trunk call in early 1963 would interest you. As adjutant in Charduar (Assam), I was directed by my CO to convey an emergent operational message to our Observation Officer near Bomdila (130 km away). I had to go through five exchanges: Regt, Station Exchange, Tezpur exchange, then the Divisional and Brigade exchanges in that area and finally our officer. I was a 2 Lt; so you can well imagine the time taken and the quality of our conversation. Imagine the scene today.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/when-patience-was-a-virtue-1012861.html
26-07-2021||Second Edit||It’s a different ball Games||Olympics have been held in different settings in the past, but it is the first time that the Games are being held in such limiting circumstances as now. It is the biggest stage in the world to express physical excellence and mental strength, and to underline the value of camaraderie through contest and competition. The Games are now held when the world itself is facing a big challenge that impacts bodies, minds and all aspects of life. It was to be held last year, and though there was uncertainty attending it till almost the last day, the flag has finally gone up, and they are now being held in a big bubble without the excited cheers and roars from the galleries. But the whole world is a stadium now and the message is that the spirit is strong and resilient, though the body is challenged by an invisible enemy. Hopefully, the Games will provide a balm to the distressed world. The Japanese government has made a political investment in the success of the Games. The International Olympic Committee (IOC) has sunk a lot of worries in it and over 11,000 athletes have attached their hopes to it. Millions around the world are watching it. The conduct of the Games will itself be the best measure of its success, and the run of wins and losses and the crash of records till now show that the Olympic motto is well in action. This would still be a different Olympics. There are more items than in past editions. The Games are greener than all past Olympics. Athletes have greater freedom to express themselves, and rules have been updated to allow wearing a different dress or flag, taking the knees or making other gestures. There is even some room to make a protest. Importantly, there were two flag-bearers at the parade, one male and one female, to underline the idea of gender equality. About 49 % of the athletes are women, proving the IOC’s claim that the Tokyo event is the first-ever gender-balanced Olympic Games. Some national delegations like the US and China have more women athletes than men. There are stars and performances to look forward to. Gymnast Simone Biles, swimmer Caeleb Dressel, marathoner Eliud Kipchoge, and sprinter Noah Lyles and a host other athletes will be testing the limits and past records. While individuals will try to excel, national teams will vie for honours, and the world will converge into a village for over a fortnight. Medals have started flashing, and India has started on a silver note. The country has sent its largest-ever contingent to Tokyo, and has more hopes and ambitions than in the past. Cheers for Mirabai Chanu, who has led the way.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/it-s-a-different-ball-games-1012860.html
26-07-2021||South||Kerala man arrested after he drags pet dog tied to his speeding car||In yet another instance of cruelty towards animals in Kerala, a dog was killed after it was dragged along the road by tying it to a speeding car on Sunday morning. The incident took place at Ayarkunnam in Kottayam district. The local police held the accused who has been identified as Jehu Thomas, 22. The incident came to light after local witnesses alerted some local activists. The accused was identified with the CCTV footage of the incident captured by a surveillance camera installed in a nearby premises. Subsequently, they reported the matter to the police and the police nabbed the accused by tracing the car. The accused told the police that he did it by mistake. His version was that the local pet breed of his house used to be tied to the rear bumper of his car as they had no kennel. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-man-arrested-after-he-drags-pet-dog-tied-to-his-speeding-car-1012940.html
26-07-2021||South||Kerala HC orders release of man who served 18 years in jail in 14 different cases||After spending over 18 years in prison serving the jail terms awarded to him in 14 different criminal cases one after the other, a 61-year old convict finally got relief with the Kerala High Court directing that he be released forthwith. The man was arrested in 2003 and was in prison ever since and if the high court had not intervened he would have ended up serving around 30 years in jail for offences like theft, housebreaking, lurking house trespass by night, etc. The man had pleaded guilty in all the 14 cases and as a result he was convicted in all of them, between 2007 to 2010, and was awarded varying jail terms for periods ranging from 6 months to 5 years which added together came to 30 years and six months. However, as the crimes were committed at different periods of time and were pending before different trial courts, none of them exercised the discretion they had under the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) to order that the sentences would run concurrently, the high court noted in its judgement. Had the discretion been exercised, the convict -- Sivanandan -- would have been out after serving five years, which was the maximum sentence awarded to him in one of the 14 cases. In the absence of such a direction by any of the trial courts, he continued to remain in prison and had the high court not ordered his release, he would have served a total of 30 years and six months. The issue came to the high court's attention when the convict moved a plea seeking his release on the grounds that his continued detention was illegal and that he was old and infirm. Noting that he was awarded five years jail term in only one of the cases and in the rest he was sentenced to lesser imprisonment, Justice Ashok Menon said, "I find that it will be in the interest of justice if this court exercises its jurisdiction under the CrPC and intervenes..." "In the instant case, I find the petitioner (Sivanandan) had not even contested the cases and had pleaded guilty, in consequence of which he was sentenced to imprisonment. He is more than 60 years old and has been in prison for more than 18 years now. "Under the circumstances, exercising the jurisdiction under Section 482 (inherent powers of the high court) of the CrPC, the respondents (state and prison authorities) are directed to release the petitioner (Sivanandan) forthwith recording that he has undergone the sentence in all the crimes in which he was convicted," Justice Menon said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-orders-release-of-man-who-served-18-years-in-jail-in-14-different-cases-1012981.html
26-07-2021||South||Punish district collectors for touching KCR's feet: Congress leader||Taking strong exception to two collectors touching the feet of Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao at an official function, senior Congress leader Mohammed Ali Shabbir has urged the Centre to take stern action against the duo. In a letter written to President Ram Nath Kovind and the Centre on Sunday, Shabbir Ali sought action against the district Collectors of Siddipet and Kamareddy for touching the feet of KCR in full public view. The Collectors of Siddipet and Kamareddy districts of Telangana State, P Venkatrama Reddy and Dr. A Sharath respectively have violated the All India Services (Conduct) Rules, 1968. Both the Collectors touched the feet of the Chief Minister in full public view during the event of launch of District Collectorate office complexes on June 20, 2021 in their respective districts, Shabbir Ali alleged. "By touching the feet of the Chief Minister in a public function, both the Collectors have insulted the Constitution and behaved like political functionaries," he alleged while requesting the President of India to take note of their behaviour and take necessary action. With their acts they have sent the wrong message and set a wrong precedent by bowing down before the Chief Minister, who is a political functionary, he further said. "The actions of both the District Collectors clearly exposed that they were not maintaining political neutrality. The Chief Minister is also the President of Telangana Rashtra Samithi. Therefore, by bowing down and touching his feet, the District Collectors have conveyed a message to the common people that they were inclined towards the ruling party," he said. Shabbir Ali, in his letter, said that the Section 3 (ii) of the All India Services (Conduct) Rules, 1968 clearly says that 'Every member of the Service shall maintain Political Neutrality'. The Congress leader pointed out that the Collectors have apparently forgotten that as per the Constitution, they are the Chief Officer of the Revenue Administration, responsible for the collection of land revenue, and also the highest Revenue Judicial Authority in the district. A copy of this letter was also sent to Union Minister of State for Personnel Jithendra Singh. Reacting to the criticism, Venkatrama Reddy on the same day of the incident issued a statement justifying his act by saying KCR is a fatherly figure to him. "It is part of Telangana's culture to take blessings of elders during auspicious occasions. I took the blessings of the CM who is like a fatherly figure to me when I was taking charge in the new collectorate," thecollectors statement had said. Requesting not to make an issue out of it, Reddy said he did so as June 20 also happened to be Fathers Day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/punish-district-collectors-for-touching-kcrs-feet-congress-leader-1012987.html
26-07-2021||South||From vaccine wastage to highest extractor of doses: How Tamil Nadu changed the script of its vaccination story||In the initial months of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, Tamil Nadu not just encountered vaccine hesitancy among the eligible population but also topped the vaccine wastage chart. Months later, Tamil Nadu has not just achieved zero wastage of vaccines but has leapt to top the list of states that have extracted extra doses from the vials.  As per data released by the Union Health Ministry, Tamil Nadu has extracted 5.88 lakh additional doses of the Covid-19 vaccine from May 1 to July 13, followed by West Bengal (4.87 lakh), Gujarat (4.62 lakh), Kerala (3.92 lakh), and Maharashtra (3.59 lakh). The wastage was nil.  This is in complete contrast with the state’s performance reported in the first few months of the vaccination drive. According to data available, the state wasted 4.5 lakh doses between January 16 and April 20, even as it battled vaccine hesitancy.  In the past few months, the state’s vaccination drive picked up with people queuing up before Primary Health Centers (PHCs) and other vaccination centres to get inoculated. The turnaround came after the drive was opened for 18-44 years of age in mid-May.  After a few weeks, the state had to suspend the drive due to a shortage of vaccines – Tamil Nadu has been complaining that it was not getting a “fair deal” from the Union Government, even as the state reports vaccine shortage every now and then. At last, on July 25, the state has administered 2.08 crore doses of which 14.04 lakh were given by private hospitals.  “Every vial will have at least 10 per cent additional dosage. As the vaccine hesitancy came down and people began queuing up outside vaccination centres, our healthcare workers were not just able to use the vial fully, but also extract additional doses from them. Also, we rationalised vaccination centres based on demand which helped us,” J Radhakrishnan, Principal Secretary (Health), told DH. A vial contains 10 doses and should be used within four hours of opening it. As the vaccine hesitancy was high in Tamil Nadu in the first few months, the wastage could not be prevented, healthcare workers said, adding that several doses were wasted as they could not find people to administer them.  “Kerala began extracting additional doses from the vials when the vaccination drive was launched in January. We achieved vaccine extraction much later because of a slew of factors including vaccine hesitancy in the beginning. Our healthcare staff could get 11 doses in most vials, while they squeezed out 12 doses too in many cases,” Radhakrishnan added.  Public health expert Dr K Kolandaswamy told DH that the experience gained by healthcare workers and the relative easiness in administering the vaccine has led to the extraction of additional doses. “Vaccine wastage can be avoided when there is no reluctance. And the efficiency of our healthcare workers has been demonstrated in the way they have extracted additional doses from vials,” he added.  The state is also finding ways to further ramp up its vaccination drive by opening free vaccination in private hospitals by finding a novel way to use the vaccine doses that are lying unused from their quota. The government has allowed corporates to use their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds to buy vaccines from private hospitals and administer them to people free of cost.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/from-vaccine-wastage-to-highest-extractor-of-doses-how-tamil-nadu-changed-the-script-of-its-vaccination-story-1013080.html
26-07-2021||South||OPS, EPS meet PM Narendra Modi in New Delhi||In a politically significant development, warring leaders of Tamil Nadu’s principal Opposition party AIADMK, O Panneerselvam and Edappadi K Palaniswami, on Monday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi and discussed the current political situation in the state. Palaniswami and Panneerselvam met Modi along with senior AIADMK leaders at the Parliament House complex. The meeting comes on the heels of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) conducting searches at the premises belonging to former AIADMK minister M R Vijayabhaskar, and ousted party leader V K Sasikala upping the ante seeking to unsettle the leadership.  Though the two leaders said they discussed issues relating to Tamil Nadu during their meeting, politics was the main agenda in the discussion. The leaders are believed to have briefed Modi about the DVAC action against party leaders, calling them “politically motivated”. For the record, Palaniswami told reporters that the AIADMK delegation demanded that adequate vaccines be given to the state and that the Union Government should not allow construction of a reservoir in Mekedatu across Cauvery river by Karnataka. Palaniswami refused to answer a question on Sasikala. The AIADMK top brass meeting with Modi came after a day after Sasikala suggested in an interview to a channel backed by her family that the party should revert to singular leadership.  The raids at premises belonging to Vijayabhaskar are billed as the beginning of a long-drawn action by DVAC against alleged corruption deals during the AIADMK government. The AIADMK had termed the raids as “politically motivated”, but the DMK says the party’s manifesto has promised to set up a special court to try all corruption cases.  The DMK, while in Opposition, had submitted a “chargesheet” against half-a-dozen AIADMK ministers accusing them of corruption to Governor Banwarilal Purohit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ops-eps-meet-pm-narendra-modi-in-new-delhi-1013109.html
26-07-2021||South||Tirupati boy, Bengaluru techie and 'Andhra Pradesh Weatherman': Meet Sai Praneeth who earned PM Modi's praise||What began as a hobby for Sai Praneeth Burra a few years back has now earned him praises from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and an instant national recognition. In his Mann ki Baat broadcast on Sunday, Modi mentioned the efforts of the 24 year old electrical engineer from Tirupati, who disseminates timely, easy to grasp weather information on social media in local language Telugu for public use especially the farmers. Modi mentioned that Burra started using his keen interest in meteorology for the farmers' good, after witnessing the huge losses they suffered last year due to inclement weather conditions. Burra is better known as “Andhra Pradesh Weatherman” on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. He also runs a YouTube channel by the same name where he posts videos providing the latest weather picture. It includes necessary warnings, useful information during climatic conditions like thunderstorms, cyclones, floods, heat waves. Burra is a gold medalist passing out of Anna University, Chennai in 2017 and is employed with a software firm in Bengaluru. He is presently operating from home due to the pandemic. As also mentioned by PM Modi, Burra says he has spent about Rs 1.5 lakh in the past one year for subscriptions of accurate weather updates from various agencies. Burra uses this data to decode the useful information regionally and spreads it widely through his twitter etc handles. Many of his YouTube and Facebook followers are farmers who are said to have benefitted from his posts. Stressing that effective communication systems to disseminate real time weather updates is crucial, especially for communities whose livelihoods depend upon weather conditions, UN Habitat noted that Sai Praneeth, the ‘Andhra Pradesh Weatherman's’ blog and website have a significant following among rural farmers who use the information to make informed decisions daily. Such cases exemplify the simple yet effective ways of knowledge transfer (at micro, regional level) and capacity development that could build resilience to climate change, UNH said in June. “My interest in weather, meteorology began in 2013 and I started sharing the updates with the public from last year. While my YouTube and Facebook posts are in Telugu for the understanding of the locals, tweets are in English,” Burra said. Since Sunday, Burra is flooded with congratulatory messages from friends, relatives to dignitaries like Andhra Pradesh governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan. “I was doing it as a hobby, passion but the PM's praise has added a sense of responsibility now,” Burra told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tirupati-boy-bengaluru-techie-and-andhra-pradesh-weatherman-meet-sai-praneeth-who-earned-pm-modis-praise-1013135.html
26-07-2021||South||Covid vaccination in Kerala hit due to supply shortage||Covid vaccination in Kerala has been affected owing to shortage of vaccines. Kerala Health Minister Veena George said that vaccination at many districts came to a halt as the entire stock supplied by the Centre was almost over. While the Centre so far supplied 1.66 doses, the state could administer 1.86 crore doses. The state has been repeatedly urging the Centre to ensure proper vaccine supply, she said. The state had earlier achieved over-utilisation by ensuring zero wastage and thereby making use of the excess vaccine contained in each vial. Kerala had even set a record of administering 4.5 lakh vaccines on Saturday. Kerala is lamenting over short supply of vaccine close on the heels of the Centre, maintaining that about 10 lakh dose vaccines were remaining unused in Kerala. This had triggered a blame game between the left-front government in Kerala and BJP government at the Centre. Meanwhile, Covid TPR of Kerala witnessed a slight decline on Monday. The TPR of the 1.09 lakh tests done in the last 24 hours was 10.59 per cent. Kasargod and Kannur districts have made Covid test mandatory for getting vaccination. The decision was learnt to be aimed at bringing down TPR. The health minister said that Kasargod and Wayanad districts already achieved the targets for vaccinating persons above the age of 45.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-vaccination-in-kerala-hit-due-to-supply-shortage-1013146.html
26-07-2021||State||Resigned voluntarily, was not forced, says BSY||Caretaker Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa said Monday that he resigned voluntarily and not under any pressure.  Speaking to reporters outside Raj Bhavan after submitting his resignation to Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot, Yediyurappa said there was no pressure from BJP central leadership to step down.  "It was my decision to resign on the same day when I complete two years as CM. I voluntarily resigned to provide an opportunity for others to serve. Neither Prime Minister Narendra Modi nor Union Home Minister Amit Shah forced me to resign," he said. Yediyurappa said he had not proposed any names as his replacement. "High command will finalise (the next CM)," he said. On whether he would accept the role of the Governor of any state, Yediyurappa said that he was not an aspirant for any such post. "I will travel across the state and work to strengthen the party," he said. On whether 'migrants', the Congress-JD(S) rebels, will find a place in the new Cabinet, Yediyurappa said that even the next CM will be aware of their contribution in bringing BJP to power and would accommodate them in the Cabinet. Noting that hundreds of seers supported him over the past week, Yediyurappa requested them to extend the same assistance to the next CM also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/resigned-voluntarily-was-not-forced-says-bsy-1012965.html
26-07-2021||State||B S Yediyurappa: BJP's seasoned oarsman relents, but too early for political obituary||There seems to be no "closure" for B S Yediyurappa, the BJP's "comeback man" in Karnataka, as he could never complete a full term in office, despite becoming the Chief Minister four times, surmounting odds. It's also too early to write a political obituary of the 78-year old Lingayat strongman and the 24X7 politician, the face of the party in the State for decades. From the humdrum existence as a government clerk and a hardware store owner to becoming the chief minister four times, Yediyurappa has navigated the choppy waters of politics with the consummate ease of a seasoned oarsman. In a repeat of sorts, it is a "cut short" tenure for the rarely smiling and ever grim-looking Yediyurappa as he is stepping down less than two years ahead of the end of the current tenure, ascending to power, exactly two years ago after a murky legal battle and weeks of political drama. For the architect of the BJP's first ever government to the south of Vindhyas, age is being seen as a primary factor for his exit from the top job, with an unwritten rule in the BJP of keeping out those above 75 years from elective offices; also the high command wants to make way for the fresh leadership, ahead of the Assembly polls, likely by mid-2023. Among the other reasons that might have contributed to his exit include rumblings within the party with complaints about his "authoritative" style of functioning, his younger son and state BJP Vice President B Y Vijayendra's alleged interference in the administration, and allegations of corruption. Yediyurappa's tenure as Chief Minister includes seven days during his first term in November 2007; three years and two months from May 2008; for three days in May 2018, following the Assembly polls, which was his third term; and finally for exactly two years since July 26, 2019, his fourth tenure. A hardboiled RSS swayamsevak, Bookanakere Siddalingappa Yediyurappa was born on February 27, 1943 at Bookanakere in K R Pet Taluk of Mandya district to Siddalingappa and Puttathayamma. Fondly called "Raja Huli" (King Tiger) by his followers, he joined the RSS when he was barely 15, and cut his political teeth in the Jana Sangh, the BJP's forerunner, in his hometown Shikaripura in Shivamogga district. He became the Jana Sangh's Shikaripura taluk chief in the early 1970s. Yediyurappa, who began his electoral politics as Purasabha president in Shikaripura, was first elected to the Legislative Assembly from Shikaripura in 1983 and went on to win eight times from there. Widely credited for BJP's growth in Karnataka, along with being party's state unit president, he has also served as opposition Leader in the Legislative Assembly, member of Legislative Council, as also member of parliament. A Bachelor of Arts, he was jailed during the Emergency, worked as a clerk in the social welfare department before taking up a similar job at a rice mill in Shikaripura before he set up his hardware shop in Shivamogga. He married Maitradevi, daughter of the rice mill owner, where he worked, on March 5, 1967 and has two sons and three daughters. His elder son B Y Raghavendra is a MP from Shivamogga Lok Sabha constituency. Always seen in his trademark white safari suit, according to those close to him, he had keen interest in watching Kannada movies. Yediyurappa is also seen as BJP's only leader with a "mass leader" stature in South India, and wields considerable influence over the Veerashaiva-Lingayat community, which is estimated to form about 16 per cent of the states population, and is considered to be the BJPs core support base in the state. He could have landed in the hot seat in 2004 when the BJP emerged as the single largest party, but the Congress and JD(S) of former prime minister H D Deve Gowda formed an alliance, and a government was formed under Dharam Singh. Known for his political acumen, Yediyurappa joined hands with H D Kumaraswamy, Deve Gowda's son, in 2006 and brought down the Dharam Singh government. Under a rotational chief ministership arrangement, Kumaraswamy became the CM and Yediyurappa his deputy. Yediyurappa became CM for the first time in November 2007 but his term lasted just seven days as Kumaraswamy reneged on a power sharing pact and walked out of the alliance. He became the chief minister once again after the BJP came to power in May 2008 but had to step down in July 2011 following his indictment by the then Lokayukta N Santosh Hegde in an illegal mining case. In the 2008 polls, Yediyurappa had led the party to victory, and the first BJP government in the south was formed under him, with the help of "Operation Kamala" (Operation Lotus)- an alleged attempt of the BJP to engineer defection of opposition legislators to ensure the stability of the government. On October 15, 2011, he surrendered before the Lokayukta court after it issued a warrant against him in connection with alleged land scams,and was in jail for a week. Sulking after having been made to quit, Yediyurappa broke his decades-long association with the BJP and formed the Karnataka Janata Paksha. However, ploughing a lonely furrow, he failed to make the KJP a force to reckon with in state politics but wrecked the BJP's chances of retaining power in the 2013 polls, winning six seats and polling about 10 per cent votes. As Yediyurappa faced an uncertain future and the BJP looked for a leader with a formidable reputation to lend its campaign the required heft ahead of the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, the two cosied up to each other, leading to the KJP's merger with the BJP on January 9, 2014. In the Lok Sabha election, the BJP won 19 of the state's 28 seats, a remarkable turnaround for the party which had secured only 19.9 per cent votes in the Assembly polls just a year ago leading to the fall of its first government. Notwithstanding the corruption taint, Yediyurappa's status and clout grew in the BJP. On October 26, 2016, he got a huge relief when a special CBI court acquitted him, his two sons and son-in-law in a Rs 40 crore illegal mining case, which had cost him the chief ministership in 2011. In January 2016, the Karnataka High Court quashed all 15 FIRs against Yediyurappa lodged by Lokayukta police under the Prevention of Corruption Act. In April that year, he was appointed the state BJP chief for the fourth time. The Lingayat leader, however, continued to be dogged by controversies, with some cases against him still pending before courts. The BJP declared him its chief ministerial candidate in the 2018 assembly polls, ignoring the taunts by the Congress. As the polls threw up a hung verdict, with no party getting a clear majority in the 225-member House (including Speaker), the Governor invited Yediyurappa, the leader of the single largest party, to form the government and gave him 15 days to prove the majority. However,the Supreme Court asked him to prove the majority in the House within 24 hours following a plea by the Congress-JD(S) challenging the Governor's decision to invite the BJP to form the government. The three-day-old BJP government collapsed on May 19, 2018, minutes before the scheduled trust vote, with him resigning in a tame anti-climax and hours later Kumaraswamy, the chief ministerial candidate of the newly formed JD(S)- Congress alliance, was invited to form the government. In the next over one year period, the BJP under Yediyurappa managed to keep the coalition government on tenterhooks as the ruling combine constantly feared poaching of MLAs. In its best ever performance the BJP also won 25 out of 28 Lok Sabha seats in 2019 parliamentary polls. The resignation of 17 rebel Congress-JD(S) MLAs came as a blow to the alliance and it collapsed, losing the trust vote on July 23, 2019, paving the way for his return. Determined to regain the reins of power, amid uncertainties about his political future with growing age, Yediyurappa is said to have played a key role in engineering the defection of the 17 Congress-JD(S) rebels. Sixteen of them had subsequently joined the BJP. He ensured that most of them won the bypolls in December that year on a BJP ticket, and 12 are currently Ministers in his Cabinet, as promised. Though in the last two years, BJP won most of the bye-elections under Yediyurappa's leadership, repeated floods, alleged shortcomings in Covid management and growing disgruntlement within the party and the government, threw challenges to administration. With growing age and strong central leadership, his declining sway over the party and administration, marred his final tenure, bringing him the criticism of being a "weak CM" from the Opposition parties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/b-s-yediyurappa-bjps-seasoned-oarsman-relents-but-too-early-for-political-obituary-1012999.html
26-07-2021||State||BS Yediyurappa's parting gift: Dearness allowance hike for staff||Karnataka on Monday ordered a hike in dearness allowance (DA) for its employees by 10.25 percentage points, a parting gift of sorts by B S Yediyurappa who resigned as chief minister the same day.  With this, the DA of employees will be 21.50 per cent of their basic pay, according to an order issued by the Finance Department that Yediyurappa controlled. The existing DA is 11.25 per cent of the basic pay.  The decision follows a representation made to Yediyurappa by the Karnataka State Government Employees Association. Earlier, it was supposed to be a hike of 11 percentage points. The hike benefits as many as six lakh employees, aside from 4.5 lakh pensioners and 3 lakh staff employed with various Boards and Corporations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bs-yediyurappas-parting-gift-dearness-allowance-hike-for-staff-1013077.html
26-07-2021||State||Nirani returns Bengaluru without meeting BJP top brass||Mining Minister Murugesh Nirani, who was in the national capital for the past few days, left for Bengaluru on Monday after he failed to get an appointment to meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Nirani, who is also Chief Ministerial aspirant, was camping in the city for the past two days to meet the top brass. However, when top leaders including Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP National president J P Nadda refused to give an appointment, he left for Bengaluru, sources said. Nirani said he came to Delhi on his private visit and had no plan to meet any leaders. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's younger son, B Y Vijayendra, who was in Delhi for the past three days also left for Bengaluru. He was also learnt to have tried to meet some of the top leaders which could not happen, sources said. Vijayandra on Friday met BJP National president J P Nadda apparently to convince the party top brass that the meetings of the religious heads with Yediyurappa were not orchestrated by the CM or his loyalists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/nirani-returns-bengaluru-without-meeting-bjp-top-brass-1013186.html
26-07-2021||State||Students tune back to offline mode, Karnataka colleges see 70% turnout||The resumption of offline classes for higher education courses after a gap of nearly three months received good response on Monday as about 70% of the students turned up at their colleges. The higher education institutions and universities across the state have made it mandatory for students to submit vaccination certificates before entering the campus and some students had to return as there were no documents with them to show that they were vaccinated. “Some students did not carry their mobile phones to show the messages and also failed to produce the printouts, to indicate they were vaccinated. This forced us to send them back,” said the principal of a private degree college from South Bengaluru. The colleges are expecting 100% attendance in the next of couple of days. “As this is the first day of offline classes after three months, and also since there was an option for students to choose between offline and online modes, some preferred to attend online classes. On the first day, around 70% students attended offline classes in our college,” said Prof Bhaskar, principal, Vivekananda Degree College, Rajajinagar. The Bengaluru City University (BCU) welcomed its students to the campus with flowers, masks and sanitisers. Prof Lingaraja Gandhi, vice chancellor of BCU, said, “There were over 500 students present on day one for the postgraduate courses. We have made separate vaccination arrangements for teaching and non-teaching staff at the Central College campus, if they are not jabbed.” Students were excited to be back on campus. Some said they got the vaccination specially to attend offline classes. “As vaccination was mandatory to attend offline classes, me and my friends got the first dose as soon as it was announced by the government,” said Samyuktha, student of KLE degree college, Rajajinagar. According to officials from the higher education department, the attendance will improve after reopening of college/university hostels. The colleges and universities followed the standard operating procedure issued by the higher education department. It was compulsory for students to download the Arogya Setu app on their phones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/students-tune-back-to-offline-mode-karnataka-colleges-see-70-turnout-1013187.html
26-07-2021||State||Boating suspended at Ranganathittu Bird Sanctuary||With release of more than 10,000 cusec of water into River Cauvery, boating has been suspended at Ranganathittu Bird Sanctuary as a precautionary measure. Sanctuary Range Forest Officer K Surendra said that bird watching, photography, butterfly park will be open for visitors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/boating-suspended-at-ranganathittu-bird-sanctuary-1013191.html
26-07-2021||State||Jayanthi couldn't replicate her tinsel town success in poll politics||Noted actor Jayanthi, who breathed her last on Monday, forayed into politics where she did not find the success that the silver screen brought her. Jayanthi lost all the three elections she contested in. She first contested as a candidate from Chikkaballapur constituency of Ramakrishna Hegde's Lok Shakti party in the 1998 Lok Sabha elections. In this election, she bagged 3.5 lakh votes against Congress' R L Jalappa, who got 3.7 lakh votes, an impressive debut. A year later JD(U) fielded her as a candidate from Koratagere in Tumakuru district for the Assembly polls. In 2004 Lok Sabha election, her last, Jayanthi contested against BJP's Ananth Kumar and Congress' M Krishnappa. Caretaker Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa condoled the demise of Jayanthi. "I am saddened by her demise. Her contributions to cinema was immense and is an irreplaceable loss to Kannada art world," he said. KPCC president D K Shivakumar and JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy were among those who condoled the death of the actor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/jayanthi-couldnt-replicate-her-tinsel-town-success-in-poll-politics-1013197.html
26-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Proportion of child Covid-19 cases rises in Karnataka||An increase in the proportion of child Covid-19 cases over the last three weeks has paediatricians and other medical professionals watching developments closely. As per official data, pre-teens (children aged 0-9) represented an average of 3.5% of daily cases in the state in May. It rose to 4% in June and has now jumped to 4.4% in July. Among teenagers (aged 0-17), the proportion has remained a constant 8% to 9% statewide. Paediatricians on the ground have also observed the increase. “In the last couple of weeks, we have started to see more children coming to the hospital with Covid-19,” said Dr Srikanta J T, Paediatric Pulmonologist, Aster CMI Hospital, and a member of the Third Wave Committee. He added that all evidence so far seemed to suggest that parents were passing on the infection to children. “There are a lot of factors to account for this: notably ‘revenge tourism,’ a delay in the arrival of testing results, and increased general mobility of the adult population,” he said, clarifying, however, that it was too early to tell if this represents the early beginnings of the third wave. But why hasn’t there been a commensurate increase of infections among teens? Dr Bhaskar Shenoy, Head of Paediatrics at Manipal Hospitals (Old Airport Road), pointed out this is because traditionally pre-teens are more prone to infections than teens. “The immune response in children aged 10 and above is generally more robust,” he explained. The issue has come at a time when the state’s genomic surveillance machinery is preparing to scale up sequencing of samples from children with Covid-19, even as medical professionals express concern that a new mutation of the novel coronavirus could be responsible for the increase in percentages. “By all indications so far, it is still the baseline Delta variant which is causing infections in children,” said Dr Vishal Rao, a member of the state’s Genomic Surveillance Committee. He added that this variant is still a concern because studies have not been conducted determining how it affects certain age groups, notably children. “We, therefore, need to closely monitor people aged below 18,” he added. The committee has been issued directions by the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium on Genomics (INSACOG) to focus on paediatrics. Meanwhile, Dr Srikanta pointed to the results of the fourth national sero-survey to suggest that not all was doom and gloom. The sero-survey has established that more than half or 59.4% of children in India had been infected with the virus and recovered (57.2% of pre-teens and 61.6% of teens). “The third wave predictions are likely more prosaic than they need to be,” he added. Concern about MIS-C One of the concerns paediatricians have about a potential rise in children infected with Covid-19 is the associated problem of Covid-surving children developing Multi Inflammatory Syndrome in Children (MIS-C), whose worst clinical outcome is death. Paedtricians explained that they are seeing one case of MIS-C for every 100 children infected with Covid-19. In July, 4,538 Covid-19 cases of children have been identified in Karnataka so far. From March 12 (the start of the second wave) to July 23, there have been 61,894 recorded cases of Covid-19 infections in pre-teens and 1,56,798 cases among teens (10-19), according to the State Covid War Room.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/proportion-of-child-covid-19-cases-rises-in-karnataka-1012848.html
26-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Suspense over exit continues as Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa waits for 'message'||The suspense over the change of guard in state continued on Sunday as Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa awaited directions from the BJP high command over his continuation in the top post. While the chief minister has put the ball in the high command’s court, waiting for its directions on his political future, sources said he could resign following the event scheduled on Monday to commemorate his two years in office. Speaking to reporters following his return from the flood-hit Belagavi district, Yediyurappa said he was yet to receive any message from the high command. “I have said in the past that I am ready to resign whenever they (high command) ask me to... Till now, I have not received any message from the Centre. As soon as I receive it, if they want me to continue, I will continue, or else I will resign and work for the party,” he said. Earlier in the day, Yediyurappa had told reporters that he was expecting a message by Sunday evening. “The message might come today or tomorrow (Monday) morning, he said on Sunday evening, adding that he would take a decision after participating in the programmes scheduled on Monday. He will take part in Kargil Vijay Diwas and the programme to commemorate two years of the BJP government on Monday. He has uncharacteristically reserved his engagements post noon. The CM refused to read much into the remarks by BJP national president J P Nadda in Goa that “Yediyurappa has done a good job at handling state and party affairs”. “His remarks on my work and the political developments in the state are not related,” Yediyurappa said. “If there is no message, I will take a call (on resigning as CM) tomorrow (Monday),” he said. There were also rumours that Yediyurappa might continue as CM till the end of Ashada month on August 6, before handing over the reins. Nirani flew to Delhi amid reports that the BJP high command would on Sunday evening deliberate on the choice of the next CM candidate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/suspense-over-exit-continues-as-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-waits-for-message-1012852.html
26-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||B S Yediyurappa: The name-changing Chief Minister||Ending months of speculation, Karnataka Chief Minister B S yediyurappa big a tearful adieu to his stint as the state's leader as he submitted his resignation on Monday “I have decided to resign from the post of chief minister,” a tearful Yediyurappa said while concluding his speech on the occasion of him completing two years in office. This is his fourth term now, but this time too he fell short of completing his tenure in office. “I’m resigning not out of pain, but happiness. A 75-year-old Yediyurappa was allowed to become the CM for two years. So, words can’t express my gratitude to PM Modi, Amit Shah and JP Nadda,” Yediyurappa said. The BJP leader had changed the spelling of his name from 'Yediyurappa' to ‘Yeddyurappa’ in 2007 and back to to ‘Yediyurappa’ in hopes that it would to bring him luck. The ‘i’ is meant to bring him luck because the extra ‘d’ has not been helpful, given that his previous tenures as CM have been incomplete. Yediyurappa brought the BJP to power for the first time in south India in 2008, a success that is yet to be emulated in any other southern state. More importantly, he has also ensured that in every Lok Sabha election since 2004, the BJP has garnered more than 50 per cent of 28 Lok Sabha seats from Karnataka, which reached a peak of 25 seats in the 2019 elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/b-s-yediyurappa-the-name-changing-chief-minister-1012963.html
26-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BSY's home turf Shikaripur sees undeclared bandh after the CM's exit||A pall of gloom descended on Shikaripur, the home turf of B S Yediyurappa, on Monday after he resigned as chief minister. The town witnessed an undeclared bandh in the afternoon as proprietors closed down their commercial establishments in the town after their leader submitted resignation papers to Governor Gehlot.  Even though Yediyurappa hailed from Mandya district, Shikaripur became the base of his political activities. He had served as an accountant in a rice mill in Shikaripur town and went on to become a first division clerk in the social welfare department. He was elected as a member of the Shikaripur town municipal council in the mid-1970s. He was elected as a member of the Legislative Assembly in 1983 for the first time.  Yediyurappa represented Shikaripur in the assembly eight times. Of them, he was elected on the BJP ticket seven times and on the Karnataka Janata Paksha ticket once. He lost from the seat once in the assembly polls of 1999. The leader, who apparently knows each one in Shikaripur by name, disappointed people of the constituency with his exit from the top post.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bsys-home-turf-shikaripur-sees-undeclared-bandh-after-the-cms-exit-1012973.html
26-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BS Yediyurappa's trajectory as Karnataka Chief Minister||Karnataka Chief Minister, Bookanakere Siddalingappa Yediyurappa, better known as B S Yediyurappa quit his post on Monday, July 26, 2021. He has been in the office for two years, but this was not his first time holding the position. Let's take a look at B S Yediyurappa's trajectory as Karnataka CM: 2007: In 2007, he helped JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy bring down the government in the state headed by Dharam Singh to form an alternative government with BJP. JD(S) and BJP had an agreement to make H D Kumaraswamy CM of Karnataka for 20 months, and BSY for the remaining 20. However, Kumaraswamy refused to resign and this caused instability because BJP withdrew their support. A few weeks later, JD(S) and BJP buried the hatchet and BSY became the CM of Karnataka on November 12, 2007 but some more political infighting led to his resignation on Novemeber 17, 2007. 2008: In 2008, BSY contested from Shikaripura and won the elections and was sworn in as the 25th chief minister of Karnataka. 2011: In 2011, he resigned because he was indicted in a corruption case, and was later acquited in 2016. 2012: Owing to 'ill-treatment' by BJP high command, BSY quit the BJP and formed his own party called the Karnataka Janata Paksha.  2014: in 2014, he announced an unconditonal return to BJP and decided to merge his party with the BJP.  2018: In 2018, BJP announced him as the CM candidate for the state, and the party could not secure a simple majority, hence, was given 24 hours to prove its majority. Before the trust vote, he announced his resignation and became CM for the shortest time, only 2.5 days. 2019: Owing to some political turmoil in the state, Yediyurappa took the stake to form government in Karnataka. 2021: On July 26, 2021, after completing 2 years in office, he quit his post.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bs-yediyurappas-trajectory-as-karnataka-chief-minister-1012982.html
26-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Who are the JD(S) MLAs who moved to BJP in 2019?||The BJP's return to power in Karnataka in 2019 was down to B S Yediyurappa being instrumental in engineering the defection of 16 MLAs from the Congress-JD(S) camp. Of the 16 who either resigned from the Assembly or flocked to the BJP, three were from the JD(S) – A H Vishwanath, K Gopalaiah, and Narayana Gowda. While Gowda and Gopalaiah are currently part of the state Cabinet, Vishwanath is a part of the state Legislative Council. Gowda holds two ministries — Minister of Youth Empowerment and Sports, Minister of Planning, Program monitoring and Statistics department. He had previously held the Municipal Administration and Horticulture portfolios. Gowda was elected to the Assembly from Krishnarajpet constituency. Like his JD(S) peers, he left the party in 2019 and joined the BJP. Gopalaiah, on the other hand, was inducted into the Cabinet during the reshuffle in January. He was handed the Excise Ministry portfolio. After winning the Mahalakshmi Layout seat in the 2018 Assembly elections, Gopalaiah quit the JD(S). He then joined the BJP, and also won the byelection that followed for the same seat in 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/who-are-the-jds-mlas-who-moved-to-bjp-in-2019-1012986.html
26-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'Please excuse me': B S Yediyurappa during his emotional farewell speech [Full text]||B S Yediyurappa, who resigned from the Karnataka CM post, made an emotional farewell speech on Monday. Here’s the full text of Yediyurappa’s speech at the Sadhana Samavesha, an event held in Vidhana Soudha on Monday to mark the completion of the BJP government’s two years in office. The speech has been translated into English from Kannada: Deputy chief ministers Govind Karjol, Dr CN Ashwath Narayan, Laxman Savadi, my Cabinet colleagues, legislator friends, all officials who stood by me to ensure smooth functioning of the government, brothers and sisters and media friends... I've come here after commemorating the Kargil Vijay Divas where I paid my homage to our martyrs who defeated Pakistani miscreants. Our soldiers fight with valour against evil forces. They inspire all of us to overcome obstacles.  We have announced incentives for Karnataka's sports persons who are participating in the Tokyo Olympics - Rs 5 crore for gold medal winners, Rs 3 crore for silver and Rs 2 crore for bronze. Similarly, we want to symbolically award those from other states with Rs 15 lakh for gold, Rs 10 lakh for silver and Rs 5 lakh for bronze. This will be Karnataka's contribution, a good gesture that I'm announcing now. Today, people of the state and nation are watching with bated breath. From Shikaripura taluk, where not even 50-100 people would talk to us, to Basavana Bagewadi, Basavakalyan, Banavasi and Shivamogga, a padayatra was done to strengthen the party, which was done honestly with all party workers. All of you know that back then, there wasn't anybody from our party in the Legislative Assembly. It was just the two of us who had won. Vasanth Bangera, who won along with me from our party,  left and I was alone in my fight inside the Assembly. I've never looked back. I  never worried that I was alone. I'm  confident, satisfied and content that I worked in a manner that earned the appreciation of people.  Born in a faraway Bookanakere in Mandya district, I came to Shivamogga and started my life as a Sangh worker. I started off as an RSS Pracharak. Gradually, I contested and won an election for the Shikaripura TMC and became its president. Once, during this period, I was attacked while going to work from home. They thought I was done for. Due to God's grace, I told my wife and kids that if I live, I would dedicate my life to the service of people. I'd like to believe that I did conduct my life like that, true to my conscience.   As the taluk president and zilla president to the erstwhile Janasangh, I took up protests for the sake of farmers and Dalits. At one time, in Shivamogga, we held a meeting with 50,000-60,000 farmers. Rajnath Singh himself was astonished and wondered if this was a state-level event or a mere district one. Similarly, we held a meeting with 50,000 women and Sushma Swaraj, who attended this, expressed surprise. It is because of such efforts that I've reached this place. Then, Atal Bihari Vajpayee asked me to become a union minister. I said, "I must build the party in Karnataka. At no cost will I come to Delhi. Let me build the party here." (Tearful)  At that time, whenever Atal Bihari Vajpayee, LK Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi came to the state, not even 200-400 people would gather. Still, I travelled across the state. Due to God's grace, we went from two MLAs to four. If the BJP is in power today in Karnataka, it's because of the people of Shikaripura who elected me seven times. People stood with us against the might of money, muscle, women and the poison of caste.  We are here today because of the efforts of lakhs of workers.  I will say this to you with humility: Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah, BJP national president JP Nadda are of the opinion that no one above 75 years of age should be given positions of power. But they held extreme affection, love and trust towards BS Yediyurappa. For two years, they gave me the opportunity to serve this state as the CM.  I pray to God that Modi and Shah should win the next election, become the PM and take this country forward. Only then will Bharat grow as a strong nation. This is the opinion of the people of the country. I pray to God that our Modi-Shah duo should come to power once again.  At one time, we used bicycles to move about in the Shivamogga district. We didn't even have a car. Padmanabh Bhat isn't here, but Gurumurthy and others have come. It's surprising (laughs), we tried to build this party with no support. Today, the party has grown in strength. It's the tallest party in India. KS Eshwarappa and other leaders are seated here. It's because of combined efforts that the party could come back to power.  We have shared enough information about our achievements so far. I won't repeat them. We achieved all this with the support of people.  I thank the media. They stood for us and made people informed about the good work we did.  At one time, inevitably, we had to join hands with the JD(S). HD Kumaraswamy was CM and I was deputy CM. As per our agreement, I should have become the CM after a year. But father and son (HD Deve Gowda and Kumaraswamy) started imposing some conditions. Without caring for the CM's post, I said the agreement should be honoured. I resigned as the CM and traveled across the state. I cannot forget those memories.  In 2008, we brought the party to power on its own strength. Perhaps, due to various reasons, we couldn't get a clear majority. We had to form the government with support from others. Due to our own mistakes, we have not been able to win 115-120 seats, which we are capable of. I am confident that in the coming days we will together travel the state and make the party win 125-130 seats. This is my resolve. To that end, with or without power, I will do this. It’s my assurance to 6.5 crore people of this state.   See for yourself, I've had to face agniparikshe at every step. When I took charge, those in the Centre did not allow me to form my Cabinet. There was drought and then floods. I had to go everywhere like a mad man. So, it was an agniparikshe.  Then, there was Covid-19 that made lives difficult for citizens. To face this, our officials, we, Cabinet colleagues, MLAs tried everything. As a result, Karnataka became successful in handling the pandemic. These aren't my words, but PM Modi's. Despite back-to-back trials by fire, I could work thanks to your cooperation. Going forward also, we have much to do.  I don't know how to thank government employees. From Chief Secretary Ravi Kumar to all others, they had faith in me and carried out whatever works were given to them. That's why some development works could be done. You know that for 1-1.5 years, there was no tax collection. All shops were closed and commercial activities came to a standstill. In all this, we did not compromise on our effort to take the state on the path of development.  I wasn't alone. With the cooperation of Cabinet colleagues, officials and MLAs, we could bring about a change in Karnataka. In the coming days, more development works are needed to progress the state.  We went with development as the mantra of administration. Youth, women, SC/STs...we need to take all of them together, for which everyone should cooperate.  You just heard Infosys cofounder Kris Gopalakrishnan, FKCCI president Perikal M Sundar, Narayana Health chief Dr Devi Prasad Shetty, Biocon chief Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, Honorary Consul of Peru Vikram Vishwanath, Honorary Consul of Spain Surabhi Sharma, Aequs chairman Aravind Melligeri, Swiggy’s Sriharsha Majety, Zerodha’s Nitin Kamath, Razorpay’s Harshil Mathur...all of them have spoken kindly. I thank all of them.  We have to repay the debt of the people. All I want to say to officials and Cabinet colleagues is, I don't know why public faith in elected representatives and officials is declining. PM Modi's aspiration is that we should work with honesty. There are many honest officials. I went around Bengaluru the other day. With everybody's efforts, we're trying to make Bengaluru a model city in the entire country. Not just Bengaluru, we need to develop every single district. We can find success in this if everybody, including the media, cooperates.  Please excuse me, I have decided that after lunch I will go to Raj Bhavan and submit my resignation to the CM's post. (tearful)  It's not with pain, but happiness. A 75-year-old Yediyurappa was allowed to become CM for two years, for which I have no words to thank PM Modi, Shah and Nadda. I am indebted to them.  Their aspiration is that the party should be strengthened and brought back to power. We will achieve this together.  I need your cooperation. Let's work together.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/please-excuse-me-b-s-yediyurappa-during-his-emotional-farewell-speech-full-text-1013018.html
26-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM post and the long list of midterm resignations||B S Yediyurappa ended his fourth stint as Chief Minister of Karnataka on Monday after he submitted his resignation to Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot on Monday. The 78-year-old, while doing so, dismissed rumours that he was pressurised by the BJP high command to exit the CM's office. Yediyurappa is the third chief minister across India who had to step down midway through their tenure this year — after the BJP in Uttarakhand replaced Trivendra Singh Rawat with Tirath Singh Rawat in March, and then Tirath with Pushkar Singh Dhami in July. As for Karnataka, many in the state would know that this is not the first time that a CM has had to vacate their position without completing a full five-year term. D Devaraj Urs was the first who had to exit in the middle of his term in 1980 after a fall-out with Indira Gandhi that saw him expelled from her Congress (I) party. Urs was replaced by R Gundu Rao. A series of corruption allegations, first in 1985, and then in 1988, saw the erstwhile Janata Party's Ramakrishna Hegde's term as CM cut short. Hegde was the first non-Congress Chief Minister of Karnataka. S R Bommai, the father of present Karnataka Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai filled in for the remainder of his term. Later, in 1990, Veerendra Patil, just as he was about to complete a year as CM, was asked to vacate office. Patil was replaced by S Bangarappa, who was also asked to step down midway. Veerappa Moily saw out the rest of the term. Deve Gowda, who was nominated the Chief Minister of Karnataka after his party won the 1994 polls, too, did not complete a full term at the state's helm. The veteran, however, was later nominated as the leader of the ruling coalition at the Centre and made the Prime Minister in 1996. Lastly, Sadananda Gowda, who was picked to succeed Yediyurappa after his resignation in 2011, was made to resign a year later with Jagadish Shettar being handed the CM's post.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-post-and-the-long-list-of-midterm-resignations-1013060.html
26-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP will drown in B S Yediyurappa's tears: Seer||Lingayat seer Dingaleshwar Swamy on Monday claimed that B S Yediyurappa was "blackmailed" into resigning as Karnataka chief minister, warning the BJP that it will have to pay a price. "BJP's central leaders have taken the wrong decision. Yediyurappa has shown his integrity. He should be honourably brought back as CM. Otherwise, this party will drown and be washed away in his tears," Dingaleshwar Swamy said. "This isn't an insult to just one leader from our community. It's an insult to every member of the community. A notable person as made to shed tears. In the coming days, those who caused the tears will be made to cry themselves," he warned. Over the past week, Dingaleshwar Swamy became the face of Lingayat pontiffs rallying for Yediyurappa's continuation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-will-drown-in-b-s-yediyurappas-tears-seer-1013143.html
26-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Yediyurappa removed as Karnataka CM due to corruption & age: Siddaramaiah||The BJP high command has removed B S Yediyurappa from chief minister’s post due to corruption and age factor, Leader of the Opposition in Assembly Siddaramaiah said on Monday. Speaking to reporters at Cholchagudda in Badami taluk, hours after B S Yediyurappa resigned as chief minister, Siddaramaiah said, The Yediyurappa government was mired in corruption. "The BJP leadership was aware of it. We used to call it a 30% government. They used to charge 30% commission for every project,” he said When asked whether the state would go for a mid-term poll, Siddaramaiah said, “I don’t think so.” Earlier in the day, the opposition leader at Hubballi airport unleashed a tirade at the BJP government in the state. “You can’t expect the BJP government to safeguard the interests of the state. Changing Yediyurappa won’t help. It will give way for another corrupt government. Instead, the BJP government in the state should be ousted, Siddaramaiah charged. “Many lives were lost due to floods, Acres of crops have been destroyed. It is the duty of the government to collect the details of damage and destruction and provide relief to the affected. The government has not released compensation for the 2019 flood-affected. They should have at least issued relief as per the natural disaster fund guidelines. Instead of wiping the tears of the affected, the government and the party is busy playing politics over the leadership change issue,” he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/yediyurappa-removed-as-karnataka-cm-due-to-corruption-age-siddaramaiah-1013152.html
26-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'Please excuse me': Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa goes with emotional speech||It was a tearful exit for B S Yediyurappa who chose to announce his decision to hang up his boots at a public event in Vidhana Soudha to mark the BJP government completing two years in office. “Please excuse me, I have decided that after lunch I will go to Raj Bhavan and submit my resignation to the CM’s post,” Yediyurappa said, tearing up. “It’s not with pain, but happiness. A 75-year-old Yediyurappa was allowed to become CM for two years, for which I have no words to thank PM Modi, Shah and Nadda. I am indebted to them.” Yediyurappa recalled the early days of his political career and the efforts that went into building the BJP as a formidable outfit. “All of you know that back then, there wasn’t anybody from our party in the Legislative Assembly. It was just the two of us who had won. Vasanth Bangera, who won along with me from our party, left and I was alone in my fight inside the Assembly,” he said. “I’ve never looked back. I never worried that I was alone. I’m confident, satisfied and content that I worked in a manner that earned the appreciation of people,” he said. An emotional Yediyurappa remembered an invitation by former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee to become a union minister. “I told him that I must build the party in Karnataka, that at no cost will I come to Delhi and that he should let me build the party here,” he said. His speech lasted a little over 22 minutes. “At one time, we used bicycles to move about in the Shivamogga district. We didn’t even have a car,” he said. “Whenever Vajpayee, L K Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi came to the state, not even 200-400 people would gather. Still, I travelled across the state. Due to God’s grace, we went from two MLAs to four. If the BJP is in power today in Karnataka, it’s because of the people of Shikaripura who elected me seven times,” he said. He blamed “our own mistakes” for the BJP’s inability to get a clear majority. “We have not been able to win 115-120 seats, which we are capable of. I am confident that in the coming days we will together travel the state and make the party win 125-130 seats. This is my resolve,” he said.  His speech ended with: “I need your cooperation. Let’s work together.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/please-excuse-me-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-goes-with-emotional-speech-1013157.html
26-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Political developments may delay school reopening in Karnataka||The political developments in the state are likely to affect the planned reopening of schools for offline classes. The commissioner for department of public instruction, who was also the head of the expert committee constituted by the department of primary and secondary education to submit a report on reopening of schools based on the recommendations by the Dr Devi Shetty committee, submitted the report to the government on Monday. According to sources from the department, the recommendations in the final report are contrary to the recommendations of the committee. Though the committee had recommended for resumption of schools from pre-primary level, the final report recommended reopening of schools from class 6 and above. “The decision will be delayed due to ongoing political developments. This needs to be discussed with the chief minister before making a final announcement,” said an official source.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/political-developments-may-delay-school-reopening-in-karnataka-1013182.html
26-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 1,606 fresh Covid cases, 31 deaths||Karnataka on Monday reported 1,606 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 28,96,163 while 31 deaths pushed the toll to 36,405. The day also saw 1,937 discharges, continuing to outnumber fresh cases, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 28,36,678. Out of new cases reported on Monday, 467 were from Bengaluru Urban. The total number of active cases stood at 23,057. The positivity rate for the day was 1.4% and the case fatality rate 1.93%. Among the districts, Dakshina Kannada reported 357 cases and Mysuru 162. Out of deaths reported on Monday, four were from Dakshina Kannada, three each from Haveri, Mysuru and Uttara Kannada. Cumulatively, a total of 3,79,66,095 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,14,072 were on Monday alone. On Monday, 2,30,313 doses of Covid vaccine were administered taking the total doses administered so far to 2,91,18,544.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-1606-fresh-covid-cases-31-deaths-1013193.html
26-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HC confirms life term in acid attack case; sets aside conviction for murder attempt||Applying the doctrine of merger of offences, the Karnataka High Court has set aside the conviction under IPC section 307 in an acid attack case. The court however confirmed the life imprisonment to the convict under IPC section 326 A, a provision that came into effect from February 2013 to provide stringent punishment in crimes against women by acid attacks. The convict Mahesha had moved an appeal against the February 2016 order sentencing him to undergo life and to pay fine of Rs 10 lakh for the offence under IPC Section 326A and also to undergo life with fine of Rs 50,000 for the offence under IPC Section 307, attempted murder. The prosecution case was that the convict threw acid on the victim, a teacher, and a minor student who was with her at the time of the incident in 2014. A division bench comprising Justices B Veerappa and V Shrishananda noted that when a person is sentenced for conviction of several offences, including one that of life imprisonment, the proviso to Section 31 (2) of CrPC shall come into play and no consecutive sentence can be imposed. The bench also quoted Article 20 (2) of the Constitution, which debars double jeopardy, and said that it is a settled position of law that a person cannot be tried and convicted twice for a single offence. The court observed that the trial court may have resorted to IPC section 307 along with section 326A, having regard to the gravity of offence especially considering the after-effects of an acid attack. “The ‘acid attack’ is not only a crime against PW.8 and PW.3, (two victims) but a crime against the entire civilised society. It is a crime against basic human rights and also violates the most cherished fundamental rights guaranteed under Article-21 of the Constitution of India,” the court said. In view of huge expenditure incurred by the victim for treatment, including a plastic surgery, the bench permitted her to approach the District Legal Services Authority, Davangere, seeking compensation. The court also ordered that of the fine amount of Rs 10 lakh, Rs 9.75 lakh shall be paid to the victim.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hc-confirms-life-term-in-acid-attack-case-sets-aside-conviction-for-murder-attempt-1013194.html
26-07-2021||West||NDRF resumes flood, landslide rescue operations as rains ease in Maharashtra||Rescuers waded through waist-deep mud in Western India Monday to reach injured residents and start a massive clean-up after heavy monsoon rains triggered landslides and floods that killed 159 people. India's western coast was hit by severe rainstorms over several days, with a quarter of a million people evacuated from their homes in three states and power cut across vast areas. Experts say climate change is increasing the frequency and intensity of the annual deluge — which is critical to replenishing rivers and groundwater but also causes widespread death and destruction. "The focus has now shifted to evacuating the injured and restoring electricity as water levels recede," a National Disaster Relief Force spokesperson told AFP. "The rainfall has stopped in most places and water levels have receded. We are helping with clean-up, relief and restoration." In the worst-hit state Maharashtra, where the toll rose to 149 on Sunday, officials said search operations were halted in the hillside village of Taliye, southeast of Mumbai. Some 53 bodies have been recovered in the village so far, with 17 people still missing, after a large landslide washed away people and homes on Thursday. In the neighbouring district of Satara, 29 people were killed in multiple landslides. And in Chiplun, 24 hours of uninterrupted rain caused water levels to rise by nearly 20 feet (six metres) on Thursday. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday described what happened in that district as "unimaginable". "The water level reached the ceiling of my shop, there was so much water inside," a shopkeeper there told news channel NDTV. "We've seen floods before in 1965 and 2005, but this was worse than before," another resident added. Neighbouring state Goa's Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said the floods were the worst since 1982. Further south in Karnataka state, nine people died in flooding and four others were missing, officials said. Authorities were trying to restore power supply to the affected districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ndrf-resumes-flood-landslide-rescue-operations-as-rains-ease-in-maharashtra-1012962.html
26-07-2021||West||Maharashtra Deputy CM tours flood-hit villages in Sangli; uses boat to reach out to people||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar toured various rain-hit villages in Sangli district on Monday and used a rescue boat to reach out to flood victims in some areas. Pawar also interacted with the flood-affected people and assured them of rehabilitation and all help from the state government. State Water Resources Minister Jayant Patil, Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Wadettiwar and Minister of State Vishwajeet Kadam accompanied Pawar during his visit to the flood-battered Bhilwadi and other areas of the district. They used a boat to reach out to people affected by the monsoon mayhem in Bhilwadi. According to the district administration, Pawar will hold a review meeting after taking stock of the situation. Meanwhile, the water level of the Krishna river at Irwin bridge was at 52.11 feet at 11 am, as against the danger mark of 45 feet, an official said. The state government on Sunday said it has provided an emergency financial aid of Rs 2 crore each to Raigad and Ratnagiri districts. Satara, Sangli, Pune, Kolhapur, Thane and Sindhudurg, also affected by rains, were provided with a financial aid of Rs 50 lakh each. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will visit some of the rain-affected areas in Patan tehsil of Satara district on Monday. The CM on Sunday visited Chiplun, the site of severe flooding in Ratnagiri district in th Konkan region, and interacted with residents, businessmen and shopkeepers. He promised them all help from the state government to restore normalcy in the area. Thackeray had said they will require "central assistance for long-term mitigation measures" and a comprehensive data of the extent of damages will be prepared. Heavy rains last week caused floods and landslides in some areas of Maharashtra, including the deadliest landslide at Taliye village in the Raigad district. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-deputy-cm-tours-flood-hit-villages-in-sangli-uses-boat-to-reach-out-to-people-1012980.html
26-07-2021||West||Maharashtra rains: Train traffic fully restored in ghat sections near Mumbai||Four days after suspension of train traffic on some routes near here due to heavy rains, all rail lines in the Thal and Bhor Ghat areas of neighbouring Thane, Nashik and Pune were restored on Monday morning, a Central Railway spokesperson said. The Central Railway (CR) had suspended traffic at the Thal Ghat, which is also known as the Kasara Ghat, from 10.15 pm on July 21, while traffic at the Bhor ghat, popularly called the Khandala Ghat, was suspended at 12.30 am on July 22, following heavy rains, landslides, tree falls and mudslides at multiple locations. The middle rail line at Thal ghat, located about 125 km from Mumbai on the border of Thane and Nashik districts, was declared safe at 6.50 am on Monday, CR's chief spokesperson Shivaji Sutar said. Besides, the up rail line at Bhor ghat, situated about 100 km from here on the border of Raigad-Pune districts, was declared safe for passenger traffic at 8 am on Monday, he said. The middle line at the Thal Ghat and the up line at the Bhor ghat had suffered extensive damage due to the monsoon fury. Hence, it took a longer time for opening these lines for passenger traffic, Sutar said. The up and down rail lines at the Thal Ghat, and the down and middle lines at the Bhor Ghat were opened for traffic on July 22. Both the ghats are among the most challenging sections due to their steep gradient. Trains going towards north and eastern parts of the country from Mumbai pass through the Thal Ghat, while trains going towards south move via the Bhor Ghat. The CR also opened the Karjat-Khopoli railway line in Raigad district for traffic from July 25 afternoon, Sutar said. Due to flooding, the ballast and embankment below the track near Kelavali station on the route was washed away on July 22 after heavy showers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-rains-train-traffic-fully-restored-in-ghat-sections-near-mumbai-1012998.html
26-07-2021||West||Maharashtra monsoon mayhem: Death toll rises to 164, 100 missing||The death toll in rain-related incidents in Maharashtra rose to 164 on Monday after the recovery of 11 more bodies in Raigad and two each in Wardha and Akola, while 100 people were still missing, the state government said. So far, 2,29,074 persons have been evacuated from the affected areas, the government said in a statement. It said till now, 71 people have died in Raigad district, 41 in Satara, 21 in Ratnagiri, 12 in Thane, seven in Kolhapur, four in Mumbai and two each in Sindhudurg, Pune, Wardha and Akola. Besides, 56 people have been injured in rain-related incidents, while 100 people are still missing, it said. In Raigad, 53 people were reported missing, in Satara-27, Ratnagiri-14, Thane-four, and Sindhudurg and Kolhapur-one each. The release further said 34 people were so far injured in Raigad, seven each in Mumbai and Ratnagiri, six in Thane and two in Sindhudurg. Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar toured various rain-hit villages in Sangli district on Monday and used a rescue boat to reach out to flood victims in some areas. Pawar also interacted with the flood-affected people and assured them of rehabilitation and all help from the state government. On Sunday, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray visited Chiplun, the site of severe flooding in Ratnagiri district in the Konkan region, and interacted with residents, businessmen and shopkeepers. He promised them all help from the state government to restore normalcy in the area. Thackeray had said they will require "central assistance for long-term mitigation measures" and a comprehensive data of the extent of damages will be prepared. Heavy rains last week caused floods and landslides in some areas of Maharashtra, including the deadliest landslide at Taliye village in the Raigad district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-monsoon-mayhem-death-toll-rises-to-164-100-missing-1013014.html
26-07-2021||West||CM's visit to flood-hit parts in western Maharashtra cancelled due to bad weather||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had to cancel his visit to the flood-affected districts of western Maharashtra on Monday due to rough weather. He was also scheduled to meet the affected people at a shelter camp set up at a zilla parishad school in Koynanagar. Heavy rains last week caused landslides at Ambeghar and Mirgaon villages of Patan taluka. A 24x7 search and rescue operations and relief measures continued in Kolhapur and the neighbouring twin districts of Sangli and Satara, which are worst-affected by the mega-floods. Thackeray spoke to officials and assessed the ground situation. "So far, the floodwaters have not subsided and inclement weather persists. Hence, the relief work should be carried on with due precautions. Food, clothes, and medicines should be immediately provided to those affected,” the chief minister said. Thackeray had visited Mahad in Raigad and Chiplun in Ratnagiri districts of coastal Konkan region on Saturday and Sunday, respectively.  However, the chief minister is likely to visit Satara on Tuesday.  “Thackeray was on his way to visit the flood-affected areas of Satara district. However, his helicopter was unable to land at the Koyna helipad due to low visibility. It has hence returned to Pune Airport,” officials of the Chief Minister’s Office said.  The death toll in one of the worst-ever floods mounted to 192 even as around 25 persons are still reported missing. More than 1.94 lakh people have been rescued and taken to safer locations. In a related development, Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari is expected to visit Raigad and Ratnagiri on Tuesday.  Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar visited the Sangli district and reviewed the situation. Pawar toured various rain-hit villages in Sangli district on Monday and used a rescue boat to reach out to flood victims in some areas.   Pawar, who was accompanied by water resources and command area development minister Jayant Patil, relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar, minister of state for agriculture Vishwajeet Kadam, said that in the next couple of days, the chief minister will make an announcement on the relief measures.  “The government is with the people... we are committed to providing relief to the people,” said Wadettiwar. Medical teams and medicine stocks have been dispatched to the flood-affected areas. During the floods, 43 roads were submerged and bridge on the Vashishti river was damaged, official sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cms-visit-to-flood-hit-parts-in-western-maharashtra-cancelled-due-to-bad-weather-1013017.html
26-07-2021||West||Thane Flamingo Sanctuary proposed to be first Ramsar site from MMR||If all goes according to plans, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) will soon get its first Ramsar site. The State Mangrove Cell has proposed the Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary (TCFS) as a Ramsar site as it is a wetland of international importance. A Ramsar site is a wetland area designated to be of international importance under the Ramsar Convention, an intergovernmental environmental treaty that provides the framework for national action and international cooperation for the conservation and wise use of wetlands and their resources. The move was announced by Virendra Tiwari, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forest, Mangrove Cell. “A proposal to declare Thane creek as a Ramsar site has been submitted and we are working on it with the Maharashtra Environment department,” he said.  The Mangrove Cell is waiting for its approval by the State Wetland Authority, headed by the Environment Minister Aaditya Thackeray and closely working with the environment department for speedy approval. “Following this, it can be sent to the central government,” said Tiwari. This was announced during the fourth Climate Resilient Maharashtra Townhall organised by Climate Voices, a collective of three organisations Purpose, Asar and Climate Trends along with the Maharashtra Environment and Climate Change Department’s Majhi Vasundhara initiative on Monday, which is observed as International Day for Conservation of Mangroves globally. The TCFC, spread across 1,690.5 hectares, will be the first Ramsar Wetland in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) when the proposal is cleared.  According to a BNHS report, the Thane creek, which comprises 12 true mangrove species and 39 associate mangrove species, ranks amongst the most important bird habitats in the region and is an interesting dividing line between the Mumbai and Mumbai suburbs, Thane and the city of Navi Mumbai. A total of around 167 species of birds, 45 species of fishes, 59 species of butterflies and 67 species of insects species have been recorded here, BNHS report on TCFS Management says. The NatConnect Foundation welcomed the move and said its suggestion to conserve Panje wetland as a Ramsar property has been pending with the State Environment department. “We have written to the Chief Minister to expeditiously decide on the issue,” NatConnect Director B N Kumar said. Among other key announcements, Manisha Patankar-Mhaiskar, Principal Secretary, Maharashtra Environment and Climate Change Department, said that the environment department will be setting up a task force to conduct a fresh exercise to identify, demarcate, and preserve wetlands across Maharashtra left out of coastal zones and inland areas. “We will be looking at all the wetlands (even those that may have been left out) for our latest inventory in an attempt to protect as many wetlands as possible across Maharashtra. The minister is already planning to meet with collectors from all districts in the state to conduct a fresh exercise to identify and demarcate wetlands which are left out. We will be setting up a task force to get this done at the earliest,” said Mhaiskar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/thane-flamingo-sanctuary-proposed-to-be-first-ramsar-site-from-mmr-1013061.html
26-07-2021||West||ONGC, Coast Guard avert major disaster in Arabian Sea||Prompt action by ONGC and the Coast Guard averted a possible disaster relating to an empty LNG Tanker ‘Gas Yodla’ in the Arabian Sea.  At 6:30 pm on Saturday, the LNG tanker reported engine failure and started drifting in the sea, around 20 nautical miles from ONGC’s D1 field. After the first information was reported by ODAG, ONGC promptly diverted its Offshore Supply Vessel (OSV) ‘Sagar Pride’ and ODAG mobilised its vessel ‘P R Nayak’ to support the drifting vessel. The efforts succeeded in assisting the distressed vessel and also helped keep it away from ONGC’s operational area. The vessel, owned by M/s Shield Marine, headquartered at Dubai, UAE, was on its way to Fujairah, UAE from Mongla, Bangladesh. Seventeen people were onboard the vessel, including eight Indians and nine Ukrainians. ONGC also withdrew one of its Multi-Supply Vessel (MSV) ‘Seamec-3’ and tugboat ‘Saroja Blessing’ from assigned duties and diverted those towards the drifting vessel.  ‘Water Lilly’ tugboat from Directorate General of Shipping also joined ONGC’s vessels. The path of the vessel was closely monitored to ensure the safety of the passengers onboard and ONGC installations.  By 10 pm, the vessel cleared the south of the D1 field at 15 nm but was still drifting at 1.5-2nm per hour. ONGC remained in constant coordination with DG Shipping, Coast Guard and ODAG to ensure that the vessel remained at a safe distance from ONGC fields. Coast Guard Ship ‘Sankalp’ approached the adrift vessel by the morning of July 25, and took over as on-scene commander – from ODAG Vessel ‘P R Nayak’. The crew then successfully repaired the engine of MV Gas Yodla, and started its emergency generator by 5:15 am on Sunday.  MV ‘Garnet’ was then arranged by the owners for bunker support. Subsequent to the conversation with the Coast Guard, the captain of the vessel agreed to it being towed. The vessel was secured to DG Shipping Tug ‘Water Lilly’. As the tow line of ‘Water Lilly’ parted, ONGC immediately deployed ‘Sagar Pride’ which towed the vessel to safety on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ongc-coast-guard-avert-major-disaster-in-arabian-sea-1013089.html
26-07-2021||West||Over 1 crore in Maharashtra have received both doses of Covid-19 vaccine||Maharashtra achieved a milestone in its Covid-19 vaccination drive, as a total of one crore people have now taken both doses of the vaccine. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and state public health minister Rajesh Tope complimented the doctors, health workers, frontline workers and government staff involved in the drive.  According to Tope, the state has inoculated 4,13,19,131 people till Sunday of which 1,00,64,308 have received two doses.  "Maharashtra is the first and the only state in the country to fully vaccinate over one crore people against Covid-19”, said additional chief secretary (health) Dr Pradeep Vyas on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-1-crore-in-maharashtra-have-received-both-doses-of-covid-19-vaccine-1013094.html
