27-07-2021||First Edit||End of an era for Karnataka BJP||Karnataka politics and the BJP in the state enter a new chapter with the resignation of B S Yediyurappa as Chief Minister. Yediyurappa, 78, has had a long innings in state politics. An RSS member from his college days, he came up the hard way, from being appointed the Sangh’s Shikaripura unit secretary in 1970 to being elected an MLA for the first time in 1983 to ultimately becoming Chief Minister. Along the way, and with other BJP old-timers like B B Shivappa, A K Subbaiah and V S Acharya, he virtually built the party in the state from scratch and helped make it the BJP’s gateway to the South. Yet, though he became CM on four occasions since 2007, he had to resign midway each time and under controversial circumstances. While he was appreciated for his never-say-die attitude and hard work, the devious means of coming to power by engineering defections from rival parties – Operation Kamala was practically ‘invented’ in Karnataka -- will remain a blackmark on his political career. On the face of it, Yediyurappa had everything going for him, and so the question arises whether he squandered it all. The government was running smoothly, he had numbers on his side, the party high command seemed unsure of precipitating any action against him, the opposition parties were rather soft on him. While he had an uneasy relationship with Prime Minister Narendra Modi from the start, the circumstances of his exit are reminiscent of 2011, when he was charged with corruption and nepotism and even went to jail and had to be forced to resign. This time, too, his own party members accused him of having allowed his son to become a frontman for him and a ‘Super CM,’ a situation that they found humiliating and untenable. While he was reviled on the corruption issue though, Yediyurappa, even while being the undisputed political leader of the Lingayat community, was known for being secular in his outlook and did not suffer from some of the worst tendencies of the religious right-wing in India. He did not use hatred and polarisation to gain power and no section of society saw him as an enemy. Neither did he indulge in political witch-hunts, even against those who he felt had betrayed him at times. Whether these things could be said of his successor as Chief Minister remains to be seen. Indeed, that the BJP does not have a ready replacement for him despite the fact that the efforts to unseat him, sometimes with a wink and nod from the central leadership, have been on for several months, speaks to his importance for the party. He will be missed in Karnataka’s political landscape.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/end-of-an-era-for-karnataka-bjp-1013231.html
27-07-2021||In Perspective||Covid in rural areas: Empower ASHAs||As India’s second Covid-19 wave declines, its rural spread is of significant concern. Karnataka is a case in point— the highest state test positivity rate was 39.7% on May 17. In rural areas like Hallegere village in Mandya, the test positivity rate was already 60% by May 11. By May 31, test positivity rates for talukas of Hunsur, Nanjangud, K R Nagar, H D Kote and Periyapatna remained as high as 74.38%, 66.22%, 58.62%, 55.77% and 55.2%, indicating a rural Covid-19 hotspot, even as state test positivity declined to 13.37%. Not only does the rural wave have a different time trajectory, but the rural health infrastructure is also much poorer. With Dr Michael Ryan at WHO forecasting Covid-19 to achieve endemic status, the readiness of our rural health system is critical if we are to avoid devastating consequences reported in our cities. By design, rural health infrastructure is minimal and referral in nature. It is meant to cater to community health needs for Reproductive and Child Health (RCH) and health promotive and preventive activities. The robust need for testing, diagnostics, and in critical cases, oxygen is not the rural health system’s strength. In fact, the first responder for rural Covid-19 cases in most communities is an Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA). They are now recruited in almost all gram panchayats of sufficient size. Traditionally, trained to focus on RCH, ASHAs are frontline workers spreading messages on birth preparedness, safe delivery etc. through home visits. In pre-Covid-19 time, this would allow for sharing information that might be seen to be too personal or culturally inappropriate in public. Our pre-Covid-19 door-to-door walks with ASHAs reveal strenuous routines, starting before people can leave for work. With very heavy data reporting expectations, they work into the day. We reached out to several ASHAs, mentors, and facilitators to see how they were faring during the second Covid-19 wave. Most ASHAs have access to detailed Covid-19 treatment protocols and understand basic Covid-19 management. However, key challenges remain due to the lack of local availability of doctors, nurses, drugs, testing, medical equipment, other supplies and of course, vaccines. Even patients with mild symptoms need triaging by a medical team, access to drugs, diagnostic evaluation and medical advice. More serious cases need urgent referral to more equipped clinical establishments. ASHAs have received a Covid-19 management kit, but beyond the face shields, masks, and gloves that remain important, there is little by way of the system that an ASHA can depend on to monitor, track progress and recommend severe cases to hospitals in a timely manner. Several initiatives taken by different state governments are taking shape to respond to this. Maharashtra may create 30-bed clinical units in each gram panchayat to provide health services locally. The government of Karnataka has announced support for a Gram Panchayat Task Force Committee (GPTC), endowed with Rs 50,000 to each. Family Task Force Committee (FTC) mapped onto 50 families will report into the GPTC and consist of ASHAs, bill collectors, SHG members and members of society in the village. The focus of FTCs is to monitor people under home isolation through home visits, help arrange food and medicines for vulnerable communities, advise those who cannot isolate at home to move to a Covid-19 Care Centre and provide teleconsulting support to families twice a day and monitor temperature, oxygen levels and pulse rates and identify ideal locations for vaccination drives. While this is very ambitious it is also achievable provided required supplies, equipment, financial assistance and leadership are available. Forming and managing Covid Care Centres in the villages and managing a network of these would be critical as a pandemic response network. In addition, ensuring the provision of medicines and supplies and networking facilities with government established Covid management centres for secondary and tertiary care are the need of the hour. Sourcing local information and triangulating patient records, pharmacy data, availability of diagnostic test kits will be critical to any system trying to manage rural, decentralised Covid-19 treatment. ASHAs as the frontline resource will be the lynchpin for any gram panchayat initiative. They already support many existing government programs— Ayushman Bharat, Atal Pension Yojana, and Covid-19 surveys. Extending Covid-19 programmes within a feasible working environment will be critical for any rapid rural response system to handle Covid care. However, our conversations reflect dissatisfaction with their work conditions. Poor recognition of their role, limited integration in the health system and delays in payments were frequently reported; on occasions, they have been on strike. However, ASHAs are keen to support their communities during the pandemic. Overcoming disenchantment and disillusionment among this crucial last-mile workforce will be a necessary condition to ensure a fully functional and decentralised pandemic response system that covers rural areas. (The writers are part of Health Policy Group, IIM Bangalore)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/covid-in-rural-areas-empower-ashas-1013236.html
27-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Sevas to begin at Kukke Temple from July 27||The 'sevas' in Kukke Subrahmanya Temple, known for the worship of serpent god, will commence from Tuesday. However, main 'sevas' like ‘Sarpasamskara,’ ‘Ashlesha Bali', Nagaprathishte’ and ‘Mahabhisheka’ will commence from July 29. Even ‘Prasada’ (food) will be served in the temple. The devotees can have darshan of the deity from 6.30 am to 1.30 pm and 3.30 pm to 8.30 pm, according to a press release from the temple. From Tuesday, various sevas like ‘Tulabhara’, ‘Sheshaseve’, ‘Panchamrithabhisheka’ and others will commence. The devotees will be allowed to stay in the lodges and guest houses of the temple. Further, the distribution of ‘laddu’, ‘panchakajjaya’ and ‘theertha’ will also commence. The ‘Sarpasamskara,’ Ashlesha Bali,’ ‘Nagaprathishte’ and ‘Mahabhisheka’ will commence from July 29. The devotees taking part in these 'sevas' should have availed at least one dose of Covid vaccine or should produce RT-PCR negative certificate. Further, wearing a mask is mandatory. Only two devotees can take part for one ticket issued for the 'seva'. Even the priests, who are part of the 'Sarpasamskara' rituals, are administered with vaccines. The 'Sarpasamskara' rituals will be held in two batches with first batch starting at 8 am and second batch at 10 am. Each batch will have 90 'sarpasamskara sevas'. While Ashlesha Bali will be conducted in four batches daily. A total of 240 devotees can perform the 'seva' with 60 devotees in each batch. The first batch will be from 6 am to 8 am. The other batches are from 8.15 am to 9.30 am, 9.45 am to 11.15 am and 5 pm to 6.30 pm. Twenty-five devotees will be allowed to perform 'Nagaprathishte' apart from 180 'Nagaprathishte' being performed as a part of 'Sarpasamskara seva'. Three devotees can offer 'Mahabhisheka seva' daily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sevas-to-begin-at-kukke-temple-from-july-27-1013362.html
27-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Glitches in KR Hospital keeps patients waiting for over 2 hours||Hundreds of patients had to wait for over two hours at KR Hospital here on Tuesday following a problem in the billing software. Some of the patients had come for a fasting blood sugar test and they were the worst affected. Some of them experienced fatigue. There were 14 staffers in five billing counters and four outpatient counters of the hospital. They found it difficult to convince the patients. They said that nothing could be done without creating and printing bills and all had to wait until the server functioned. About 1,450 outpatients visited the hospital and 120 of them were admitted as inpatients. A staffer at the counter said that technical glitches had become frequent of late and it usually happened on Mondays and Tuesdays. The problem lasted for over two hours for the first time on July 27. Usually the server used to resume functioning in around 30 minutes. Resident Medical Officer Dr Rajesh said that the problem was not specific to KR Hospital. It happened in all government hospitals across the nation simultaneously.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/glitches-in-kr-hospital-keeps-patients-waiting-for-over-2-hours-1013494.html
27-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||G T Devegowda abuses PDO, directs him to behave properly||Chamundeshwari segment MLA G T Devegowda blasted panchayat development officer Gopalakrishna of Dhanaganahalli grama panchayat following a complaint by GP president Mahalakshmi and vice president Leelavathi here during a meeting on Tuesday. He even abused the PDO. During the progress review meeting of the Karnataka Development Programme (KDP), Mahalakshmi and Leelavathi complained that Gopalakrishna did not give proper information. He exhibited audacity if information of the panchayat works was sought. This irked the MLA, who lambasted the PDO. He warned the PDO and directed him to behave properly. “What do you think about women? You have to follow the orders of the president and vice president in democracy. Do you behave in the same way with your sisters?” he asked. He asked TP executive officer Prem Kumar to suspend the PDO immediately. When the EO exhibited his helplessness, Devegowda asked the EO to analyse the conduct of the PDO and report to the Chief Executive Officer of the Zilla Panchayat. “I will take up the issue with the CEO,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/g-t-devegowda-abuses-pdo-directs-him-to-behave-properly-1013498.html
27-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Farmers' leader mocks special puja at KRS||Speaking at a condolence meeting in memory of former MP G Madegowda, farmers' leader G T Ramaswamy and Channapattana Ramu, he alleged that most of the JD(S) MLAs were involved in quarrying in and around KRS dam looting natural resources. "It is ironic that the leaders blasting rocks posing a threat to the dam are offering special puja. If they are really worried about the dam and concerned about farmers, they should stop quarrying in the region immediately. The state leaders should have advised them against such acts," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/farmers-leader-mocks-special-puja-at-krs-1013500.html
27-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Halebeed Police recover stolen vehicles worth Rs 1.05 crore, six held||The Halebeed police arrested six persons and recovered two lorries, 10 goods vehicles, one pick up vehicle, one motorbike, one scooter and other stolen vehicles worth Rs 1.05 crore. The suspects are Shahib Ahmed and Abdul Kalam of Soraba, Himayat Sharieff of Shivamogga, Bhaskar Poojari of Mangaluru and Abdul Rahim and Jhaza Mohammed of Kalaburagi. SP Srinivas Gowda told reporters that the vehicles stolen in Halebeed town limits were traced in Shivamogga, Haveri, Hubballi, Ramanagar, Bengaluru rural, Halebeed and Banavara. The suspects were found moving in a suspicious manner at Mayagondanahalli checkpost. Upon inquiry, they disclosed the vehicle thefts. The 13 vehicles were sold at various parts of Hassan district and also three vehicles were used for the crime by the suspects, said the SP. The suspects had also cheated vehicle owners posing as representatives of a finance company and escaped with the vehicles. They sold the vehicles to the customers for cheaper prices convincing the buyers of producing the documents at the earliest, the SP said. The team investigating the case comprised the SP, Additional SP Nandini and Arsikere DySP Nagesh and Halebeedu police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/halebeed-police-recover-stolen-vehicles-worth-rs-105-crore-six-held-1013503.html
27-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru City Corporation to review list of regularised civic workers||Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) has decided to review the list of civic workers whose services have been regularised since April 1 to accommodate those who have been left out. MCC Commissioner Laksmikanth Reddy convened a meeting on July 26 at the Old Council Hall following a representation by ex-corporator and former leader of opposition in the MCC K C Showkath Pasha to consider the left out civic workers who have been working for the last several years. Pasha had elaborated the problems in Ward no 34 represented by his wife Seema Showkath following the discontinuation of a few pourakarmikas. “There were 34 pourakarmikas for Ward No 55 now changed to Ward 34. It was reduced to 30 after technical evaluation. However, only 21 of them were regularised since April 1. While one of them died, the remaining eight were still working on contract basis. The contract workers have not received their salaries since April. Last week, they were asked not to attend work. The eight workers were working for the over last 10 years with provident fund and Employees' State Insurance numbers,” Pasha said. “On enquiry, it was learnt that their names had been left out due to some problem and the same is being processed with all their details and is being sent to the deputy commissioner’s office with reasons for clearance. Among the eight persons asked to stop work were garbage collecting drivers, supervisors and door-to-door garbage collectors. How is it possible to manage garbage clearance without them?” Pasha had asked. Following the request of Pasha, the MCC Commissioner had allowed the left out pourakarmikas to resume work. Pasha said that the MCC had relieved a total of 105 pourakarmikas due to technical reasons while 1,647 of them had been absorbed as permanent staff. “Myself, Narayan, also ex-mayor and Karnataka State Federation of Pourakarmikas' Association president, and office bearers of pourakarmika unions held a discussion with the commissioner about the issue,” he said. MCC Commissioner Laksmikanth Reddy said that some of the left out pourakarmikas had applied for regularisation. “Dr G Nagraju, MCC Chief Health Officer, and other officials have been asked to verify the list of confirmed civic workers to see if there are any flaws. The officials have also been asked to initiate the process to regularise the services of those eligible and also possess required qualifications and records as per the guidelines formulated for conversion of contractual workers to permanent workers,” he said. Regarding family members working in place of expired civic workers, Reddy said that there was no provision of jobs on compensatory grounds for contractual workers. “We will see what is the policy of the government and the provisions available and do whatever best is possible on humanitarian grounds,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-city-corporation-to-review-list-of-regularised-civic-workers-1013520.html
27-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Son of a mason, this PU topper from Kalaburagi has built civil services dreams for himself||Poverty hasn’t been a barrier for Mateen Jamadar, who emerged as a topper with 600/600 in arts stream of II PU. Mateen is a resident of Mannur village in Afzalpur taluk of the district and is the son of a mason. He has already set a goal to become a civil servant by appearing for the civil service examination conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC). The boy had become a household name in the village as he had secured 617/625 in the SSLC examination in 2018-19. The brilliant student studied at his native place from class 1-10. Mateen told DH that after class 10, he got admitted to MMV College in Ramanagar near Bengaluru for I PU in arts stream. His uncle Basheer Jamadar introduced him to Rahman Education Foundation, which took care of him for two years. He stayed at a hostel run by the foundation in Ramanagar. “I and my friends used to do group study, discussing various topics. Guidance of the teachers and family support helped me achieve this feat. I will join BA in English medium. After that, I will appear for the UPSC examinations. It is my ambition to become a civil servant”, Mateen said. He is the youngest of four children of Nabisab Jamadar, a mason, and Raziya Begum. While his elder brother is physically challenged, his second brother is a police constable undergoing training in Bengaluru. His sister has been married off. Nabisab said the boy had been studying well since his childhood. “We don’t force him to study a particular course and whatever he opts for is final,” he said. Srikanth Nivaragi, a social worker from Mannur, said Mateen had secured the third highest marks in Kalyana Karnataka in the SSLC examination and is a brilliant student.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/son-of-a-mason-this-pu-topper-from-kalaburagi-has-built-civil-services-dreams-for-himself-1013562.html
27-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Belagavi-Delhi flight services from August 13||The city is getting air connectivity with the national capital from August 13. Spicejet has announced that it will start flight services between Belagavi and Delhi twice a week from August 13. The demand for a direct flight to Delhi from the oldest airport in the state was long pending with it being the third busiest in the state. Since the inauguration of the new terminal building and extended runway, people from different walks of life had been expressing demand for direct air connectivity to Delhi as presently they were using connecting flights. The city has air connectivity with 12 cities. Airport director Rajesh Kumar Maurya said on Tuesday that service on the Delhi-Belagavi-Delhi sector will be started by Spicejet from August 13. This was the most awaited sector from Belagavi Airport and it was also demanded by MPs, MLAs, MLCs and other political leaders, all commercial/business entities, educational institutes, Air Force, MLIRC, Armed Forces, AEQUS, central and state government departments and other entities. Spicejet has planned two days of operations, on Monday and Friday in a week with Boeing 737 Aircraft (149-seater) from August 13. The flight route is from Leh-Delhi-Belagavi-Delhi. The flight will depart from Delhi at 2.30 pm and scheduled to arrive at Belagavi Airport is 4.35 pm and scheduled departure to Delhi is 5.05 pm and reach Delhi at 7.30 pm, he said. At present, Belagavi Airport is connected with 12 major cities Bengaluru, Mysuru, Kadapa, Tirupati, Mumbai, Pune, Ahmedabad, Nasik, Hyderabad, Indore, Surat and Jodhpur by five airlines, Alliance Air, Spicejet, Star Air, Indigo and Trujet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/belagavi-delhi-flight-services-from-august-13-1013580.html
27-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||BJP will benefit from B S Yediyurappa’s guidance: Arun Singh||BJP national general secretary Arun Singh hailed outgoing chief minister B S Yediyurappa for providing “fabulous” government over the last two years and said that he would continue to guide the party in the state.  “B S Yediyurappa has resigned. His government did fabulous work in the last two years. It worked for all classes and sections of society,” Singh told reporters at the Kempegowda International Airport. “He has long experience in the party’s organisation and government. The party will continue to benefit from his leadership, experience and guidance.”  Singh, who is in charge of the party’s affairs in Karnataka, arrived in Bengaluru with BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel ahead of the crucial legislature party meeting where the election of a new chief minister is expected.  Yediyurappa resigned Monday, drawing curtains on the uncertainty that surrounded his continuation. He is currently a caretaker chief minister.  The BJP has deployed union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and G Kishan Reddy as observers for the election of the leader of the BJP legislature party in Karnataka. The legislature party meet is scheduled at 7 pm in a city hotel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-will-benefit-from-b-s-yediyurappa-s-guidance-arun-singh-1013433.html
27-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||With Basavaraj Bommai as new CM, BJP balances the vote math in Karnataka||Three-time legislator Basavaraj Bommai is Karnataka’s new chief minister, a decision the BJP took Tuesday keeping in mind several factors, including the long-pending demand for the post to be occupied by someone from north Karnataka.  With under two years to go for the 2023 elections, the BJP found a safe bet in Bommai as he ticked enough boxes: He is a Lingayat, the party’s traditional support base. A former minister of Water Resources and Home Departments, Bommai is seen as a trusted aide of outgoing Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, also a Lingayat. But unlike Yediyurappa, who belongs to the Ganiga sub-sect, Bommai is a Sadar-Lingayat, which is not a dominant group within the Lingayats.  Karnataka's politics has been dominated by a few communities and among them, Lingayats are said to be one of the more prominent ones. Even a former Congress minister, Shivashankarappa met Yediyurappa to thank him for the government’s decision to install 12th-century social reformer Basavanna’s statue in Vidhana Soudha. Basavanna is considered the founder of the Lingayat sect. Kudalasangama-based Panchamasali Mutt Seer Jagadguru Basava Jaya Mrityunjaya Swami demanded from the BJP to accord chief minister post to a leader from the Lingayat community belonging to North Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/with-basavaraj-bommai-as-new-cm-bjp-balances-the-vote-math-in-karnataka-1013527.html
27-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||A look at Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai's political career||Three-time legislator Basavaraj Bommai is Karnataka’s new chief minister, a decision the BJP took Tuesday keeping in mind several factors, including the long-pending demand for the post to be occupied by someone from north Karnataka. Bommai, 61, is expected to take oath as the state’s 26th chief minister on Wednesday.  Let us take a look at his political career. Bommai started his political career with the Janata Dal. He was elected as a member of the Karnataka Legislative Council, twice (in 1998 and 2004) from Dharwad local authorities constituency. Bommai, the son of former chief minister SR Bommai, joined the BJP in 2008. In the 2008 Karnataka Assembly elections, he was elected to the state Legislative Assembly from Shiggaon constituency in Haveri district. A mechanical engineer, Bommai’s name was upheld in the BJP Legislature Party meeting on Tuesday, whose proceedings were overseen by Union Ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and G Kishan Reddy. A former minister of Water Resources and Home Departments, Bommai is seen as a trusted aide of outgoing Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/a-look-at-karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommais-political-career-1013529.html
27-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Why BJP picked Basavaraj Bommai to replace BSY as Karnataka CM||Known for his "clean and non-controversial" image, Basavaraj Bommai was chosen as Karnataka’s new chief minister by the BJP keeping several factors in mind. The appointment of the three-time legislator, who is also considered among the close confidants of Yediyurappa, ended the long-pending demand for the CM post to be occupied by someone from north Karnataka.  Given his caste, education, administrative capacities and proximity to Yediyurappa, central leaders of the party as well as the RSS, Bommai was BJP's most safe bet to head the state ahead of the 2023 Assembly elections. Bommai, a Lingayat leader from North Karnataka, had the backing of the outgoing chief minister Yediyurappa to succeed him. Bommai is the son of former chief minister, the late S R Bommai. The 61-year-old leader was Minister for Home Affairs, Law, Parliamentary Affairs and Legislature in Yediyurappa's council of ministers which was dissolved on Monday. Bommai is expected to take oath as the state’s 26th chief minister on Wednesday.  (With DHNS/PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/why-bjp-picked-basavaraj-bommai-to-replace-bsy-as-karnataka-cm-1013530.html
27-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Basavaraj Bommai to become third Karnataka CM from Hubballi||Being an industrialist was the first priority of Basavaraj Bommai, and he started an industry also. His father S R Bommai was also not in favour of Basavaraj's entry into politics. But, Basavaraj's concern for people, his involvement with them, their support and wish made it inevitable for him to enter politics. This is how N M Patil, father-in-law of Basavaraj Bommai, recalled the situation when Basavaraj entered politics. In 1994, Basavaraj contested from Janata Dal in the Assembly polls against Jagadish Shettar of the BJP, but tasted defeat. Then he became an MLC twice, and is the third-time MLA from Shoggaon constituency since 2008. After S R Bommai in 1988, and Jagadish Shettar in 2012, another leader from Hubballi is becoming the chief minister now. Admirers of Bommai visited his house at Adarsh Nagar on Tuesday evening, raised slogans, sweets were distributed, and firecrackers were also burst. Receiving continuous phone calls and wishes, Patil was in all smiles at Bommai's residence at Adarsh Nagar, after the news of Bommai being selected as the next chief minister came. Patil is also the husband of Bommai's elder sister Uma Patil. "We expected that he would reach this position, as he has a clean image. he fought for Mahadayi water diversion, and he would definitely work for the development of the entire State, with special concern about North Karnataka also," Patil added. Bommai's sister Uma Patil stated that politics is not new for the family, and Basavaraj Bommai would scale greater heights like his father who had become chief minister and a Union minister. "Since morning, we were waiting like a student awaiting results after writing the examination. The news has brought immense joy, and it remembers me the days when our father became the chief minister," she said. She also recalled that Bommai used to touch his mother's feet everyday before going to the school. 'NK food lover' Vittal Kadlimatti from Badami, who is engaged in cooking and other works at Bommai's residence since 2000, stated that Bommai takes care of him as a son. "He loves Kadak Rotti and Chatni, while Ballulli Chummari and Girmit are his favourite snacks. He does like to eat rice," Vittal said. Channu Patil, who is associated with Bommai since his father's time, was also receiving wishes through phone, and from visitors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/basavaraj-bommai-to-become-third-karnataka-cm-from-hubballi-1013561.html
27-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||MLAs keep hopes alive to become ministers in new Karnataka govt||Several BJP legislators who have earlier not got an opportunity to be ministers or were not been included in B S Yediyurappa's Cabinet, are waiting in the wings this time to join the new chief minister’s team that is widely expected to comprise fresh faces. On Tuesday, Saundatti Yellamma MLA and Deputy Speaker Anand Mamani urged the party to induct him as a minister. "I am willing to resign from my post as the deputy speaker and serve people as a minister. In case I am not given an opportunity to become a minister, I will resign from my post," he said. Mamani had previously too expressed disappointment at not being inducted into Yediyurappa's Cabinet. It is believed that many of the familiar faces and senior BJP leaders who were part of Yediyurappa's Cabinet may not be included in the new team, giving hope for fresh aspirants. Recently, a purported and leaked audio clip of BJP state president Nalin Kateel also indicated the same. None of the five BJP MLAs from Davangere was accommodated in the earlier Cabinet despite their constant attempts. Among them, 5-time MLA and two-time minister S A Raveendranath (Davangere North) is the senior-most and is seen as a party loyalist. In Shivamogga, 4-time MLA Aaraga Jnanendra (Thirthahalli) is also known as a party loyalist and is yet to become a minister. His followers are hopeful that he will make it this time. Many MLAs were disgruntled with the previous dispensation for not being made ministers. This includes the likes of Holalkere MLA M Chandrappa, G H Thippareddy (Chitradurga), M P Kumaraswamy (Mudigere) and Shivanagouda Naik (Devadurga), who had earlier pitched for an overhaul of the Cabinet. Legislators such as Krishnaraja MLA S A Ramadass and Honnali legislator Renukacharya had also openly expressed disappointment. While stating that he was not going to lobby for a minister's post, Renukacharya told DH that he had the experience and the seniority to be a minister. "I am not lobbying for any post. But I do have seniority. I am a third-time MLA, a former excise minister, a political advisor to the chief minister and have been loyal to the RSS," he said, adding that he would do justice to the post if given an opportunity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/mlas-keep-hopes-alive-to-become-ministers-in-new-karnataka-govt-1013564.html
27-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Minorities’ conference in Sept, says C M Ibrahim||Congress MLC CM Ibrahim on Tuesday announced initiatives to mobilise minority communities through two conferences in September and November, hinting at the formation of a new regional political coalition. Speaking to reporters after meeting caretaker chief minister B S Yediyurappa, Ibrahim predicted a major change in the state’s political climate after September. “In September, a minorities’ conference will be held. About a lakh people expected to attend the convention. In November, an Ira Peera conference will be held. All leaders will be invited to discuss the injustice being done to the state,” Ibrahim said. “On August 8, a meeting of some important minority leaders will be held,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/minorities-conference-in-sept-says-c-m-ibrahim-1013583.html
27-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Basavaraj Bommai to be latest in father-son duo club to occupy CM’s chair||When Basavaraj Bommai takes oath as Karnataka chief minister, he will be the latest in the father-son duos to occupy the CM’s post. His father Somappa Rayappa Bommai was the state chief minister during 1988–1989. Another father-son duo, also from Karnataka, occupied the state CM’s post: H D Deve Gowda and his son H D Kumaraswamy. Tamil Nadu CM M K Stalin’s father M Karunanidhi was also the chief minister of the southern state. Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy is occupying the state’s top post once held by his father YS Rajasekhar Reddy. Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik’s father Biju Patnaik was also a chief minister of that state. Arunachal Pradesh CM Pema Khandu’s father Dorji Khandu, who died in a helicopter crash in 2011, was also the chief minister. Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren’s father Shibu Soren was also the state’s chief minister. Members of three generations of the Abdullah family have been Jammu and Kashmir chief ministers: Sheikh Abdullah, his son Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar Abdullah. Following are the other father-son duos who became chief ministers. Uttar Pradesh: Mulayam Singh Yadav and son Akhilesh Yadav Uttarakhand: Vijay Bahuguna, whose father Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna was chief minister of Uttar Pradesh. Haryana: Devi Lal and his son Om Prakash Chautala Maharashtra: Shankarrao Chavan and his son Ashok Chavan. There is also a father-daughter duo to occupy the chief minister’s chair. Mufti Mohammad Sayeed and his daughter Mehbooba Mufti were Kashmir chief ministers. Andhra Pradesh saw N T Rama Rao and his son-in-law N Chandrababu Naidu occupying the CM’s chair. There have also been father-son duos where the father was the chief minister and the son became a deputy chief minister. Such was the case in Bihar where Lalu Prasad Yadav was the CM and his son Tejaswi Yadav later became the Deputy CM. In Punjab, Prakash Singh Badal was the CM and his son Sukhbir Singh Badal became the Deputy CM.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/basavaraj-bommai-to-be-latest-in-father-son-duo-club-to-occupy-cm-s-chair-1013587.html
27-07-2021||Main Article||The Covid crisis we don’t see||The official death-count due to Covid-19 in India stood at over 4,20,000 around mid-July. It is widely understood and accepted that the actual death toll is many times that figure. Yet, these numbers do not count the deaths of despair caused by a host of factors that are not directly due to Covid-19 but are indirectly a result of the pandemic— like suicides, caused by depression, anxiety, the devastation and deprivation of families whose lives have been upturned by the loss of a loved one or a financial crisis due to vanished incomes, or other reasons. There is no official count of this tragedy playing out in parallel, painfully and silently, leaving families to manage what essentially is a desolate, hopeless situation. As Covid-19 numbers come under control, as vaccinations pick up, and as the health system prepares for a possible third wave, the government will have to begin to turn its attention to providing support and relief to those suffering in silence. This may well be the silent majority of Covid-19’s victims, a group that needs a helping hand but is too weak to even ask for it. Consider the case of Reshma Matthew Trenchil, a journalist, who jumped from the 12th floor of her rented suburban Mumbai high-rise in June, taking her seven-year-old son with her on Father’s Day. Her husband had died of Covid nearly a month before that after he contracted the disease while tending to his parents, both of whom died in Varanasi while on a pilgrimage. Reshma was left alone in a nuclear family system with no one she could turn to or depend on for support in Mumbai, where they had moved from Bengaluru recently. Many Indian nuclear families of three and four members have virtually collapsed after losing their mainstay, especially those who have moved to new cities or are estranged from their relatives after disputes or inter-faith marriages. Shut indoors as state governments have been continuously reinforcing lockdowns after every spike in Covid cases, and without any recourse, those left behind in these family units are moving into increasingly desolate situations. Many have suffered traumatic experiences as they could not be with their loved ones in their dying moments and often were unable to fully participate in the last rites and/or perform all rituals as prescribed by their faith. There is also the case of many families coming to terms with a lifestyle that is considered the norm — high EMIs and maintenance charges for houses and cars that signal success and achievement in an age of consumerism. Now, this high-expense living is coming to terms with realities as loans come calling and self-esteem is sacrificed at the altar of recovery agents and processes. Take the case of the Shetty family in Gurugram, where the father committed suicide, followed by his wife and a daughter a fortnight later, as debts piled up. The suicide note requested that their home and car loans be waived. Reports of this breakdown will only mount as Covid-19 extracts its price, economic, social and psychological. An online survey in May covering some 8,000 respondents reported that 61% of Indians were feeling angry, upset, depressed or worried as the second wave of Covid-19 hit. The survey by ‘Local Circles’ said 23% of the respondents reported that they were “anxious or worried”, 8% said they were “depressed, gloomy or sad”, 20% said they were “upset and angry”, 10% said they were “extremely angry”, and just 7% reported being “calm and peaceful”.  Other reports have indicated that calls to helplines and other support centres have jumped during the pandemic. Another study has drawn on 1,856 Indian print and television reports and scientific literature to obtain 151 Covid-related suicide (CRS) reports to compare suicide-related pressures between lockdown and unlock phases. The findings showed that 80.8% of the CRS cases were male. And the average age of the deceased was around 38 years. Those who died by suicide during the lockdown were significantly younger compared to those who died when the lockdown was lifted. Similar findings were made by Mpower, a mental health helpline which works with the Maharashtra government. The helpline received as many as 70,000 calls from people across India between the lockdown last March and this April. The maximum number of callers were between the ages of 26 and 40, and over 70% of the calls were made by males. Timely intervention with medication, grief therapy and psychotherapy have helped pull back many suicidal callers from the edge. But what happens to those who don’t call? Yet, a causal visit to shopping centres or places that are open might indicate that matters are returning to normal. Several stores have reported seeing a rush of buying as pent-up demand makes its way to the market. This is sometimes used to signal the return of normalcy, but it ignores the ticking time-bomb caused by disruptions lying just beneath the surface. Clearly, it would be a mistake to conclude that this nation and its people will be back in business-as-usual, unharmed and not changed by the effects of what the pandemic has done — on the health front, and behind the scenes. For those who are alone, and working in different cities, cut off or estranged from their families, the pandemic and lockdown have exacerbated a problem that has been brewing slowly as some social changes entered the Indian family system and culture with the liberalisation of the 1990s. This is when aspirations rose, EMIs multiplied, and the joint family was given a jolt. Today, there are more than a 100 million Indians over the age of 60, according to the 2011 census. These “senior citizens”, who once headed, guided and held together the joint family of the past, now face an uncertain future themselves as the Indian family has been changing. Looked at from this perspective, the pandemic may be etching some new fault lines in the Indian social structure. It is time for the government to wake up to the unseen crisis that is brewing and which might hit a new high as Covid-19 itself wanes. (The writer is the Managing Editor of The Billion Press) (Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/the-covid-crisis-we-don-t-see-1013238.html
27-07-2021||National||US remains committed to helping India recover from its second Covid-19 wave||The US remains committed to helping India recover from its devastating second wave of coronavirus and stands ready to support it until the virus is defeated, a top Biden administration official said on Monday. With 39,361 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 3,14,11,262, while the daily positivity was recorded above three per cent after 35 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The Covid-19 death toll climbed to 4,20,967 with 416 fresh fatalities. The active cases have increased to 4,11,189 and comprise 1.31 per cent of the total infections. An increase of 2,977 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours, it said. “We remain committed to helping India recover from its devastating second wave and stand ready to support our partners until we have defeated the virus,” United States Agency for International Development (USAID) Administrator Samantha Power said during the swearing-in ceremony for incoming USAID Mission Director for India Veena Reddy. Reddy, who is originally from Andhra Pradesh, made history on Monday by becoming USAID’s first-ever Indian-American India Mission Director. “Veena and I also share a bit of history; we both arrived in the United States as immigrants from Ireland – and we may or may not still be trying to overcome an Irish brogue,” Power said. “Veena’s journey from Andhra Pradesh to Ireland, then to the United States embodies the best of what we – a nation of immigrants – has to offer. A determined sense of possibility. A bold vision that paves the way for sustainable and inclusive development around the world,” Power said. India’s Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu and America’s Charge de ’Affairs at the US Embassy in New Delhi Atul Keshap also spoke during the swearing in ceremony. Power said that Reddy’s continued leadership in the Indo-Pacific region was an asset, both for the people of India and the United States. “Veena brings a wealth of experience to one of USAID’s most complex portfolios. Our longstanding partnership with the government, private sector, and civil society has led to significant reductions in poverty, dramatic gains in public health, and spurred the country’s remarkable economic growth,” she said. “But like much of the rest of the world, the Covid-19 pandemic has exacerbated long-term inequality and set back efforts to generate inclusive prosperity. In May, India was witness to a truly terrifying spike in Covid-19 cases, peaking at over 400,000 newly-discovered cases a day,” Power said. She said the US was quick to spring into action, working with the Department of Defense (DoD) colleagues to send several planeloads of health commodities to the Indian Red Cross—nearly 1,500 oxygen cylinders, 700 concentrators, one million rapid testing kits, 2.5 million N95 masks. "We also lent our expertise, working with the government of India to establish oxygen-generating plants at 150 hospitals. And we continue to work with the Government of India on its vaccination campaign—the world’s largest—helping supply doses both through COVAX and bilaterally,” she said. A significant component of US' pandemic response efforts – and development efforts broadly – is increased engagement with India’s robust private sector, she said. Between 2014 and 2019, USAID established 54 private sector partnerships that have leveraged $505 million in additional financial resources toward the two countries shared development goals, Power said. “Leveraging our resources. Stretching our money further. USAID India can be a model for our development efforts globally, as private sector engagement serves as a powerful tool to implement creative solutions that address the secondary impacts of Covid-19 on the economic, health care, and education systems. "And critically, as Ambassador Keshap said, our partnership with India’s private sector is making headway in clean energy, environmental reform, and in combating the effects of climate change,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-remains-committed-to-helping-india-recover-from-its-second-covid-19-wave-1013218.html
27-07-2021||National||Chinese President Xi Jinping visiting Tibet is a threat to India, says senior US Congressman||Xi on Wednesday last made an unannounced three-day trip to Nyingchi in Tibet, close to the border with Arunachal Pradesh. Xi, who is also General Secretary of the Communist Party of China, met top officials of the Tibet Military Command and reviewed development projects in the region. In an interview to Fox News, Republican Congressman Devin Nunes said: "Just last week, you had Xi Jinping, the Chinese dictator, on the border with India, in Tibet, claiming victory. This was the first time in 30 years, I believe, that a Chinese dictator had been to Tibet, and also threatening India, over a billion people also a nuclear power; threatening India that he's going to build a big water project, possibly cut off water to India." During his visit to Nyingchi, Xi visited the Nyang River Bridge to inspect the ecological preservation in the basin of the Brahmaputra river, which is called Yarlung Zangbo in Tibetan language. China this year approved plans to build a huge dam over the Brahmaputra river during the current 14th Five-Year Plan, which raised concerns in the riparian states of India and Bangladesh. “So, no matter what you plug into the propaganda machine, you can build all the narratives you want here in Washington, D.C., but then there's reality. The reality is that the Chinese are on the march, and the (President Joe) Biden administration is letting them do whatever they want," Nunes said. A senior Republican in the House of Representatives representing the 42nd Congressional district of California, Nunes was the chairman of the powerful House Intelligence Committee from 2015 to 2019. Xi’s visit to Tibet took place amidst the current India-China military tensions in eastern Ladakh. India and China have been locked in a military standoff at multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh since early May last year. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of South Tibet, which is firmly rejected by India. The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km Line of Actual Control (LAC). China is accused of suppressing cultural and religious freedom in Tibet. China has rejected the accusations. Since becoming President in 2013, Xi has pursued a firm policy of stepping up security control of Tibet. Beijing has been cracking down on Buddhist monks and followers of the Dalai Lama, who despite his exile remains a widely admired spiritual leader in the remote Himalayan region. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chinese-president-xi-jinping-visiting-tibet-is-a-threat-to-india-says-senior-us-congressman-1013282.html
27-07-2021||National||India's daily Covid-19 cases fall below 30,000 after 132 days; 415 new deaths||India recorded less than 30,000 fresh Covid-19 cases after 132 days while its active caseload fell below 4,00,000 after 124 days on Tuesday, according to Union health ministry data. India recorded 29,689 new coronavirus infections that pushed its tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,14,40,951 while the death toll climbed to 4,21,382 with 415 daily fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The active cases have declined to 3,98,100 and comprise 1.27 per cent of the total infections. The national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 97.39 per cent, it stated. The number of active cases fell by 13,089 in a span of 24 hours. As many as 17,20,110 Covid-19 tests were conducted on Monday, taking the total number of tests conducted so far to 45,91,64,121. The daily positivity rate has declined to 1.73 per cent. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.33 per cent, the ministry data stated. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,06,21,469, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, it said. The total number of vaccine doses administered so far has reached 44.19 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4 and 3 crore on June 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-daily-covid-19-cases-fall-below-30000-after-132-days-415-new-deaths-1013284.html
27-07-2021||National||Time for UNSC to take holistic approach to maritime security issue: India ahead of August Presidency||It is time for the UN Security Council to take a holistic approach to the issue of maritime security that safeguards common prosperity and other security interests, India has underlined as it gears up to assume the Presidency of the powerful UN body for the month of August. “There are three major areas which we will focus on in August: maritime security, peacekeeping and counter-terrorism. We will focus on these three themes through three signature events during our Presidency,” India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti told PTI in an interview as India prepares to preside over the 15-nation Council next month. India will assume the rotating Presidency of the UN Security Council on August 1, the country’s first Presidency during its 2021-22 tenure as non-permanent member of the Security Council. India will again preside over the Council in December next year, the last month of its two-year tenure. Tirumurti said maritime security has always received a very high priority in India’s foreign policy. “We have been a net provider of maritime security, particularly in the Indian Ocean region. Consequently, we believe that it is time for the Security Council to take a holistic approach to the issue of maritime security that safeguards common prosperity and other security interests,” he said. The focus on the theme of maritime security is significant as this will be the first time that there will be a special discussion on the issue in the top UN body. Tirumurti noted that while the Security Council has passed resolutions on different aspects of maritime security and maritime crime, “we feel that it is time that these are brought together and discussed it in a holistic manner.” Counter-terrorism too is a national priority for India, Tirumurti said, underscoring that New Delhi will continue to keep the spotlight on this matter in the Council. “We are firmly against terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, and believe that there could be no justification whatsoever for terrorism,” he said. During its Presidency month, India, among the largest troop contributing countries to UN peacekeeping missions, will also focus on the issue of peacekeeping, strongly advocating for “proactive measures to ‘protect the protectors’.” Peacekeeping is an issue that is “close to our hearts”, Tirumurti said, “given our own long and pioneering involvement with peacekeeping, including the involvement of women peacekeepers.” India is among the largest troop contributing countries to UN peacekeeping with more than 5,500 military and police serving in peace operations in Abyei, Cyprus, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Lebanon, the Middle East, Somalia, South Sudan and the Western Sahara. More than 170 peacekeepers from India laid down their lives in UN peacekeeping missions over the last seven decades. Tirumurti noted that UN peacekeepers function in volatile situations to enforce the mandate of the Security Council. “It is incumbent upon us to ensure that their safety and security are given the highest importance. Therefore, in the larger context of peacekeeping, we will be focusing on how to ensure the safety of peacekeepers, especially by using better technology, and how to bring perpetrators of crimes against peacekeepers to justice,” he said. In May this year, India’s Deputy Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador K Nagaraj Naidu, who has been appointed by President-elect of the 76th session of the UN General Assembly Maldives Foreign Minister Abdulla Shahid as his Chef de Cabinet, had told the Security Council that India believes that infusion of appropriate technology can play significant role in improving the safety and security of the peacekeepers. “Use of field-focused, reliable and cost-effective new technologies in peacekeeping operations that are driven by practical needs of end users on the ground is the need of the hour,” he had said. India in partnership with the Department of Peace Operations Department of Operational Support has been working towards development of mobile tech platform – UNITE AWARE – that helps increase situational awareness and provides terrain related information to peacekeepers. India has contributed USD 1.64 million towards this project, Naidu had said. Tirumurti added that apart from India’s signature events focusing on the three themes of maritime security, peacekeeping and counter-terrorism, there will also be mandated meetings every month which the Security Council discusses. The Council will take stock of situation in the Middle East, including Israel-Palestine issue, Yemen, Lebanon, Iraq and Syria. There will also be several mandates which will come up for renewal, including the Mali sanctions, Somalia, Central African Republic, the UN Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL). “There is always a possibility that a meeting could be called on issues of conflicts which escalate during this period. Since the Security Council is the primary organ of the UN to deal with international peace and security, it should be prepared to handle any emerging issues that may crop up,” he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/time-for-unsc-to-take-holistic-approach-to-maritime-security-issue-india-ahead-of-august-presidency-1013293.html
27-07-2021||National||PM Modi greets Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray on birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted Shiv Sena president and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on his 61st birthday on Tuesday. The youngest son of Shiv Sena founder Bal Thackeray, Uddhav Thackeray became the state's chief minister in November 2019. Modi tweeted, "Birthday greetings to Maharashtra CM Shri Uddhav Thackeray Ji. May he be blessed with a long and healthy life. @OfficeofUT."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-greets-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-on-birthday-1013296.html
27-07-2021||National||Indian Twitteratis hand out 'meme Olympics' gold medals||The latest trend of 'desi' Twitter is the #memeolympics, where netizens are sharing out-of-context photos of (mostly) celebrities and politicians and awarding them 'gold medals'. Even AAP (@AAPChhattisgarh) jumped on the trend and did not miss the opportunity to award Prime Minister Narendra Modi a 'meme Olympics' gold medal. Gold Medal for:1. Petrol,2.Diesel,3.LPG,4.Inflation,5.Unemployment. Here are some other gold medal recipients in miscellaneous categories.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-twitteratis-hand-out-meme-olympics-gold-medals-1013309.html
27-07-2021||National||Delhi HC rejects IMA chief's plea against court order on propagating religion||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday dismissed Indian Medical Association (IMA) president J A Jayalal's appeal against a trial court order asking him not to use the organisation’s platform to propagate any religion and cautioning him that loose comments cannot be expected from a person chairing a responsible post. The appeal is dismissed, said Justice Asha Menon while pronouncing the order. The high court had issued notice on the appeal filed by the IMA chief challenging the trial court's order in June. The trial court had passed the order on a plea filed against Jayalal for allegedly starting a defamatory campaign against the Hindu religion by way of promoting Christianity, in the garb of proving superiority of Allopathic medicines over Ayurveda in treatment of Covid-19 patients. Complainant Rohit Jha had alleged before the trial court that Jayalal was misusing his position and misleading the nation and its citizens in order to convert Hindus to Christianity. The complainant cited articles and interviews of the IMA president and had sought a direction from the court to restrain him from writing, speaking in media, or publishing any content which is defamatory to Hindu religion or Ayurveda. Jha had averred that an article on March 30, 2020, published in Nation World News read with TV debate of defendant with Baba Ramdev on various TV news channels in May 2021 had seriously disparaged and denigrated his reputation in the society being a Hindu. The trial court had said no injunction was required based on the assurance given by Jayalal that he will not indulge in such kind of activity and had noted that the plea seemed to be an offshoot of a verbal duel with respect to Allopathy vs Ayurveda. It nonetheless had asked the IMA chief not to indulge in any activity contrary to the principles enshrined in the Constitution of India and maintain the dignity of the position chaired by him. Challenging the trial court's order, advocate Tanmaya Mehta, who represented Jayalal, claimed that the IMA chief never gave such an assurance to the trial court since he has not done anything wrong. He sought to stay the observations made against Jayalal in the trial court's court order saying they were affecting his reputation as he was heading a body which has 3.5 lakh doctors as its members. He contended that there was no television debate between Jayalal and Yoga guru Ramdev and that he was not propagating any religion including Christianity and that the suit before the trial court was based on fake news. The act of appellant (Jayalal), if any, does not defame respondent/plaintiff (Jha) therein per se or cause any per se offence, causing per se injury. Accordingly, the suit claiming defamation against a class is not maintainable, the appeal said and sought setting aside of trial court's order. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-rejects-ima-chiefs-plea-against-court-order-on-propagating-religion-1013314.html
27-07-2021||National||Nobody wants to beg, can't take elitist view on begging: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said begging is a socio-economic problem and it cannot ban it by taking an elitist view as beggars are forced to take to streets to eke out a living due to lack of education and employment. A bench of Justice D Y Chandrachud and Justice M R Shah issued notice to the Centre and the Delhi government on a petition by advocate Kush Kalra seeking vaccination and rehabilitation of homeless, beggars and vagabonds amid Covid-19 pandemic across India. "The reason why people are required to take to the streets to beg is to eke out elementary livelihood in the absence of education and employment. It is a social-economic problem and cannot be remedied in this way," the bench said.  Referring to a plea by the petitioner to restrain people from begging on the streets, the bench asked him, "Why do people beg on the street? It is due to poverty. As the Supreme Court, we will not take an elitist view. They have no choice. Nobody wants to beg." Senior advocate Chinmoy Sharma, argued for the petitioner, who wanted a direction to the authorities to restrain beggars, vagabonds or those who were homeless from begging at traffic junctions, in markets and public places to avoid the spread of Covid-19, and to rehabilitate them. "This is a wider issue of social welfare policy from the government, we can’t say that keep them away from our eyes," the bench said. However, the court asked the Centre and Delhi government to inform about steps being taken to deal with this human problem and posted the matter for hearing after two weeks. "Immediate issue is to ensure vaccination of the persons. We direct the Union of India and GNCT Delhi to file a response on how to deal with this human situation. Solicitor-General can assist the Court," the court said in its order. The court said beggars, vagabonds, homeless were entitled to medical facilities as others as they were vulnerable in context of Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nobody-wants-to-beg-cant-take-elitist-view-on-begging-sc-1013319.html
27-07-2021||National||In reversal of population control bid, Kerala diocese offers sops to promote larger Christian families||At a time when population control measures in places like Uttar Pradesh and Lakshadweep are being widely debated, a diocese in Kerala is offering sops like monthly assistance, education facility and medical care to families with five or more children. Concerns over the decreasing population have prompted the Eparchy of Pala in Kottayam under the Syro Malabar Catholic church to make the offers part of Year of the Family campaign proclaimed by Pope Francis. According to messages being circulated by the diocese through social media, couples married after the year 2000 and having more than five children will be given monthly financial assistance of Rs.1,500 through the Family Apostolate of the diocese. Fourth child and children born thereafter can study at the St. Joseph's College of Engineering and Technology at Pala with scholarship. Free medical care will be given for delivery of fourth children onwards at the Mar Sleeva Medicity at Pala, said the pamphlet being circulated on social media. Director of the Family Apostolate Father Joseph Kuttiankal told DH that an online meeting of elderly people held on Sunday decided to offer the assistance to families on the basis of Year of the Family campaign proclaimed by Pope Francis. Decrease in the community's population has been a cause for concern for quite some time. Moreover, many large families were facing financial stress owing to Covid lockdown. Hence the assistance were announced. He also said that at present most families had two children. Only some families had more three or more children. As per 2011 census, Christian's constituted 18.38 percent of Kerala population, while Hindus constituted 54.72 percent and Muslim 26.56 percent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-reversal-of-population-control-bid-kerala-diocese-offers-sops-to-promote-larger-christian-families-1013325.html
27-07-2021||National||Kerala HC permits abortion of 15-week plus pregnancy of mentally ill rape victim||Taking on the role of 'parens patriae' or legal protector of citizens, the Kerala High Court has permitted termination of an over 15-week pregnancy of a mentally challenged rape victim on the ground that it was in her best interests as she was incapable of taking an informed decision on her own. The high court permitted the Government Mental Health Centre and the Sree Avittom Thirunal Hospital, both in Thiruvananthapuram, to carry out the medical termination of pregnancy. The hospitals were also directed to take the tissue of the foetus and maintain the same for DNA examination as the woman, who hails from Bihar, was a rape victim. Justice P B Suresh Kumar took the decision based on the report of a medical board which after examining the woman had opined that though the continuation of the pregnancy does not endanger the life of the victim, there was a high risk for the mother and baby as she was on multiple anti-psychotic medication. A certificate issued by the medical board attached to the Mental Health Centre also indicated that the victim was suffering from mental retardation with psychosis and was unable to take decisions or communicate her opinion, the court noted in its order. "Having regard to the fact that the person involved in the case is a rape victim and considering the opinion of the medical board, I am of the view that in a case of this nature, it is in the best interests of the person concerned to permit termination of her pregnancy," the judge said. The matter was brought to the attention of the court by the Kerala State Legal Services Authority which had espoused the cause of a hapless rape victim diagnosed with psychosis. The victim was found wandering within the limits of Kazhakoottam Police Station in Thiruvananthapuram and was taken by the police initially to a psycho-social rehabilitation centre and then to the Mental Health Centre in Peroorkada. The medical board at the Mental Health Centre found the victim to be pregnant, having a gestation period corresponding to eight weeks as on June 4 and as the relatives of the victim could not be traced, the Superintendent of the Mental Health Centre apprised the plight of the victim to the District Legal Services Authority. Subsequently, the writ petition was filed by the Kerala State Legal Services Authority seeking permission for medical termination of the pregnancy of the victim as she was not in a position to grant consent for the same. The court observed that in the instant case the pregnancy was one which could be terminated on the basis of the opinion of a registered medical practitioner that the continuance of the pregnancy would involve a grave injury to her mental health, since the gestation period was not more than twenty weeks. Even otherwise, the pregnancy was one that could be terminated on the basis of the opinion of two medical practitioners on the above lines, the court said and added that the only impediment in the matter was that the victim was not in a position to give consent for the same. The court, thereafter, donned the mantle of 'parens patriae' or legal protector of the citizens, a concept evolved in common law and applied to situations where the State must take decisions in order to protect the interests of those persons who are unable to take care of themselves. "This doctrine has been applied in cases involving rights of minors and those persons who have been found to be mentally incapable of taking informed decisions for themselves," the court said. It further said that courts in India have evolved different tests while exercising 'parens patriae' jurisdiction for the purpose of making reproductive decisions on behalf of mentally ill persons. "One among the said tests is the test of 'best interests' which requires the court to ascertain the course of action which would serve the best interests of the person in question," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-hc-permits-abortion-of-15-week-plus-pregnancy-of-mentally-ill-rape-victim-1013338.html
27-07-2021||National||Surgery performed on Oscar Fernandes, condition stable||The condition of senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Oscar Fernandes is stable after doctors performed a surgery to remove a clot in his brain, hospital sources here said on Tuesday. The surgery on Oscar Fernandes was successful and his health condition is stable now, they said. Fernandes, who is undergoing treatment at the Yenepoya speciality hospital here, also underwent dialysis. He continues to be in the intensive care unit and specialist doctors are keeping a close watch on his health condition. Fernandes was hospitalised after suffering a fall while doing Yoga at his home last week. Spiritual director of Catholic Sabha Fr Mathew Vas, Bondel Church priest Fr Andrew Leo DSouza, Catholic Sabha central committee president Stany Lobo and others visited the hospital on Monday and spoke to the family members of Fernandes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/surgery-performed-on-oscar-fernandes-condition-stable-1013342.html
27-07-2021||National||If you're concerned about farmers, allow Lok Sabha to function: Tomar tells Opposition||Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Tuesday took a swipe at the protesting Opposition members in Lok Sabha, saying if they are concerned about farmers, then they should allow the House to function. He made the remarks while replying to a supplementary query related to an insurance scheme for farmers during the Question Hour as the Opposition members continued their sloganeering on various issues, including the Pegasus snooping allegations and the new farm laws. There are around 15 questions related to farmers. If the Opposition members are really concerned about the farmers, then they should listen to what the government has to say, Tomar said. "Disruptions are lowering the decorum of the House," he added. The Opposition, as well as various farmers' unions, have been protesting against the three farm laws -- the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The farmers say these laws will remove the safety net of minimum support price and leave them at the mercy of big corporates. The government, however, maintains that these laws are pro-farmer. The Opposition has also been demanding a discussion over Pegasus snooping allegations. Last week, an international media consortium reported that over 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including those of two ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders besides scores of businesspersons and activists in India, could have been targeted for snooping through the Pegasus spyware of the Israeli firm NSO Group, which only sells the hacking software to "vetted" governments and government agencies. The government has been denying all opposition allegations in the matter. Both Houses of Parliament have transacted little business since the Monsoon session began on July 19 as opposition parties have forced adjournments with their protests. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/if-youre-concerned-about-farmers-allow-lok-sabha-to-function-tomar-tells-opposition-1013347.html
27-07-2021||National||CITU complains to ILO on Centre's Bill to ban strikes in defence production sector||With the government all set to get a Bill banning strikes in the defence production sector passed in Parliament, the CITU has approached the International Labour Organisation (ILO) citing that the proposed legislation is aimed at prohibiting industrial action as well as destroying trade unions in the sector. CITU General Secretary Tapan Sen said his letter to ILO Director General Guy Ryder should be treated as a formal complaint against the actions of the government, which is "grossly violating the basic principles" of labour rights and ILO standards. In his letter, he said, the Centre is "actively moving to privatise" the defence production sector though the Ministry of Defence had earlier acknowledged that it would not do so, prompting the unions to withdraw the strike.  However, Sen said, the government went ahead with the privatisation move later following which the workers called for a strike. It was then that the government first issued an ordinance to ban strikes and in the Monsoon Session brought the Essential Defence Services Bill, 2021, prohibiting all types of industrial actions in the sector. "One of the reason behind calling strike or industrial dispute by the workers in defence sector are primarily due to threat of losing the job emerging out of privatisation and large threat of loss to exchequer of the government, which would no more gather profit and invest that surplus for greater need of the country," Sen said. He said there have been recognised bipartite relations with the unions which had successfully settled several wage negotiations and other issues through dialogue but the Bill has taken "severe" recourse to "crush" industrial actions. The letter also pointed out that Bill sought to unleash police force to arrest any person without showing any reason or without any warrant in violation of the fundamental rights enshrined in the Indian Constitution and UN Charter of Human Rights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/citu-complains-to-ilo-on-centres-bill-to-ban-strikes-in-defence-production-sector-1013360.html
27-07-2021||National||Centre seeks extension till January 9 for framing CAA rules||The Centre has sought yet another extension for framing rules of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), which was passed by Parliament in 2019. The CAA was notified by the government on December 12, 2019 and came into force with effect from January 10, 2020. However, the Centre is yet to frame the rules for the implementation of the Act that seeks to grant citizenship to religious minorities facing persecution in Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan who have entered India before December 31, 2014. “The Committees on Subordinate Legislation, Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha have been requested to grant further extension of time upto 09.01.2022 to frame the rules under the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019,” Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai told the Lok Sabha. This is the fifth extension sought by the government for framing of the rules. According to the Manual on Parliamentary Work, the rules for any legislation should have been framed within six months of presidential assent or seek extension. After the CAA was passed by Parliament, widespread protests were witnessed in different parts of the country leading to deaths of nearly 100 people in police firing and related violence. According to the report of the Joint Committee of Parliament that vetted a previous version of the Bill, there were 31,313 people belonging to minority communities from these countries will be “immediate beneficiaries”, as they had been given Long Term Visas on the basis of their claim of religious persecution in their respective countries and want Indian citizenship. Among 31,313, the Intelligence Bureau told the panel, 25,447 are Hindus, 5,807 are Sikhs, 55 Christians and two each Buddhists and Parsis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-seeks-extension-till-january-9-for-framing-caa-rules-1013369.html
27-07-2021||National||PM asks BJP MPs to organise programmes at village level to mark 75 years of independence||Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked BJP MPs on Tuesday to mark 75 years of independence by organising programmes in every village of their constituencies, Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs Arjun Ram Meghwal said. Sources said the prime minister also asked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MPs to expose the opposition parties as the government is ready for a discussion but they are not. Addressing the BJP parliamentary party meeting, Modi said the 75th anniversary celebrations of independence should not merely be a government programme, but it should be a people's movement with people's participation, Meghwal told reporters after the meeting. He asked the BJP MPs to form a team of two party workers in each Assembly segment, which will organise the programmes and seek suggestions and ideas from people on how they envisage India in 2047, when the country will complete 100 years of independence. The prime minister told the MPs that these teams of two BJP workers will visit 75 villages in each Assembly constituency and spend 75 hours in each constituency, Meghwal said. The 75 years of independence can also be celebrated by organising local sports events and cleanliness drives, Modi said. He also emphasised on the digital literacy of people in rural India so that they can avail maximum benefits of the government welfare schemes, the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-asks-bjp-mps-to-organise-programmes-at-village-level-to-mark-75-years-of-independence-1013373.html
27-07-2021||National||AMU students say Azam Khan ‘deliberately’ targeted, denied bail on ‘political grounds'||Aligarh Muslim University students held a march in the campus to protest against the denial of bail to Lok Sabha member from Rampur and former Uttar Pradesh minister Azam Khan. The students alleged that Khan was being “deliberately” targeted and denied bail on "political grounds". Former secretary of the AMU students' union Huzaifa Aamir said students were "seriously concerned” regarding the health condition of the MP. Khan, who was lodged in Sitapur jail in connection with cheating and many other cases, was admitted to a hospital in Lucknow recently after his health condition deteriorated. After handing over a memorandum to AMU Proctor Mohamed Wasim Ali, addressed to the President of India, on Monday evening, Aamir told media persons that "the AMU community was very disappointed by the role of Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav for not standing beside Khan who is one the founding members of the party". He said, "Yadav's role unfortunately is limited to tokenism and issuing tweets.” The memorandum, a copy of which is also being sent to the Chief Justice of India, has urged the President to intervene in the matter for granting bail to Khan on health grounds. It also seeks special protection for the life and security to Khan and his family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amu-students-say-azam-khan-deliberately-targeted-denied-bail-on-political-grounds-1013376.html
27-07-2021||National||Health Ministry says it will meet end-July domestic Covid-19 vaccine supply target||The government told the country's highest court last month that 516 million doses would be made available by end-July, an important milestone for its goal of inoculating all of India's estimated adult population of 944 million this year. "Vaccines are supplied in various schedules throughout a month. Therefore, availability of 516 million doses till end of a particular month does not mean that every dose supplied till that month is going to be consumed/ administered." It said 457 million doses had been dispatched already and 60.3 million more were expected to be sent before the end of this month. India has administered nearly 438 million doses since mid-January, the most in the world after China but less than many countries relative to population. It has given the necessary two doses to 94 million people - 10% of the adult population, according to the government's vaccination website. The world's second-most populous country reported 29,689 new coronavirus cases in the past 24 hours, the lowest daily rise since March 17, taking the total to 31.44 million. It has reported more than 420,000 deaths. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-ministry-says-it-will-meet-end-july-domestic-covid-19-vaccine-supply-target-1013380.html
27-07-2021||National||Reports on missing July target of 50 crore Covid-19 vaccinations 'ill-informed': Government||The government on Tuesday dismissed media reports that claimed that India will miss the end-July target of administering 50 crore Covid vaccine doses as "ill-informed and misrepresenting" and asserted that over 51.60 crore vaccine doses will be supplied from January to July 31. The health ministry issued a statement referring to recent media reports alleging that the country will miss the target of administering half-a-billion (50 crore) doses of the Covid-19 vaccine by July-end, while pointing out that the government had stated in May that it would make 516 million (51.60 crore) vaccine shots available by the end of this month. "These reports are ill-informed and have clearly misrepresented the facts," the statement said. The figures of 516 million vaccine doses might have been picked up from various sources which informed about the likely availability of the vaccine doses from January to July-end, it added. "The facts are that a total of more than 516 million vaccine doses will indeed be supplied from January 2021 to 31st July, 2021," the ministry said. It added that the vaccine doses are supplied to the states in accordance with the advance allocation plan and they are informed about it in advance. The vaccines are supplied to the states in various schedules throughout the month. "Therefore, availability of 516 million doses till end of a particular month does not mean that every dose supplied till that month is going to be consumed/administered. "There would be supplies in pipeline, which should be available for next few days till the next supplies of vaccine doses materialise in a particular state/district/sub-district to keep vaccination going on," the statement said. A total of 45.7 crore doses have been supplied to the states and Union territories from January till date and an additional 6.03 crore doses are expected to be supplied by July 31. This will amount to a total of 51.73 crore doses supplied from January to July 31, it added. "It should be appreciated that India has crossed the landmark of 440 million (44.19 crore) doses administered, which is the largest number achieved in the world and has been done at quite a brisk pace too. Out of these, 9.6 crore are cases where both the doses have been administered," the statement said. A total of 11.97 crore Covid vaccine doses were administered in June. For the month of July (as on July 26), a total of 10.62 crore doses have been administered. It is the endeavour of the government to provide vaccination to the eligible citizens in the shortest possible time according to the availability of the vaccines, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reports-on-missing-july-target-of-50-crore-covid-19-vaccinations-ill-informed-government-1013383.html
27-07-2021||National||Delhi man kills wife whom he married after rape charge||A man from Delhi was arrested on the charges of murder of his wife, whom he married six months ago after she accused him of rape, the police said.  "Rajesh was released from jail after filing an affidavit that he will marry Babita. Both got married in December 2020”, Sub-inspector Narendra Singh, who led a team of Delhi Police officers to Nainital, said. However, last month, the victim's family reported that she is missing since June 11. The police then traced her phone records to find her last location around Nainital. The location of Rajesh, who initially denied having anything to do with his wife's disappearance, later was also found around the same area, police told the publication. The accused allegedly had sex with his wife inside a cave before killing her. “About 13 km from Nainital, he expressed his desire to have a physical relationship with his wife at a secluded place. He took her to a cave. After having sex, he strangled his wife,” Vijay Mehta, officer-in-charge of Nainital district’s Tallital police station said, citing the investigation by the Delhi Police. Rajesh had convinced his wife to go with him to Udham Singh Nagar, to check on his mother. However, he took her to Nainital instead, police said. Following an interrogation, Rajesh said he decided to kill his wife after she and her mother "harassed" him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-man-kills-wife-whom-he-married-after-rape-charge-1013385.html
27-07-2021||National||India, Russia to hold 13-day mega military exercise in Volgograd||India and Russia will carry out a 13-day mega military exercise with a focus on counter-terror operations in the Russian city of Volgograd from August 1, the Indian Army said on Tuesday. It said the 12th edition of the "Indra" exercise will be yet another "milestone" in strengthening the bilateral security cooperation and will serve to reinforce the longstanding bond of friendship between India and Russia. The Army said 250 personnel from each side will participate in the 12th edition of the joint military exercise. "The 12th edition of Indo-Russia joint military exercise Indra-21 will be held at Volgograd, Russia from August 1 to 13," the Army said. It said the exercise will entail the conduct of counter-terror operations mandated under the UN's framework of joint forces against international terror groups. "Exercise Indra-21 will further strengthen mutual confidence and interoperability between the Indian and Russian armies and enable sharing of best practices between the contingents of both the countries," the Army said in a statement. "The exercise will be yet another milestone in strengthening security cooperation and will serve to reinforce the longstanding bond of friendship between India and Russia," it added. It said the Indian Army contingent participating in the exercise will comprise a mechanised infantry battalion. Volgograd is a major Russian city situated on the western bank of the Volga river.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-russia-to-hold-13-day-mega-military-exercise-in-volgograd-1013387.html
27-07-2021||National||Court defers order on whether to put Shashi Tharoor on trial in his wife Sunanda's death case||A Delhi court on Tuesday adjourned for three weeks the order on whether to put Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on trial in a case related to his wife Sunanda Pushkar's death in a luxury hotel here. Special Judge Geetanjli Goel, who was scheduled to pronounce the order on framing of charges against Tharoor, adjourned the matter for August 18, while allowing the prosecution to file certain documents. The documents include various judgements from the Supreme Court and high courts, along with written submissions. The court had earlier adjourned the matter for Tuesday in view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The court had reserved order after hearing arguments from the counsel appearing for Delhi Police as well as Tharoor. During the arguments, while police had sought framing of various charges, including 306 (abetment of suicide), Senior Advocate Vikas Pahwa, appearing for Tharoor, told the court that the investigation conducted by the SIT completely exonerated the politician of all the charges levelled against him. Pahwa sought Tharoor's discharge in the case, saying there was no evidence against him to prove the offence punishable under either section 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) or 306 (abetment of suicide) of IPC. Pushkar was found dead in a suite of a luxury hotel in the city on the night of January 17, 2014. The couple was staying in the hotel, as the official bungalow of Tharoor was being renovated at that time. Tharoor was charged under sections 498A and 306 of the Indian Penal Code by Delhi police, but was not arrested in the case. He was granted bail on July 5, 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/court-defers-order-on-whether-to-put-shashi-tharoor-on-trial-in-his-wife-sunandas-death-case-1013388.html
27-07-2021||National||Assam-Mizoram border tense: Guwahati announces mourning to condole deaths; Assam locals threaten economic blockade||The situation on the Assam-Mizoram border remained tense as Assam declared three-day mourning from Tuesday to condole the death of five policemen and one civilian in a border clash last night, while locals in the state’s Cachar district threatened an economic blockade of the neighbouring state of Mizoram. During the three-day mourning period, the national flag will fly at half-mast and there will be no public entertainment, a notification issued by the Assam government said. At least six persons were killed and 60 others, including an SP, injured in a bloody clash between the police forces of the two states along the Assam-Mizoram border on Monday. Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who had last week held a conference with chief ministers of north-eastern states in a bid to resolve prickly border disputes between the, last night spoke to chief ministers of Assam and Mizoram, Himanta Biswa Sarma and Zoramthanga respectively, and urged them to ensure peace along the disputed border and find an amicable settlement. Earlier in May this year, firing on Nagaland-Assam border had similarly raised tensions. However, no deaths or injuries had occurred then. Sarma paid floral tributes to the five slain policemen at Silchar on Tuesday. "We are deeply anguished by the loss of lives of our brave @assam police personnel. I visited Silchar SP office and paid floral tributes to the five martyrs and salute their sacrifice," he tweeted. 4. Assam Govt will raise 3 commando battalion for Karimganj, Cachar and Hailakandi; 3000 personnel will be recruited. Earlier in the day, the chief minister visited the Silchar Medical College and Hospital and met the police personnel injured in the attack. Cachar Superintendent of Police Vaibhab Chandrakant Nimbalkar, has been airlifted to a hospital in Mumbai by an air force air ambulance. The chief minister is also likely to visit the inter-state border where the situation was stated to be "tense but under control", officials said. "We would do all possible to help the families of our martyred colleagues. The injured would be looked after fully", the Special DGP G P Singh tweeted. "All lawful and operational measures would be taken to bring culprits to book and protect the integrity of the constitutional boundary of Assam", Singh added, in an indication that Mizo policemen who fired at their Assam counterparts would be prosecuted. Meanwhile, people of Kabuganj and Dholai area have “launched an indefinite blockade of roads” leading to Mizoram from 9 am on Tuesday to prevent any vehicle from moving to the neighbouring state. Social activist Jabir Hussain Laskar told reporters that the people of border towns and village will also launch an indefinite 'economic blockade' from Wednesday and urged the Assam government to take steps to resolve the boundary dispute. The Barak Democratic Front (BDF) too has called a 12-hour Barak Valley bandh on Wednesday in protest against the killing of six Assam police jawans and one civilian in Lailapur, BDF Chief Convenor Pradip Dutta Roy said. The Assam government, in a statement on Monday, said that a team of officials, including an IG, DIG, DC Cachar, SP Cachar and DFO Cachar, went to sort out the dispute over construction of a road by Mizoram towards Rengti Basti in Assam, violating the Inner Line Reserve Forest in Lailapur area. "Simultaneously, the Mizoram side also set up a new armed camp on a hillock next to the CRPF camp," it said, adding a mob from Mizoram started stone pelting and damaged three vehicles including the District Collector's car. The statement alleged the Mizoram Police simultaneously fired tear gas shells on the delegation and the IG was injured in this barrage. In the afternoon, SP Kolasib along with two Additional SP level officers held a discussion with the Assam delegation. "The Mizoram officials went ostensibly to talk to the mob, but the SP Kolasib returned again around 4:30 pm to state that he had no control over the mob. "Horrifically, even while SP, Kolasib was in talks with the Assam officers, the Mizoram Police opened fire on the Assam officials and civilians, who had by then gathered there, from two dominating high features with automatic weapons, including LMGs," the statement said. Tensions along border with Mizoram in Cachar and Hailakandi districts of Assam have been escalating since October 2020 with frequent incidents of burning of houses and charges of encroachment of land by both sides. On October 22, 2020, high-level talks were held under the aegis of the Union Home Ministry where it was decided to maintain the status-quo and resolve the dispute through discussions. The tension flared up again in February and since then people had fled their houses near Gallacherra border outpost after two huts were burnt down. After a lull of few months, a grenade was hurled on an Assam government team visiting the border by unknown attackers from Mizoram on July 10, while two back-to-back explosions were heard from across the border in the wee hours on July 11. A high-level meeting between officials of both the states, including the chief secretaries and DGPs, was also held in New Delhi earlier this month, on the issue to sort out the dispute. Mizoram was a district of Assam before it was carved out as a separate union territory in 1971 after years of insurgency and the district borders did not really matter. The border issue cropped up after that as perceptions over where the boundary should be, differed. While Mizoram wants it to be along the inner line notified in 1875, which Mizo tribals feel is part of their historical homeland, Assam wants it to be demarcated according to district demarcation done much later. The two states share a 164.6-km border between the Assam's districts of Cachar, Hailakandi and Karimganj, and Mizoram’s Kolasib, Mamit and Aizawl districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/assam-mizoram-border-tense-guwahati-announces-mourning-to-condole-deaths-assam-locals-threaten-economic-blockade-1013397.html
27-07-2021||National||Census 2021-related field activities postponed due to Covid-19: Govt||Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai said in a written reply to a query in Lok Sabha that census 2021 was to be conducted under the provisions of the Census Act of 1948 in two phases. They were house listing and housing census during April-September, 2020 and population enumeration during February 9-28, 2021. "However, census-related field activities have been postponed till further orders due to Covid-19 pandemic," he said. The minister added that in the census, data is collected on demographic and various socio-economic parameters like education, SC/ST, religion, language, marriage, fertility, disability, occupation and migration of the individuals. It also collects data on migration characteristics along with the reasons for migration such as work/employment and business, he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/census-2021-related-field-activities-postponed-due-to-covid-19-govt-1013398.html
27-07-2021||National||Villagers clash over Covid vaccination in UP, 5 hurt||Five people, including a doctor, were injured when a clash broke out between two groups over COVID-19 vaccination in the Sukhpura area here, police said on Tuesday. A vaccination camp was organised in Karanai village on Monday afternoon and a huge crowd of villagers had gathered for the inoculation when two groups clashed over who would get the jab first, they said. A scuffle broke out and chairs were thrown at each other, police added. In-charge Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Dr Harinandan Prasad said a team of five health workers led by a doctor had gone for the vaccination camp in the village. He said the doctor was injured in the clash. Sukhpura police station in-charge Gagan Raj Singh said a total of five people were injured in the incident. Superintendent of Police Vipin Tada said a case has been registered against five people and they have been arrested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/villagers-clash-over-covid-vaccination-in-up-5-hurt-1013404.html
27-07-2021||National||Lok Sabha adjourned for ninth time till 4.30 pm||The Lok Sabha proceedings were adjourned for the ninth time till 4.30 pm on Tuesday amid continuous protests by Opposition members over the Pegasus snooping row and farm laws. After the House reassembled at 4 pm, Rajendra Agrawal, who was in the Chair, took up matters of urgent public importance. He asked the members to raise their issues in the House. A few members managed to speak amid the sloganeering by the opposition MPs. Agrawal requested the protesting members to go back to their seats. "Please go back to your seats," he said. With the Opposition not willing to relent, Agrawal adjourned the House till 4.30 pm. When the House met for the day in the morning, Speaker Om Birla led the members in paying tributes to Anerood Jugnauth, former president of Mauritius, and Kenneth David Buchizya Kaunda, the first president of Zambia. As the proceedings began at 11 am, the Opposition members trooped into the Well shouting slogans and carrying banners. The members of Congress, CPI, CPI(M) and TMC were protesting over the Pegasus snooping row, while the BSP, SP and Shiromani Akali Dal were protesting against the Centre's three new farm laws. Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs Arjun Ram Meghwal said by disrupting the proceedings, the Opposition is not allowing the ministers to do their duty of replying to questions. The speaker repeatedly urged the protesting members to go back to their seats. "Do not compete with each other in sloganeering. Compete with each other to raise people's issues," he said. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar took a swipe at the protesting Opposition members and said if they are concerned about farmers, they should allow the proceedings of the House to continue. He made the remarks while replying to a supplementary query related to an insurance scheme for farmers during the Question Hour as the Opposition members continued with their sloganeering on various issues, including the Pegasus spying controversy and the agriculture laws. "There are around 15 questions related to farmers. If the Opposition members are really concerned about farmers, they should listen to what the government has to say," Tomar said. "Disruptions are lowering the decorum of the House," he said. As the protests continued, the House was adjourned for the first time till 11.45 am. When the House met again, the protests continued, leading to another adjournment till 12 noon. As the Lok Sabha reassembled at 12 noon, Agrawal, who was chairing the proceedings, asked the protesting members to discuss their issues and said the government is ready to answer their questions. "Please go back to your seats. Please cooperate," he said. As the protests continued, Agrawal adjourned the House till 12.30 pm. Later, amid the unrelenting protests, Agrawal again adjourned the Lok Sabha proceedings till 2 pm. Subsequently, Bhartruhari Mahtab, who was in the Chair, adjourned the house till 2:30 pm. He had to repeatedly adjourn the House. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-adjourned-for-ninth-time-till-430-pm-1013405.html
27-07-2021||National||SC notice to Centre on failing to check exploitation of patients by private health facilities||The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued notice to the Centre on a PIL for failing to regulate private hospitals allegedly exploiting patients due to the absence of standard treatment protocols. A bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana sought a response from the Union government on a plea by NGO Jan Swasthya Abhiyan to operationalise all the provisions of the Clinical Establishments Act, 2010, and Clinical Establishment Rules, 2012, across the country. "Let's hope the government respond to it," the bench said as the petitioner's counsel submitted that all the states and Union Territories have yet not adopted the protocols. The private healthcare centres and hospitals are exploiting patients and not following the uniform protocols in the absence of regulation, it alleged. The standards in clinical establishments, which had been adopted as a national policy goal by the Centre nearly two decades ago, was yet to be effectively implemented across the country. Senior advocate Sanjay Parikh, representing the petitioner, claimed healthcare facilities are not working properly, patients are being overcharged and smaller clinics or labs don't have trained medical personnel. He said more than 70% of patient care is provided by the private sector and less than 30% of patients use the public sector mandating standard guidelines for healthcare establishments along with treatment protocols. "When Covid came, this was there….. The Act clearly mentions the rates that are to be charged from the patients etc," Parikh submitted. Parikh submitted that his client had already sent representation to the government but there was no response. He added that 11 States and six Union Territories have adopted registration resolution and highlighted complaints in connection with overcharging and hospital authorities forcing patients to purchase hospital medicines and equipment. The bench noted that states have some mechanism regarding registering and regulating these establishments. Parikh submitted that implementation of this across the country will be possible if notice is issued to the Centre's standing counsel. The petitioner also sought direction regarding the conditions for registration which include the observance of minimum standards, display and observance of determined rates for procedures and services, compliance with the standard treatment protocol, as provided in Section 11 and 12 of the Clinical Establishments Act 2010 read with Rule 9 of the Clinical Establishment Rules, 2012. The plea said that this should be notified and implemented to ensure affordable and quality healthcare as guaranteed under Article 21 and Article 47 of the Constitution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-on-failing-to-check-exploitation-of-patients-by-private-health-facilities-1013411.html
27-07-2021||National||Democracy has capacity to reconcile differences, bring out best of citizens' potential: President||President Ram Nath Kovind asserted on Tuesday that democracy has the capacity to reconcile all differences and bring out the best of the citizens' potential, saying Kashmir is "happily" realising this vision. "Democracy, I firmly believe, has within it the capacity to reconcile all differences and also the capacity to bring out the best of the citizens' potential. Kashmir, happily, is already realising this vision," the president said in his convocation address at the Kashmir University here. Kovind, who is on a four-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir, said violence was never part of "Kashmiriyat", but became a daily reality. "It was most unfortunate that this outstanding tradition of peaceful coexistence was broken. Violence, which was never part of Kashmiriyat, became a daily reality. "It (violence) is alien to Kashmiri culture and it can only be termed as an aberration, a temporary one, much like a virus that attacks the body and needs to be purged. Now there is a new beginning and determined efforts to regain this land's lost glory," he said. The president said Kashmir is the meeting point of various cultures and it is impossible to write a history of Indian philosophy without referring to the region's contributions to it. "One of the oldest manuscripts of the Rigveda was written in Kashmir. This is the most conducive region for philosophies to prosper. "In medieval times, it was Lal Ded who showed the way to bring together various spiritual traditions. In the works of Lalleshwari, you can see how Kashmir provides the template of communal harmony and peaceful coexistence," he said, referring to Kashmir's revered poetess. Kovind said almost all religions that came to Kashmir embraced the unique feature of "Kashmiriyat" that shunned orthodoxy and encouraged tolerance and mutual acceptance among communities. "I take this opportunity to urge upon the younger generation of Kashmir to learn from their rich legacy. They have every reason to know that Kashmir has always been a beacon of hope for the rest of India. Its spiritual and cultural influence has left an imprint all across India," he added. The president expressed confidence that the youngsters and the women of Kashmir will use democracy to build a peaceful and prosperous future. "Democracy lets you build your own future, a peaceful and prosperous tomorrow. The youth and women especially have high stakes in it, and I am sure they will not let go of this opportunity to rebuild lives and rebuild Kashmir," he said. Kovind said as Kashmir has turned a new leaf, exciting new possibilities are opening up. "The whole of India is watching you with admiration and pride. Kashmiri youngsters are scaling new heights in a variety of sectors, from the civil services exams to sports and entrepreneurial ventures. "In September last year, during a consultation on the new National Education Policy, I had spoken of my dream. I wish to see Kashmir as a paradise on earth," he said. The president said he is banking on the younger generation of Jammu and Kashmir for the restoration of Kashmir to its rightful place as the crowning glory of the country. "I am squarely banking on the younger generation of Jammu and Kashmir to realise this dream, which I am sure will come true sooner than later. Kashmir is bound to acquire its rightful place as the crowning glory of India," he said. Kovind said he was delighted to be in the land of great historical and cultural significance. It has been called "Rishi Vaer" or the land of seers and has always attracted spirituality seekers from far and wide, he said, adding, "I feel blessed standing on this land, which is not only a reservoir of wisdom but is also endowed with unparalleled natural beauty," he said. The president said close to three lakh students would receive their degrees on Tuesday. "With more than 2.5 lakh bachelor degree holders and over 1,000 doctorates in the last eight years, the university has made remarkable progress," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/democracy-has-capacity-to-reconcile-differences-bring-out-best-of-citizens-potential-president-1013412.html
27-07-2021||National||Sharad Pawar says VIPs should avoid visits to flood-affected areas||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Tuesday said visits by VIPs to flood-affected regions should be avoided as they affect rescue and relief operations. Talking to reporters, Pawar said he can say based on his personal experience that except the chief minister, deputy chief minister and guardian ministers, others who are not directly linked to the relief operations should avoid such visits. These VIP visits put unnecessary pressure on local machinery and authorities and divert their focus from rescue and evacuation work, the former Union minister said while talking about his party's contribution to the flood relief work. "I generally do not miss visiting such areas, but this time, I am avoiding so that the state machinery will not get diverted from its work," he said. On Maharashtra Governor BS Koshyari’s visit to flood-affected areas on Tuesday accompanied by suspended BJP MLA Ashish Shelar, Pawar quipped that the governor may help the state get funds and more compensation from the Central government. "If he (governor) trusts him (Shelar) more there is nothing wrong in it. His (Koshyari's) post is important to get more funding for the state," Pawar said. The NCP will send medical teams and relief material to flood-affected people in the state in the next two-three days, Pawar said. "NCP welfare trust will distribute kitchen as well as blanket kits to 16,000 families affected (by floods and rains) in six districts of Maharashtra. Some food items will be distributed as well,” he said. "As per the available information, 5,000 families were affected each in Ratnagiri and Raigad districts, 2,000 families were affected each in Kolhapur and Sangli, 1,000 in Satara, and 500 in Sindhudurg. We have prepared kits for distribution containing some kitchen utensils, blankets and face masks among other items," he said, adding the cost of this material is Rs 2.5 crore. Responding to a question on heavy rainfall and whether floods are man-made, he said, "A long-term policy is required to address this issue. Construction activity in flood zones is a challenge and in some cases, it can be addressed". Commenting on how he would pursue the demand for more relief from the Union government, Pawar said, "Final figures (about the damage caused in flood and rain) are not yet available. Once these figures are finalised, we can take them up with the Centre. The damage assessment is not yet finalised. Once that report is available, we can find out how much aid can be given by the Centre to Maharashtra. We will meet officials accordingly," he added. The death toll in rain-related incidents in Maharashtra rose to 192 on Monday after the recovery of 28 more bodies, most of them in Raigad, the state government said. So far, 2,29,074 persons have been evacuated from the flood and rain-affected affected areas and moved to safer places, the government said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sharad-pawar-says-vips-should-avoid-visits-to-flood-affected-areas-1013413.html
27-07-2021||National||Climate change most critical challenge before humanity: President Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday said that climate change is the most critical challenge before humanity and global warming is making its impact everywhere. Addressing the 19th convocation of the Kashmir University here, he also hoped that the centres for glaciology and Himalayan biodiversity at the varsity will show the way to the world in fighting climate change. "Climate change, as you are aware, is the most critical challenge before humanity in this century. Global warming is making its impact everywhere, but nowhere is it more felt than in the fragile eco-system of the Himalayas," the president said. He said the University of Kashmir has added another feather to its cap with the setting up of two centres that are of high importance. "One is devoted to glaciology and the other to Himalayan biodiversity documentation, bio-prospection and conservation. There is also the National Himalayan Ice-Core Laboratory. I am confident that these two 'Centres of Excellence' and the laboratory will help Kashmir and also show the way to the world in combating climate challenges and nurturing nature," Kovind said. The president's stress on climate change came in the wake of recent natural disasters in Himalayan states, including Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. While nine persons were killed in landslides in Himachal Pradesh on Sunday, more than 70 persons died in the glacier burst in Uttarakhand in February. Referring to the Covid-19 pandemic, the president said he was glad to know that the university had responded to the pandemic in a most praiseworthy manner. "The entire world has been facing a difficult time. The coronavirus has impacted all walks of life and education is no exception. Fortunately, technology provided a solution. Schools, colleges and universities across India have continued to provide education in the on-line mode," Kovind said. After the outbreak last year, the University of Kashmir shifted to online modules and made e-resources available to its students, the president noted. Moreover, it also supported the administration by providing quarantine at its main, north and south campuses. It shows how universities' contribution to society can go far beyond imparting education, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/climate-change-most-critical-challenge-before-humanity-president-kovind-1013416.html
27-07-2021||National||Case filed over fake Twitter account of SP chief Akhilesh Yadav||The Samajwadi Party on Tuesday said it has filed a complaint against unidentified people for allegedly creating a fake Twitter account of party chief Akhilesh Yadav and spreading "hatred". The complaint was filed by state SP chief Naresh Uttam, who submitted screenshots of a tweet, claiming that after the party comes to power in the state, Babri mosque will be constructed at the place of the Ram temple in Ayodhya, sources said. "An FIR was registered by SP state president Naresh Uttam against unknown persons for making a fake account of party chief Akhilesh Yadav to spread hatred. Under the patronage of those in power, the game to defame and vitiate peace is going on," the party alleged in a tweet on Tuesday. It said the FIR was registered against unidentified people at the Gautampalli police station on Sunday evening. The FIR has been registered under relevant provisions of the IPC and the IT Act, said SHO Ratnesh Kumar Singh, adding that the probe into the matter is on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/case-filed-over-fake-twitter-account-of-sp-chief-akhilesh-yadav-1013417.html
27-07-2021||National||Cong MLA's allegations: Chhattisgarh minister walks out of Assembly after govt's 'limited' response||Chhattisgarh Health Minister T S Singh Deo walked out of the state Assembly on Tuesday after saying he will not attend the House proceedings until the state government gives a clear reply over allegations made against him by a Congress MLA. The minister walked out of the House after being upset over what he termed as the government's "limited" statement on the issue, following which members of the opposition BJP claimed such an incident had "never happened where a minister expressed dissatisfaction over his own government's reply". The House was later adjourned for the day after BJP members created an uproar and trooped into the well of the House, demanding a probe by an Assembly committee into the allegations levelled by MLA Brihaspat Singh against the minister. Brihaspat Singh, the ruling party's legislator from Ramanujganj, on Sunday alleged his convoy was attacked in Surguja district at the behest of Singh Deo on Saturday evening because the former had praised Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, amid talks about a purported formula for sharing of the CM's post. The MLA had also alleged threat to his life from the minister. Reacting to the allegations, Singh Deo, who represents Surguja constituency, however, had said people in his area and in the state know about him very well as his image is in the public domain, and he has nothing more to say on the issue. On the first day of the state Assembly's monsoon session on Monday, the opposition BJP termed the MLA's allegation as "serious" and demanded a probe into it by a House panel. On Tuesday, state Home Minister Tamradhwaj Sahu made a statement in the House in connection with the alleged road rage incident involving Singh's convoy on July 24. Dissatisfied with his reply, BJP legislators, including Leader of Opposition Dharamlal Kaushik, said Sahu's statement did not have any reference to the allegations made by the Congress MLA against the health minister, and the two leaders should be asked to speak in the House on the matter. Subsequently, Assembly Speaker Charan Das Mahant said since he had not received any complaint either from the Congress MLA or the health minister, on what basis could he ask them to speak on the matter. Amid chaos over the issue, Singh Deo stood up and said, “Now, it's enough. I am also a human being. Everybody knows about my image.” Referring to the Assembly Speaker, the minister said, “On your direction yesterday, the chief minister had called us in his chamber and a discussion took place (on the alleged rift)...even after that, such a limited statement (from home minister) was made before the House." “I don't believe I am in a position that I can attend the House till the government presents a clear reply on the issue. I don't consider myself eligible to participate in the proceedings of this House till the time the government does not put a clear reply in this context,” he said. Singh Deo then left the Assembly premises and refused to speak to mediapersons. The development led to uproar in the House following which the Speaker adjourned the proceedings for 10 minutes. When the House reassembled, the opposition members, including BJP's Brijmohan Agrawal and Ajay Chandrakar, again raised the issue and said "in the history of the Legislature, such an incident had never happened where a minister had expressed dissatisfaction over his own government's reply". They said till the issue is not resolved, other business should not be taken up in the House. LoP Dharamlal Kaushik and former chief minister Raman Singh said it is the matter of dignity of the House and its members, and to maintain decorum, the matter should be probed by a House panel. The BJP MLAs trooped into the well of the House in support of their demand, following which the Speaker adjourned the House for the day. Later, Singh Deo returned to the Assembly premises. The minister told reporters he got a call from his cabinet colleagues and therefore, he came back. He was then seen going inside Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel's chamber in the Assembly. After some time, he came out of the CM's chamber and said he had spoken to Baghel and AICC state in-charge P L Punia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cong-mlas-allegations-chhattisgarh-minister-walks-out-of-assembly-after-govts-limited-response-1013435.html
27-07-2021||National||Maharashtra floods: Deputy CM Ajit Pawar moots construction of flyovers on Mumbai-Bengaluru highway||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Tuesday said he will speak to Union minister Nitin Gadkari about the possibility of building flyovers on the Mumbai-Bengaluru national highway stretch passing through Kolhapur for uninterrupted vehicular movement during flooding. Pawar, who was in Kolhapur to review the flood situation in the district which witnessed heavy rains last week, also called for strict action against encroachments on natural water bodies flowing into the Panchganga river. The Mumbai-Bengaluru national highway was reopened for vehicular traffic near Kolhapur on Monday after remaining shut for four days due to water-logging. The highway stretch near the western Maharashtra district was closed for traffic on Thursday due to which around 2,000 Karnataka-bound vehicles, including trucks and small cars, remained stranded. Pawar said he would talk to Union Transport Minister Gadkari about the possibility of building flyovers on stretches of the Mumbai-Bengaluru highway near Kolhapur where flooding takes place. "I will talk to Gadkari saheb. The national highway should always be open for vehicular traffic. I will talk to Gadkari saheb about the possibility of building flyovers at different stretches in the district so that vehicular traffic on the (Mumbai) Pune-Bengaluru highway is not interrupted in case of flooding," he said. Pawar also said a lot of people have blamed constructions and encroachments on nullahs (drains) and drains for flooding in Kolhapur city and elsewhere in the district. "I have given instructions to the Kolhapur civic and district administration to take stringent action against such encroachments and remove them from the natural course of the water bodies. If officials show laxity in taking action against such structures, action will be taken against them also," the NCP leader said. He also said generally flooding in Sangli and Kolhapur is attributed to the Almatti dam in neighbouring Karnataka. "However, a committee formed during the previous (BJP-led) state government concluded that flooding was not taking place due to the Almatti dam," Pawar said. He further said the state government is planning to form an expert committee that will suggest long-term measures to deal with and minimise the danger of landslides. He also said in view of certain orders from courts and environment department, sand mining auctions did not take place in Kolhapur. "The possibility of increase in sand and silt on the Panchganga river bed in Kolhapur can be checked. We can check if we can lift the silt and sand and increase the flowing capacity of the river," he said. Such measures were being taken up as part of the national river rejuvenation programme, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-floods-deputy-cm-ajit-pawar-moots-construction-of-flyovers-on-mumbai-bengaluru-highway-1013436.html
27-07-2021||National||SC notice to Centre on plea seeking directions for uniform healthcare standard||The Supreme Court Tuesday sought the Centre's response on a plea seeking directions for a uniform standard of healthcare for citizens in line with the Constitution by adopting the provisions of the Clinical Establishments Act, 2010. The plea has also sought directions for operationalising all the provisions of the Act, as well as Clinical Establishment Rules, 2012 in order to ensure affordable and quality healthcare. A bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and Surya Kant issued notice to the government and others on the plea filed by Jan Swasthya Abhiyan, Patients' Rights Campaign and K M Gopakumar. Senior advocate Sanjay Parikh, appearing for the petitioners, argued that the Clinical Establishment Act (CEA) came after several committees' recommendations and National Policy on Health and provided guidelines for determining charges and standard treatment. The plea has sought directions for notification and implementation of the conditions for registration of clinical establishments such as observance of minimum standards, display of rates for procedures and services, compliance with the standard treatment protocol, as provided in Sections 11 and 12 of the CEA read with Rule 9 of the Rules, 2012. The plea has also sought directions that a grievance redressal mechanism be created for the patients at the district, state and national level till the lacunae in the CEA are filled by a suitable legislation. The PIL said the duty to provide healthcare to citizens was put on the government under Article 47 of the Constitution; however, the public healthcare system did not proceed as conceived and treats only 30 per cent of the patients, while the rest are treated by the private sector. The petition contended that the public healthcare system suffers from a lack of public health infrastructure and human resources, non-availability of medicines, lack of public investment and forced dependency on the private sector. The plea submitted that there is an urgent need to develop the public healthcare system in India by providing proper infrastructure and sufficient budget to ensure that the maximum facilities exist in the public domain, not only in normal times but also at the time of emergencies such as COVID-19. Since it will take time and investment to develop the public health infrastructure, there is an urgent need to regulate the private healthcare providers to ensure access to affordable and quality healthcare to citizens, the plea said. "If the provisions of the Clinical Establishments Act 2010 are implemented, which apply both to the public and private sector, it would be possible to control some of the ailments from which the private medical the sector is suffering from and also provides an enabling environment to enjoy the right to health guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution and Article 12 of International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights," the plea said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-on-plea-seeking-directions-for-uniform-healthcare-standard-1013440.html
27-07-2021||National||Parliament passes Marine Aids to Navigation Bill||Parliament on Tuesday passed a Bill that will replace an over nine-decade-old law governing lighthouses and provide a fresh framework to establish and manage vessel traffic services. Rajya Sabha gave its nod to the Marine Aids to Navigation Bill, 2021, which also changes the use of the term marine aids to navigation, amid continuing protests by the opposition members over the Pegasus snooping allegations and other issues. It has already been passed by Lok Sabha on March 22, 2021, in the last session. The Bill will provide for the development, maintenance and management of aids to navigation in India; for training and certification of the operator of aids to navigation, development of its historical, educational and cultural value. The Bill will also ensure compliance with the obligation under the maritime treaties and international instruments to which India is a party. While replying to the debate, Union Minister of Ports, Shipping and Waterways Sarbananda Sonowal said: "This Bill will provide a legal framework for the sector to meet the latest technologies and meets the requirements of best global practices for safe and secure navigation and protection of the marine environment." "This Bill will repeal the 90 years old pre-independence Act by replacing it. It will provide holistic progress and development in the field of marine navigation. This will also help the fisherman and coastal and international trade, lighthouse tourism in and around." It will also encourage safe aligning with the latest forecast technology and pollution-free navigation in Indian waters, Sonowal said while finishing his short reply amid the opposition uproar. During the debate, Deputy Chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh requested the opposition members, protesting in the Well, to return to their seats. "Please go back to your seats," he said, adding " I want to allow division (on the Bill) but for that you please go back to your seats. You know the rules and until you back to your seats, the division is not possible." As members did not go returned to their seats, Deputy Chairman went ahead with the process and the Bill was passed. Immediately after the Bill was passed, Rajya Sabha was adjourned till 4 PM and later for the rest of the day as opposition parties disrupted proceedings. Through the Bill, the government plans to turn old lighthouses into tourist destination to showcase the country's rich history in navigation. The Bill also seeks to rename the existing post of Director General of Lighthouse and Lightships to Director-General to provide a framework for the establishment, operation and management of vessel traffic services. It aims at repealing the colonial Lighthouse Act, 1927, and provides for empowering the Directorate General of Lighthouses and Lightships (DGLL) with additional power and functions. The Bill provides for empowering the DGLL with additional power and functions such as vessel traffic service, wreck flagging, training and certification, implementation of other obligations under international conventions where India is a signatory. It comprises a new schedule of offences, along with commensurate penalties for obstructing and damaging the aids to navigation, and non-compliance with directives issued by the central government and other bodies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-passes-marine-aids-to-navigation-bill-1013445.html
27-07-2021||National||Biological E expects to launch Covid-19 vaccine Corbevax by Sept end: Report||The Hyderabad-based company has already started Corbevox’s Phase 3 clinical trials. Even before the pre-clinical stage Phase 3 studies started for this Covid-19 vaccine, the centre has already booked it, the report said. Union Minister of State for Health, Dr Bharati Pravin Pawar said that the centre has also provided financial assistance to Biological E for 'at-risk manufacturing' of Corbevox. The company is expecting to apply for an Emergency use License (EUL) by the end of August and it also aims to supply 300 million doses to the Centre by December 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/biological-e-expects-to-launch-covid-19-vaccine-corbevax-by-sept-end-report-1013453.html
27-07-2021||National||Mumbai court gives Kangana Ranaut 'last chance' for exemption from personal appearance in defamation case||A Mumbai court on Tuesday allowed "last chance" to actor Kangana Ranaut for plea seeking exemption from personal appearance in the defamation case filed by Bollywood lyricist Javed Akhtar and directed her to remain present on the next date of hearing without fail. Metropolitan magistrate, Andheri, RR Khan, also rejected the plea of Akhtar, filed through his lawyer, seeking issuance of an arrest warrant against the actor but said the complainant can move the plea again if Ranaut fails to appear at the next hearing. The matter is posted for hearing on September 1. As the matter came up for hearing on Tuesday, the complainant filed a reply on Ranaut's plea who had sought permanent exemption from appearance before court citing professional commitments. An application was also filed requesting the court to issue an arrest warrant against her. During the proceedings, Ranaut's lawyer requested that she be exempted from personal appearance for the day, which was allowed by the magistrate. "The exemption application filed by the advocate of the accused is granted for today as the last chance. The advocate for the accused is directed to keep the accused present on the next date without fail," the court said. On the plea seeking issuance of a warrant against the actor, the magistrate said, "The application filed by the advocate of the complainant for issuance of warrant against the accused is rejected. The advocate for the complainant is informed that on the failure of the accused to remain present before the court on the next date, they may file an application for a warrant against her". Akhtar (76) had filed the complaint in the magistrate's court last November claiming Ranaut had made defamatory statements against him in a television interview, which allegedly damaged his reputation. In his complaint, Akhtar claimed that Ranaut dragged his name during an interview while referring to a 'coterie' existing in Bollywood, following the alleged suicide by actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mumbai-court-gives-kangana-ranaut-last-chance-for-exemption-from-personal-appearance-in-defamation-case-1013455.html
27-07-2021||National||India sets up surveillance cameras and sensors on LAC to monitor Chinese Army||To keep a close watch on the Chinese army on the border, Indian security forces are putting up surveillance cameras and sensors on the Line of Actual Control along with the already existing satellites and drones. “The high resolution unattended or remote-controlled cameras help in keeping a close watch on activities in far-flung areas and locations and also give time to ground troops to reach there," they said. Previously, the Indian army had highlighted the benefits of having such surveillance cameras on the border area in a Parliamentary briefing. These cameras and sensors are reportedly helping the ground commanders at the LAC to respond promptly to urgent situations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sets-up-surveillance-cameras-and-sensors-on-lac-to-monitor-chinese-army-1013463.html
27-07-2021||National||Instruct govt to discuss farmers' issues, Pegasus in Parliament: 7 Oppn parties write to President||MPs from seven Opposition parties, including Akali Dal, NCP and BSP, on Tuesday wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind seeking appointment to complain about the Narendra Modi government "stonewalling" a discussion on Pegasus snooping episode and repealing of three contentious farm laws. The letter has been signed by 10 MPs from seven parties -- Akali Dal, NCP, BSP, National Conference, CPI(M), CPI and RLP. The signatories include Harsimrat Kaur (Akali Dal), Supriya Sule (NCP), Ritesh Pandey and Danish Ali (BSP). "We seek your benign intervention to uphold the dignity of the Constitution of India and Parliamentary rules and procedures. The country is going through Emergency-like situation and the Parliament is going through unprecedented crisis," the MPs wrote. The MPs said the Opposition has raised the demand for a discussion on both the issues but the ruling BJP has "stonewalled" all attempts to discuss either of the two issues. "You would appreciate that a human tragedy is unfolding on the borders of Delhi with more than 550 farmers already having lost their lives during the course of the ongoing 'Kisan Andolan' (farmers' agitation). The livelihoods of millions more are at stake due to the three agricultural laws which have been made with the express purpose of handing over the agriculture sector to corporations," the letter said. "Similarly, the use of Pegasus software to tape telephone numbers of politicians as well as journalists and activists, besides known detractors of the NDA government has sent shockwaves amongst civil society," it said. It is a known fact that the Israeli company NSO sells the software only to vetted governments and the company has admitted as such, the MPs said in the letter. "Despite these revelations, the Union government is refusing to disclose why it had used this software against its own citizens, besides disclosing details of the payments made to access the same. The NDA government has also refused to hold a probe into the entire issue," it said. "We MPs urge you to intervene personally and direct the government to discuss both the issues during the ongoing Parliament session in the spirit of a healthy democracy," the letter added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/instruct-govt-to-discuss-farmers-issues-pegasus-in-parliament-7-oppn-parties-write-to-president-1013471.html
27-07-2021||National||Slowdown in rate of decline of average daily Covid cases a cause of concern: Centre||Districts with more than 10 per cent Covid-19 positivity rate have increased to 54 from 46 over the last week, while the rate of decline of average daily cases has also slowed down, the government said on Tuesday, noting that these are a "cause of concern". Highlighting the surge in Covid-19 cases reported from some countries, officials said that though there is a consistent decline in the average daily new cases in India, the pandemic is far from over and the country has to remain alert. Addressing a press conference, Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal said that in the week ending July 26, districts with more than 10 per cent positivity rate increased to 54 from 46 in the previous week (July 14-20), which is a cause of concern. These 54 districts are across 12 states and UTs, including Kerala (10), Manipur (10), Nagaland (7), Mizoram (6), Meghalaya (6), Arunanchal Pradesh (5) and Rajasthan (4). Twenty-two districts in seven states -- Kerala (7), Manipur (5), Meghalaya (3), Arunachal Pradesh (3), Maharashtra (2), Assam (1), Tripura (1) have reported an increasing trend in daily Covid-19 cases for the last four weeks and this is also a cause of concern, Agarwal said. "There are eight districts, which were witnessing a decline in positivity rate, but are now seeing a rise in Covid-19 cases, he said, adding that "we cannot take the situation for granted". "The average daily new cases declined from 3,87,029 cases between May 5-11 to 38,090 cases between July 21- 27. In the past few weeks, there has been a slowdown/reduction in the rate of decline, which remains an area of concern," Agarwal, said. NITI Aayog Member (Health) Dr V K Paul said in some districts, where a decline was being seen, there is an increase in cases now. "It may be a chance, an aberration but it is also a cause of concern that we need to be careful. The (second) wave has not finished and we may be tired but the virus is not tired. It is an alert for us," he said. "In eight districts positivity was coming down and in additional districts, positivity has increased, this indicates that things cannot be taken for granted, virus behaviour cannot be taken for granted. "Vulnerable population is still there and though there is an increase in the population receiving the vaccination, it is not a full guarantee," Paul said. There has been a decline in new cases and they are found in limited geographies and are localised and but it is important that proper containment efforts, restrictions, social distancing  and Covid-appropriate behaviour are followed in those areas to control the spread of infection," Agarwal said. Concerns about viral replication: Talking about the surge in cases in Kerala and Northeastern states of Manipur, Sikkim, Mizoram and Nagaland, Paul said the positivity rate has gone beyond 10 percent in these areas. "If we go by reproduction number then it goes beyond one in these areas," he said. Reproduction or reproduction number is a measure that highlights the number of people a coronavirus positive person infects, thereby reflecting the severity of the spread. A number of 1 or below 1 indicates a slowly spreading virus while any number above 1 indicates a rapid spread. "It is 1.2 in Kerala, again it shows that virus replication is going on. Somehow it is a cause of satisfaction that mortality is not high but when there is so much virus replication there are problems...variants can emerge, other areas around these areas can get infected and the vulnerable population in any part of our country remains susceptible. "We are emphasising the need for containment, the need for Covid appropriate behaviour, need to be vigilant, need to avoid unnecessary travel, large crowds in festivities," he said. Expressing happiness that new cases have gone below 30,000 for the first time in 132 days, he expressed the hope that it is sustained and "it declines further to a much much lower level" and said it is possible. "Nonetheless, the first message is that the second wave is not over and some areas continue to remain a concern, some states in the Northeast and in south Kerala, in particular, remains a cause of concern and action," he said. Agarwal, however, said there is a progressive decrease in the number of districts reporting high cases.  Districts with greater than 100 cases declined from 379 on 25th May 2021 to 121 on 25th June 2021 "We still have 62 districts with more than 100 cases but they are localised," Agarwal also highlighted that a high surge in cases is being reported in other countries. "Overall if we look from a global perspective, the pandemic is far from over. An increase in the number of cases across the world is being seen, which remains an area of concern. and we have to work on containment and management activities strictly to control the spread of the virus," Agarwal underlined. In this regard, Agarwal cited the US, France, Italy, Malaysia and Thailand where a high surge in cases has been noted in the last few days. On vaccine availability in August, Paul said, "We have visibility of about 15 crore doses in August". Challenge of co-infection of vector-borne diseases in Monsoon: The officials also highlighted the need for taking extra precautions to prevent co-infection of vector-borne diseases in monsoon season with Covid-19 as it may affect clinical management and patient outcomes Agarwal said rains increase the risk of vector-borne diseases such as malaria, dengue, chikungunya as well as chances of food and water-borne diseases and other skin infections. Greater risk of diseases like dengue, malaria, seasonal influenza, leptospirosis, chikungunya, enteric fever, etc. is coexisting in Covid cases. "This poses challenges in clinical and laboratory diagnosis of Covid-19 and may affect clinical management and patient outcomes. We must ensure we do the right things to prevent co-infection," Agarwal said. He said basic preventive measures for Covid-19 and seasonal influenza - such as avoiding large gatherings, maintaining physical distance, hand hygiene & cough etiquette - have to be ensured Source reduction of mosquito breeding sites should be implemented in all areas at risk of these diseases and ensuring timely vaccination of all doses of Covid-19 vaccine should be our priority. The use of approved insect repellents and ITN/LLINs is effective against vector-borne diseases including scrub typhus. Preventive measures against leptospirosis include wearing protective clothing for people at occupational risk and avoiding swimming in contaminated water. Decision on reopening schools and vaccination of children: Paul said the decision on reopening schools is largely being taken by the respective states. "The overall approach by the central government from time to time has been (to suugest) which students can come and in what number they can come, but state governments are taking their own decisions. "The schools have been closed for a long time and society is concerned about the learning loss but it is walking a tightrope and it is not an easy decision as on one hand there is a risk of infection that has to be weighed out on teaching and learning activities," Paul said. "When we open schools it is important that SOPs are followed. The teaching must be conducted in a manner which is Covid appropriate...that remains of paramount importance," he said. On vaccination of children, Agarwal said Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and Zydus Cadilla's vaccine clinical trials are going on and as soon as the results come which are robust enough, the experts will take a decision on when the vaccination of children can be allowed. Responding to a question on the Delta Plus variant, Agarwal said, "Our vaccines have a minor change in efficacy for Delta plus variant but they are effective. "DG ICMR has said that studies are going on Delta plus and data analysis is going on... as we have clarity, we will let you know," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/slowdown-in-rate-of-decline-of-average-daily-covid-cases-a-cause-of-concern-centre-1013473.html
27-07-2021||National||Identification of orphans due to Covid does not brook any further delay: SC||Observing that identification of children who have lost parents due to Covid does not brook any further delay, the Supreme Court Tuesday directed the state governments and union territories (UTs) to file status reports giving particulars about the number of children who have become orphan after March 2020. A bench comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose directed the District Magistartes to issue necessary instructions to the district child protection officers to take assistance of the police, civil society, gram panchayats, anganwadi and ASHA workers for identification of orphans. The apex court said this is in addition to mechanisms available in Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 and rules. "The identification of children who have lost both parents or one parent after March 2020 does not brook any further delay," the bench said. It said District Magistrates are directed to continue uploading the information on Bal Swaraj portal of National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR). Child welfare committees are directed to complete the inquiry within the time limit specified under Act and provide assistance and rehabilitation to orphans, the bench added. "All state governments, UTs are directed to file status reports giving particulars giving the number of children who have become orphan after March 2020. The number of children produced before the child welfare committee and their particular who have been provided with benefits of the schemes by the state governments," the bench said. It also directed the states to provide details regarding payment of Rs 2000 monetary assistance given to needy orphans under the Integrated Child Development Services scheme. With regard to education of orphan children, the top court directed the state governments to ensure that orphans continue to study in the same school, private or government, for the current academic year and in case of any difficulty they may be accommodated in the neighbourhood school under the Right to Education Act. The apex court also directed the state governments to furnish details about children who have been accommodated in government and private schools and posted the matter for hearing on August 26. The top court's direction came after perusing a report filed by advocate Gaurav Agrawal, who has been appointed amicus curiae, in a suo motu case seeking identification of orphaned children due to Covid-19 or otherwise and providing them immediate relief by the state governments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/identification-of-orphans-due-to-covid-does-not-brook-any-further-delay-sc-1013481.html
27-07-2021||National||Bombay HC says no urgent relief to Raj Kundra till prosecution is heard||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday said it cannot pass any order granting urgent relief to businessman Raj Kundra, arrested in a case of alleged production and distribution of pornographic films through apps, without first hearing the prosecution. Justice A S Gadkari directed the police to file its affidavit by July 29 in response to a petition submitted by Kundra (45) challenging his arrest in the case. Kundra, the husband of actor Shilpa Shetty, was arrested on July 19 by the Mumbai Police's crime branch in the porn films case filed in February this year. Post-arrest, he was sent in police custody by a city court. On Tuesday, a magistrate's court remanded him in 14-day judicial custody. Kundra moved the magistrate's court for bail and his plea was kept for hearing on Wednesday. Kundra's lawyers Aabad Ponda and Subhash Jadhav argued in the HC on Tuesday that the police failed to follow the procedure laid down in law and ought to have first issued a notice under section 41A of the CrPC instead of arresting him directly. Public prosecutor Aruna Kamat Pai refuted the claim and said a notice was indeed issued to Kundra before he was placed under arrest. The HC directed Pai to file an affidavit in response to the petition. Ponda then sought some interim relief for his client. Justice Gadkari, however, refused and said it cannot grant any relief without giving a chance to the prosecution first to respond to the petition. “No ex-parte ad-interim relief,” the court said. Kundra, in his petition, has maintained his arrest and the subsequent order passed by the magistrate's court remanding him in police custody were illegal as no notice was issued to him. As per section 41A of the CrPC, the police may, in cases where arrest is not warranted, issue summons to the accused person and record his or her statement. Kundra, in his plea, has also said the material which the police claimed to be pornographic did not depict direct or explicit sexual acts but shows material in the form of short movies "which are lascivious or appeal to the prurient interest of persons at best". After Kundra's arrest, the crime branch had described him as the "key conspirator" of the case. He has been booked under Indian Penal Code Sections 420 (cheating), 34 (common intention), 292 and 293 (related to obscene and indecent advertisements and displays), and relevant sections of the IT Act and the Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act. The police have claimed to have found 51 obscene videos during searches at his office.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bombay-hc-says-no-urgent-relief-to-raj-kundra-till-prosecution-is-heard-1013482.html
27-07-2021||National||Over 2 lakh hectare farmland damaged this year due to hydro-meteorological calamities: Tomar||A little over 2 lakh hectare of the cropped area has been damaged so far this year due to hydro-meteorological calamities, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar informed Parliament on Tuesday. Tomar in a written reply to the Lok Sabha said in the year 2020-21, 66.55 lakh hectare cropped area was damaged. However, till July 27 this year, 2.024 lakh hectare area has been damaged due to hydro-meteorological calamities/ hazards, he said. The maximum damage was reported from Gujarat, followed by Kerala, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Odisha, and Goa in the said period. The minister said states undertake relief measures in the wake of natural disasters from the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) already placed at their disposal. Additional assistance is extended from the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) as per the established procedure, upon receipt of a memorandum from the state. Thereafter, an Inter-Ministerial Central Team (IMCT) is constituted and deputed for an on-the-spot assessment of damage and requirement of funds for relief operations, as per the extant items and norms. The report of the IMCT is considered by the Sub-Committee of the National Executive Committee (SC-NEC). Thereafter, the High-Level Committee (HLC) approves the final quantum of financial assistance, the minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-2-lakh-hectare-farmland-damaged-this-year-due-to-hydro-meteorological-calamities-tomar-1013488.html
27-07-2021||National||India expects about 15 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses in August||Nearly 15 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines would be available in August, health officials said here on Tuesday, underscoring the importance of vaccination as it reduces the chances of Covid deaths by 98% as shown in a new study. "The visibility is of 15 crore doses in August. As we produce and inject, a part of the vaccine goes through the testing process at the Central Drug Testing laboratories and a batch is released following a process. But we are visualising availability of Covid-19 vaccines to the tune of 15 crore,” said V K Paul, NITI Ayog member and the government’s principal advisor on Covid-19. This is three crore doses more than what was made available in July. However, a part of July’s 12 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines would be administered in August. The Union Health Ministry claimed while 51.6 crore doses of Covid-19 were to be made available to the states between January and July, it did not mean that every dose would be utilised by July 31 as some would be consumed in August. As of date, a cumulative total of 45.7 crore doses have been supplied to the states and union territories from January 2021 till date and an additional 6.03 crore doses are expected by July 31. But the availability of 51.6 crore doses till the end of July didn’t mean that every dose supplied till that month would be consumed, the ministry said, denying reports that India was set to miss the target of administering 51.6 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses by July 31 as promised before the Supreme Court. There would be supplies in the pipeline, which should be available for the next few days till the next supplies of vaccine doses materialise in a particular state to continue with the vaccination campaign. After six months of vaccination, more than one-third of India’s target population of 94.47 crore received the first dose of the vaccine, whereas 22 out of 37 states and union territories provided the shots to more than 40% of their target population. On the key issue of school reopening, Paul said it would not be an easy decision. “The schools have been closed for a long time. Society is concerned about learning loss. But it is a tightrope-walking as, on one hand, there is a risk to the teachers, staff and students, which is to be weighed against teaching and learning activities,” Paul said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-expects-about-15-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-in-august-1013492.html
27-07-2021||National||INLD chief Chautala bats for third front, will meet Nitish Kumar on August 1||INLD chief Om Prakash Chautala on Tuesday said he will start contacting opposition leaders soon to forge a "third front" at the national level and also reveals plans to have a lunch meeting with BJP ally and Bihar CM Nitish Kumar. Asserting that the biggest need today is to get rid of the "anti-people" and "anti-farmer" government at the Centre, Chautala said before September 25, the birth anniversary of his father and former deputy PM Devi Lal, he will try to meet opposition leaders and urge them to come on one platform. "It will be our endeavour to form a strong third front," said Chautala, who was recently released from jail after serving a 10-year sentence in a recruitment scam. Chautala claimed that if a strong third front is formed, then many who support the government will leave it, ultimately leading to a situation where mid-term polls may take place. "It will be my endeavour to see that a strong third front is formed and later in the polls it achieves success so that this anti-people and corrupt government is routed," the former Haryana chief minister told reporters. On being asked if he will be meeting Mamata Banerjee, he said, "Although this is not an issue of today's topic, I want to tell that Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar had telephoned me." "He will have lunch with me at my residence on August 1. When two political leaders sit together, then political issues are naturally discussed," he said replying to a query. INLD sources said Nitish Kumar had recently spoken to Chautala over the phone to enquire about his well-being. JDU leader K C Tyagi had also visited Chautala's Gurgaon residence and it was during their meeting that Nitish had spoken to Chautala over the phone. Nitish Kumar will be visiting Chautala's Gurgaon residence next month, the source said. On TMC leader and West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee, Chautala said he has "good family relations" with her. Banerjee is in New Delhi and had a meeting with opposition leaders. She is slated to meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi. Chautala (86) alleged that the policies of the BJP-led government at the Centre are aimed at benefiting big corporates. Referring to the agitation against the farm laws, he said the country is primarily an agrarian economy and if farmers are not happy, then the nation cannot progress. Prices of fertilisers, diesel, pesticides and other essential commodities have registered a sharp increase, he told reporters. “Such a big agitation by farmers has not moved this government. The government is still claiming that the farm laws are pro-farmer and their leaders are defending these legislations,” he said. Chautala also hit out at the Manohar Lal Khattar-led Haryana government, alleging that the state's debt is mounting and the government now has to borrow to even pay salaries to its employees. Replying to a question on the Ellenabad bypolls, he said, "The INLD candidate, which will be announced by the party at an appropriate time, will win by a heavy margin." The Ellenabad seat in Sirsa district was represented by Chautala's younger son Abhay Singh Chautala, who resigned as MLA earlier over the farm laws issue and came out openly in support of the farmers protesting the laws. The bypolls to the Assembly seat are yet to be announced by the Election Commission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/inld-chief-chautala-bats-for-third-front-will-meet-nitish-kumar-on-august-1-1013496.html
27-07-2021||National||SC for extending PM-CARES scheme to all children affected during Covid-19 pandemic||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said a scheme framed by the Centre under the PM-CARES Fund for taking care of children orphaned due to Covid-19 should also consider children who lost one or both parents during the pandemic.  A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose said the order passed by the court covered all children who became orphans during this period and not just those who lost parents due to Covid-19. The bench also said the identification of children who have lost both parents or one parent after March 2020 does not merit any further delay. The court directed all District Magistrates to issue necessary directions to District Child Protection officers to take assistance police, civil society organisations, gram panchayat and ASHA network for identification of orphans. It also directed all States and Union Territories to file status report giving particulars of number of children who became orphans or lost one of the parents after March, 2020. The bench reiterated its direction that States would ensure that the orphans were permitted to continue in the same schools for the academic year. Meanwhile, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) informed the court that over 75,320 children have either lost one or both parents during Covid-19 pandemic and they are in need of care and protection. In an additional affidavit, it said the number of children who have lost either their mother or father or both parents between April 1, 2020 to July 23, 2021, is based upon the information uploaded on “Bal Swaraj” portal up to July 23. Of those children, 247 were abandoned.  In Maharashtra, 13,589 children were affected amid the pandemic and they were in need of care and protection, followed by Odisha where 6,562 children were affected, and in Andhra Pradesh 6,210 children affected.  In Karnataka, 278 were orphaned during the pandemic, 2,317 lost one of the parents and 11 were found as abandoned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-for-extending-pm-cares-scheme-to-all-children-affected-during-covid-19-pandemic-1013499.html
27-07-2021||National||Antony Blinken arrives in India for talks dominated by Afghan turmoil, China||Top US diplomat Antony Blinken arrived Tuesday in India for talks dominated by turmoil in Afghanistan and common worries about China, while also touching on New Delhi's rights record. Blinken, in his first India visit as secretary of state, was due to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Foreign Minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar on Wednesday before flying to Kuwait. US-Indian relations have long been cool but China's growing assertiveness pushed them closer, particularly since deadly clashes last year on the disputed Indo-Chinese Himalayan border. New Delhi is meanwhile alarmed that a possible Taliban takeover in Afghanistan after the withdrawal of forces will turn the country into a haven for anti-India extremists. India, a firm backer of the Afghan government which has spent billions on development projects, recently evacuated 50 staff from its Kandahar consulate as the Taliban gains ever more territory. The talks in a monsoon-soaked New Delhi will also touch on joint efforts on making Covid-19 vaccines, climate change and, according to US officials, India's recent human rights record. Under Modi, India has made growing use of anti-terrorism legislation and "sedition" laws to arrest people, in what critics say is aimed at silencing dissent. The government denies this. The Hindu-nationalist government has also brought in legislation that detractors say discriminates against India's 170-million-strong Muslim minority. Modi insists all Indians have equal rights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/antony-blinken-arrives-in-india-for-talks-dominated-by-afghan-turmoil-china-1013505.html
27-07-2021||National||Uttarakhand schools to reopen for classes 6-12 from August 1||Schools in Uttarakhand, which have remained closed because of the Covid pandemic for a long time, will resume classes for the students of classes 6 to 12 from August 1. The decision was taken at a meeting of the state cabinet chaired by Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Tuesday, Cabinet Minister and state government's spokesman Subodh Uniyal said. The cabinet also decided to appoint Airports Authority of India as the consultant for preparing a Detailed Project Report (DPR) on the proposed Greenfield Airport in Pantnagar in Udham Singh Nagar district, he said. The AAI will have to submit the DPR within six months, Uniyal said. The cabinet gave Rs 50,000 to candidates who clear the UPSC prelims to prepare for the mains and to 100 candidates who clear PCS prelims.      It was also decided to give Rs 50,000 to people who pass the written tests of National Defence Academy and Combined Defence Services, Uniyal said.           The Cabinet decided to convene monsoon session of the state assembly from August 23 to August 27. The cabinet gave its approval to setting up a four-member committee headed by retired chief secretary Indu Kumar Pandey which will give its recommendations within three months on resolving pay-related irregularities in various departments. Considering the adverse impact of Covid on Chardham Yatra and tourist activities, the cabinet gave its nod to a relief package of Rs 197.85 crore for people whose livelihoods are connected with them trades are connected with them.        A financial assistance of Rs 10,000 each will be given to 549 boat operators of Naini, Naukuchiyatal, Bhimtal, Sat Tal and Sadiyatal in Nainital district under the package. A total of 671 beneficiaries will be given concession in boat licence renewal under it besides interest reimbursement on loans availed under Vir Chand Singh Garhwali and Deendayal Upadhyay homestay schemes. The cabinet also authorised the chief minister to take a call on disbursement of Rs 51.24 crore as salary for three months to state roadways employees. It was also decided to elevate the stature of Kausani, a popular tourist spot in Bageshwar district, from a gram panchayat to a nagar panchayat for the creation of better infrastructure for tourists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttarakhand-schools-to-reopen-for-classes-6-12-from-august-1-1013512.html
27-07-2021||National||Raj Kundra earned Rs 1.17 crore from 'porn' app in five months, cops tell court||Raj Kundra earned at least Rs 1.17 crore between August and December last year from his business of production and online distribution of porn films, Mumbai Police told a court on Tuesday, seeking another extension of his custody. The magistrate's court, however, remanded Kundra (45), who is married to Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty, in judicial custody for 14 days. The Bombay High Court, meanwhile, refused to give him any urgent temporary relief. "Interrogation of Ryan Thorpe, another accused in the case, revealed that revenue from Hotshots (an online app or platform through which alleged porn content was made available) was Rs 1,17,64,886 ($1,58,057) between August and December 2020," the remand plea of the police said. This revenue was earned from the app on Apple store and the police have sought information from Google too, it said. The app had more users on Google Play than the Apple store before it was removed, so he must have earned much more revenue, the police claimed. The investigators also wanted to scrutinize the documents recovered from nine files seized from Kundra's office during a search on July 24, the remand application said. While the statement of a woman (who alleged that she was tricked into acting in a porn film) was recorded on July 26, more victims were likely to come forward, the police told the court. But the court, which had granted one extension of the custody earlier, rejected the police's plea and sent Kundra in judicial custody for 14 days. His lawyers Abad Ponda and Subhash Jadhav then filed a bail application, contending that he should be released as the investigation was over. The application will be heard in due course. Kundra was arrested on July 19 by the Mumbai police's crime branch. He had plans to sell 119 adult films to a person for $1.2 million, the police had claimed during an earlier remand hearing. The Bombay High Court on Tuesday refused to give urgent relief to Kundra. Justice A S Gadkari directed the police to file their reply by July 29 in response to a petition filed by Kundra challenging his arrest. His lawyers argued that the police failed to follow the procedure. They should have first issued a notice to him, asking him to be present to record a statement, instead of arresting him directly, advocates Ponda and Jadhav said. Prosecutor Aruna Kamat Pai said a notice was issued to him. The HC asked Pai to file an affidavit but refused to give interim relief to Kundra before hearing the police. Kundra has also contended that the films made by him which the police claimed to be pornographic did not depict direct or explicit sexual acts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/raj-kundra-earned-rs-117-crore-from-porn-app-in-five-months-cops-tell-court-1013526.html
27-07-2021||National||RTI document shows higher Covid deaths in Kerala ||Amidst allegations of Kerala suppressing the Covid-19 death toll, the opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front on Tuesday came out with a state government agency's report showing that the Covid-19 deaths in Kerala so far was over 23,000, while the figures being officially declared was only around 16,000. Opposition leader V D Satheesan said that as per the information received from state government agency Information Kerala Mission, the Covid deaths in the state was 23,486 up to July 13. But it was only 16,170 in the official figures presented by the government on Monday. Even then there was a difference of over 7,300, he said. Satheesan said that the state government was denying due benefits to the families of Covid victims by suppressing the figures and the opposition would move legally against it. The opposition also staged a walkout from the house after permission was denied for an adjournment motion to discuss the hardships being faced by the people owing to the prolonging lockdown. Meanwhile, 22,129 more Covid cases were reported in the state on Tuesday. While 1.79 lakh tests were conducted, the test positivity rate was 12.35 per cent. A delegation of left-front MPs from Kerala called on union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya and urged that adequate Covid vaccines should be supplied to the state as vaccination in state came to halt owing to shortage. The Minister assured positively, said the MPs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rti-document-shows-higher-covid-deaths-in-kerala-1013532.html
27-07-2021||National||Rakesh Asthana appointed Delhi Police Commissioner||Controversial IPS officer Rakesh Asthana, the BSF Director General whose name figured in the leaked database of potential targets of surveillance using Pegasus spyware, was on Tuesday night appointed Delhi Police Commissioner, three days before his superannuation. With this, the service of Asthana, who is considered close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, would be extended for another one year. At present, the 1984-batch IPS officer of Gujarat cadre also holds additional charge of the Narcotics Control Bureau besides heading the BSF. His name was also considered for the post of CBI Director but Supreme Court Chief Justice NV Ramana pointing out an apex court order about not considering officers with less than six months service for such posts nixed chances. Twenty-seven days ago, IPS officer of the AGMUT cadre officer of 1988 batch Balaji Srivastava was given additional charge of Commissioner of Police after S N Shrivastava retired. “The approval of the appointment committee of the Cabinet has been conveyed, dated July 27, 2021, for the Inter Cadre deputation of Rakesh Asthana, from Gujarat cadre to AGMUT Cadre and extending his service initially for a period of one year beyond the date of his superannuation on July 31,2021, or until further orders, whichever is earlier, in relaxation of Rule 16 (1) of the All India Services (death-cum-retirement benefits) rules, 1958 as a special case in public interest," the appointment order said. "In pursuance of the said approval, Asthana is hereby appointed as Commissioner of Police, Delhi, with effect from the date of taking over charge up to July 31, 2022 or until further orders, whichever is earlier. This issues with the approval of the competent authority,” B G Krishnan, Deputy Secretary, said in a notification issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs. A controversial officer, he was locked in a war with then-CBI Director Alok Verma when he was Special Director in the agency. Under Verma, the CBI had registered an FIR against Asthana in October 2018, alleging that a suspect in a case involving meat exporter Moin Qureshi was forced to pay Rs 2.95 crore to Asthana through two middlemen to water down the case against him. Asthana also approached the Central Vigilance Commission against Verma, which led to the ouster of both of them from the CBI, which later cleared the former of allegations. Usually, AGMUT cadre officers are appointed Delhi Police chief and only on rare occasions, officers from other cadres were made Police Commissioner. Recently, Asthana's name figured in the leaked database of people who were potential targets of surveillance using controversial Israeli spyware Pegasus. His name was found in the database soon after Verma and Asthana were removed from the CBI in October 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rakesh-asthana-appointed-delhi-police-commissioner-1013537.html
27-07-2021||National||Maharashtra rains: Death toll reaches 209, lakhs evacuated; widespread rain in northern plains||The death toll in rain-related incidents in Maharashtra rose to 209 on Tuesday with the worst-hit Raigad district alone accounting for nearly 100 fatalities, while eight persons are still missing, the state government said. Heavy rains last week caused massive floods and landslides in large parts of the state, especially in the coastal Konkan and Western Maharashtra regions. Out of the 209 deaths caused due to heavy rains and floods since last week, the maximum 95 were from Raigad district followed by 45 in Satara, 35 in Ratnagiri, 14 in Thane, 7 in Kolhapur, 4 in Mumbai suburban, 3 in Pune, two each in Sindhudurg, Wardha and Akola districts, said a statement issued by the state disaster management department. Eight people are still missing, while 52 are injured and being treated at various government as well as private hospitals, it said. Most of the deaths in Raigad, Satara and Ratnagiri districts were caused due to landslides, while floods claimed lives in Kolhapur and Sangli. Since June 1, as many as 296 people have died in rain-related incidents in Maharashtra, the statement said. Local officials are struggling to expedite the rescue operations chiefly because of the difficult terrain and intermittent showers that are affecting their task, said an official from the disaster management department. Floods have also killed 58,722 domestic animals, mostly in Sangli, Kolhapur, Satara and Sindhudurg districts, the statement said. Showers over the Sahyadri mountains, which are parts of the Western Ghats have increased water level of rivers flowing through Satara, Sangli and Kolhapur districts, forcing the administration to evacuate more people. As many as 4,34,185 people have been evacuated so far, of which 2,11,808 are from Sangli alone, the statement said. It may be noted that Sangli district did not receive heavy rainfall, but heavy discharge of water from the Koyna dam in Satara district resulted in Sangli city and several villages getting flooded. The dam is built on the Koyna river, a tributary of the Krishna river. There are 308 relief camps for the evacuated people of which 216 are in Kolhapur, 43 in Sangli, 29 in Satara, 16 in Ratnagiri and four in Raigad districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-rains-death-toll-reaches-209-lakhs-evacuated-widespread-rain-in-northern-plains-1013538.html
27-07-2021||National||DRDO chief focuses on building indigenous defence system to reduce import dependence||DRDO chairman Dr G Satheesh Reddy on Tuesday stressed on the need to build an indigenous defence system in the country as almost 50 per cent of such technologies are currently imported from other countries. Reddy was addressing a programme through video conference on “Building Future Defence Capabilities - Strategic Strides” organised by IIM Shillong to mark the sixth death anniversary of former president APJ Abdul Kalam who died while delivering a lecture here. The DRDO chairman emphasised the ‘Make in India’ initiative which greatly depends on knowing the ‘Know-how’ and ‘Know-why’ of technology development for creating self-sustainability in the country. Dr Reddy was all praise for the significant contribution of Dr Kalam in the development of science and technology and also in enhancing the defence capabilities of the nation. He recalled Dr Kalam was described as the ‘Missile man of India’ under whose leadership five missiles - Agni, Aakash, Naag, Prithvi and Trishul – had been developed. On the sidelines of his speech, Dr Reddy mentioned the various initiatives and achievements of the country in the defence sector. He also stressed on increasing the export potential while reducing the import of such technologies to become a self-reliant country. Dr Reddy emphasised the ‘Quantum Communication between two DRDO laboratories’ which demonstrates safe and secure communications in times of need. He mentioned the ‘Development cum Production Partner’ (DCPP) programme provided by DRDO which allowed the private sector to co-develop missile systems and have the rights to manufacture as well. Under the new DRDO policy, transfer of technology and patents, including life science and missile technology, has been provided to entrepreneurs free of cost to boost the defence manufacturing process in the country. Handholding support is also provided to these enterprises, he said. Dr Reddy said that DRDO has also launched an M. Tech. Program in Defence Technology in collaboration with various educational institutes which aims to impart necessary theoretical and experimental knowledge, skill and aptitude in defence technology areas. These students are offered an opportunity of undergoing an internship under DRDO. He referred to the ‘VAIBHAV’ Summit that took place with the collaboration with IIM Shillong where global Indian researchers came together to resolve emergent challenges faced by the country. This programme aimed to create an ecosystem of knowledge and innovation in the country through global outreach. He also revealed that a new scheme that promotes more R&D via different academic institutes in the country is about to be launched very soon. In his opening speech, IIM Shillong director Prof DP Goyal said Kalam was a visiting faculty at the institute. “It is an honour for IIM Shillong to have a centre named after Dr APJ Abdul Kalam that is specifically working for the development of the northeast region,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drdo-chief-focuses-on-building-indigenous-defence-system-to-reduce-import-dependence-1013539.html
27-07-2021||National||Govt aims to create national farmers database using digital land records: Tomar||The government is aiming to create a federated National Farmers Database using digitised land records that will help to offer proactive and personalised services to farmers, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar informed Parliament on Tuesday. The agriculture ministry has already commenced the work of creating 'Agristack' -- a digital ecosystem of agriculture -- in the country that should help the government in effective planning towards increasing the income of farmers in particular and improving the efficiency of the agriculture sector as a whole. "As a first step in this direction, the government has already initiated building federated farmers' database that would serve as the core of the envisaged Agristack," Tomar said in a written reply to the Lok Sabha. No private sector companies are involved as far as the building of the Agristack is concerned. However, leading Technology/Agri-tech/startup companies were identified and invited to collaborate with the central government to develop proof of concepts (PoCs) based on small portions of data from the federated Farmers' database for certain identified areas (district/village), he added. The MoUs -- purely on a pro bono basis with selected companies -- are being signed for one year to develop PoCs. PoCs will help in understanding solutions that can be built using available data and some of them, if found beneficial to the farmers will be scaled up at the national level. Further, Tomar said the government would ensure the data privacy of the farmers' personal details. "As of now, the federated farmers' database is being built by taking the publicly available data existing with the ministry and in various data silos in government and linking them with the digitised land records," he said. The agriculture ministry in consultation with the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology is in the process of bringing out a data policy for the agriculture sector, he noted. Asserting that the aim of the proposed initiative is to increase farmers' income by leveraging the available data and developing solutions based on the data, the minister said if states have already built such a system, then, the endeavour will be to make use of the same and build on top of that. "Yes, the Government aims to create a federated National Farmers Database and the digitized land records will be used as data attributes for creating this database," Tomar said. The proposed database will ensure input costs are reduced, ease of farming is ensured, quality is improved and farmers get better prices for their farm produce, he added. To bring dynamism to the farmer's database, the minister said the linkage with the digital land record management system is essential. The database is envisaged to facilitate online single sign-on facilities for universal access and usher in proactive and personalised services to farmers such as direct benefit transfer, soil and plant health advisories, weather advisories, irrigation facilities, seamless credit and insurance facilities, seeds, fertilisers, pesticide-related information nearby logistic facilities, market access information, peer to peer lending of farm equipment etc. Asked if landless farmers will be included in the proposed database, Tomar said, "At present, farmers' database will include the farmers, who are legal owners of the agricultural land as per the government database and as endorsed by the state government". In future, the possibility of including others may be considered in consultation with state governments and other stakeholders, he added. Asked if the database will be used for choosing beneficiaries of the government schemes, Tomar said once developed, a federated national farmer database will help to deliver personalised and proactive services to farmers. "Government can make use of the database for targeted service delivery with higher efficiency and in a focussed and time-bound manner," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-aims-to-create-national-farmers-database-using-digital-land-records-tomar-1013540.html
27-07-2021||National||PM targets Congress for Parliament disruptions; asks BJP MPs to 'expose' opposition||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday hit out at the Congress for causing repeated disruptions in Parliament and asked BJP MPs to “expose” the opposition plans to derail the monsoon session. Addressing the BJP Parliamentary Party meeting, the Prime Minister also asked party leaders to prepare for the 75th anniversary of Independence by visiting 75 villages in every parliamentary constituency and highlighting local sports events. He also asked party MPs to seek ideas from the villages on programmes and initiatives to be implemented over the next 25 years when the country would celebrate 100 years of Independence. On the disruptions in the monsoon session, Modi slammed the Congress for demanding a special session of Parliament to discuss the Covid-19 situation and later turning its back on the all party meeting on the pandemic. “Their behaviour is against humanity,” Modi said and asked party leaders to expose the opposition plans before the nation. Later, Union Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi flashed letters written by Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge and Leader of the Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury demanding a special session of Parliament to discuss the Covid-19 situation. “First they demand a special session to discuss Covid-19 and later the Congress runs away from everything,” Naqvi told reporters here. Both the Houses of Parliament have witnessed repeated disruptions since the monsoon session began on July 19 over the allegations of snooping under the Pegasus Project, the farmers' agitation for the repeal of the three farm laws and issues of price rise. Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya briefed about the Covid-19 situation and the progress of the vaccination drive across the country. He told the BJP MPs that clinical trials were currently underway for Covid-19 vaccines for children. Mandaviya said the vaccines for children were expected to be available in a couple of months. BJP President J P Nadda asked party MPs to ensure that central government schemes reach the people. He also asked them to visit vaccination centres regularly in a bid to remove vaccine hesitancy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-targets-congress-for-parliament-disruptions-asks-bjp-mps-to-expose-opposition-1013542.html
27-07-2021||National||Expert panel recommends nod to SII for phase 2/3 trials of Covovax on children aged 2-17||An expert panel of India's Central Drug Authority on Tuesday recommended granting permission to Serum Institute of India (SII) for conducting phase 2/3 trials of Covovax on children aged 2 to 17 years with certain conditions, official sources said. The trials would cover 920 children, 460 each in the age-group of 12-17 and 2-11 across 10 sites. "The Subject Expert Committee (SEC) on Covid-19 of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organization (CDSCO) deliberated on the revised study protocol application given by SII on Tuesday and recommended granting permission to the firm for conducting phase 2/3 trial of Covovax on children aged 2 to 17 years," a source said. The Pune-based pharmaceutical company had submitted a revised protocol for inclusion of pediatric cohort in the ongoing Covovax phase 2 and 3 observer-blind, randomised, controlled study in Indian adults aged 18 years and above to determine the safety and immunogenicity of the jab. In the revised application submitted last week, SII director (government and regulatory affairs) Prakash Kumar Singh and director Dr Prasad Kulkarni stated that globally, all adults aged 18 and above are being vaccinated and after this population is protected against Covid-l9, children will remain the most susceptible group.  "There have been reports of severe disease, including deaths in vulnerable children. It has also been predicted that the third wave of the pandemic may affect children in the country.  "Moreover, until all age groups, including children are covered under vaccination. the SARS-CoV-2 virus may remain in circulation, thus keeping everyone at risk of severe disease," they said in the letter. Considering all these factors, several companies have already started evaluating the safety and immunogenicity of Covid-19 vaccines in the pediatric population, the SII has stated. The SII is learnt to have informed that their collaborator, Novavax, Inc., US  has already generated a large amount of data in adults in different countries and that the safety, efficacy and immunogenicity data on the Novavax Covid-I9 vaccine are very robust which includes a safety database of more than 50000 adults with data from Australia, South Africa, UK and USA and preliminary safety data in 2248 children.  "Further in the ongoing Phase 2/3 study in India, more than 1400 participants have received at least first dose of the vaccine with no safety concerns reported so far," the application stated. "This will ensure that a life saving vaccine can be brought at the earliest for our pediatric population also in addition to the adult population immediately after grant of Emergency Use Authorisation.  "This approval will ensure an early availability of Covid-19 vaccine for children of our country in line with our prime minister's clarion call Atmanirbhar Bharat and will help in faster elimination of the Covid-19 pandemic," Singh mentioned in the application The SEC  on June 30 had recommended against granting permission to SII for conducting phase 2 and 3 trial of Covovax on children aged 2 to 17 years following which the company had submitted a revised study protocol last week. In August 2020, US-based vaccine maker Novavax, Inc had announced a licence agreement with SII for the development and commercialisation of NVX-CoV2373, its Covid-19 vaccine candidate, in low and middle-income countries and India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/expert-panel-recommends-nod-to-sii-for-phase-2/3-trials-of-covovax-on-children-aged-2-17-1013558.html
27-07-2021||National||Centre explores peace formula for Assam, Mizoram||Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla is expected to work out a peace formula with the top officials from Assam and Mizoram on Wednesday a day after five Assam Police personnel were killed in violence on the borders of the two states. Centre has deployed the CRPF in the violence-hit areas and was in regular touch with the governments of Assam and Mizoram in a bid to cool tempers after the clashes on Monday. Bhalla has called a meeting of the chief secretaries and Directors General of Police of Assam and Mizoram on Wednesday to ensure that there is no repeat of the violence along the border of the two states. Five Assam Police personnel, along with a civilian, were killed and more than 50 others, including a Superintendent of Police, were injured when Mizoram Police opened fire on a team of Assam officials on Monday. Assam's Barak Valley districts of Cachar, Karimganj and Hailakandi share a 164 km long border with Mizoram's three districts of Aizawl, Kolasib and Mamit. The incidents came two days after Home Minister Amit Shah held talks with the chief ministers of eight northeastern states and underscored the need to resolve lingering border disputes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-explores-peace-formula-for-assam-mizoram-1013560.html
27-07-2021||National||Future Retail-Reliance deal: Will decide if Emergency Arbitrator award valid, enforceable, says SC||The Supreme Court Tuesday said it would decide whether Singapore’s Emergency Arbitrator (EA) award, restraining Future Retail Ltd (FRL) from going ahead with its merger deal with Reliance Retail, was valid under Indian law and if it can be enforced. US-based e-commerce giant Amazon.com NV Investment Holdings LLC, and FRL are embroiled in a bitter legal fight over FRL’s Rs 24,713 crore merger deal with Reliance Retail. “We will decide whether EA award falls under section 17 (1) (which deals with interim award by arbitral tribunal) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act. And if yes, then whether it can be enforced under section 17 (2) (of the Act),” said a bench comprising justices R F Nariman and B R Gavai. The provisions of the Act deal with the interim measures ordered by an arbitral tribunal and section 17 (1) says: “Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the arbitral tribunal may, at the request of a party, order a party to take any interim measure of protection as the arbitral tribunal may consider necessary in respect of the subject-matter of the dispute.” Section 17 (2) provides that the arbitral tribunal may require a party to provide appropriate security in connection with an interim measure ordered. The apex court’s observations came when senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for FRL, referred to judgements on validity and the enforceability of arbitral awards and said that there was no notion of EA under the Indian law on arbitration and conciliation and, in any case, there was no arbitration agreement to this effect. Assailing the single-judge order which had given relief to Amazon by holding that EA’s award was enforceable, Salve said it amounted to amending the Arbitration and Conciliation Act by construction. “We will decide the matter of maintainability (of EA award) and whether the EA order is enforceable,” the bench said. There cannot be arbitral proceedings until a tribunal has been constituted with the power to pass an award, Salve said. All arbitral awards have to be enforced under the Civil Procedure Code and not under the Arbitration law and hence, it cannot be said that FRL cannot take recourse to CPC in appealing against the EA’s award and its legality, he said. The hearing in the case would resume on Wednesday. Earlier, Amazon had told the bench that the Biyanis of Future Group had negotiated with it to enter into certain agreements and are bound by Singapore's EA award restraining FRL from going ahead with its merger deal with Reliance Retail. It reiterated that EA’s award was enforceable. Kishore Biyani and 15 others including FRL and Future Coupon Pvt Ltd (FCPL) have been made parties by Amazon in a batch of pleas challenging the Delhi High Court order of the division bench which paved the way for the deal. On February 22, in its interim order the apex court had asked the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) not to pass the final order related regulatory approvals for the amalgamation. Amazon moved the top court against the order of the Delhi High Court division bench which paved the way for the Reliance-FRL deal. On February 8, the division bench had stayed the single-judge direction to FRL and various statutory authorities to maintain the status quo on the mega deal. The interim direction was passed on FRL’s appeal challenging the February 2 order of the single judge. In August last year, the Future group had reached an agreement to sell its retail, wholesale, logistics, and warehousing units to Reliance. Subsequently, Amazon took FRL into EA before the SIAC over alleged breach of contract by the Future group. Amazon had first filed a plea before the high court (single judge) for enforcement of the October 25, 2020, EA award by Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) restraining FRL from going ahead with the deal with Reliance Retail. The high court division bench had however said that it was staying the single-judge order as FRL was not a party to the share subscription agreement (SSA) between Amazon and FCPL and the US firm was not a party to the FRL-Reliance deal. FRL, in its appeal, had claimed that if the February 2 order was not stayed it “would be an absolute disaster” for it as the proceedings before the NCLT for approving the amalgamation scheme have been put on hold. It had contended that the single judge’s status quo order will effectively derail the entire scheme which has been approved by statutory authorities in accordance with the law. In its suit before the single judge for enforcing the EA award, Amazon has sought to restrain FRL from taking any steps to complete the transaction with entities that are part of the Mukesh Dhirubhai Ambani (MDA) Group. Amazon has also sought detention of the Biyanis, directors of FCPL and FRL and other related parties in civil prison and attaching of their properties for alleged “wilful disobedience” of the EA order. After the SIAC’s EA order, Amazon wrote to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi), stock exchanges and CCI, urging them to take into consideration the arbitrator’s interim decision as it is a binding order. FRL thereafter moved the high court to restrain Amazon from writing to Sebi, CCI, and other regulators about SIAC’s order, saying it amounts to interfering with the agreement with Reliance. A single judge on December 21 last year had on FRL’s plea passed an interim order allowing Amazon to write to the statutory authorities, but also observed that prima facie it appeared the US e-commerce giant’s attempt to control Future Retail was violative of FEMA and FDI rules. Against the observation, Amazon moved an appeal before a division bench and during its pendency, it filed the suit for the enforcement of the EA award.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/future-retail-reliance-deal-will-decide-if-emergency-arbitrator-award-valid-enforceable-says-sc-1013567.html
27-07-2021||National||Govt launches 24X7 helpline for women affected by violence||The government on Tuesday launched a round-the-clock helpline for women affected by violence. The National Commission for Women's helpline number -- 7827170170 -- aims to provide online support to women affected by violence by linking them with appropriate authorities such as police, hospitals, district legal service authorities and psychological services. Inaugurating the helpline virtually, Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani said that this digital helpline gives a message to women that whenever they are in need, their government and their commission will stand by them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-launches-24x7-helpline-for-women-affected-by-violence-1013569.html
27-07-2021||National||Over 60 tourists rescued from Himachal's Kinnaur||Over 60 tourists stranded in two villages of Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur district after multiple landslides on July 25 were evacuated to safer places on Tuesday evening, a senior official said. The tourists were rescued after the blocked Sangla-Chhitkul road was opened for their evacuation, state Disaster Management Director Sudesh Kumar Mokhta said. The road has been closed again until the clearance to open it is given by the Public Works Department and the team from the Geological Survey of India, Mokhta said. 60 to 80 tourists were stranded in Chhitkul and Rakshak, the last villages of the Bapsa valley, as the Sangla-Chhitkul road was closed for traffic after the landslides, he said. The district administration was facing difficulty in clearing heavy boulders from the road. Owners of apple orchards were objecting to the boulders being dumped near their orchards located down the road, Mokhta added. Nine tourists were killed on Sunday after heavy boulders fell on their tempo traveller near Basteri in Kinnaur. Multiple landslides triggered by rains occurred near Basteri on the Sangla-Chitkul road, resulting in the collapse of a bridge and damage to some vehicles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-60-tourists-rescued-from-himachals-kinnaur-1013570.html
27-07-2021||National||Detention of I-PAC team in Tripura hotel infringement of right to information: Former CM||Leader of the opposition and former chief minister of Tripura Manik Sarkar on Tuesday said criticised the detention of Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC) members in a hotel here, contending that it is "infringement" of the right to information. A team of poll strategist Prashant Kishore's I-PAC has been camping in Agartala since last week to assess the political situation and potential support base for the Trinamool Congress. Its members, under detention in hotel since Sunday night, are being questioned by the local police. “Everybody, irrespective of political differences, can collect information. And, nobody can be detained in a hotel (for that). It is infringement of the right to information. Anarchy and rule of jungle is prevailing in the state," Sarkar told reporters. He alleged that the state government was trying to "block the source of information" as it is losing base in Tripura. Police said the I-PAC team members will have to remain inside the hotel until their test report for COVID-19 is available. “We have been inquiring about the reason for their visit and their itinerary. All of them have been tested and the reports are awaited. If anybody is found to be positive for the virus, the person will have go in isolation. "The state government is exercising cautioun to check the spread of Covid-19," SP of West Tripura District, Manik Das, told PTI. He also said there is adequate deployment of police personnel in and around the hotel to prevent any untoward incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/detention-of-i-pac-team-in-tripura-hotel-infringement-of-right-to-information-former-cm-1013571.html
27-07-2021||National||PM Modi reviews issue of OBC, EWS reservation in all-India quota of medical education||Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed the issue of OBC and EWS reservation in all-India quota of medical education and directed the ministries concerned to resolve it on priority, according to sources. In a meeting on Monday attended by Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan, Health and Family Welfare Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, secretaries of education, health and family welfare, law and justice, and social welfare as well as other senior officials, the issue about the two quotas were discussed, the sources said. It has been a long-standing demand from medical aspirants to give OBC reservation in all-India quota of medical education. Several litigations have also been made in various courts of the country but the issue has been pending for a long time. In the review meeting, the PM desired that the issue of OBC reservation in the all-India quota (AIQ) of medical education may be resolved by the ministries concerned on priority, a source said. The AIQ seats in medicine were created on the directions of the Supreme Court in 1984. All states were required to surrender 15 per cent undergraduate and 50 per cent postgraduate medical and dental seats in state-run colleges to a "central pool" with the rest going to a "state pool". The "central pool" is the All India Quota (AIQ) and students across the country are eligible to apply for admission to this. The apex court had earlier ruled that the state reservation policy will apply to state seats and the AIQ seats as well. In total 15 per cent of undergraduate and 50 per cent of postgraduate seats of state government medical colleges are earmarked as all India quota. For admission, SC and ST aspirants have reservation in this quota, but there is no reservation for OBCs. According to sources, the PM also asked the Health Ministry to review the position of implementation of EWS reservation by various states for medical education. In 2019, the central government had announced 10 per cent reservation in government jobs and higher education for economically weaker sections in the general category. According to the reply to a written question in Parliament, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had increased the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) reservation quota in medical colleges to 5,200 MBBS seats. "These seats have been increased in State Government's Colleges, State Government aided Society run Colleges, Municipal Corporation's Colleges and Colleges set up on Private Public Mode (PPP mode) for the academic session 2019-20," former Minister of State for Health Ashwinin Kumar Choubey had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-reviews-issue-of-obc-ews-reservation-in-all-india-quota-of-medical-education-1013572.html
27-07-2021||National||Aisha Sultana raises apprehensions over sedition case||Actor Aisha Sultana has raised apprehensions that the Lakshadweep administration is trying to fabricate evidence against her in the sedition case. In a petition filed at the Kerala High Court on Tuesday, Sultana said that the Lakshadweep police had seized her mobile phone and laptop and she was fearing that evidence may be planted against her. The laptop was reportedly sent to a lab in Gujarat for examination. The allegations that she was receiving messages on her mobile phone from someone while she was attending the controversial channel discussion was baseless, she said. Contributions received from some NRI in her bank account were for charity purposes, she maintained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aisha-sultana-raises-apprehensions-over-sedition-case-1013575.html
27-07-2021||National||AIADMK leaders call on Amit Shah||AIADMK's top leaders O Panneerselvam and K Palaniswami on Tuesday called on Union Home Minister Amit Shah and handed over a memorandum of Tamil Nadu related issues. Speaking to reporters in Delhi after visiting Shah, Palaniswami said, "it was a courtesy visit." Asked if there were discussions related to Tamil Nadu's political scenario, he said, "no political discussions happened." The two leaders also met Union Minister for Culture, G Kishan Reddy (previously Tamil Nadu BJP incharge for the April 6 Assembly polls) and the meeting was termed a "courtesy visit" by the party. A party release in Chennai said a memorandum of Tamil Nadu related issues was presented to Shah by the two leaders. The memorandum was apparently on matters like the Mekedatu dam, urging the Centre to take steps to halt Karnataka from going ahead with its initiative to build the reservoir. On Monday, Palaniswami and Panneerselvam met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the national capital and urged him to not support Karnataka on its proposal to build a dam across Cauvery river at Mekedatu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aiadmk-leaders-call-on-amit-shah-1013576.html
27-07-2021||National||Amid continuing LAC stand-off, Rajnath Singh, Chinese Defence Minister to run into each other at SCO meet||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and his counterpart in the Chinese Government, Wei Fenghe, will run into each other during a meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization in Dushanbe on Wednesday – ahead of another round of talks between the military commanders of the two nations to resolve the stand-off in eastern Ladakh. “Today, I am leaving for Tajikistan on a three-day visit. I would be taking part in this year’s SCO Defence Ministers' meet which is being held in Dushanbe. I look forward to discussing issues pertaining to defence and regional cooperation,” Singh posted on Twitter, as she left New Delhi for Dushanbe on Tuesday. Though no bilateral meeting between Singh and Wei on the sideline of the SCO meet has been scheduled yet, speculation is rife over the possibility of the two using the opportunity and exchanging views on efforts to resolve the 15-month-long stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) between the two nations in eastern Ladakh. The senior commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA would soon hold another round of talks – the 12th since the stand-off started in April-May, 2020. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his counterpart Wang Yi had a bilateral meeting in Dushanbe on July 14 last – on the sideline of a conclave of the SCO Foreign Ministers. Singh and Jaishankar had held bilateral meetings with Wei and Wang on the sidelines of the conclaves of the SCO Defence and Foreign Ministers in Moscow in September last year – adding momentum to the negotiation to resolve the stand-off. The meetings followed by negotiations by the diplomats and military commanders finally led to the mutual withdrawal of troops from both banks of Pangong Tso in February. Though the diplomats and the military commanders of the two sides had several rounds of talks since then, they could not agree on disengagement from the other face-off points along the LAC, like Hot Springs, Depsang and Gogra Post, over the past four months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-continuing-lac-stand-off-rajnath-singh-chinese-defence-minister-to-run-into-each-other-at-sco-meet-1013578.html
27-07-2021||National||Covid vaccination for children likely to start soon: Mandaviya tells BJP MPs||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Tuesday told BJP MPs that Covid vaccination for children is likely to start soon, sources said. During the BJP parliamentary party meeting, Mandaviya said that the Covid vaccination drive is going on in full swing in the country. Currently, only those who are 18 or above are eligible for vaccination against the coronavirus. Very soon a vaccine is expected for children and inoculation for them will start, the sources quoted the minister as telling the MPs. The government had earlier said that Covid vaccination of children in the 12-18 age group may start by the end of July or in August. "Trial for the Zydus Cadila vaccine is almost complete. By July-end or in August, we might be able to start administering this vaccine to children of 12-18 age group," Dr N K Arora, chairman of the Covid-19 working group of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI), had said recently. The government had also informed the Supreme Court recently that the vaccine developed by Zydus Cadila will be available soon for children who are 12 and above subject to statutory permissions. Zydus Cadila is likely to soon apply to the Drugs Controller General of India for emergency use authorisation for its vaccine ZyCoV-D, which it claims can be given to both adults and children. Earlier, AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria had told PTI that making vaccine available for children will be a milestone achievement and pave the way for reopening of schools and resumption of outdoor activities. He had said the data of phase two and three trial of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin on two to 18 years age group is expected by September. The vaccine can be available for children in India around that time following approval from the drug regulator, he had said. "If the Pfizer vaccine gets approval before that, then it can also be an option for children," Dr Guleria had said. " ... if the Zydus vaccine gets approval, it will be another option," Guleria had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-vaccination-for-children-likely-to-start-soon-mandaviya-tells-bjp-mps-1013582.html
27-07-2021||National||Naresh Goyal, Ajay Singh, Prashant Ruia among potential Pegasus spyware targets: Report||The potential targets of Israeli spyware Pegasus included former chairman of Jet Airways Naresh Goyal, SpiceJet managing director Ajay Singh and the Essar Group's Prashant Ruia, according to the latest list of names released by The Wire. The leaked list that has been analysed by media partners of the Pegasus Project consortium reporting on the issue also includes numbers belonging to Rajeshwar Singh, a senior Enforcement Directorate officer, and V K Jain, a former Indian Administrative Service officer who worked as a personal assistant to Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. In addition, the leaked records contain details of the numbers of at least one official each from the PMO and NITI Aayog, The Wire said. Last week, an international media consortium reported that over 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including those of two ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders besides scores of business persons and activists in India, could have been targeted for hacking through the Pegasus spyware of the NSO Group. The government has been denying all Opposition allegations in the matter. Apart from Goyal, Ajay Singh and Ruia, ex-chief at GAIL India B C Tripathi was also on the list of potential surveillance targets, The Wire reported. The list also includes Vikram Kothari of Rotomac Pens, his son Rahul, and C Sivasankaran, former Aircel promoter, the report said. There are at least three business executives, working in big corporate houses, who are also on the list, it said. The potential surveillance targets include a mid-level official at the Adani Group, one individual who used to work with the Essar Group and another formerly with SpiceJet, The Wire said. V Balasubramanian, long-time associated with Reliance Industries, and A N Sethuraman of Reliance ADA Group, are on the list of potential spying targets, it said. Two numbers, one for a former boss of Life Insurance Corporation of India and the other for a former executive director of the Gujarat Narmada Valley Fertiliser Corporation also appear on the list, The Wire said. The leaked list also contains at least five corporate executives associated with India’s mutual fund industry, including professionals from companies such as Franklin Templeton, DSP BlackRock and Motilal Oswal. The report said that the leaked database analysed by the Pegasus Project contains several hundred numbers from India – believed to be persons of interest to an unknown government client of the NSO Group that is focused on India – and includes some whose associated smartphones were found to have had traces of the Israeli spyware as per a forensic analysis conducted by Amnesty International's Security Lab. NSO Group, which sells Pegasus to select governments, says the company and its clients are not connected to the database in any way.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/naresh-goyal-ajay-singh-prashant-ruia-among-potential-pegasus-spyware-targets-report-1013584.html
27-07-2021||National||WHO has commenced review process for emergency use listing of Covaxin: Govt||All documents required for Emergency Use Listing (EUL) have been submitted to WHO by Bharat Biotech for Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin as of July 9 and the review process by the agency has commenced, Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar told Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. Responding to a question on whether it has come to the notice of the government that Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin used in India is not recognised by many countries, Pawar said the government is aware that Covaxin at present is not part of WHO Emergency Use Listing (EUL). Elaborating on efforts that have been made by the government to resolve this issue, Pawar said, "All documents required for Emergency Use Listing (EUL) have been submitted by Bharat Biotech International Ltd. to WHO as of 9th July 2021." The review process by WHO has commenced. WHO usually takes up to six weeks to decide on Emergency Use Listing (EUL) submissions, she said in a written reply.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-has-commenced-review-process-for-emergency-use-listing-of-covaxin-govt-1013589.html
27-07-2021||National||Kamal Haasan, Prasoon Joshi appear before parliamentary panel||Actor-turned-politician Kamal Haasan and Censor Board chairman Prasoon Joshi appeared before a parliamentary panel reviewing the functioning of the board on Tuesday. Both Haasan and Joshi were called by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology chaired by senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor. The agenda of the meeting was to review the functioning of Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) in the context of the Draft Cinematograph (Amendment) Bill, 2021. BJP members of the panel staged a walkout before the start of the meeting, claiming that they were not informed of the agenda. They also contended that when the House is not functioning due to disruptions by opposition members, how could parliamentary committees conduct their businesses. Panel members belonging to opposition parties, however, claimed that a notification was issued about the meeting and that the members were informed in advance. They also said as many as five meetings of various standing committees, including those chaired by BJP MPs, were scheduled for Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kamal-haasan-prasoon-joshi-appear-before-parliamentary-panel-1013594.html
27-07-2021||National||Sidhu’s team flags ‘key issues’ before Amarinder; told govt already working on them||Newly appointed Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu and the four working presidents met Chief Minister Amarinder Singh Tuesday demanding action on five ‘key issues’, only to be told by him that they are already in “advanced stages of resolution”. This was the first meeting of the top Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) team since the revamp in the organisation, following a long tussle between Sidhu and the chief minister. Along with a statement on the meeting, the chief minister’s office also released a picture of the two shaking hands. Separately, Sidhu’s PPCC released a letter it handed over to the CM at the meeting, reminding him also of the need for a “decisive" leadership in the state. The Congress state unit sought “immediate action” on the 2015 desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib and the police firing on protesters, arrest of the “big fish” in drug rackets, cancellation of power purchase agreements, rejection of Centre’s new farm laws and demands by government employees. “However, the CM told the newly constituted state Congress leadership that all the key issues of concern raised by them were already in advanced stages of resolution by his government, which had been working on them in close coordination with the party,” Amarinder Singh’s spokesperson said. Sidhu was accompanied by working presidents Sangat Singh Gilzian, Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Pawan Goel and Kuljit Singh Nagra when he met the CM at the Civil Secretariat here. In their letter, the office-bearers said, “Today, Punjab needs a stern, decisive, inclusive and compassionate leadership more than ever before to fulfil genuine demands of every Punjabi.” They also referred to the to-do list earlier dictated by the party’s central leadership to Amarinder Singh, who has only reluctantly accepted Sidhu’s elevation. “Punjab Congress workers stand firm in their resolve with our esteemed high command's 18 point agenda — our guide book to deliver justice to every Punjabi,” the PPCC office bearers’ wrote. According to the press release from the CM’s office, he told the PPCC team that his government had already implemented “most” of the party’s poll promises and the other pending issues were also being resolved. His government was committed to the implementation of all poll promises, Singh said, describing the meeting as cordial. The CM suggested that the party office bearers and the government should work together and offered to meet them regularly. He also urged them to make people aware of the government’s performance. “Your win is my win and our win is the party's win, and we need to work together in the interest of the state and its people,” the CM said. Tweeting on the meeting, Sidhu said, “Echoing sentiment of lakhs of Congress Workers from across Punjab !!.” “Nothing great was ever achieved without an act of decision. We request you to act immediately,” the PPCC letter said. Referring to an issue over which Sidhu has consistently targeted Singh, the letter said people demanded justice for “Punjab’s soul” by punishing the “main culprits” behind the 2015 sacrilege and the police firing at Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan.” On the Centre’s farm laws, the PPCC called for their complete rejection and not “merely” recommending amendments to a few clauses – a reference to bills passed earlier in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha. They delegation also came out in support of protesting government teachers, doctors and nurses. “A compassionate leadership that is ready to listen and take steps for inclusive development of all is needed. Govt. must open doors for discussion, consultation and deliver what it can, considering its fiscal means immediately,” the letter said. “Nothing great was ever achieved without an act of decision. We request you to act immediately,” the PPCC leaders wrote.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sidhu-s-team-flags-key-issues-before-amarinder-told-govt-already-working-on-them-1013596.html
27-07-2021||National||Rashtrapati Bhavan wants fully-vaccinated Mamata to undergo Covid test before meeting President||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said that although she had been inoculated with two doses of the Covid-19 vaccines, the Rashtrapati Bhavan had asked her to undergo an RT PCR test to rule out the SARS-CoV-19 infection before meeting President Ram Nath Kovind. Banerjee, who is currently on a tour to New Delhi, sought and got an appointment from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to meet Kovind on Thursday. “I got the appointment to meet the President, but they are asking me to take an RT PCR (Real-Time Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction) test although I got inoculated with two doses of vaccines,” the Trinamool Congress supremo told journalists on Tuesday. “This is a bit of a problem for me. Where should I go for the RT PCR test? I am an outsider in Delhi.” She said that the Rashtrapati Bhavan should ask for either a negative RT PCR test report or vaccination certificates to allow people to meet the President, instead of insisting on both. Banerjee said that if the Rashtrapati Bhavan keeps insisting on the RT PCR test, she would rather leave New Delhi and return to Kolkata without meeting Kovind, as she also wanted the President to stay safe and healthy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rashtrapati-bhavan-wants-fully-vaccinated-mamata-to-undergo-covid-test-before-meeting-president-1013599.html
27-07-2021||National||Manipur CM hands over Additional SP appointment letter to Mirabai Chanu||Manipur state gave a grand reception to Saikhom Mirabai Chanu who got silver medal in Tokyo Olympic in 49 kg category of women weightlifting when she arrived at Bir Tikendrajit International Airport, Imphal on Tuesday. Manipur Chief Minister N Biren Singh along with his cabinet colleagues, MLAs, officials, her family members, friends and supporters received her at the airport. Mirabai Chanu attended a grand reception function organised by the Directorate of Youth Affairs and Sports, Manipur at City Convention Auditorium just after her arrival at Imphal this afternoon. CM Biren Singh handed over a cheque of Rs 1 crore and an appointment letter to Mirabai to be the Additional Superintendent of Police (Sports) in the reception function where the olympian parents and family members were present. Two coaches of Mirabai, Anita and Brojen were also honoured at the function. Mirabai Chanu was escorted by CM and his cabinet colleagues and Director General of Police upto the newly furnished office of the Additional Superintendent of Police (Sports). CM Biren assured that Manipur state sports organisations of different Sports disciplines affiliated to Manipur Olympic Association (MOA) will be given financial help on an annual basis regularly. Villagers of Nongpok Kakching which happened to be Mirabai's birthplace and neighbouring areas located in Lamlai Assembly Constituency also organised a grand reception for her. Mirabai Chanu's home and street were also illuminated by colourful disco lights during the night time Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/manipur-cm-hands-over-additional-sp-appointment-letter-to-mirabai-chanu-1013601.html
27-07-2021||National||Bail, not jail for pregnant women, says Himachal Pradesh High Court||Pregnant women need bail and not jail, the Himachal Pradesh High Court has observed while granting anticipatory bail to a seven-month pregnant woman facing possible arrest under a drugs-related charge. In the order delivered Saturday, Justice Anoop Chitkara batted for pre-arrest bail and suspended sentences for pregnant women to save them from the trauma of giving birth in prison. “Pregnant women need bail, not jail! Courts must restore the due and sacrosanct freedom of women in motherhood pro tanto,” the court said. Hearing the case through video conference, the judge questioned, “What difference will it make to the State and society by not postponing incarceration? What is so urgent to execute the sentence? Heavens will not fall if incarceration is postponed.” "Even when the offences are highly grave and accusations very severe, they still deserve temporary bail or suspension of sentence, extending to a year after delivery,” the HC said. “Further, those who stand convicted and their appeals closed also deserve similar relief, in whatever camouflage it may come,” it added. In its 16-page judgement, the single-judge bench observed that being born in a prison could potentially create “an everlasting impact” on the mind on the child, whenever questioned about the birth. He said nutritious food in prison may provide good physical health but cannot substitute good mental health. Restraints and confined spaces might cause mental stress to a pregnant woman. “Giving birth in jail might cause her tremendous trauma,” he added. “There should be no restraints throughout pregnancy, no restraints during labour and delivery, and no restraints at least for a year after giving birth. Every expecting female deserves dignity during motherhood,” the court said. Petitioner Monika apprehended her arrest over allegations that she conspired with her husband, from whose house police had recovered 259 grams of diacetylmorphine (heroin) and 713 grams of tablets containing tramadol. She had earlier filed a bail petition before Kangra Special Judge but her application was dismissed on January 19. Earlier, the HC granted her interim bail on February 23. During the hearing, her counsel Rajiv Sharma submitted that she is in the seventh month of her pregnancy and faces some medical complications. The petitioner was married to the accused around a decade ago and has no criminal background, the court said. However, her husband has a chequered criminal history, it added. Granting her bail, the court observed, “The difference between a bail order and the final judgment is similar to that of a sketch and a painting. However, some sketches would be detailed, and some paintings with a few strokes.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bail-not-jail-for-pregnant-women-says-himachal-pradesh-high-court-1013606.html
27-07-2021||National||China denies imposing unofficial ban on commercial ships with Indian crew bound for Chinese ports||China on Tuesday denied imposing an unofficial ban on commercial ships with Indian crew to berth in its ports, saying that Beijing has never imposed such restrictions and the reports were "not true". Asked about the reports of the unofficial ban, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian told a media briefing here that after consulting relevant departments, it has been found that China has never imposed such restrictions. “We can confirm after verification that China has never imposed the so-called 'unofficial ban' you mentioned. Relevant reports by Indian media are not true,” he said in updated comments posted on the Chinese Foreign Ministry’s website. All India Seafarer & General Workers Union in a recent letter to Minister for Ports, Shipping and Waterways Sarbananda Sonowal sought the Indian government's help in saving the jobs of thousands of Indian seamen, as companies are not recruiting them for the China-bound ships. The seamen's body has claimed that as many as 20,000 seafarers are "home" because of this reason. The union in its letter said, "from March 2021, any ship reaching China Port and having Indian seafarers as a crew on it, China government is not allowing all those ships to enter into the port." According to the Union, around 80 per cent of seafarers on various ships come from India, and "without them, the shipping industry will collapse and will be in big disaster." Earlier, two commercial ships with Indian crews had to divert to ports in other countries for crew change as the vessels had to wait for months to get the anchorage in Chinese ports. A ship named "Jag Anand" with 23 crew members, after a six-month-long wait to unload its Australian coal cargo, last year had to travel to a Japanese port to change the stranded crew following refusal by Chinese officials citing Covid-19 protocols. Another ship named MV Anastasia with 16 Indian crew, carrying Australian coal, waited for months to deliver cargo to Caofeidian port in China.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-denies-imposing-unofficial-ban-on-commercial-ships-with-indian-crew-bound-for-chinese-ports-1013614.html
27-07-2021||National Politics||'Home minister has failed the country yet again': Rahul on Assam-Mizoram border violence||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday attacked Union Home Minister Amit Shah over the violence at the Assam-Mizoram border, alleging that he has "failed" the country by "sowing hatred and distrust" into the lives of people and India is now reaping its "dreadful consequences". According to officials, at least five Assam Police personnel were killed while defending the "constitutional boundary" of the state with Mizoram and more than 60 people injured, including an SP, as the festering border dispute between the two northeastern states erupted into a bloody conflict on Monday. "Heartfelt condolences to the families of those who've been killed. I hope the injured recover soon," Gandhi tweeted, tagging a purported video of the violence. Heartfelt condolences to the families of those who’ve been killed. I hope the injured recover soon. "HM has failed the country yet again by sowing hatred and distrust into the lives of people. India is now reaping its dreadful consequences," the former Congress chief said. In a statement on Monday, the Assam government alleged that the Mizoram Police opened fire on its officials and civilians from two dominating high features with automatic weapons, including light machine guns (LMGs). However, Mizoram Home Minister Lalchamliana claimed that the state police responded "spontaneously by firing back" at Assam Police after its 200 personnel forcibly crossed a duty post manned by CRPF personnel and indulged in arson and firing and assaulted unarmed people. Later, Shah spoke to Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and his Mizoram counterpart Zoramthanga and urged them to ensure peace along the disputed border and find an amicable settlement. Assam's Barak Valley districts of Cachar, Karimganj and Hailakandi share a 164-km border with Mizoram's three districts of Aizawl, Kolasib and Mamit. Following a territorial dispute, there were clashes along the inter-state border in August 2020 and February this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/home-minister-has-failed-the-country-yet-again-rahul-on-assam-mizoram-border-violence-1013291.html
27-07-2021||National Politics||Pegasus row: Senior journalists move SC seeking independent inquiry into govt snooping allegations||Senior journalists N Ram and Sashi Kumar have approached the Supreme Court for an independent probe by its sitting or retired judge into alleged snooping on eminent citizens, politicians and scribes by using Israeli spyware Pegasus.  Claiming that the act amounted to "cyber-terrorism", they said that the move has an obvious chilling effect on freedom of speech and expression by threatening invasion into the most core and private aspects of a person's life. The plea sought to investigate if the illegal hacking into the phones using the Pegasus spyware represented an attempt by agencies and organisations to muzzle and curb the exercise of free speech and expression of dissent in India.  It also sought a direction to the Centre to disclose if the government or any of its agencies obtained license for Pegasus spyware and used it, either directly or indirectly, to conduct surveillance in any manner.  The petitioners claimed that investigation involving several leading publications around the world has revealed that more than 142 Indians, including journalists, lawyers, government ministers, opposition leaders, constitutional functionaries and civil society activists, have been identified as potential targets for surveillance using Pegasus software.  It claimed that the forensic analysis of several mobile phones belonging to persons targeted for surveillance by the Security Lab of Amnesty International have confirmed Pegasus-induced security breaches.  “The targeted surveillance using military-grade spyware is an unacceptable violation of the right to privacy which has been held to be a fundamental right under Articles 14 (equality before the law), 19 (freedom of speech and expression) and 21 (protection of life and personal liberty) by the Supreme Court,” it added.  It said the hacking of phones seriously compromised the effective exercise of the fundamental rights, besides constituting a criminal offence under the Information Technology Act. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pegasus-row-senior-journalists-move-sc-seeking-independent-inquiry-into-govt-snooping-allegations-1013354.html
27-07-2021||National Politics||Bhupesh Baghel proposes law to acquire college owned by son-in-law’s kin: Report||Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel-led Chhattisgarh government is planning to take over a financially-strapped medical college owned by his daughter's in-laws. DH couldn't independently verify the report. Baghel's daughter Divya is married to Kshitij Chandrakar, whose father Vijay Chandrakar is the younger brother of Mangal Prasad Chandrakar, the Director of CCMH. The proposed bill says the hospital requested the state government to acquire the college since it was in “financial difficulties”. Baghel had announced on February 2, “The work to acquire the private hospital under the government will start soon.” दुर्ग जिले में संचालित निजी मेडिकल कॉलेज, चंदूलाल चंद्राकार मेमोरियल मेडिकल कॉलेज के अधिग्रहण की घोषणा करता हूँ। इस निजी मेडिकल कॉलेज के शासकीय अधिग्रहण की कार्यवाही शीघ्र आरंभ होगी। इससे इस कॉलेज को नई संजीवनी मिलेगी। According to the draft Bill, the state government will be undertaking a valuation exercise of the movable and immovable assets of the college and pay the amount to CCMH. Accusing the government of nepotism, Amit Chandraker, grandson of Chandulal Chandrakar’s elder brother told the publication, “The Chief Minister is trying to benefit his (daughter’s) in-laws by making a new law." Hitting out at the Baghel government, Union Minister Piyush Goyal tweeted, “The Congress family has a vast history of corruption. Misusing public money for acquiring a debt-ridden college is sheer fraud. The hard-earned money of the people of Chhattisgarh is not for offering corruption, but for the development of the state."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bhupesh-baghel-proposes-law-to-acquire-college-owned-by-son-in-law-s-kin-report-1013382.html
27-07-2021||National Politics||Dictation and dramatics won't work, says Rajya Sabha Chairman Naidu||As the Opposition continued their protest on Pegasus and farmers issue, Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesday said "dictation or dramatics" will not work with the Chair while stressing that the protesting MPs are harming the interests of the country. Naidu's comments came during the Zero Hour as Opposition MPs rushed to the well of the House demanding an immediate discussion on the Pegasus snooping allegations. He said he was concerned over media reports that some sections of the House were "determined not to allow" the House to function. He said Tuesday's sitting was the sixth of the 19th scheduled sitting of Monsoon and the House is still to get into business mode. "You are harming the interest of the country, yourself and also the interest of the Parliament. I appeal to all of you to please rethink this attitude. See to it that the discussion takes place," he said. "I will never accept such dictation by anybody. Dictation or dramatics are not going to be accepted by the Chair, whoever is in the Chair. You know that," Naidu said as he adjourned the House till 12 noon. Since July 19 when the Monsoon Session started, the Opposition has been protesting inside the House demanding an immediate discussion on the Pegasus and farmers' issues. In the four sittings in the first week of the session, Rajya Sabha sat for just 6:56 hours out of the scheduled 21:30 hours. On Monday, the Rajya Sabha witnessed six adjournments and functioned for just 44 minutes. On Monday, Naidu said that around 90 MPs who submitted notices to raise issues of public importance were denied opportunity in the House due to the protests by Opposition MPs. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dictation-and-dramatics-wont-work-says-rajya-sabha-chairman-naidu-1013392.html
27-07-2021||National Politics||Mamata meets PM Modi amidst call for anti-BJP front, calls it 'courtesy' meeting||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi on July 27. Mamata had recently called for an anti-BJP front, asking all Opposition parties to unite. Mamata said the "courtesy" meeting was regarding requirement for more Covid vaccine in the state among other issues. This comes two months after the last encounter between the two at the Kalaikunda Air Force Station, which triggered a political slugfest between the Centre and the State Government. "It was a courtesy meeting with PM today. During the meeting, I raised the issue of Covid and need for more vaccines and medicines in the state. I also raised the pending issue of the change of name of the state. On this issue, he said, he will see," Mamata told ANI. Asked whether she will lead the Opposition parties, Banerjee said the country will lead the Opposition unity. She said the prime minister should convene an all-party meet on the Pegasus snooping row and decide on a Supreme Court-led probe. Banerjee would meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday which she described as "chai pe charcha".  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamata-meets-pm-modi-amidst-call-for-anti-bjp-front-calls-it-courtesy-meeting-1013438.html
27-07-2021||National Politics||Mamata Banerjee meets Congress leaders Kamal Nath, Anand Sharma||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday met senior Congress leaders Kamal Nath and Anand Sharma in Delhi. This is the first of her series of meetings with senior political leaders in the national capital after her assembly poll victory in Bengal. Nath, after meeting the Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo, said he had come to congratulate Banerjee for her victory in the recent assembly elections. "We have not discussed any strategy. That will be discussed by the leader of our party. We just discussed the current situation and the issue of rising prices," the Congress leader told reporters. Nath said Banerjee's victory in the assembly polls has sent a message across the country. Later, Banerjee met Sharma. During the meeting, Sharma is reported to have told her that there cannot be a non-BJP front without Congress as it is a national political party with a pan-India presence. Banerjee will be meeting another Congress leader and Rajya Sabha MP Abhishek Singhvi in the evening. Sources said Banerjee’s visit is part of her efforts to cobble up a national front against the BJP. She will also be meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Banerjee is slated to meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamata-banerjee-meets-congress-leaders-kamal-nath-anand-sharma-1013443.html
27-07-2021||National Politics||Pegasus snooping issue 'most important' for IT panel; will question govt officials on this: Tharoor||Parliamentary panel on Information Technology will question government officials on allegations relating to suspected phone tapping of politicians, journalists and others using Pegasus spyware, the committee chairman and senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said on Tuesday asserting that it is the "most important issue" for many members. The 32-member Parliamentary Standing Committee on IT is scheduled to meet on Wednesday, for which the listed agenda is ''Citizens' data security and privacy'', according to a notification issued by Lok Sabha Secretariat. The panel, which has the maximum members from the ruling BJP, has summoned officials from the Ministry of Electronics, Information and Technology and the Ministry of Home Affairs. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on a list of potential targets for surveillance using Israeli firm NSO's Pegasus spyware. Opposition leaders including Rahul Gandhi, two union ministers -- Prahlad Singh Patel and Railways and IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw, businessman Anil Ambani, a former CBI chief, and at least 40 journalists are on the list on the leaked database of NSO. It is, however, not established that all the phones were hacked. "The subject of Citizens Data Privacy and Security is an approved agenda item of the committee and it was under this item that we had earlier discussed the Pegasus issue in November-December last year. So it's a continuing issue. There would be other questions as well, as this is not necessarily the only issue. But, for many of us in the committee this is perhaps the most important issue," Tharoor told PTI a day before the panel's meeting. Since the beginning of the Monsoon Session on July 19, both houses have seen repeated disruptions as opposition parties have been demanding a Supreme Court-monitored judicial probe in this matter. "Parliament is not functioning because of this issue. People are anxious to find out about this and we are definitely likely to have questions for the government officials attending the meeting. We are going to see what the answers are,” he said. Meanwhile, the TMC-led government in West Bengal has set up a Commission of Inquiry to probe allegations of snooping on politicians, officials and journalists. Leaders from all parties have been maintaining that the entire opposition is united on this matter and they want a discussion on the Pegasus snooping issue in Parliament.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pegasus-snooping-issue-most-important-for-it-panel-will-question-govt-officials-on-this-tharoor-1013452.html
27-07-2021||National Politics||Monsoon Session: Disruption continues in Parliament, Rajya Sabha passes one bill||Parliament on Tuesday witnessed another washout as an adamant Opposition intensified its protest demanding a discussion on Pegasus with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in attendance while opening a new front with the government over the passage of a Bill in Rajya Sabha amid din and without voting as demanded by them. Both the Houses witnessed frequent disruptions -- Lok Sabha adjourned 10 times and Rajya Sabha five times -- throughout the day over Pegasus even as Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu told the MPs in the Upper House that "dictation and dramatics will not work". Like in the previous days, Opposition MPs rushed to the Well of the Houses shouting slogans demanding a discussion on Pegasus and a Supreme Court-monitored probe. While the Opposition accused the government of running away from a debate, the Deputy Leader of Rajya Sabha Mukthar Abbas Naqvi said the government is ready for discussion on every issue but the Opposition has not been cooperating. On Monday, the Leader of the House in Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal had invited Opposition leaders for tea to sort out issues. Countering the government's accusation, Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge said the entire opposition wants the Parliament to function and they want an objective discussion on Pegasus, farm laws and other key issues. "But the BJP government is unwilling to have any discussion in Parliament. Why is the Prime Minister running away scared from a debate? What are they hiding from the nation?" Kharge, accompanied by Opposition leaders Ramgopal Yadav, Kareem, Tiruchi Siva, Sukhendu Shekhar Roy, Manoj Jha and Sanjay Singh among others, told reporters. Opposition leaders in both the Houses held meetings during the day to thrash out a strategy on taking the protest on Pegasus forward, as the government made its intention clear to pass bills amid din. Two bills were passed in Lok Sabha on Monday amid din. On Tuesday, Rajya Sabha passed the Marine Aids to Navigation Bill amid din. CPI(M) floor leader Elamaram Kareem demanded a division of votes but Deputy Chairman Harivansh went ahead with passing the Bill through a voice vote after his appeal to the Opposition MPs to return to their seats for conducting the division went unheeded. Kareem said that the Bill was passed in the same way the farm bills were passed. "I sought a division but the Deputy Chairman did not allow it. The rule is that a Bill should be passed only after a vote if an MP demands it. But the rule book has been thrown to the wind. The Opposition parties will strongly raise this," he told DH. Congress Chief Whip in Rajya Sabha Jairam Ramesh said, "The entire Opposition is united. Parliament is not a forum to pass government Bills without debate and discussion. This is happening because the government is just not ready to discuss urgent public issues like Pegasus and repeal of the black farm laws, despite repeated notices." Ramesh said Parliament is not functioning because the government is not agreeing to these legitimate demands. Trinamool Congress floor leader Derek O'Brien said, "MO(di)-SHA(h) doing what they do best. Bulldozing Parliament, Rajya Sabha again. CPI(M) floor leader Kareem asked for voting on the Marine Navigation Bill. His right as a member was deprived by autocrats. Just like how the farm laws were passed, breaking all rules."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/monsoon-session-disruption-continues-in-parliament-rajya-sabha-passes-one-bill-1013457.html
27-07-2021||National Politics||NHRC panel members probing post-poll violence share ties with BJP: West Bengal govt in affidavit before HC||Refuting the National Human Rights Commission’s (NHRC) report on post-poll violence in West Bengal, the State government in its affidavit to the Calcutta High Court on Monday stated that the committee set up by the NHRC was “ deliberately constituted to set up a witch hunt” against the State machinery. The State government further alleged that the committee conducted the inquiry with a “predetermined conclusion/recommendation.” Questioning the neutrality of the committee members, the State government alleged that a section of them had connections with the BJP and the current Union government. It alleged Atif Rasheed is a BJP member and had made “politically charged statement” regarding the inquiry when it was going on. The State government further alleged that Rasheed contested in the Delhi Municipal Elections on a BJP ticket this year. The State government stated in the affidavit that another committee member Rajiv Jain served as the Director of Intelligence Bureau under the current BJP government at the Centre and another Ranjuben L. Desai was associated with the Gujarat BJP Mahila Morcha. “From the aforesaid, it will be evident that the committee has been deliberately constituted to spearhead witch hunt against the entire State machinery in West Bengal,” the State government said in the affidavit.    It further alleged that instead of forming a “non-partisian and fair committee,” the NHRC Chairperson appointed only those members who will conduct a "hatchet job” against a democratically elected government. “Members of the committee have converted this inquiry into a political theatre for their own political benefit,” stated the State government's affidavit. It further alleged that the NHRC Chairperson “abused the process” of the High Court. The Bengal overnment in its affidavit denied that there was “palpable fear among victims against the police" and claimed that not only many cases were registered but also action had been taken in each of them. “I state that from perusal of the report, it will appear that the committee has deliberately misconstrued the functions and role of the police and the manner and mode in which investigations are carried out under the CRPC,” the State government said in the affidavit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nhrc-panel-members-probing-post-poll-violence-share-ties-with-bjp-west-bengal-govt-in-affidavit-before-hc-1013460.html
27-07-2021||National Politics||All like-minded parties should come together against BJP, says Mamata||All political parties opposed to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) should come together, West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee said on Tuesday, even as she refrained from claiming the leadership of the proposed opposition coalition, stating that it would be led by the nation itself. Banerjee will have a ‘chai-pe-charcha’ with the Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday. She is also likely to meet Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, Aam Aadmi Party supremo and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal as well as the leaders of other opposition parties over the next few days. “Though the next Lok Sabha election is still some time away, we (opposition parties) should start planning for it (to take on the BJP),” she told journalists, adding, “We also have assembly polls coming up in the states like Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Tripura”. The Trinamool Congress leader is currently on a visit to New Delhi – her first after leading her party to a landslide victory in the assembly polls in West Bengal in March and April this year. She is keen to build on her success in stalling the BJP’s juggernaut in West Bengal to play a more prominent role in national politics, particularly in bringing the parties opposed to the BJP together. “All like-minded parties should come together,” said Banerjee, who had meetings with Kamal Nath and Anand Sharma of the Congress on Tuesday. She said that the efforts to forge national coalition of opposition parties against the BJP would gather momentum when the current Monsoon Session of Parliament would get over and the Covid-19 situation would improve further across the country. A journalist asked the Trinamool Congress supremo if she would lead the proposed coalition of the opposition parties. “No, I will not. The country will lead. We are just followers,” she said, apparently to make it sure that the issue of leadership does not trigger a row among the opposition parties and stymie efforts to build the coalition against the BJP. She, however, dodged a question by another journalist, who asked if she or her Trinamool Congress was emerging as the natural choice for the leadership of the opposition coalition. Nath and Sharma later told journalists that they had lauded and congratulated her for trouncing the BJP in the assembly polls in West Bengal despite aggressive campaigning by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Sharma, according to the sources, drove home the point during his meeting with Banerjee that the Congress, being a national party, would have to be a part of any coalition against the BJP. The Trinamool Congress leader also had a meeting with Congress MP, Abhishek Manu Singhvi, who was elected to the Rajya Sabha from West Bengal in 2018. The Congress contested the assembly polls in West Bengal against the Trinamool Congress, but the two parties reached out to each other over the past few weeks. The Congress high-command purportedly asked the party’s West Bengal unit chief Adhir Chowdhury to tone down criticism against the Trinamool Congress and its supremo, in view of the larger goal of building a nationwide coalition against the Modi government. When Banerjee addressed a virtual rally to observe the Trinamool Congress’ annual Martyrs’ Day on July 21, P Chidambaram and Digvijay Singh of the Congress drove to the Constitution Club in New Delhi to listen to her. The Congress on Sunday also signalled its willingness to close ranks with the Trinamool Congress with a tweet slamming Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government for allegedly shortlisting the phone of Banerjee’s nephew and newly appointed national general secretary of her party, Abhishek Bandopadhyay, for surveillance during the elections in West Bengal. Her arch rival in West Bengal, the Communist Party of India (Marxist), too recently signalled that it was not opposed to work with the Trinamool Congress at the national level to counter the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/all-like-minded-parties-should-come-together-against-bjp-says-mamata-1013464.html
27-07-2021||National Politics||Tejashwi for committee headed by Bihar CM for broaching caste-based census with PM||RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav on Tuesday suggested that a committee headed by Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and comprising some other members of the state legislature be set up for meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi and press the demand for a caste-based census. The leader of the opposition in the Bihar Assembly made the demand in a motion moved before the House. He insisted that this is practicable in light of the fact that the bicameral legislature had, on two occasions in the past, passed unanimous resolutions backing a caste-based census. Parliament was told last week that an exercise to ascertain the population of Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs) was proposed and the same would not be carried out for other social groups. This triggered fresh and vociferous demands in Bihar that other caste groups, including OBCs, also be taken into reckoning to improve the efficacy of affirmative action like reservations and caste-specific schemes. The Bihar chief minister's JD(U) is an ally of the ruling BJP at the Centre. He, nonetheless, finds himself on the same page as the RJP headed by his arch-rival Lalu Prasad on the issue of a caste-based census. Both are committed to the politics of social justice and owe their rise to the churning in the aftermath of the Mandal Commission. Nonetheless, Yadav was told by Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha that the "prastaav" (motion) is like a "sujhaav" (suggestion) and hence it could not be debated on the floor of the House on a day when much legislative business was scheduled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tejashwi-for-committee-headed-by-bihar-cm-for-broaching-caste-based-census-with-pm-1013476.html
27-07-2021||National Politics||Delhi riots: Police opposes Umar Khalid's bail plea, says it will show 'prima facie' case||Delhi Police has opposed the bail plea of former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student leader Umar Khalid, arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in the northeast Delhi riots conspiracy case, saying it will show 'prima facie' case against him. In reply to Khalid's bail plea, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Alok Kumar said the prosecution would demonstrate the prima facie case against him before the court by referring to the charge sheet filed in the case. “The application has no merit as would be revealed and demonstrated before this Court by reference to the charge-sheet and as such the prosecution does not seek to file a detailed reply to the application,” added Kumar in a reply dated July 26. It also pointed out that the case pertains to “a larger conspiracy” that was registered on March 6, 2020, and that out of 21 persons arrested in the case, the police have chargesheeted 18, including Khalid. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat will hear the arguments on Khalid's bail plea on August 7 at 12 noon. Notably, he was granted bail in another case related to the riots earlier this year. Khalid, along with several others, has been booked under the stringent anti-terror UAPA law in the case. They are accused of being the "masterminds" of the February 2020 violence, which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured. Besides him, Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha, JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, Jamia Coordination Committee members Safoora Zargar, former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain and several others have also been booked under the stringent law in the case. Recently, the Delhi High Court had granted bail to Tanha, Narwal, and Kalita in the case, saying the State blurred the line between the right to protest and terrorist activity in anxiety to suppress dissent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/delhi-riots-police-opposes-umar-khalids-bail-plea-says-it-will-show-prima-facie-case-1013510.html
27-07-2021||National Politics||Andhra Pradesh CM Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy pull up bureaucrats, says performance of some of them 'very bad'||For the first time since becoming Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister 26 months ago, Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday pulled up bureaucrats, saying the performance of some of them was "very bad" and "not acceptable". He said memos would be issued to all such officers who failed to perform their assigned tasks well. "Issuing memos is a painful thing for me. It's like issuing a memo on my own performance, as your failure is my failure," Jagan remarked. At a videoconference with District Collectors on the public grievances programme 'Spandana', the Chief Minister took the officials to task by reading out statistics on their performance, in particular reference to the periodic inspection of village and ward secretariats. "The village and ward secretariats are our brainchild. If we dont own them, progress will deteriorate. Regular inspection is the only way to improve the secretariats' performance," the Chief Minister said. He asked the officials how would they appreciate the people's problems if they did not conduct field inspections. "We are humans first and officers next. We need to first have a humane perspective. If we overlook the poor man, we have failed in our duties," Jagan observed. He reminded them that the Collectors were supposed to inspect two secretariats a week, while others like Joint Collectors, Municipal Commissioners and Sub-Collectors were required to inspect four each. "While 1,098 field-level inspections had to be done, only 733 happened, which is only 66.75 per cent. Collectors did 106 per cent and JCs (secretariats) did 107 per cent against the target. These officials have done well, Jagan said. But he pointed out that three other Joint Collectors handling revenue, welfare and housing accomplished only 78, 85 and 49 per cent of the target (inspections). The municipal commissioners achieved 89 per cent of the target, but the Integrated Tribal Development Agency Project Officers (18 per cent) and Sub-Collectors (21 per cent) lagged way behind, the Chief Minister said. "The performance of these officers is very bad. This is not acceptable. You will also get memos from the CMO. There is no other option to ensure discipline," he said. On the occasion, Jagan once again told the Collectors to ensure that only eligible persons derived the benefit of various freebie schemes. "No ineligible person should get the benefits.At the same time, no eligible person should be denied," he stressed. "You are my hands, eyes and ears. It is important for us to work as a team. Only through your field inspections will something good happen to the people," the Chief Minister summed up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/andhra-pradesh-cm-y-s-jagan-mohan-reddy-pull-up-bureaucrats-says-performance-of-some-of-them-very-bad-1013545.html
27-07-2021||National Politics||Modi should call all-party meet on Pegasus row, says Mamata after meeting PM||The government led by Bharatiya Janata Party at the Centre should consult all political parties on alleged use of Pegasus spyware for snooping on the phones of the opposition politicians and others, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said after a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday. She also reiterated the demand of her Trinamool Congress and other opposition parties for a probe monitored by the Supreme Court into the alleged use of Pegasus spyware developed by the NSO Group of Israel for snooping on phones of the opposition politicians, journalists, activists and others in India. “The Prime Minister should convene a meeting of all political parties on the issue of (using) Pegasus (for hacking phones and snooping),” Banerjee told journalists after her meeting with Modi. “We should have a probe (into the recent revelations) monitored by the Supreme Court.” Banerjee’s nephew and the Trinamool Congress’s national general secretary Abhishek Bandopadhyay was among the potential targets of snooping, according to The Wire news portal, which participated in a global investigation by media organisations on hacking and snooping of phones using Pegasus, the spyware, which the NSO Group claimed was only sold to “vetted governments” around the world. Even as the Trinamool Congress and other opposition parties continued to demand probe into the alleged misuse of the spyware by the government for surveillance on politicians, journalists, activists and others, Banerjee on Monday announced the decision of the government of West Bengal to constitute a commission to conduct an inquiry. The commission would be led by former Supreme Court judge Justice (retd) Madan B Lokur and former Kolkata High Court judge Justice (retd) Jyotirmoy Bhattacharya. Banerjee on Tuesday said that she urged the Prime Minister for sending more medicines and anti-Covid-19 vaccines to West Bengal to help her government effectively deal with the pandemic. “The mood was good. And, he (Modi) was quite okay, I think so, healthwise and mindwise, okay,” she said about her meeting with the Prime Minister. The meeting between Modi and Banerjee took place two months after the last encounter between the two at the Kalaikunda Air Force Station triggered a political slugfest between the Centre and the government of West Bengal over the then Chief Secretary of the State, Alapan Bandopadhyay. The two leaders had personally attacked each other while campaigning for their respective parties during the elections in West Bengal. Banerjee on Tuesday criticised the Modi Government at the Centre for the recent Income Tax raid on two media organisations as well as the BJP government in Tripura for detaining a team of political strategist Prashant Kishor’s I-PAC, which worked for the Trinamool Congress during the assembly polls in West Bengal and went to the northeastern state to test the water. Tripura will go to polls in 2023 and the Trinamool Congress is keen to expand its footprint in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-should-call-all-party-meet-on-pegasus-row-says-mamata-after-meeting-pm-1013603.html
27-07-2021||National Politics||No party gives as much space to women as BJP does: Nadda||BJP president J P Nadda said on Tuesday that no political party gives as much space to women to work and grow as his party does, and asserted that the Modi government has done a lot of work to empower them. Speaking at a programme organised by the BJP 'mahila morcha' to felicitate women Union ministers of the Modi government, he said the saffron party has given more space to women in its policy, programme, administration and governance than any other party. In the recent expansion of the Union Council of Ministers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had inducted seven women ministers, taking their total number to 11. Nadda said Indian culture has always given primacy to women. He noted that socialist stalwart Ram Manohar Lohia used to express anguish at women being forced to relieve themselves in the open due to lack of toilets, and said it was the Modi government that finally launched the 'Swachh Bharat' programme to build bathrooms to work to make the country open defecation free. The government also came out with programmes to help pregnant women with medical intervention, thus reducing maternal and infant mortality, he said, adding that they are also given cash incentives. Fertility rate was also reduced, Nadda said, and also cited the 'Ujjwala' scheme, under which cooking gas connection is provided to poor households, to laud the government's initiatives to help women. Modi brought in more women and also enhanced representation from all sections of society in the government, he added. All women ministers of the BJP, including Nirmala Sitharaman and Smriti Irani, were present at the programme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-party-gives-as-much-space-to-women-as-bjp-does-nadda-1013612.html
27-07-2021||National Politics||Only Indian govt not concerned about Pegasus issue: Chidambaram on Israel minister's France visit||Amid reports that Israeli Defence Minister Benny Gantz will meet his French counterpart in Paris and discuss the Pegasus snooping issue, senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Tuesday attacked the Centre, saying Israel, France as well as other nations are concerned about the allegations and only the Indian government is not. The former Union home minister said the Pegasus snooping case is "growing larger and more ominous" every day. "The Defence Minister of Israel is flying to France to meet with President Macron of France. Why? Not to have dinner at a French restaurant! He is going there to apologise and make peace with President Macron who was the victim of snooping," Chidambaram said in a tweet. "France is concerned, Israel is concerned, other countries are concerned. Only the government of India is not concerned. Isnt that strange?" he said in another tweet. The Pegasus snooping case is growing larger and more ominous every day. The Defence Minister of Israel is flying to France to meet with President Macron of France. Why? According to media reports, Israeli Defence Minister Benny Gantz will meet his French counterpart Florence Parly in Paris this week for talks that will include an "update" on the Pegasus spyware issue. Earlier in the day, Chidambaram said the government would brazen out the allegations of snooping until it is known who the "Indian client" of Israeli firm NSO Group's Pegasus spyware was and that name would be revealed soon. The former home minister said that based on investigations by an international group of journalists, news portal The Wire has reported that there was "an Indian client of the NSO Group". "Who was the 'Indian client'? Was it the government of India? Was it an agency of the government? Was it a private entity?" Chidambaram asked in a tweet. "I am certain the client's name will be revealed soon. Until then, I suppose the government will brazen out the allegations of snooping," he said. Last week, an international media consortium reported that over 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including those of two ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders besides scores of businesspersons and activists in India, could have been targeted for hacking through the Pegasus spyware of the NSO Group. The government has been denying all Opposition allegations in the matter. Opposition parties on Tuesday asked the government to call an all-party meeting to resolve the current impasse in Parliament, while sticking to their demands for a discussion on Pegasus snooping issue and a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/only-indian-govt-not-concerned-about-pegasus-issue-chidambaram-on-israel-ministers-france-visit-1013617.html
27-07-2021||North and Central||Heavy rains cause extensive waterlogging in Delhi||Heavy rains on Tuesday morning led to extensive waterlogging on several road stretches across Delhi, including near Pragati Maidan in central and Dhaula Kuan in the southern part of the city. Some of the stretches and areas where waterlogging was seen included Dhaula Kuan, Mathura Road, Moti Bagh, Vikas Marg, Ring Road, Rohtak Road, Sangam Vihar, Kirari and near Pragati Maidan among others. The waterlogging also created traffic snarls in different locations of the city. Traffic moved at slow pace at ITO, underneath Moti Bagh metro station, Dhaula Kuan underpass, near Pragati Maidan, Mathura Road, Vikas Marg, Ring Road near IP Flyover, Rohtak Road among others. Public Works Department (PWD) officials said waterlogging complaints were being dealt with priority. “Morning rain was of high intensity so a few areas of the city witnessed waterlogging. Our field staff is on the ground and we are closely observing the situation,” a PWD official said. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), the Southwest Monsoon had reached the capital on July 13, which was 16 days behind the usual date of onset. Normally, monsoon reaches Delhi by June 27. It covers the entire country by July 8. Last year, the wind system had reached Delhi on June 25 and covered the entire country by June 29.   The minimum temperature recorded at Safdarjung Observatory, considered the official reading of the city, was 25 degrees Celsius, two notches below the normal, the IMD said on Tuesday. It said 100 mm of rainfall was recorded at Safdarjung Observatory in the past last 24 hours. The relative humidity recorded at 8.30 am in the city was 100 percent, the IMD said. The weatherman has predicted a generally cloudy sky with moderate rain and the possibility of thundershowers accompanied by gusty winds carrying a speed of 30-40 kmph later in the day. The maximum temperature in the national capital is likely to hover around 30 degrees Celsius. On Monday, the maximum temperature in the national capital settled at 33.1 degrees Celsius, a notch below the normal, and the minimum temperature at 28.3 degrees Celsius, a notch above the normal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/heavy-rains-cause-extensive-waterlogging-in-delhi-1013302.html
27-07-2021||North and Central||Over 60 tourists stranded in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur after landslides block roads||About 60 to 80 tourists have been stranded in two villages of Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur district after multiple landslides on July 25 blocked roads, a senior official said on Tuesday. These tourists are stranded in Chhitkul and Rakshak, the last villages of the Bapsa valley, as the Sangla-Chhitkul road had been closed for traffic after the landslides, Kinnaur Deputy Commissioner Abid Hussain Sidiq said. The district administration is facing difficulty in clearing the heavy boulders from the road. The owners of apple orchards are objecting to the boulders being dumped near their orchards located down the road, he said. Sidiq said he hoped the road would be opened for traffic by Tuesday evening. Nine tourists were killed on Sunday after heavy boulders fell on their tempo traveller near Basteri in Kinnaur. Multiple landslides triggered by rains occurred near Basteri on the Sangla-Chitkul road, resulting in the collapse of a bridge and damage to some vehicles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-60-tourists-stranded-in-himachal-pradeshs-kinnaur-after-landslides-block-roads-1013361.html
27-07-2021||North and Central||Chhattisgarh health minister walks out of Assembly over issue of Congress MLA's allegations against him||Chhattisgarh Health Minister T S Singh Deo walked out from the state Assembly on Tuesday after saying he will not attend the House proceedings until the state government gives a clear reply over allegations made against him by a Congress MLA. Brihaspati Singh, the ruling party MLA from Ramanujganj, on Sunday alleged his convoy was attacked in Surguja district at the behest of Singh Deo on Saturday evening because the former had praised Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, amid talks about a purported formula for sharing of the CM's post. The MLA had also alleged threat to his life from the minister. Singh Deo, who represents Surguja constituency, however, had said people in his area and in the state know about him very well as his image is in the public domain, and he has nothing more to say on the issue. On the first day of the state Assembly's monsoon session on Monday, the opposition BJP termed the MLA's allegation as "serious" and demanded a probe into it by a House panel. On Tuesday, state Home Minister Tamradhwaj Sahu made a statement in the House in connection with the alleged road rage incident involving Singh's convoy on July 24. Dissatisfied with his reply, BJP legislators, including Leader of Opposition Dharamlal Kaushik, said Sahu's statement did not have any reference to the allegations made by the Congress MLA against the health minister, and the two leaders should be asked to speak in the House on the matter. Subsequently, Assembly Speaker Charan Das Mahant said since he had not received any complaint either from the Congress MLA or the health minister, on what basis could he ask them to speak on the matter. Amid chaos over the issue, Singh Deo stood up and said, “Now, it's enough. I am also a human being. Everybody knows about my image.” Referring to the Assembly Speaker, the minister said, “On your direction yesterday, the chief minister had called us in his chamber and a discussion took place (on the alleged rift)...even after that, such a limited statement (from home minister) was made before the House." “I don't believe I am in a position that I can attend the House till the government presents a clear reply on the issue…I don't consider myself eligible to participate in the proceedings of this House till the time the government does not put a clear reply in this context,” he said. Singh Deo then left the Assembly premises and refused to speak to media persons. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-health-minister-walks-out-of-assembly-over-issue-of-congress-mlas-allegations-against-him-1013386.html
27-07-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan: Ahead of Cabinet reshuffle, Ajay Maken to meet Congress MLAs||Ahead of the Rajasthan Cabinet reshuffle, Congress general secretary Ajay Maken will hold meetings with party MLAs during his two-day visit to Jaipur. Maken, who is the in-charge for Rajasthan affairs at the AICC, will be coming to the state capital on Wednesday. He will hold discussions with the party MLAs and those supporting its state government during his two-day visit, said state Congress chief Govind Singh Dotasra in a tweet. Maken and K C Venugopal had held a meeting with Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday night over the Cabinet reshuffle. Maken had said that he would be arriving in Jaipur again to hold one-to-one discussions with the MLAs on July 28 and 29 about the appointment of district and block presidents of the party. Party leaders had said there is no conflict about the Cabinet reshuffle and after discussions with the chief minister, the decision regarding this has been left to the party high command. The reshuffle may take place in the next few days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-ahead-of-cabinet-reshuffle-ajay-maken-to-meet-congress-mlas-1013403.html
27-07-2021||North and Central||RSS leader's son ends life as police beat up his mother after brawl over Covid jab in UP||A 22-year-old man ended his life by hanging after his mother was allegedly roughed up and their house ransacked by police, following a brawl at a Covid vaccination camp in Ranchhad village. Superintendent of Police, Baghpat, Abhishek Singh said 10 policemen of Binauli police station have been relieved of their duties and attached to police lines. Akshay, a son of a local RSS leader, had taken his mother (62) to a vaccination centre to get her vaccinated against Covid-19 on Monday. He wanted to get her the jab first instead of standing in queue, citing her age. This led to an altercation with police, his family members said. A policeman allegedly slapped Akshay and got into a scuffle, they said. The vaccination camp was organised by the Health Department in a primary school in Ranchhad village. Later, policemen raided Akshay’s house and broke chairs and a window of the car and also vandalised a tractor, the family said. When the women of the house protested, they were insulted. Akshay’s mother Madhu, her sister-in-law Kamlesh and one Dharamveer Singh of the village were taken into custody and brought to the police station. A case was filed against Akshay, they alleged. Upset over this, Akshay allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself, the family said. After the news of the suicide reached the villagers, they held a demonstration demanding that a case be lodged against policemen. It was only after senior police officials pacified them that they allowed police to take the body for post-mortem at around 7.30 am on Tuesday. On the complaint of Akshay's father, a case was filed against five policemen, including police station in-charge Chandrakant Pandey, SSI Udham Singh Talan, constable Ashwani, head constable Salim and constable Murli, under section 306 (abetment of suicide) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, police said. SP Singh said Akshay had assaulted the police personnel due to which there was chaos in the camp. A report was filed against Akshay at the Binauli police station for obstructing government work as well as for assault. Later, he ended his life by suicide, the SP said. On the basis of the complaint given by the family members at Binauli police station, an FIR was lodged and 10 policemen were attached to police lines with immediate effect, he said. The investigation into the incident is underway, the SP said. Policemen in large numbers have been deployed in the village to maintain law and order. In a similar incident, five people, including a doctor, were injured when a clash broke out between two groups over Covid-19 vaccination in the Sukhpura area of Ballia district on Monday, according to police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rss-leaders-son-ends-life-as-police-beat-up-his-mother-after-brawl-over-covid-jab-in-up-1013430.html
27-07-2021||North and Central||Akhilesh-Jayant to strive to consolidate 'Jat-Muslim' equations in west UP through 'Bhaichara Sammelans'||Signalling the emergence of a new electoral equation in the 'Jatland' in the western Uttar Pradesh ahead of the upcoming assembly polls in UP, Samajwadi Party (SP) supremo Akhilesh Yadav and Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) president Jayant Chaudhary have decided to join hands to 'consolidate' their time tested success 'Jat-Muslim-Yadav' formula to take on the BJP. Akhilesh recently had a meeting with Jayant in Delhi to discuss a ''joint strategy' to counter the saffron party in the western UP districts of Baghpat, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, Meerut, Saharanpur and some others. As part of the strategy, the RLD has decided to hold 'Bhaichara Sammelans' to bring together the electorally dominant communities, Muslims, Jats, Gujjars and some other OBC communities. The 'Bhaichara Sammelans', which would be kicked off from Khatauli in Muzaffarnagar district, would cover around 50 assembly constituencies in around two dozen districts, mainly in the western region. ''We want to bring together all the communities on one platform,'' said an RLD leader here. Sources, however, said that the focus would be on 'Jats' and Muslims, who together formed around 40 per cent of the electorate in some districts in the region. RLD fared miserably in the 2017 assembly polls in UP. It had contested 357 of the 403 seats in the state but could manage to win only one seat. The party candidates had lost their security deposits on all but three seats in the polls. RLD could secure only 1.80 per cent votes in the assembly elections. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls also the RLD had failed to win any seat in the state and its president Ajit Singh and his son Jayant Chaudhary had also lost from their bastions. The defeat was largely attributed to the breaking of the 'Jat-Muslim' equation of the party following the communal riots in Muzaffarnagar in 2013 which claimed 60 lives and left thousands homeless. The RLD, however, received a boost from the ongoing farmer agitation in protest against the farm laws and Jayant has been on the forefront in rallying the farmers of the region against the farm laws and attended the farmers' 'mahapanchayats' in different districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/akhilesh-jayant-to-strive-to-consolidate-jat-muslim-equations-in-west-up-through-bhaichara-sammelans-1013472.html
27-07-2021||North and Central||Amit Shah to lay foundation stone of Vindhya Corridor in UP on August 1||Union Home Minister Amit Shah is expected to visit Mirzapur here on August 1 to lay the foundation stone of Vindhya Corridor project and also address a public meeting, the local MLA said on Tuesday. After laying the foundation stone, Shah would address a public meeting at the Government Inter College ground in the city, Mirzapur BJP MLA Ratnakar Mishra said. The MLA said that as per party sources, the Home Minister will first pay obeisance of Goddess Vindhvasini at the Vindhyachal temple in the district and participate in the 'havan' programme. Mishra, however, said the official programme of the Home Minister is yet to be finalised. The Vindhya Corridor, a dream project of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, includes projects worth over Rs 300 crore. Besides giving a grand look to the temple, the project includes widening of roads to 50 feet around the temple to facilitate 'darshan' for the devotees. After the construction of the corridor, the Ganga river flowing in the northern direction of the temple will be clearly seen along with the 'darshan' of Ma Vindhvasini Devi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amit-shah-to-lay-foundation-stone-of-vindhya-corridor-in-up-on-august-1-1013504.html
27-07-2021||North and Central||Rahul Gandhi, other Opposition leaders to submit joint adjournment motion on Pegasus in Lok Sabha||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and other Opposition leaders, including from DMK and Shiv Sena, will submit a joint adjournment motion on Pegasus issue in Lok Sabha on Wednesday, while a meeting of all "like-minded" parties in Parliament will be held to decide on the next course of action if the government ignores the demand. Wednesday's meeting, prior to the sitting of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, will be chaired by Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge and attended by UPA parties as well as "like-minded" parties. Rahul will also attend the meeting, sources said. On Tuesday evening, floor leaders of 10 parties in Lok Sabha -- Congress, CMK, NCP, Shiv Sena, CPI(M), RSP, Kerala Congress, Muslim League, National Conference and BSP -- met in Parliament House to chalk out the future strategy. BSP, which was keeping away from Opposition meetings, interestingly sent its representative Ritesh Pandey for the meeting chaired by Rahul. Those attended the meeting also included T R Baalu and Kanimozhi (DMK), Supriya Sule (NCP), Arvind Sawant (Shiv Sena), S Venkatesan and AM Ariff (CPI-M), ET Mohammed Basheer (Muslim League), Thomas Chazhikkadan (Kerala Congress), Hasnain Masoodi (National Conference) and N K Premachandran (RSP). Sources said leaders of these parties, including Rahul, will move a joint adjournment motion in Lok Sabha in a show of strength seeking an immediate discussion on the Pegasus issue. Sources also said the BSP leader told them that he would first discuss with his party leadership on joint motion and convey the decision on Wednesday while emphasising that they stand with the Opposition on the issue otherwise. "We want the government to respond to our queries. They are now misleading people by saying that Opposition is running away from debate. It is the other way round," Premachandran told DH. Before the House assembles, the leaders of all "like-minded" parties in Parliament will meet to decide the strategy to be adopted if the government refuses to hold discussion on the issue. Sources said the Opposition parties are mulling two options -- to meet and petition President Ram Nath Kovind or hold a joint press conference on the issue. Opposition leaders, including Rahul, are likely to address media before the start of proceedings in the House. The meeting, to be chaired by Kharge who has been assigned by Congress president Sonia Gandhi to coordinate with other Opposition parties -- will see attendance of more parties, including Trinamool Congress, AAP and Samajwadi Party, among others. Sources played down the absence of some of these parties in the meeting with Rahul saying leaders of all "like-minded" parties could not attend the meeting due to their pre-occupation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rahul-gandhi-other-opposition-leaders-to-submit-joint-adjournment-motion-on-pegasus-in-lok-sabha-1013514.html
27-07-2021||North and Central||381 mm rainfall in Delhi this month highest for July in 18 years: IMD||Monsoon may have arrived late in Delhi, but it is inundating the capital now. The city has recorded 381 mm rainfall so far this month, the highest for July since 2003 and the second-highest ever. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded 100 mm rainfall in just three hours on Tuesday morning, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). It is also the maximum rainfall in 24 hours in the month of July in eight years. In 2013, Delhi had received 123.4mm rainfall on July 21. The capital has recorded 14 rainy days this month so far, despite the delayed arrival of the monsoon on July 13, 16 days behind schedule.   The monsoon, the most-delayed in 19 years, is now drenching Delhi, flooding low-lying areas and causing long traffic snarls. According to IMD data, the Safdarjung Observatory has gauged 108 per cent excess rainfall so far – 380.9 mm rainfall till July 27 against the normal of 183.5mm. Normally, Delhi records 210.6 mm precipitation in July. The city had recorded 236.9 mm rainfall last year, 199.2 mm in 2019 and 286.2 mm in 2018. It recorded 170.5 mm rainfall in 2017; 292.5 mm in 2016 and 235.2 mm in 2015. In 2013, Delhi had received 340.5 mm rainfall. The all-time record is 632.2 mm precipitation in July, 2003, according to IMD data. According to Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology), Skymet Weather, the number of rainy days has reduced over the last few years, and extreme weather events have increased. "Cities are recording more rainfall in a shorter period of time. Earlier, 100 mm rainfall would occur over three to four days. Now, we have been receiving this much precipitation in just five-six hours,” he said. Such spells of rain do not help recharge groundwater and lead to flooding in low-lying areas, Palawat said. “The water percolates in the ground if it rains slowly over four to five days. In case of heavy falls, the rainwater runs off quickly,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/381-mm-rainfall-in-delhi-this-month-highest-for-july-in-18-years-imd-1013516.html
27-07-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand govt bars power employees from holding strike||The Uttarakhand government on Tuesday barred power employees from holding any strike for the next six months. The decision came after employees of three power corporation in the state struck work from July 26 midnight, demanding pay parity, revision of allowances and that contractual employees be regularised. A notification issued on Tuesday said any strike by all sections of employees of UJVN Limited, Uttarakhand Power Corporation Ltd and Transmission Corporation of Uttarakhand Limited is prohibited for six months with immediate effect.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-govt-bars-power-employees-from-holding-strike-1013533.html
27-07-2021||Oasis||Adopting an intentional lifestyle||The second wave of Covid-19 has left us devastated and debilitated. Many children have been orphaned, several people have lost their loved ones and scores of the aged among us have breathed their last. The loss is irreplaceable and the grief immeasurable. Those affected will be scared for the rest of their lives. In the midst of this catastrophe, the collective goal of our nation should be to avert a third wave. This calls for all to adopt an intentional lifestyle, one that will be pandemic-appropriate and thus relevant to the current times. Living intentionally during a pandemic entails embracing a lifestyle that restricts unnecessary outdoor activities, and while outdoors, following every protocol that is in place to prevent the spread of the virus. While it is common for us to crowd and throng in our dealings outdoors, we now have to espouse the concept of social distancing on a war footing. When I took the first jab of my vaccination three months ago at a neighbourhood hospital, I was aghast at the lack of social distancing at the venue. Though the hospital by all standards was upmarket and the crowd by every reasonable benchmark belonged to the educated and the cultured, there was crowding at the registration counters without maintaining any social distancing. It would have been an irony had there been an asymptomatic infected person— A super-spreader in a vaccination centre. Before a predicted third wave, should our behaviour continue in our old fashion way, it is imperative that we adopt a lifestyle that will minimise our outings. We need to unlearn our old ways of crowding and learn new ways of living in a society. Our day-to-day lives should now be directed to be pandemic appropriate. As a society, we should adopt an intentional lifestyle with social distancing, sanitisation and masking up as a necessary part of our new lives. In his best-seller The seven habits of highly effective people, author Stephen Covey highlights the second habit of successful people which he says is to “begin with an end in mind.” As Covid-19 is raging unabated let us begin with “the end in mind” and adopt an intentional lifestyle relevant for a pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/adopting-an-intentional-lifestyle-1013223.html
27-07-2021||Opinion||Didi's national gambit to push Modi's hand||For the first time since she took charge of West Bengal in 2011, Mamata Banerjee has been elected the chairperson of the Trinamool Congress parliamentary party. It has surprised many because Mamata Banerjee is not a Member of Parliament (MP). Her party's Rajya Sabha leader Derek O'Brien said, "The decision has been taken both at a conceptual and tactical level." What does the word 'tactical' signify here? The significance will not skip us if we realise that politics, apart from a ruthless game of strife on the ground, is also a mind game. The decision is a signal that if the by-polls are not held in Bengal on time, forcing Mamata Banerjee to resign from the chief minister's post, she may devote much more time at the national level. An ingenious leader of mass movements, she may also hit the ground to lead agitations, like the farmers' protests, against the Narendra Modi government. The firebrand didi, or elder sister of Bengal, paid a heavy price for her decision to contest the assembly election from Nandigram, the citadel of Suvendu Adhikari. Her former lieutenant had led the Nandigram movement on the ground, and she lost the election. Though she has assumed chief ministership, she is not a legislator. So she has to be elected to the state assembly within six months, to be precise, by November 4. Beyond the stipulated six months, no one can be a minister is borne out from the Supreme Court verdict in a case related to J Jayalalithaa in 2001. A bench led by the then chief justice AS Anand said no non-elected person could be a minister again during the same term of the house without being elected as it "would be clearly derogatory to the constitutional scheme, improper, undemocratic and invalid." But will bypolls for seven assembly constituencies of Bengal be held and results declared by November 4? The question has become wide open since the resignation earlier this month of Tirath Singh Rawat, a BJP MP who had taken charge as the Uttarakhand chief minister. He quit anticipating a bypoll will not be held in the prevailing pandemic situation by the first week of September. Is it then possible that bypolls might not be held within the next eight weeks in Bengal, especially since October is the month of the state's most important festival, the Durga puja? Whether the bypolls would be held by November 4 is the prerogative of the Election Commission. It is, on paper, an independent body, but it has constantly been criticised by the opposition, including the Trinamool Congress, for playing a partisan role in favour of the BJP. Again, the poll body would need to have some administrative clearance from the central government, which may or may not be forthcoming in the context of the impending third wave of Covid-19. If the bypolls are not held by November 4, Mamata Banerjee will have to resign, and it may plunge her government into chaos. It could have been easier for her to pass on the mantle to her nephew Abhishek Banerjee, though he is just 33. But he, too, is not a member of the state legislative assembly. With a third Covid-19 wave looming large, it will be risky to give the reigns to another non-MLA. Again Subrata Mukherjee, the senior-most member of Mamata Banerjee's cabinet, and Firhad Hakim, the most prominent Muslim face of her party, stand charge-sheeted in the Narada case. The CBI may turn overactive to have them in custody again if entrusted with the charge of the state. Apart from them, Didi may choose any loyalist, but such a decision would run the risk of compromising administrative efficiency. Under the circumstances, Mamata Banerjee has taken a big tactical step. Her first visit to Delhi this week - she landed in Delhi on Monday - after taking oath for the third time is a small step towards uniting the opposition. After all, the national election is still three years away, and many factors may change by then. But if she gets dislodged as the chief minister, Mamata Banerjee may camp in Delhi and come up with one after another idea of leading mass movements, just as she did against the Left in Bengal for over two-and-a-half-decades. No leader in India can match her ingenuity and capability in planning and leading agitations. But she cannot afford to devote so much time and energy at the national level if she remains the chief minister of Bengal. So the ball is now in team Narendra Modi's court. They have to pick between a Bengal CM and a national-level potentially lethal opponent. (The writer is a Kolkata-based journalist and author)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/didis-national-gambit-to-push-modis-hand-1013305.html
27-07-2021||Opinion||BJP takes cow-belt to Assam||The news that the consumption, sale and transport of beef will now be prohibited in Assam immediately brought three things to mind. First, whatever happened to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)'s policy of leaving the North East out of its obsession with banning beef? When the ban was introduced in Maharashtra by the Devendra Fadnavis government in 2015, a BJP spokesperson told this writer that the only regions where beef was a staple food item were Goa and the North East. Hence, the party's decision to ban this cheap protein anywhere else should not bother anyone. This BJP spokesperson was old enough not to have forgotten the eloquent speech by Shillong MP GG Swell in the Lok Sabha in 1996, during the historic debate that preceded Atal Bihari Vajpayee's resignation as prime minister after 13 days in the post. The speech laid down in clear terms why the North East would never accept the "hegemony" of the Hindutva party, not even when its most moderate face led it, because of the party's determination to "impose its way of life" by banning beef across the country. "The whole country is being divided between the cow belt and the non-cow belt," rued Swell. It's taken a quarter-century for things to change drastically. Assam is the gateway to the rest of the North-Eastern states, and already, complaints of a shortage of beef have started surfacing in Meghalaya. Indeed, the shortage began last year when BJP governments in Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka passed strict anti-cow slaughter laws. But Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma's beef ban is different from any other. For the first time, a distinction has been made between beef-eating communities (38 per cent of the population) and others, with beef being allowed to be sold and consumed only in areas where the former form an overwhelming majority. While this seems reasonable on its face, it is actually more divisive than a blanketban. The CM has repeatedly made it clear that no one can eat beef even inside their homes if they happen to live in mixed areas, where beef-eating and non-beef eating communities live side by side. Nor can beef be sold within a five-km radius of the religious places of non-beef-eating communities. "There is no need to have Hotel Madina in Santipur (a Hindu area in Guwahati)," he said in the Assembly. Rarely would one find a CM so openly encouraging ghettoisation. But then Sarma is no run of the mill BJP CM. The man who as late as in 2017 dismissed fears of a beef ban in Assam, who joined the BJP only in 2015 and has no connection with the RSS, today rivals Yogi Adityanath in his inflammatory utterances. Sarma's frequent use of the pronoun "us" to identify with the Hindus of his state, the dismissive manner in which he talks of Muslims in his state, his frequent whipping up of the spectre of "us" being swamped by "their aggression" both physically and civilisationally, his categorical rejection of "Miya culture" as a part of the larger Assamese culture - all recall the UP CM's infamous assertions that the Taj Mahal was not representative of Indian heritage, and that as a proud Hindu he did not celebrate Eid. So is such unashamed Hindutva politics the new ideal for BJP CMs? Late last year, we saw another BJP CM, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, take uncharacteristically belligerent stands on pet Hindutva obsessions such as "love jihad". But Chauhan was trying to bluster his way out of the political corner into which he had been pushed by the sudden induction into his party of the Congress' Jyotiraditya Scindia and hisfollowers. On the other hand, Sarma has emerged as the supreme leader of his party not just in Assam but also in the entire North East. When he repeatedly expresses hostility towards 35 per cent of his citizenry, he is not speaking from a defensive position. Sarma's provocative utterances seem to have a two-fold aim. First, they can be seen as a punishment for those he has always maintained do not vote for his party. Second, they aim to push all Hindus in Assam into supporting the legislation that is crucial for his party, the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). So far, Assamese Hindus have resisted this pet project of the BJP as fiercely as Bengal Hindus have supported it, a division in its vote bank that the BJP despairs of. Therefore, it is crucial for Sarma to bring the cow belt to the non-cow belt of the North East in more ways than one. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/bjp-takes-cow-belt-to-assam-1013328.html
27-07-2021||Panorama||Recognise ecocide as crime||Wildfires, droughts, floods and typhoons have been ravaging countries around the world. Climate change and high global temperatures over the past several years have contributed to these environmental harms. The current state of the environment can be charged to the actions of corporations, the majority of which are based in the Global North. In 2020, for the third time in a row, Coca Cola, Pepsico and Nestle were named as the most polluting companies in the world. How can we hold these companies liable and ensure that they change their business practices? The recent Royal Dutch Shell case, decided by the Dutch Supreme Court, has been a pathbreaking step regarding liability for climate change. The Shell verdict was the first time that a multinational corporation was found liable for an ineffective climate policy. Indeed, the decision has broad implications for the international community. Large multinational companies are causing many types of environmental harm. Unsustainable water use, for instance, is an issue of major concern. Several companies around the world have been reporting water shortages owing to excessive withdrawals of freshwater resources. This is particularly the case with packed food manufacturers. Their largest environmental impact comes from the effects that their supply chains have on local water supplies. Companies around the world are engaging in ecocide, a lot of which escapes the public eye. Recognition of ecocide as a crime would make corporations accountable for a plethora of environmental harms. Ecocide— defined as "extensive damage to, destruction of, or loss of ecosystem(s) of a given territory… To such an extent that peaceful enjoyment by the inhabitants of that territory has been or will be severely diminished"— brings within its scope key environmental harms that are endangering biodiversity and human life and health. Current law is not able to hold multinational corporations sufficiently liable for the entire spectrum of environmental harms. Criminal sanctions can help to achieve this liability. Recognising ecocide as a crime would be a powerful tool. Another serious issue is the fact that a large number of major global corporations, in fact, outsource their environmental impacts to their supply chains. A great deal of the environmental harm they cause escapes public scrutiny— whether from unsustainable water use, carbon emissions, pollution or deforestation. Criminal sanctions for ecocidal acts would enable a shift in our thinking regarding environmental harm. It would clearly spell out the line of acceptability: What is the level of environmental harm that we as a society are no longer willing to accept. For too long we have adhered to the view that development comes at the cost of the environment. As poverty levels continue to increase, the fissures in the development model are becoming more and more clear. As global poverty levels have increased owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, climate change impacts and conflicts are more apparent. A truly sustainable model of development has become the only way forward. International law on ecocide would give a voice to poorer victims in developing countries. It could be useful in prosecuting environmental crimes that cross national jurisdictions. It would usher in an era of heightened liability and accountability for environmental harms. (The writer is associate professor, director, Environmental Law and Science Advocacy Forum; and assistant dean, Student Affairs at Jindal School of Environment and Sustainability, O P Jindal Global University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/recognise-ecocide-as-crime-1013230.html
27-07-2021||Panorama||We’re not disrupting Parliament. PM, Shah are running away from questions: Derek O'Brien||Parliament is witnessing protests by the Opposition over a variety of issues, including Pegasus snooping, farmers' protest, price rise and fuel price hike among others. Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha floor leader Derek O'Brien explains to DH's Shemin Joy on why his party and other Opposition parties are up in arms against the Narendra Modi government. The Monsoon Session of Parliament is on but no substantial business has been done so far. We witnessed disruption, which has been criticised by a section. How do you respond to this? It's not the Opposition but the government which is disrupting Parliament. The government does not want Parliament to run. The Opposition's role is to hold the government accountable. So, we want to hold the government accountable on many issues. First, they should repeal the farm laws. We have a draft ready, we can give it to them and they can repeal the farm laws. That will take them precisely one day. Two, I will prove to you how the government does not want the Parliament to run. The Opposition is demanding a discussion on Pegasus. The government fielded the Information and Technology Minister to table a statement. This is not enough. One, you have used espionage warfare against your own citizens. Two, you have used military spyware against the media, against your own cabinet, against your opponents, against the judiciary and Monday morning I learned that it also includes Army officials. You are setting up a surveillance state. This is an irrefutable crime. We want the Prime Minister and the Home Minister to come to Parliament and answer these questions. They are running away. So, they are disrupting, not us. Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu has said that around 90 MPs had given notices to raise important issues but could not do it due to disruptions. What is your take on that? With due respect to the Chairman and the government, I am going to give you revealing statistics. There is a Parliamentary tool. In Lok Sabha, it is called adjournment motion and in Rajya Sabha, it is Rule 267 for suspension of business to discuss issues that need to be discussed immediately. Is it a mere coincidence that from 2016, there has never been one discussion under this Rule? The migrant workers’ plight was not an important issue to discuss? Demonetisation disaster was not an important issue to discuss under Rule 267? Now, you tell me where we use spyware is not an issue to discuss? So, Modi and Shah don’t understand Parliament. One late Minister would counsel them and guide them. Unfortunately, he has passed away. They are clueless about Parliament and the one or two senior MPs who may have an idea about how Parliament runs and the conventions, they have also been dropped. So, the entire opposition together is humbly offering our tutorial services to Modi-ji and Amit Shah-ji. Because we are offering them tutorial services, take this as a social responsibility, they should come. You have to ask these questions to the BJP. Number one, why only 11% of your bills scrutinized by the Parliamentary Standing Committees, the lowest since Independence? Number two, ask BJP, where is the Deputy Speaker of the Lok Sabha? It has been two years! Number three, how many questions has the Prime Minister answered in Parliament? I will give you the number -- zero. Number four, except for one hour on Thursday when the Prime Minister comes and sits there in Rajya Sabha for question hour, and when he comes to deliver 'Mann ki Baat' to make a speech, what is his participation in Parliament? Next, there is a fabulous convention of ten MPs who were sent every year to the United Nations, from different political parties. This was happening from the 1960s. This also has been stopped. For the 10 MPs, it is not a holiday. It was an engagement at an international level, BJP has stopped that. Why? Because they want to track everything you do. In the Pegasus issue, we have seen the names of Opposition leaders, activists, journalists etc surfacing. How are you going to raise it in Parliament? What makes you think they (government) will want a discussion on Pegasus? We had asked for voting on farm bills. All of you saw what happened. They did not allow us the right, they took away the right to vote. Then they threw us out. Now, what are they saying on farm laws? They are now saying they have put a pause on the farm laws. This is not how Parliament works. This may be the 'Gujarat model'. It is the same thing with spyware. Actually, through your interview, I want to appeal to the senior members of the BJP to go and tell Modi and Shah that this 'taanashahi' (autocracy) will not work. Follow the rules. I will give you another example. Why isn’t the Opposition demanding a joint parliamentary probe? Because seeing the functioning of Standing Committees, it is crazy to demand a Joint Parliamentary Committee probe. No truth will come out. So, there is a broad agreement among Opposition parties that the Prime Minister and the Home Minister have to answer the questions on Pegasus. Outside parliament, as Mamata Banerjee has said, as Rahul Gandhi has said, there should be a judicial probe. There are demands that there should be an oversight mechanism on intelligence agencies. What kind of mechanism should be there? I am no technical expert. So, let me give you a simple thing on Pegasus. Did this government hire the software or acquired it from Pegasus? Yes or no? Who hired it? When was it hired? What is the cost? France is talking to Israel. And in India, this government is saying all this has happened to disrupt the Monsoon Session. Where are we? We appreciate what the Congress did on Sunday. They gave Abhishek Banerjee (Trinamool General Secretary who was a potential target for surveillance using Pegasus) as an example. When you highlight this Pegasus issue, there is a feeling that you are ignoring the issues of price hike, fuel price hike which are really common man's problems. Is that a correct reading? When a government has been there for seven years, they are answerable on many issues. You have to use whatever tactics and strategies that you command, and communicate those issues. Let me give you three examples. Farmer bill, we did a dharna outside Gandhi statue. Two, price rise and fuel price hike. It was raining, we came on cycles to Parliament. The young man who couldn't arrange oxygen for his grandmother and running around, that is an issue. The Prime Minister said in February that “sab teek ho gaya” on Covid-19. So it is not one issue. There are multiple issues. So, these are the questions people will ask Modi. I don’t think it is one issue, many issues. Mamata Banerjee, the Trinamool chief and West Bengal Chief Minister, is in Delhi from Monday evening. How politically significant is her visit? There is a new belief that these two -- Modi and Shah -- can be defeated. Overall, there is a new body language that the world’s most bigoted, the richest party in the world can be defeated. I want to say, in Bengal, we worked for 10 years and this is what we delivered. BJP said for seven years, this is what we delivered. This is a very important visit of Mamata Banerjee, this is a very important week for Indian politics. Obviously, she has said it, she is not seeking any chair, she is not seeking any post. But people believe that she is the personification of somebody who has conviction and who has the belief that we won not only because of the Trinamool manifesto in Bengal, we won because the people of Bengal chose us. On one hand, they had the BJP manifesto, on the other hand we presented the Constitution of India and the Trinamool manifesto. That is what won. That is the significance of Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/we-re-not-disrupting-parliament-pm-shah-are-running-away-from-questions-derek-obrien-1013237.html
27-07-2021||Right in the Middle||The hidden factor||I remember the day, I actually saw a koel. I was on my morning walk on the terrace of my apartment when I heard the koel call— its deep plaintive voice calling to the skies for rain. Your immediate reaction would surely be: "What's so great about that?" People have been sighting rare species of plants, animals and insects. I recently read that the three-banded rose finch had been sighted in Arunachal Pradesh. And, butterfly lovers have been thrilled at the sighting of species like the Branded Royal seen in the Nilgiris after 130 years. The sightings of the Blue Mormon, Spotted Angle and Liliac Silver line have been sending entomologists in a tizzy. Space scientists have, of course, been trying to sight new galaxies, stars and planets. So, compared to these, my excitement at the sighting of a koel may look a little over the board. Romanticised in poetry, legend and myth, the koel has always fascinated me. Growing up in the concrete jungle of Mumbai, I used to look forward to the call of the various birds during our annual summer vacations to Palakkad, Kerala. The day usually began with the song of the bulbul outside the room I slept in. The flash of blue as the kingfisher dived for a fish in the pool in my grandmother's house was an awesome sight. There were other birds as well, but the koel was the ever-elusive one. No matter how much I tried, I could not see it. It would call from the treetops for the rain to come, but kept itself well hidden among the foliage. And, thinking about this, I realised that many of us tend to look for the hidden wonder rather than the beauty before us. While travelling on a train or even by road, how many of us have ignored the beautiful vista on either side and looked out of the window eagerly waiting to see what would come beyond the curve on the track or road. Or, instead of enjoying the company of the spouse, friend, neighbour or colleague with whom you interact every day, you fondly remember the cousin, college friend or colleague you left behind at some stage in life and who is now far away. There is a saying in Hindi: "Ghar ki murgi dal barabar". This means we don't value the things closest to us and glamorise what is far away or unattainable. That extremely expensive ala carte menu at a five-star restaurant is what we all hanker after, although it may be the same food that has been made lovingly at home. We travel all the way to a remote resort to enjoy peace and quiet, go swimming in the pool and be one with nature. But how many of us would want to restore the ancestral home (those who have one, of course), and spend the vacation there? And, so, instead of enjoying the song of the bulbuls as they build a nest in my balcony, or the chattering of the parrots on the peepal tree outside or the little pee peeps of the magpie Robins, I am thrilled that I finally got to see a koel. And, felt my day has been made.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-hidden-factor-1013224.html
27-07-2021||Second Edit||A bid to tame the press||The government’s take on the raids by the Income Tax (I-T) Department on the offices of the leading Hindi daily Dainik Bhaskar is unconvincing, and there are circumstances to show that it is a victim of vindictive action. There were raids on the offices of India’s largest circulated newspaper in Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Rajasthan on Thursday and Friday. I-T officials also made searches at the Lucknow offices of TV channel Bharat Samachar and the residences of its owner-editor. The Dainik Bhaskar Group has been accused of tax evasion to the tune of Rs 700 crore and other irregularities. Bharat Samachar has been accused of irregularities to the tune of Rs 200 crore. The department has said that it has got evidence of the irregularities. Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur has said that the “agencies were doing their own work and there was no interference’' from the government. Whatever the credibility of these claims, it is well known that not just the CBI but other probe agencies are also “caged parrots,” and the present government has liberally used them as instruments of harassment, coercion and punishment. The timing of the raids, therefore, raises doubts about their intent. Dainik Bhaskar had extensively covered the second wave of Covid in UP and published many stories about the floating corpses on the Ganga and the burial of bodies on its banks. Its editor wrote an opinion piece in The New York Times titled “The Ganges is returning the dead. It does not lie.’’ Bharat Samachar has also been shining the media light on Covid deaths in UP, to the inconvenience of the Yogi Adityanath government. It has claimed that it is being punished for this and for its coverage of the Hathras rape case. It is often asserted that the victims of such actions have nothing to fear if they have done no wrong and can prove their innocence. This is no argument because the action is itself intended to harass the victims. It is those who oppose the government and are critical of its policies and actions that are generally targeted for such action. That is why such actions become attacks on freedom of speech and of the press. Dainik Bhaskar reaches millions of readers every day, and the raids on it will be seen as a bid to tame its reporting and send out a signal to others, especially with UP elections just months away. The Editors’ Guild has expressed concern over the use of government agencies as tools to suppress the media. The government should stop being vindictive and paranoid and respect the freedom of the press.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/a-bid-to-tame-the-press-1013234.html
27-07-2021||South||Respect leaders while publishing news articles, warns Madras High Court||The Madras High Court has told Dinamalar, a Tamil publication to not publish news articles that may be disrespectful to leaders. The High Court's remarks came after the daily referred to former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister late J Jayalalithaa as 'J' in a news article. "She should have been addressed as Hon'ble Chief Minister J Jayalalitha and not as 'J'. While printing and publishing matters with regard to leaders of the country or state, the petitioners are supposed to give respect and address them accordingly," Justice Bhavani Subbaroyan of the court observed. The petitioners said that the defendants under Section 199(2) of the Criminal Procedure Code can be prosecuted for defamation of a public servant. "If the defamatory statement is personal in nature, this special procedure will not apply and it is only the concerned person who has to file the complaint in his or her individual capacity," Madras High Court observed. The court said that the allegations that were the basis of the complaint do not refer to the conduct of the affected person in discharge of public function. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/respect-leaders-while-publishing-news-articles-warns-madras-high-court-1013297.html
27-07-2021||South||Lakshadweep administration in hurry to make me look anti-national: Ayesha Sulthana to Kerala HC||Lakshadweep filmmaker Ayesha Sultana refuted in the Kerala High Court, allegations of the island administration that she was not cooperating with the probe in the sedition case against her, claiming that the authority was in a hurry to make her look like an 'anti- national'. The Lakshadweep Administration, in its recent reply opposing Sulthana's plea to quash the FIR against her, had contended that the filmmaker was not cooperating with the investigation, had erased details of various communications from her mobile phone after lodging of the case and refused to provide documents sought by the police. Responding to the allegations of the administration, the filmmaker - represented by advocate K A Akbar - has claimed that she had not deleted any material from her phone which was seized by the police without any prior information or direction regarding the same. She has further said that after seizing her phone and her brother's laptop on June 25, the devices were not produced before the trial court till July 15 and she is not aware in whose custody it was all that time. "The allegation that on scrutiny of the mobile phone of the petitioner (Sultana), some media files and chat history of social media platforms were found deleted is utter falsehood. The petitioner has not deleted any chats from her social media or any other internet-based platforms. The allegation that text messages were deleted is false," the reply said. It further stated that the non-production of the electronic devices was with the intention "to insert false evidence" against her. "Since the chain of custody is lost, the prosecution's intention is very clear. They will tamper with the mobile phone..," she has said and has added that both devices have been sent to a forensic lab in Gujarat, instead of labs in Hyderabad, Chennai or Kerala as per the prevalent practice. "The prosecution deliberately circumvented the chain of custody of both electronic devices seized in this case which provided an opportunity for them to install any material according to their whims and fancies, which is prejudicial to the interest of the petitioner," she said in her reply. Countering the allegation that she did not supply the documents sought by the police, Sulthana contended that the court has not directed her to surrender her passport to the investigating officer. She also said that she has given scanned colour copies and photocopies of all the documents, including her passport, Aadhaar card, etc, as the originals were required for day-to-day activities and the allegation that she has not cooperated with the investigation is false and is intended to mislead the court. The filmmaker termed as 'absurd' the charge that her philanthropic activities were anti-national. "Even after disclosing the persons behind the philanthropic activity and the services done by the petitioner with the help of friends through local police officials, this investigation never looked into such aspects and is making the petitioners position as an anti-national who received money to make seditious comments," she added. "The petitioner is not indulging in any kind of anti-social, anti-national or any other criminal or civil activities. "The petitioner has been facing this kind of harassment and trauma, raids, long hour interrogations for several days, only because the petitioner criticized the Administrator who was not observing any quarantine rules himself or his staff," she claimed. In her reply, she again urged the court to quash the FIR and the proceedings emanating from it. Earlier, the high court had refused tostay further proceedings in the sedition case registered against Sultana. Considering a plea filed by Sultana seeking to quash the FIR registered against her by the Kavaratti police, the high court had said investigation in the case was at a preliminary stage and more time may be required for completing the probe. Sultana has been granted anticipatory bail in the sedition case. A case was registered on June 9 under Section 124 -A (sedition) and 153 B (hate speech) of IPC on the basis of a petition lodged by a political leader hailing from Kavaratti.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lakshadweep-administration-in-hurry-to-make-me-look-anti-national-ayesha-sulthana-to-kerala-hc-1013357.html
27-07-2021||South||Madras HC stays single judge order against actor Vijay||A division bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday stayed the operation of order against popular Tamil actor Vijay in a case seeking exemption from paying entry tax to the Tamil Nadu government for his luxurious Rolls Royce Ghost Motor Car imported from Britain in 2012.  The bench of Justices M Duraiswamy and R Hemalatha granted a stay on the order issued by Justice S M Subramaniam dated July 8 which came down on the actor heavily for seeking exemption. The judge had said “cine heroes” are not expected to behave like “reel heroes” and opined that tax evasion is to be construed as “anti-national habit, attitude and mindset and unconstitutional.” In their order on Tuesday, the bench said the tax demand challan must be issued to the actor within a week. The actor should pay the remaining 80 per cent tax within one week of the receipt of the demand challan issued by the competent authority. The actor, who imported the vehicle in 2012, paid import duty to the Customs Department as levied under the Customs Act, but sought exemption from paying the entry tax. Vijay had bought the luxurious car in 2012 costing about Rs 6 crore and the Transport Department had sought entry tax which the actor refused to pay and approached the court.  Appearing for actor Vijay, former Advocate General Vijay Narayan said his client was willing to pay the entry tax but wants to expunge the remarks by the single judge and to set aside costs of Rs 1 lakh imposed on him. The actor also complained about "uncharitable" remarks the judge made against actors at large.  In his judgement, the single judge had said the court is of the opinion that the non-payment of entry tax by the actor can never be appreciated and that the “petitioner has not respected nor responded to the lakhs and lakhs of his fans, who have paid by viewing his movies and from and out of such money, the actor purchased the world's prestigious car for his personal usage.” “The reputed persons of this great nation should realise that the money reaches to them is from the poor man’s blood and from their hard-earned money and not from the sky,” Justice Subramanian had observed.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-hc-stays-single-judge-order-against-actor-vijay-1013381.html
27-07-2021||South||DMK government to implement 10.5% internal reservation to Vanniyars||The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) government in Tamil Nadu has issued an order to implement the 10.5 per cent internal reservation for Vanniyars, a dominant community in the northern part of the state, within the 20 per cent reservation to MBCs. The order which will ensure exclusive reservation in government jobs and admissions to educational institutions will come as a boost for Paatali Makkal Katchi (PMK), a party that is influential among Vanniyars who are mostly concentrated in the northern part of the state and some areas in the West and Central regions.  The order comes five months after the previous AIADMK government hurried through legislation to provide 10.5 per cent internal reservation for Vanniyars just an hour before the election schedule was announced by the Election Commission of India (ECI).  The legislation was passed by the AIADMK to keep its alliance intact with PMK. But the gamble did not pay off as the AIADMK-PMK-BJP combine lost the polls, apparently due to counter the consolidation of non-Vanniyars. The Bill was opposed by other communities that come under the MBC category.  While moving the Bill, the then Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said the 10.5 per cent reservation was “temporary” and will undergo changes once the data from a caste-based census is available. The PMK had been demanding internal reservations for members of the community, arguing that many of them still live in abject poverty. Welcoming the order, PMK founder Dr S Ramadoss thanked Chief Minister M K Stalin for implementing the law that was passed and signed by Governor Banwarilal Purohit. “This (law) will enhance the social and economic status of Vanniyars. This is one of the goals I had been working on for the past 42 years. All my hard work has borne fruit today,” he said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-government-to-implement-105-internal-reservation-to-vanniyars-1013501.html
27-07-2021||South||Stay united, maintain status quo: BJP’s message to EPS, OPS||Amid a cold war between O Panneerselvam and Edappadi K Palaniswami, the BJP has counselled the warring AIADMK leaders to “put up a united face” and maintain status-quo in the party’s leadership hierarchy.  The message that the two leaders should stop bickering in the open and sort out issues between them is believed to have been conveyed to them through BJP leaders.  The advice was dished out to the AIADMK leaders’ days before they met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah in New Delhi on July 26 and 27 respectively.  Though there is no official word on what transpired at the two meetings, sources in the AIADMK and BJP said the discussions are understood to have centred around the internal affairs of Tamil Nadu’s principal opposition party.  “BJP feels EPS and OPS should stay united and not fight with each other. This is the message that has been conveyed to both EPS and OPS separately by our leaders. They have been asked to resolve their difference and be united,” a senior BJP leader in New Delhi told DH. The meeting with Modi was a “courtesy call” as the two leaders wanted to “thank” the Prime Minister for campaigning for AIADMK candidates during the elections.  The BJP has also suggested that the AIADMK continue with the dual leadership model under which OPS is the coordinator and EPS is joint coordinator. “In our opinion, this is the best way for the AIADMK in the current situation. We have told the AIADMK not to go for a singular leadership at this stage,” the leader quoted above added.  The development comes amid a clamour in AIADMK for reverting to single leadership. Many leaders have been voicing their opinion in private maintaining that the dual leadership has not worked, and that it was time to get back to “one leader.” Panneerselvam and Palaniswami, who head the AIADMK jointly, don’t enjoy the best of the relations and have fought with each other at party meetings after the April 6 assembly elections which the party-led alliance lost. On the issue of ousted AIADMK interim general secretary V K Sasikala, the BJP leader said the saffron party has decided to adopt a “wait and watch” strategy in this matter. “While it is for AIADMK to decide on the issue of Sasikala, we have decided to wait and watch the developments. She is talking to cadres but there is no upsurge for her among cadres. We don’t want to interfere at this point,” the leader said.  While Panneerselvam is not averse to doing business with Sasikala, Palaniswami is opposed to her entry. It was Palaniswami who stonewalled BJP’s efforts to bring Sasikala’s nephew T T V Dhinakaran into the AIADMK alliance in the run-up to the elections.  Palaniswami, who was handpicked by Sasikala to be Chief Minister in 2017, is opposed to her re-entry into AIADMK as such a development would undermine his authority.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/stay-united-maintain-status-quo-bjp-s-message-to-eps-ops-1013525.html
27-07-2021||South||Senthil appointed coordinator of TNCC frontal organisations||Former Karnataka-cadre IAS office Sasikanth Senthil was on Tuesday appointed as coordinator of social media wing, and other frontal organizations of the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC).  TNCC chief K S Alagiri said in a statement that Senthil will be the coordinator for the social media wing and five frontal organisations and will serve as in-charge of training sessions.  Senthil resigned from the civil services in 2019 citing his inability to continue when “fundamental building blocks of diverse democracy are being compromised. Senthil, a 2009 batch officer, joined the Congress in 2020.   42-year-old Senthil resigned from the civil services in September 2019 when he was working as the Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada district in Karnataka. Senthil is likely to travel across the state and hold training sessions for party men.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/senthil-appointed-coordinator-of-tncc-frontal-organisations-1013544.html
27-07-2021||State||DH Toon | 'Advani ji is here. You may guide each other!'||In an emotional announcement, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa announced that he would resign, drawing curtains on the uncertainty that surrounded his future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/dh-toon-advani-ji-is-here-you-may-guide-each-other-1013232.html
27-07-2021||State||Speak Out: July 27, 2021||Caretaker Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa said Monday that he resigned voluntarily and not under any pressure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/speak-out-july-27-2021-1013233.html
27-07-2021||State||Centre failed to come to the aid of Karnataka during floods: Siddaramaiah||Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah has alleged that the Centre has failed to come to the aid of the state during the floods. He said this was witnessed during the 2019 floods and the flood situation now. Siddaramaiah told reporters here on Tuesday that Prime Minister Narendra Modi did not visit the state during the 2019 floods when the situation was very severe and during the current floods. The state government too has not released funds to aid the flood-affected people. It should cut down other unwanted expenses and mobilise funds to manage the flood situation and provide relief to the affected. Managing the flood situation should be the first priority of government, he said. Congress party leaders are visiting the flood-affected areas and would submit a report to the government to provide funds for flood-affected areas. "We shall also demand convening of a legislative session to discuss the flood situation," said the former chief minister. Siddaramaiah later left for Khanapur and Hukkeri taluks to inspect the flood situation. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/centre-failed-to-come-to-the-aid-of-karnataka-during-floods-siddaramaiah-1013307.html
27-07-2021||State||New Karnataka CM in 3-4 days: Bommai||The process of appointing a new chief minister for Karnataka will be completed in three to four days, BJP leader Basavaraj Bommai said. "There won't be much gap. In the next three four days, this process (of appointing a new CM) will come to an end," he said, amidst continued suspense from the BJP high command over choice of next leader. While multiple round of discussions over the next Karnataka CM reportedly took place in Delhi, Bommai said that state leaders are yet to have exact information on who would replace outgoing chief minister BS Yediyurappa. Discussions in Delhi will certainly revolve around Karnataka's political situation and the next leader of the state government, he said, responding to a media query. "But we don't know what exactly the discussions are. When top leaders of the party are deliberating on it, we don't come to know. We don't have any exact information yet," the former Home Minister said. "Ours is a national party and we have got certain systems in place where decision making will take place at different levels," he said, explaining the process of selecting a new CM. At the state level there is the BJP Legislature Party and the state BJP core committee, above which there was the central core committee and the Parliamentary Board. These are the hierarchial levels to take such decisions, he said. BJP has appointed Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan and BJP general secretary in-charge of Karnataka Arun Singh as observers to select a new leader for Karnataka government. On whether BJP national president JP Nadda would also visit the state for the process, Bommai said that though there are media reports, "it is not confirmed." The party will decide what the schedule of the observers will be once they arrive in the state. Union Ministers G Kishan Reddy and Dharmendra Pradhan will visit Bengaluru on Wednesday evening as central observers while Singh and BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel are expected to arrive in the city on Tuesday evening. He also refused to read much into his name doing rounds in sections of the media as a CM probable. "Daily there are several names doing rounds in the media. Somehow my name has come up today," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/new-karnataka-cm-in-3-4-days-bommai-1013326.html
27-07-2021||State||Covaxin paediatric vaccine trials: All kids to be jabbed by August 4||Amid concerns over children being more susceptible to the possible third wave of Covid, Mysore Medical College will finish inoculating children with Covaxin as a part of its trial by August 4. It is the lone clinical trial site in Karnataka for Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical major Bharat Biotech's anti-Covid vaccine Covaxin. Eight recruits aged 12-18 years have already received their second and final dose, while 14 pre-teens aged 6-12 years will be jabbed next Saturday (July 31). By next Wednesday (August 4) eight of the youngest participants aged two years to three years will be inoculated too. "Both parents of most kids are doctors or paramedical staff and have not reported any major adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) barring most common observations for one or two days like pain at the site of injection and mild fever. The youngest child recruited in the trial is two years and one month old," Dr CP Nanjaraj, Dean, Mysore Medical College and Research Institute. Dr Nanjaraj said the 208-day observation period of the children will end in the first week of January 2022. "Also, there have been no concerns among parents about Brazil suspending Covaxin clinical trials in their country," he said. Dr Senthil K, paediatrician with Columbia Asia Hospital, Whitefield, said, "A lot of hype has been created about the third wave affecting children. Even in our community, after a few Covid cases were reported, all activities were stopped; clubhouses and play areas were closed. The only way out is vaccinating children. Without physical activity, their metabolic rate is decreasing and they're gaining weight. Among our patients, every child has gained at least four kg," he said. Among children aged one year to two years, doctors have observed trouble with language and speech. "There is a significant delay in speech and language development, and they have started falling under mild autism spectrum disorder. This is because both parents are on their laptops and children are on their phones. Grandparents are not there to interact, and chances of playing with other children have been curtailed," Dr Senthil said. Dr Rakshay Shetty, lead paediatric intensivist at Rainbow Children's Hospital, said, even if there were AEFIs reported in children when vaccinated on a large scale, it will be less than the number of children suffering complications arising out of Covid. "Covid positive children who died, did not succumb to Covid, but to multi-system inflammatory syndrome, which is a complication arising out of Covid. Hence, parents should be forthcoming to vaccinate their children provided the vaccine's safety profile is established," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covaxin-paediatric-vaccine-trials-all-kids-to-be-jabbed-by-august-4-1013446.html
27-07-2021||State||78 claims for compensation for health workers' deaths due to Covid pending||As many as 78 claims for compensation made by families of health workers who succumbed due to Covid are pending with the Centre. But 60 claims have been approved by the Government of India, according to data of the state health department. The Centre has so far received 138 claims under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY) for Rs 50 lakh compensation each from families of health workers in Karnataka who died of Covid. The Bengaluru-based family of 65-year-old Dr Jyotiprakash Bhattacharjee, an ENT surgeon, who succumbed to Covid on July 23 last year marked his first death anniversary on Friday. But they haven't received any money or even acknowledgement of their claim. Jyotiprakash was a cancer survivor and yet saw ILI (influenza-like illness) patients during the pandemic last year out of a sense of duty to his ENT speciality. His son Shubhankar Bhattacharjee, 26, told DH that despite being diagnosed with thyroid cancer and vertebra cancer, his father was not one to sit at home in the middle of the pandemic. However, Gousia Begum, wife of 67-year-old Ballari psychiatrist Dr Mohammed Khaja Khutbuddin, was lucky to get the compensation. He passed away on July 31 last year due to Covid and was diagnosed eight days before his death. "We got the compensation as a result of my family's efforts. I was in no position to pursue and run around for it as I was dealing with the grief of losing my husband. This compensation will help in my son's engineering studies," she said. Sixty-eight-year-old Dr Shivanand Murgude, from Belagavi district's Sankeshwar town, a gynaecologist and obstetrician, helped women safely deliver their babies during the pandemic. He died of Covid on July 31 last year just six days after being diagnosed. His son, Dr Sachin Murgude, who is an ophthalmologist, told DH, "Till July 23 last year when he got infected, he saw outpatients and did surgeries too. But no compensation has been provided since his practice was private. When private doctors tended to Covid patients just like government doctors, why this discrimination?"||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/78-claims-for-compensation-for-health-workers-deaths-due-to-covid-pending-1013449.html
27-07-2021||State||Madhu Bangarappa to join Congress on July 30||Former MLA and former president of JD(S) youth wing Madhu Bangarappa will join the Congress during the party's meeting to be held at Gokul Garden in Hubballi on July 30 at 9:00 am. Bangarappa and his supporters will join the party in the presence of AICC general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala, KPCC president D K Shivakumar and Leader of Opposition in Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah, said Congress leader Rajat Ullagaddimath. JD(S) leaders Kiran Hiremath, Basavaraj Mayakar (Bellad) and other leaders in Hubballi will also join the Congress, a press release stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/madhu-bangarappa-to-join-congress-on-july-30-1013484.html
27-07-2021||State||Karnataka logs 1,501 new Covid-19 cases, 32 deaths||Karnataka on Tuesday logged 1,501 new Covid-19 cases and 32 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 28,97,664 and the toll to 36,437. The day also saw 2,039 discharges, continuing to outnumber the fresh cases, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 28,38,717. Out of 1,501 new cases reported on Tuesday, 354 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 484 discharges and only five deaths, a health department bulletin said. The total number of active cases in the state stood at 22,487. Out of 32 deaths reported on Tuesday, five were from Bengaluru Urban, Hassan (4), Belagavi and Kolara (3), Bengaluru Rural, Mysuru, Tumakuru and Uttara Kannada (2 each), followed by others. Among the districts were new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 534, Dakshina Kannada 247, Mysuru 108, Hassan and Udupi 98, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,25,581, followed by Mysuru 1,72,387 and Tumakuru 1,17,572. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 12,01,693, followed by Mysuru 1,68,626 and Tumakuru 1,15,242. Cumulatively a total of 3,80,68,589 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,02,494 were done on Tuesday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-logs-1501-new-covid-19-cases-32-deaths-1013518.html
27-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'4 lakh jabs a day needed to reduce Covid caseload in Karnataka'||Scientists have calculated that Karnataka has to nearly double the Covid-19 vaccination rates to effectively cut down the state’s caseload by a third. The findings have implications for mitigating a future surge in cases, including the third wave. The calculations were made using a recently-developed model by a team of scientists from the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), the Indian Statistical Institute (ISI) and the University of Virginia, which IISc said “evaluates the vaccination requirement and proposes three different roll-out plans, based on population size, seroprevalence and number of cases, including active or recently recovered infections in a state or district”. According to Professor Rajesh Sundaresan of IISc’s Department of Electrical Communication Engineering, the model shows that if Karnataka administered four lakh doses per day, the state’s Covid-19 caseload would reduce by 55% by August 31 -- when coupled with relatively strict non-pharmaceutical interventions such as lockdowns. Coupled with relaxed restrictions, as is the case now, the model predicts a 37% reduction in caseload by the end of August and with no interventions, a reduction of 13.5%. Reducing the caseload has been a challenge for Karnataka. Even though the second wave peaked statewide on May 5, the state has not been able to reduce its daily Covid-19 numbers to more manageable levels. In the last 14 days, for example, the state has been reporting a near-unwavering average of 1,600 cases daily. Further efforts at containment may be prolonged by the fact that the model’s suggested required rate of four lakh doses per day is nearly double of what Karnataka is currently doing. Since the start of July, the state has been dispensing an average of about 2.5 lakh doses per day. At the same time, the official data shows that week-on-week, the rate of vaccinations in the state declined by 10.4% between June 28 and July 4 and again between June 5 to July 18. In the last seven days, the rate of decline is 4.6% with only 2.2 lakh average doses administered everyday. A government official, speaking off the record, said that this is due to ongoing shortages of vaccine supplies. “Although the Centre has been apprised of the situation weeks ago, there has been no update from them about increasing dosage deliveries,” the official said. Professor Sashikumar Ganesan, chairman of IISc’s Department of Computational and Data Sciences (CDS), whose own independent, partial differential equation (PDE)-based model is at the forefront of case number predictions in the country, corroborated that vaccination rates have to increase. He told DH that only two factors will trigger the rise of the third wave: a slump in vaccinations and a new variant of the novel coronavirus. “We have to have a 50% increase in the vaccination rate to prevent any increase,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/4-lakh-jabs-a-day-needed-to-reduce-covid-caseload-in-karnataka-1013216.html
27-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||B S Yediyurappa resigns as Karnataka CM, BJP to name successor||All eyes are on the BJP central leadership to see who they will pick to succeed B S Yediyurappa, who on Monday resigned as the chief minister, drawing the curtains on uncertainty that surrounded his continuation. The change of guard comes with the next Assembly election less than two years away in Karnataka, the only southern state where the BJP has a formidable base. The transition process has kick-started with the BJP deploying Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan, who is expected to come to Bengaluru along with the party’s Karnataka in-charge Arun Singh. They will hold talks with leaders here and the BJP’s parliamentary board will decide.  According to sources, the transition process, which the BJP hopes will be smooth, is expected to take place over the next two-three days. Yediyurappa, 78, submitted his resignation to Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot after a tearful farewell speech on the occasion of his government completing two years in office. Gehlot accepted the resignation, dissolved the Council of Ministers and asked Yediyurappa to continue as caretaker CM till the new government takes shape. Meanwhile, in New Delhi, Union ministers and MPs were seen “congratulating” Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi at Parliament House, suggesting that he was one of the front-runners to replace Yediyurappa.  Joshi refused to comment. Besides Joshi, BJP national general secretaries B L Santhosh, C T Ravi, MLAs Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, Arvind Bellad, ministers Murugesh Nirani, Basavaraj Bommai, Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan, Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri among others are being speculated upon. However, there is no official word from the BJP. Some say a surprise could be in the offing.  Yediyurappa told reporters that he stepped down on his own. “It was my decision to resign the day I completed two years as CM. I have voluntarily resigned to provide an opportunity for others to serve. Neither PM Modi nor Union Home Minister Amit Shah forced me to resign,” he said, adding that he had not proposed any names for his replacement.  It is said that the BJP is weighing its chief ministerial options. It could play safe and replace Yediyurappa with another Lingayat. A non-Lingayat CM will mean a deputy chief ministerial position to another Lingayat and it is said that this could go to Yediyurappa’s son B Y Raghavendra.  The choice of the CM and ministers will have to balance various caste combinations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/b-s-yediyurappa-resigns-as-karnataka-cm-bjp-to-name-successor-1013220.html
27-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP MLAs to meet at 7 pm to elect new Karnataka Chief Minister||The BJP Legislature Party (LP) meeting to pick a new chief minister for Karnataka will be held today evening at 7 pm. The meeting will take place at The Capitol Hotel in Bengaluru, in which Union Ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and G Kishen Reddy will participate as central observers. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-mlas-to-meet-at-7-pm-to-elect-new-karnataka-chief-minister-1013335.html
27-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Yediyurappa fan from Gundlupet taluk dies of suicide||A 35-year-old BJP worker and a diehard fan of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa died of suicide, at Bommalapura village in Gundlupet taluk, Chamarajanagar district, on Monday, upset over the announcement of Yediyurappa to resign. Yediyurappa has condoled the death of Ravi, in a tweet. The tweet reads: The suicide of Rajappa (Ravi), who has taken the extreme step, following my resignation, has hurt me a lot. Ups and downs are common in politics. Sacrificing one’s life for this, cannot be justified. No one can compensate the loss to the family, due to this incident. Admiration should not go this extreme. I am with the bereaved family. ಅಭಿಮಾನ ಅತಿರೇಕಕ್ಕೆ ಹೋಗಬಾರದೆಂದು ಕೈಮುಗಿದು ವಿನಂತಿಸುವೆ. ರವಿ ಕುಟುಂಬದ ನೋವಿನೊಂದಿಗೆ ನಾನಿರುವೆ. (2/2) Ravi owned a hotel in Bommalapura and had availed loans for business. Villagers said he was finding it difficult to repay the loans.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/yediyurappa-fan-from-gundlupet-taluk-dies-of-suicide-1013350.html
27-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Reduced bus service adds up to the woes of daily commuters in Mangaluru||With private city buses, the lifeline of public transport in Mangaluru city, failing to operate to their full strength after the unlock, buses that are plying are overcrowded and passengers are forced to travel on footboard risking their lives. Prior to Covid-19-induced lockdown, the frequency of buses to various locations in the city was high and people didn’t have to wait for long. Now, people are forced to wait for a longer time to board buses to their destinations. Dilraj Alva, president of Dakshina Kannada Bus Operators’ Association (DKBOA), said all private city buses are not operating now. At present, only 232 private city buses are operating. There were more than 350 buses operating across 160 routes in the city in the past. A bus on the shortest route was operating more than 20 trips a day while a bus on the long route had eight to nine trips a day. With all operators failing to ply their buses, commuters are facing inconvenience. As a result, a few people are travelling in their own vehicles -- two-wheelers or cars -- to their workplace rather than depending on the public transport to commute. Bus operators claim that they are unable to meet the expenses with the rise in prices of diesel and spare parts and poor occupancy. Hence, it was not possible to operate the buses to full strength, they said. RTO Ramesh Varnekar said, “Several private bus owners have surrendered their permits. If people give representations on inconveniences faced by them owing to non-commencement of bus services, then temporary permits can be issued to KSRTC to operate on the said route.” Though Kumpala is situated just 10 km away from Mangaluru, there is no bus service to the place now. Though there were five buses operating to State Bank in Mangaluru and Kottara from Kumpala prior to the Covid-19 lockdown, after the unlock, none of the buses are operating. People have to walk for more than two km to reach the highway to board a bus to various destinations in Mangaluru. “I was travelling by bus prior to the lockdown to my workplace in Kottara. As buses are not operating, I am forced to walk till Kumpala Bypass covering more than one-and-a-half kilometre to board a bus to Mangaluru. As all the private buses are not operating, there is heavy rush in the bus during the peak hours,” said a private firm employee from Kumpala. “I saw women and the aged travelling on the footboard of the buses in the morning. As I could not board, I had to wait for a long time to catch another overcrowded bus to reach Mangaluru,” said Disha, a degree student.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/reduced-bus-service-adds-up-to-the-woes-of-daily-commuters-in-mangaluru-1013368.html
27-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Kalaburagi boy beats poverty to score 600/600 in PU Arts stream||Poverty is not a barrier to any achiever as shown by Mateen Jamadar who has achieved a feat by scoring 600 out of 600 marks in the Arts stream in the second PU. Mateen is a resident of Mannur village in Afzalpur taluk of the district and is a son of a mason. He has already set a goal to become a civil servant by appearing for the Civil Service Examination being conducted by Union Public Service Commission (UPSC). Mateen had also become a household name in the village as he had secured 617 marks out 625 in the SSLC examination in 2018-19. The brilliant student studied at his native place from the first standard to the 10th standard. Mateen Jamadar told DH that after the 10th standard he got admitted to MMV College in Ramanagar near Bengaluru for the first PUC in the Arts stream. His uncle, Basheer Jamadar, introduced him to Rahman Education Foundation which took care of him for two years. He stayed at a hostel run by the foundation in the city. "All our friends used to study together discussing the various topics. Guidance of the teachers and family support helped me achieve this feat. I will join BA in English medium. After which, I will appear for the UPSC examinations. It is my ambition to become a civil servant", Mateen stated. Mateen is the younger son of four children of Nabisab Jamadar, a mason and Raziya Begum. While his elder brother is physically challenged, his second brother is the police constable who is undergoing training in Bengaluru. His sister has been married off. Nabisab Jamadar, Mateen's father, said he has been studying well since his childhood. He had scored well in the SSLC exam also. We don't force him to study a particular course and whatever he opts for is final, he told. Srikanth Nivaragi, a social worker of Mannur, said Mateen had also secured the third highest marks in Kalyana Karnataka in the SSLC examination and is a brilliant poor student.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kalaburagi-boy-beats-poverty-to-score-600/600-in-pu-arts-stream-1013439.html
27-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's daily Covid-19 vaccination count for first dose slumps 40% in July||Amid concerns over vaccine shortage, data shows that Karnataka's daily vaccination count has slumped in July compared to June. Against the daily average of 2.66 lakh first doses administered in June, only 1.58 lakh doses were given per day in the first 26 days of July, a fall of nearly 40 per cent which is hard to bridge in the next five days. In the first six months of 2021, Karnataka administered the maximum number of first doses in June (79.70 lakh) whereas the maximum number of second doses were given in May (11.75 lakh). The second highest second doses were given in April (11.53 lakh). This is because on May 17, the Co-WIN portal was reconfigured to prevent the booking of second doses before the expiry of a minimum 84 days after the first dose of Covishield while Covaxin recipients continued to follow a four-week gap between doses. But a majority (2.47 crore) are Covishield recipients as opposed to (35.75 lakh) Covaxin recipients. A Victoria Hospital doctor said their facility's figures also mimic the state-wide trend. "Second dose recipients are far and few in between as we ourselves sent them back, for they were not eligible yet for the second shot in June," he said. He pointed out that there was also no supply of Covaxin in June which has improved now. On Friday, the hospital was supplied 1,000 doses each of Covishield and Covaxin, while as many as 560 were vaccinated. Some people preferred Covishield after reports surfaced that Covaxin did not have WHO approval. "As the preference of Covishield increased over Covaxin, the footfall of first dose recipients increased over second dose," the doctor said. KC General Hospital authorities on the other hand said they were stretched beyond their capacity of giving 400 doses per day. "Daily, we are administering 800-900 vaccine doses. So the supply is proportionate," said medical superintendent Dr B R Venkateshaiah. The private sector aided in coverage as long as there was seamless vaccine supply from the government. However, when left to fend for themselves in terms of procurement, it affected coverage. Frequent change in procurement policies also had a bearing on vaccination. Dr Prasanna H M, president, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA) said, "The private sector contributed the most to vaccination coverage in April and May when there was adequate supply and the vaccines were not as expensive as they are now. Also, second-dose recipients throng the private sector and don't mind paying when there aren't adequate doses in government hospitals."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-daily-covid-19-vaccination-count-for-first-dose-slumps-40-in-july-1013450.html
27-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||176 PM-Cares ventilators lie uninstalled in Karnataka; installed ones break down frequently||As many as 176 ventilators supplied to Karnataka under PM Cares Fund have not been installed. Of the 2,913 ventilators received by the state so far, only 2,737 have been installed. Though the health department maintains that the installation is need-based, medical colleges and hospitals using the ventilators that have already been supplied complained of technical defects and frequent breakdowns. While the health department's data showed a higher number of units supplied, when DH contacted individual hospitals, it was revealed that they received fewer machines. According to the health department's data, MS Ramaiah Hospital received 60 ventilators, out of which 50 had already been supplied and the remaining 10 were dispatched on May 11 this year. On the contrary, the hospital's Associate Dean Dr Harish K said they had received only 40 ventilators. He pointed out that while the hospital's ventilators procured directly from companies were of superior quality and efficient, the ventilators provided under the PM Cares Fund, 'frequently go out of order.' "During the second wave's peak, ventilators ran 24/7. They weren't very sturdy while we needed them for long hours. With Covid, no ventilator can be given a rest. Every one or two days they would break down. At any given time, only 25 would be functional and the remaining would be constantly under repair. The machines would get heated up and start malfunctioning. We had to switch them off for six hours before using them again. There were a lot of issues," he said. Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute Dean Dr CP Nanjaraj revealed more serious problems. "The modes in the ventilator would automatically switch between non-invasive ventilation, paediatric and adult modes," he said. This required constant monitoring by the nurses who were in short supply. "Each ventilator patient needs three to four nurses doing six to eight-hour shifts each. In contrast, we had one nurse for 10 patients. This time we have sought 270 nurses for 90 of our ventilators. All 93 ventilators were occupied by Covid patients during the peak this year," he said. They have been supplied 50 ventilators so far. Similarly, according to the health department's data, Rajarajeswari Medical College (RRMC) and Kempegowda Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) were supplied 35 and 30 ventilators respectively. But RRMC said it received only 20 ventilators which developed snags that the hospital repaired by itself. KIMS said it had received only 20 ventilators.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/176-pm-cares-ventilators-lie-uninstalled-in-karnataka-installed-ones-break-down-frequently-1013456.html
27-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka BJP legislature party meeting in progress, to pick Yediyurappa's successor||Amid heightened suspense, a meeting of the ruling BJP's legislature party in Karnataka is underway here, which is slated to pick a successor to outgoing Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. BJP's central observers -- Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and G Kishan Reddy -- are attending the meeting being held at a private hotel here, to elect its new leader. The observers met Yediyurappa, who is now the caretaker Chief Minister, at his official residence, ahead of the legislature party meeting. Yediyurappa is also attending the meeting. Central observers generally convey the party leadership's view to the MLAs before they elect their leader. Earlier in the day, BJP national general secretary in-charge of Karnataka Arun Singh along with state president Nalin Kumar Kateel also met Yediyurappa. Speaking to reporters, Singh said, "As per the parliamentary board's directions at the legislature party meeting the leader will be elected." Also appreciating Yediyurappa government's "good job" in the last two years, he said, "it has worked for every section and sector. He (Yediyurappa) has had a long experience in party organisation and the government. Party will continue to get his guidance and will reap benefits from his experience." There is no clarity as to whom the party will pick to lead the government for the rest of its term and the party during the 2023 assembly polls, as over half a dozen names are doing the rounds. Names are being speculated on the caste and loyalty grounds, amid reports that there may be a "dark horse".+ Among those whose names are doing the rounds from the Veerashaiva-Lingayat community to which Yediyuyrappa also belongs, are Basavaraj S Bommai, Murugesh Nirani, who were his colleagues, in the dissolved Cabinet and also MLAs Arvind Bellad and Basanagouda Patil Yatnal. Names from the Vokkaliga, another dominant community, include BJP national general secretary C T Ravi, R Ashoka and C N Ashwath Narayan, who had served as Minister and Deputy Chief Minister under Yediyurappa. Ending months of speculation over his exit, Yediyurappa on Monday stepped down as the Chief Minister, coinciding with his government completing two years in office. Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot accepted the 78-year-old BJP veteran's resignation, and dissolved the Council of Ministers headed by him, with immediate effect. The notification from the Raj Bhavan said Yediyurappa shall continue to function as Chief Minister till alternative arrangements are made.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-bjp-legislature-party-meeting-in-progress-to-pick-yediyurappas-successor-1013513.html
27-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Basavaraj Bommai is the new Karnataka CM||Five-time legislator Basavaraj Bommai will take oath as Karnataka’s chief minister on Wednesday, a decision the BJP took after weighing several factors, including the caste and the region he represents.  Though Bommai will be Karnataka’s 26th CM, the state had many chief ministers who held the post on more than one occasion. Bommai, 61, was “unanimously” elected on Tuesday as the BJP Legislature Party leader, a process overseen by Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and G Kishan Reddy.  Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot will administer the oath of office to Bommai at 11 am in Raj Bhavan.  Bommai listed out Covid-19, floods and improving the state’s finances as his priorities. “I will work day and night to take Karnataka to newer heights on all fronts,” Bommai said, vowing to give a pro-people administration.  With under two years to go for the 2023 elections, the BJP found a safe bet in Bommai as he ticks enough boxes: He is a Lingayat, the party’s traditional support base; he represents Shiggaon in Haveri, a north Karnataka district; he comes with prior administrative experience and he is known to maintain a cordial relationship with leaders from all parties.  Bommai is seen as a trusted aide of outgoing Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, also a Lingayat. In fact, it was Yediyurappa who proposed Bommai’s name in the legislature party, which was seconded by seven other legislators, leading to Pradhan making the final declaration. Bommai was nursing chief ministerial ambitions since November-December last, it is learnt. Unlike Yediyurappa, who belongs to the Ganiga sub-sect, Bommai is a Sadar-Lingayat, which is not a dominant group within the Lingayats. However, by replacing one Lingayat with another, the BJP appears to have been mindful of the impact of making a non-Lingayat chief minister. The threat of backlash was looming with several Lingayat pontiffs backing Yediyurappa. Plus, Yediyurappa’s tearful exit ran the risk of showing the BJP in a harsh role, antagonising the dominant community.  Bommai will be the 8th chief minister from north Karnataka, a Lingayat-dominated region that supplies over 50 MLAs to the BJP of the 96 constituencies there.  There were demands from within the party that Yediyurappa’s successor should be someone from this region. Bommai emerged over Murugesh Nirani, Arvind Bellad, Basanagouda Patil Yatnal and Shivakumar Udasi -- all Lingayat names from north Karnataka that were doing the rounds. Yatnal, who came to the legislature party meet clean shaven, left in a huff. Bommai is passionate about irrigation, a key area for the government. He also represents Karnataka in the GST Council thanks to his hold over financial matters.  Bommai said he would follow in Yediyurappa’s footsteps. “I want to make all his dreams come true through the budget and government programmes.” He added that the party had not imposed any conditions dictating his tenure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/basavaraj-bommai-is-the-new-karnataka-cm-1013515.html
27-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19, floods, finances are new Karnataka CM Bommai’s priorities||Karnataka chief minister-designate Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday listed Covid-19, floods and improving the state’s finances as his priorities, in his first statement after being picked by the BJP to head the new government.  “The faith and expectations that people have in the BJP...I will work day and night to take Karnataka to newer heights on all fronts,” Bommai said. “Handling the Covid-19 pandemic, the flood situation and reforming the state’s finances will be my priorities,” he said.  Thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, BJP national president J P Nadda and outgoing chief minister B S Yediyurappa, Bommai said: “They have blessed me.”  Bommai added that his appointment as the chief minister was unconditional. “No conditions have been imposed on me.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-floods-finances-are-new-karnataka-cm-bommai-s-priorities-1013524.html
27-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||10 things to know about Karnataka's new CM Basavaraj Bommai||After the departure of B S Yediyurappa as Karnataka Chief Minister, the BJP on Tuesday chose three-time legislator Basavaraj Bommai as his successor. The decision was taken at the BJP Legislature Party meeting whose proceedings were overseen by Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and G Kishan Reddy.  Here are 10 things to know about the new Karnataka CM: - Basavaraj Bommai started his political career in Janata Dal. and later joined the BJP in 2008. - He is the son of the state's former Chief Minister SR Bommai. - 61-year-old Bommai represents Shiggaon in Haveri, a north Karnataka district, and belongs to the Lingayat community like Yediyurappa, the traditional support base for the BJP in the state. - However, Bommai belongs to the sub-sect Sadar-Lingayat, which is not a dominant group within the Lingayats. While Yediyurappa belongs to the Ganiga sub-sect. - The three-time legislator has served in water resources and home departments.   - He was also a member of the Manifesto Committee for the last three elections.   - Bommai, along with experience in the administration, is also known to maintain cordial relationships with leaders from other parties.   - As a water resource minister, he is largely credited for the irrigation schemes across Karnataka.  - Bommai is a mechanical engineer by training and has worked with the Tata group early in his career.  - He also joins the class of father-son duo CMs to serve Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/10-things-to-know-about-karnatakas-new-cm-basavaraj-bommai-1013528.html
27-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Basavaraj Bommai: Cricket enthusiast, mechanical engineer with Janata Dal roots||Basavaraj Bommai's appointment as Karnataka's 26th chief minister is the second instance in the state's politics for a father-son duo to have occupied the top post. His father S R Bommai, a Janata Party leader, served as the state's 11th chief minister for one year between 1988 and 1989. The other father-son duo to have occupied the chief minister's post are JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda and H D Kumaraswamy. Bommai, too, began his political career in the undivided Janata Dal. After completing mechanical engineering from the BV Bhoomareddy College of Engineering and Technical Education, Hubballi, Bommai worked in a private company for two years. Born in January 28, 1960, Bommai was a student activist and led a Yuva Janata Dal rally in Hubli in 1993. In 1995, he was appointed as the general secretary of Janata Dal. The same year he was a part of the effort to resolve the Eidgah Maidan conflict in Hubballi. He served as the political secretary to the then chief minister J H Patel in 1996-1997. Between 1997 and 2003, he won twice as MLC from Hubli-Dharwad-Gadag (Local Authorities Constituency).  In 2008, Bommai jumped to the BJP from JD(U). He contested as a candidate from Shiggaon in Haveri, a constituency he has won thrice since. He served for five years as the water resources minister during the B S Yediyurappa-D V Sadananda Gowda-Jagadish Shettar regime between 2008 and 2013.   The three-time MLA served as the home minister in the previous Yediyurappa government. Bommai will be the 8th chief minister from north Karnataka. The others include, B D Jatti, S R Kanthi, S Nijalingappa, Veerendra Patil, S R Bommai, Dharam Singh and Jagadish Shettar.  Bommai and his wife Chennamma have two children - Bharath and Aditi. The new chief minister's hobbies include reading, writing, cricket and golf. He was once chairperson of the Karnataka State Cricket Association, Dharwad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/basavaraj-bommai-cricket-enthusiast-mechanical-engineer-with-janata-dal-roots-1013534.html
27-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Plaints galore before KSCPCR over blocking of online classes||It’s been hardly a month since classes for the current academic year commenced, but complaints are on the rise, before the Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (KSCPCR), against schools over blocking online classes. As per the data available with the commission, for the last two weeks, around 20 complaints were received from parents of different private unaided schools in Bengaluru and a majority of them are affiliated to central boards. Recently, the commission issued notices to over 15 schools, asking them to unblock the online classes. An official from the Commission told DH, “After the recent hearing of the cases by the Commission, some schools have unblocked the online classes. But fresh cases have started coming in.” According to parents, this is mainly because of the silence on the part of the department of public instruction over the fee controversy. Officials from the department said, “As the matter is in High Court, we have requested the court to constitute a committee of retired judges to decide over it.” However, private school managements are demanding that parents clear at least half of the fees. D Shashi Kumar, general secretary of Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said, “It is difficult for schools to sustain if the parents refuse to pay the fees. If parents want their children to continue with the online classes, at least they must pay the minimum fees for the current academic year. Even the authorities like KSCPCR must understand the crisis that the schools are in.” Some of the parents have approached the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority over the fee issues and have requested for legal assistance. During the 2020-21 academic year, the government had issued an order reducing the fees by 30%, but it was only for that academic year. This year, there is no decision yet from the government or the department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/plaints-galore-before-kscpcr-over-blocking-of-online-classes-1013581.html
27-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Centre releases Rs 629 crore to Karnataka||The Centre has released Rs 629 crore to Karnataka to take up relief works for floods due to excessive rain in 2020. The Union Home Ministry has approved the release of this fund under the National Disaster Relief Fund (NDRF), Union Minister of State for Agriculture Shobha Karandlaje said in a statement. Large parts of this money will be distributed to farmers who have lost crops due to heavy rain and landslides last year in the state, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/centre-releases-rs-629-crore-to-karnataka-1013585.html
27-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Yediyurappa, senior BJP leaders congratulate Karnataka CM-elect Basavaraj Bommai||Senior BJP leaders including B S Yediyurappa, party state chief Nalin Kumar Kateel and BJP general secretary B L Santhosh congratulated the Karnataka Chief Minister-elect Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday. "We have unanimously elected Basavaraj as the BJP legislature party leader. We all are very happy. Under the leadership of union minister Dharmendra Pradhanji (central observer) we have elected. I thank Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his support," the outgoing Chief Minister Yediyurappa told reporters soon after Bommai was elected as leader at the BJP legislature party. He also tweeted greeting the 61-year-old Bommai saying, "I am confident you will lead Karnataka in the path of development and fulfill the aspirations of people of the state." In his congratulatory tweet, Santhosh said, "A seasoned politician & an old hand at administration, he (Bommai) will take the State to new heights in development." Kateel said Bommai has been elected unanimously and everyone extended their support to him. He also said Yediyurappa is the leader under whose guidance the party organisation and government will work. Greeting Bommai, former Chief Minister and the JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy said, "I expect you to offer relief to the State, which is caught in the whirlpool of problems. You have knowledge about irrigation matters. I believe you will pay attention to the injustice being caused to the State on issues like dam construction." Congratulating Bommai, Congress state president D K Shivakumar said: "Congress party and the state hopes that the focus will be back on governance now."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/yediyurappa-senior-bjp-leaders-congratulate-karnataka-cm-elect-basavaraj-bommai-1013588.html
27-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Everything is transparent: Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai on graft charges against Vijayendra||Karnataka Chief Minister-designate Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday refused to comment on corruption allegations leveled against outgoing chief minister B S Yediyurappa’s son B Y Vijayendra. “Everything is transparent. So, I won’t unnecessarily rake up issues now. My administration will be honest is all I can say,” Bommai told reporters at the BJP headquarters. A section of BJP MLAs, including former union minister Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, have accused Vijayendra, the BJP vice-president, of corruption. Thanking PM Modi, Yediyurappa and others for making him the chief minister, Bommai pointed out that he did not visit New Delhi to lobby for it. “They recognised me,” he said. The only time Bommai went to the national capital was in May. He went with Vijayendra, which sparked off speculation that the BJP was looking to set the ball rolling on replacing Yediyurappa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/everything-is-transparent-karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-on-graft-charges-against-vijayendra-1013618.html
27-07-2021||West||Bombay HC extends Raj Kundra's judicial custody till August 10||A Mumbai court on Tuesday remanded businessman Raj Kundra in 14-day judicial custody in a case related to alleged creation of pornographic films and publishing them through some apps. Kundra, husband of Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty, was arrested July 19 by the Mumbai police crime branch under sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act. He was produced before a magistrate's court here at the end his police remand on Tuesday. The court sent him in judicial custody for 14 days. Kundra moved the court for bail and his plea was kept for hearing on Wednesday. The crime branch earlier told the court that Kundra had plans to sell 119 adult films to a person for $1.2 million. The police claimed that during the probe into the case, it was found that Kundra set up Armsprime Media Pvt Ltd, which, through London-based Kenrin Pvt Ltd, bought 'Hotshots' app to upload objectional videos on social media. The police also claimed to have found 51 obscene videos-- 35 with Hotshots logo and 16 with BollyFame logo, during searches at the office of the accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-hc-extends-raj-kundras-judicial-custody-till-august-10-1013339.html
27-07-2021||West||Chiplun bus depot manager sits atop submerged bus for nine hours to save Rs 9 lakh cash from floods||Amid the heavy rains in Maharashtra's Chiplun town last week, the manager of a state transport bus depot showed immense courage as he sat atop a submerged bus for about nine hours to prevent Rs 9 lakh cash collected as daily revenue from getting destroyed in the floodwaters. This act of depot manager Ranjeet Raje-Shirke is being widely praised by his colleagues and other people. The Chiplun town in Ratnagiri district of Konkan region was pounded by heavy rains last Thursday, causing severe flooding in the area. The water level at the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation's (MSRTC) depot there also kept rising, submerging buses parked in the premises. However, undeterred by the weather fury, Raje-Shirke, climbed the roof a submerged bus and sat there for around nine hours to save the cash from getting damaged, before he was rescued by police. Recalling the tense period, Raje-Shirke told PTI on Tuesday that as the water level started going up at his office after heavy showers, the depot watchman called him up around 3.30 am. "When I reached the premises around 3.45 am, my office was under neck-deep water. I still decided to enter the office and recovered Rs 9 lakh cash kept there, which was collected as daily revenue," the official said. However, he could not leave the depot premises because of severe flooding all around. "To prevent the cash from getting damaged, I wrapped it in a plastic bag and me and another colleague climbed on one of the submerged buses around 6 am," the official said. Five other ST staffers climbed on another flooded bus, he said. "The buses were shaking due to the force of water and we were scared of falling down, but we still tried to sit firm atop the submerged vehicles," he said. "All of us kept sitting on top of the buses in the heavy rain till 3 pm, when a police team arrived and rescued us," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/chiplun-bus-depot-manager-sits-atop-submerged-bus-for-nine-hours-to-save-rs-9-lakh-cash-from-floods-1013352.html
27-07-2021||West||Harappan-era Gujarat city Dholavira inscribed on UNESCO World Heritage List||Harappan-era city of Dholavira in Kutch district has been added to UNESCO World Heritage List, the organisation announced on Tuesday. Hours after the announcement, the Gujarat government said in a statement that "Placing Dholavira, the oldest town of Harappan culture in Kutch district, UNESCO has given Gujarat the pride of being a state with four World Heritage Sites." Earlier in Champaner in 2004, Rani ki Vav in Patan in 2014, Ahmedabad city in 2017 had been added to the list of world heritage sites. The Gujarat government's statement said that it was a "proud movement" for the state that Dholavira has found a place on the list. It credited Prime Minister Narendra Modi for bringing "India's ancient heritage and culture to the world stage." "Dholavira was an important urban centre and is one of our most important linkages with our past. It is a must visit, especially for those interested in history, culture and archaeology," PM Modi commented while sharing the news. Absolutely delighted by this news. He added, "I first visited Dholavira during my student days and was mesmerised by the place. As CM of Gujarat, I had the opportunity to work on aspects relating to heritage conservation and restoration in Dholavira. Our team also worked to create tourist-friendly infrastructure there." I first visited Dholavira during my student days and was mesmerised by the place. “Dholavira: A Harappan city, in India, just inscribed on the @UNESCO #WorldHeritage List. Congratulations!” UNESCO tweeted. The ongoing 44th session of the World Heritage Committee of UNESCO has already given India a new world heritage site in the form of the Rudreswara/Ramappa Temple in Telangana, which dates back to the 13th century. 🔴 BREAKING! This session of the World Heritage Committee is being chaired from Fuzhou in China and is being held online. It started on July 16 and will end on July 31. The 44th session combines current work and issues left outstanding since last year when the annual meeting was postponed due to Covid-19. “It gives immense pride to share with my fellow Indians that #Dholavira is now the 40th treasure in India to be given @UNESCO’s World Heritage Inscription. Another feather in India’s cap as we now enter the Super-40 club for World Heritage Site inscriptions,” Minister of Culture G Kishan Reddy said in a tweet. Today is a proud day for India, especially for the people of Gujarat, he said.“Since 2014, India has added 10 new World Heritage sites – one-fourth of our total sites. This shows PM @arendramodi’s steadfast commitment in promoting Indian culture, heritage and the Indian way of life,” Reddy tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/harappan-era-gujarat-city-dholavira-inscribed-on-unesco-world-heritage-list-1013461.html
27-07-2021||West||Row over alleged discrimination in Sabarimala priest selection||A row over alleged discrimination and casteism in the appointment of Sabarimala 'Melsanthi' (head priest) has erupted in Kerala. At least seven priests from non-Brahmin communities have approached the Kerala High Court against the notification of the Travancore Devaswom Board, which manages the temple, inviting applications for Sabarimala head priest that states that only 'Malayala Brahmins' could apply for the post. The High Court is scheduled to consider the matter on Wednesday. While the petitioners maintain that the notification amounted to discrimination and is against the Constitution, the TDB is of the view that the criteria for the Sabarimala head priest appointment has been approved by the Kerala High Court much earlier. Though a priest from the Hindu Ezhava community, Vishnu Narayanan, had challenged the notification in 2017, the case was still pending. The HC had then appointed an amicus curiae. But nothing happened thereafter, said Narayanan, who has also filed a fresh petition now. The major contention of the petitioners is that right to offer poojas at Sabarimala was not a hereditary or traditional right and hence it could not claim any exemption as contemplated under the provisions of the Travancore Cochin Hindu Religious Institutions Act 1950. Meanwhile, the Devaswaom Board argues that the guidelines for Sabarimala head priest appointment were approved by the High Court in July 2002 as part of a case related to selection of head priest. It mentions that only 'Malayala Brahmins' could be the Sabarimala head priest. But the petitioners maintain that in October 2002, the Supreme Court order upheld the appointment of a non Malayali Brahmin as priest of Kongorpilly Neerikode Siva Temple at Alangad in Ernakulam district in the poplar case N Adithayan versus TDB. The apex court then maintained that there was no justification for insisting that persons of a particular caste alone can conduct poojas in temples. Amal C Rajan, who has been fighting against the alleged discrimination, said that the only question was whether there was any hereditary or traditional rights for Sabarimala head priest. Since it was not there, all Hindu priests are eligible to be Sabarimala head priests. Only the Sabarimala 'Thantri' (Chief Priest) post is having a hereditary right, which is not being challenged, he said. TDB president N Vasu said that the Sabarimala head priest appointment was being conducted as per the norms already approved by the court. If the court gives a different directive the board would definitely oblige, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/row-over-alleged-discrimination-in-sabarimala-priest-selection-1013479.html
27-07-2021||West||Mumbai police nab gangster Ravi Pujari's henchman in arms case||The Anti-Extortion Cell (AEC) of the Mumbai police's crime branch arrested a henchman of gangster Ravi Pujari, wanted for the murder of a local politician, in an arms case, an official said on Tuesday. Sadiq Bangali (44), a sharpshooter from Pujari's gang, was apprehended from suburban Cotton Green on Friday night, in connection with an arms case, the official said. Based on a tip-off about sale of illegal firearms, the AEC laid a trap near Cotton Exchange building, where they caught Bangali with a country-made pistol, a country-made revolver and 15 live cartridges, he said. The accused was wanted in connection with the killing of local politician Rahul Shetty in Lonavala of Pune district, he said, adding that he will be handed over to the local police there. Investigations have revealed that Bangali was involved in 15 serious offences such as murder and attempt to murder in Pune, Navi Mumbai and Mumbai, the official said. The accused was acquitted in the murder case of Devidas Chougule, brother of Shiv Sena leader Vijay Chougule, in Navi Mumbai, he said. Bangali was also involved in the firing at filmmaker Mahesh Bhatt's office, which he had carried out on Pujari's direction, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-nab-gangster-ravi-pujaris-henchman-in-arms-case-1013508.html
