28-07-2021||First Edit||A crucial ruling on legislative domains||The Supreme Court's judgement striking down parts of the 97th Constitutional Amendment dealing with cooperative societies is an important assertion of the rights of states. The judgement has particular relevance in the context of the formation of a Union Ministry of Co-operation and discussions about its purpose, role and scope. The judgement annulled Part IX B introduced by the Constitution (97th Amendment) Act, 2011, to the extent that it deals with state cooperative societies on the ground that it was passed without obtaining the ratification of at least one-half of the state legislatures as mandated by the Constitution. It upheld a 2013 judgement of the Gujarat High Court partially, and held that the amendment would hold good for multi-state cooperative societies, on which Parliament is competent to enact laws. Cooperative societies are a state subject. The constitutional amendment was done with the intention of improving their functioning. Most cooperative societies are known to be poorly managed and ill-regulated and lacking in transparency. They control large parts of the economy in some states like Maharashtra and are vulnerable to control by politicians. The amendment was intended to make them more autonomous and democratic and to encourage professional management. It laid down some guidelines for state legislation on cooperatives which touched upon their structure, composition and functioning. These included provisions related to reservation of seats for SC/STs and women, duration of the tenure of elected members, etc. The court has found that this is an encroachment into the jurisdiction of states. States did not object to these provisions, but the court felt that Parliament could not make laws on state subjects. It found that the amendment went against the basic structure of the Constitution. The court said this clearly: “There can be no doubt that our Constitution has been described as quasi-federal in that, so far as legislative powers are concerned, though there is a tilt in favour of the Centre vis-à-vis the states given the federal supremacy principle...yet within their own sphere, the states have exclusive power to legislate on topics reserved exclusively to them.” Any further move by the Centre on cooperative societies or on any subject that falls within the state list will have to take into consideration this ruling by the Supreme Court. Though the judgement is about the legislative powers of state Assemblies and Parliament they hold good for executive powers also, because executive powers are co-extensive with legislative powers. That would mean that the powers of the newly created Ministry of Co-operation will be limited to multi-state cooperative societies. State cooperative societies will be outside its domain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/a-crucial-ruling-on-legislative-domains-1013650.html
28-07-2021||In Perspective||Tap Taiwan to learn Mandarin||Confucius Institutes (CI), an integral part of the Chinese Ministry of Education-backed initiative to ensure global outreach of Chinese language and culture, are seen as the Chinese Communist Party’s propaganda, detrimental to the academic freedom of partner institutes with their overwhelming ideological influence and silencing effect. Last year, the US designated CI as ‘foreign mission.’ India’s Ministry of Education also sought to review their agreements or educational activities with Indian institutions. The government went further to discourage learning of Mandarin at both secondary school and higher education levels to dampen Chinese influence. But, with an ever more consequential Chinese leviathan, the need of the hour is not to remove Mandarin as a foreign language, but to find a more secure way to grow cohorts that speak the language and understand the Chinese mind. The answer is obvious: cooperation with Taiwan. Taiwan is multilingual, with indigenous languages Hokkien and Hakka being the mother tongues of a majority, but Mandarin Chinese has been a national language on the island since 1945. Taiwan has not only held on to the traditional Chinese characters but also utilized Zhùyīn fúhào, a phonetic transliteration to help young learners of the language. Taiwan is increasingly sought out as a prominent destination for advanced Mandarin training by both professionals and students. Currently, there are 62 Mandarin Chinese language centres affiliated with universities across Taiwan. In 2020, more than 32,000 international students came to Taiwan to learn Mandarin. Huayu Enrichment Scholarship Program, the financial support extended under Taiwan’s Education Ministry, has almost doubled the number of international students thus enrolled over the past decade. To cater to global demand, Taiwan has strengthened its training and capacity of language professionals and institutions under its Eight-year Chinese Language Education Promotion Plan (2013-2020). It has also made an active decision to enable international students studying in Taiwan to stay for work after graduation. Under the New Southbound Policy, the grand strategy to network Taiwan to India and the ASEAN states, many Taiwanese universities have actively approached India to develop a durable Mandarin exchange environment. At present, there are 18 Taiwan Education Centres (TEC) across India. Most of them were founded through bilateral partnership between Indian universities and their Taiwanese counterparts while others were sponsored by Taipei Economic and Cultural Centre in India. The National Tsinghua University of Taiwan, a research university ranked among the top 200 in the world, has established TECs in eight universities of India, including IIT Madras and Mumbai. National Chung Hsing University, the best educational institution in agriculture and environmental studies in Taiwan, is initiating TEC programmes with partner universities in Assam and Mizoram. These centres do not just provide courses in Mandarin Chinese but also serve as a platform for facilitating India-Taiwan research collaborations. The China Studies community in India has long believed that it is necessary to build up an indigenous stronghold in Mandarin training to better grasp Chinese politics and decipher Chinese actions. The CCP’s institutions of internationalisation of Chinese culture are not the only representatives of Chinese culture and a peek at Taiwan’s rich Mandarin training culture is an example of that. As a young democracy committed to maintaining an open society, Taiwan is an ideal partner to mutually develop language training and cultural courses. Taiwan’s Sinophone is broader and better than the CCP version. To prompt such a development, the role of political elites, government institutions and policy itself become inevitable in ensuring financial resources and public interest in learning Mandarin in India. A rather neglected feature of NEP 2020 is the states’ autonomy in allotting resources and time to both local and foreign languages. In this globalised era, state governments need to branch out and capture this ‘Taiwan moment’. The inclusion of Taiwanese universities under the Education ministry’s Scheme for Promotion of Research Collaboration (SPARC) is a positive step but the opportunities for long-term language training is skewed under its project-based collaboration. To become and act as a global power, India has to start thinking like one. India needs Mandarin professionals trained in a democratic and rigorous environment. Thinking long-term, it has to not only introduce a comprehensive Mandarin training framework, but also introduce all-inclusive scholarships and initiatives for it not limited to military professionals and civil servants. If we are to go by Kautilya’s Arthashastra, is it not that your neighbours’ neighbour is your friend. New Delhi does consider China to be a competitor; so, knowing China better should be a strong objective. India needs more China experts with formal Mandarin Chinese training. And Taiwan is the key to that. Discouraging inclusion of Mandarin from the language curriculum is not in India’s interest; encouraging cooperation with Taiwan is. (The writer is a PhD Candidate at the Graduate Institute of International Politics at National Chung Hsing University, Taiwan. She is also interning as a Research Assistant with Taiwan Nextgen Foundation, Taipei)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/tap-taiwan-to-learn-mandarin-1013651.html
28-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Male tiger found dead in Nagarahole Park limits||An eight-year-old male tiger was found dead at Mathigodu beat limits in the Anechowkuru range, which comes under the Nagarahole National Park limits, on Tuesday. The tiger might have died of injuries in a territorial fight with another tiger, said Nagarahole Tiger Project Director Mahesh Kumar. Veterinarian Dr Mujeeb conducted the post mortem of the tiger. ACF Satish also visited the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/male-tiger-found-dead-in-nagarahole-park-limits-1013783.html
28-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Two held for selling fake stone as 'nagamani' for Rs 30 lakh in Hanur||Police have arrested two persons for allegedly cheating a Bengaluru-based man of Rs 30 lakh by selling a fake stone terming it as 'nagamani'. The arrested are Sannappagowda of Yarambadi village and Tangavelu of Koodaluru village of Hanur taluk. However, the prime accused Raju of Saragur village of Kollegal taluk is at large. According to police, Raju, along with his friends, had sold a shining stone to Manish of Bengaluru, around a month ago, convincing him that it was 'nagamani'. Manish realised that he had been cheated after a few days and lodged a complaint with Ramapura police on July 26. Police, who initiated a probe, were successful in nabbing the accused. Search is on to nab Raju. Manish had told the police that he had purchased the stone as there is a belief that 'nagamani' brings prosperity and good luck. According to police, the arrested Sannappagowda and accused Raju were habitual offenders. They had cheated one Gangadhar of Bengaluru in 2006-07 by selling a fake stone as 'nagamani' for lakhs of rupees. They were then sentenced to jail but seem to have used the same modus operandi to cheat another person.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-held-for-selling-fake-stone-as-nagamani-for-rs-30-lakh-in-hanur-1013785.html
28-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||JD(S) leader Madhu Bangarappa to embrace Congress on July 30||Former MLA and JD(S) leader Madhu Bangarappa would embrace Congress officially in divisional-level convention slated to be held in Hubballi on July 30 at 9:00 am. Speaking to media persons, here on Wednesday, he said Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala, in-charge of party affairs in Karnataka Randeep Surjewala, KPCC President D K Shivakumar, former chief minister Siddaramaiah and other leaders would be present in the event.  Madhu is the son of former chief minister the late S Bangarappa and he was elected as legislator from Sorab once. He worked for the development of Sorab during his tenure as MLA. His presence in Congress will prove beneficial for the party.  He said District Congress Committee President H S Sundaresh and many leaders of the district will take part in the convention slated to be held in Hubballi.  Congress leaders L Rame Gowda, Halesh Naik, Madya Naik, Rekha Naik and Yogish Naik were present in press conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/jds-leader-madhu-bangarappa-to-embrace-congress-on-july-30-1013852.html
28-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka-Andhra Pradesh border survey in Ballari completed: Centre||A demarcation survey of the border between Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh in Ballari district has been completed and both the states have accepted it, Union Minister of State for Ministry of Home Affairs Nityanand Rai informed Rajya Sabha on Monday. Replying to K C Ramamurthy's question, the Supreme Court of India directed the Centre to implement the report of Surveyor General of India on demarcation of boundary between Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka in the relevant stretches falling in Ballari reserve forest. “After detailed deliberation on the matter and, with the consent of both the States, the Surveyor General of India was requested to do the formal demarcation of boundary between Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka," the minister said in his written reply. “The demarcation work was carried out jointly by Survey of India and the representatives of both the State Governments. 76 Inter State Border Pillars for demarcation with responsibility for maintenance of even number pillars with Andhra Pradesh and odd number pillars with Karnataka have been constructed,”' the minister said. "All the field records pertaining to joint Inter State Boundary demarcation work have been duly signed/accepted by both the state governments," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-andhra-pradesh-border-survey-in-ballari-completed-centre-1013908.html
28-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka's first waste-to-charcoal plant likely to be ready in Hubballi by next July||Karnataka's first plant to convert municipal solid waste into torrefied charcoal, which would be used to generate electricity in thermal plants, is expected to be commissioned in Hubballi by July next year. NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam (a subsidiary of National Thermal Power Corporation Limited) would set up this plant near Gabbur on the outskirts of the city, for which the Hubballi-Dharwad Mahanagara Palike (HDMP) would provide 12 acres of land. The civic body has to supply 200 tonnes of combustible waste, and 25 KL of water to this plant daily. HDMP and NVVM signed an MoU to set up this plant nearly 10 months ago. After getting the State Cabinet's approval to hand over the land, the HDMP officials are now working on agreements to be signed on issues like land use and waste supply. The NVVN is expected to float the tender to set up the plant soon, after getting the nod from the pollution control board. "After signing the MoU, giving clarifications to queries, preparing the feasibility report and getting approvals at different levels took time. Now, the final approval from the Cabinet is given, and the plant would be commissioned by July next year," said HDMP Commissioner Suresh Itnal. The NVVN would spend Rs 40 crore for setting up this plant, and torrefied charcoal produced from 200 tonnes of dry waste daily would be used to generate one lakh units of electricity. Though the HDMP would not get any revenue, this plant would help to achieve total waste treatment in the twin cities, he noted. The HDMP has already set up windrow plants at garbage yards on Karwar Road in Hubballi, and at Hosayallapur in Dharwad, to convert wet waste into compost. However, proper treatment of dry waste has been a long-pending issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnatakas-first-waste-to-charcoal-plant-likely-to-be-ready-in-hubballi-by-next-july-1013963.html
28-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||PM Modi congratulates Bommai, lauds Yediyurappa's contribution||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday congratulated Basavaraj Bommai on taking oath as the new chief minister of Karnataka and said he brings with him rich legislative and administrative experience. In his tweets, Modi also praised former Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, saying no words will ever do justice to his "monumental contribution" to the BJP and the growth of its members. "For decades, he toiled hard, travelled across all parts of Karnataka and struck a chord with people. He is admired for his commitment to social welfare," the Prime Minister said. Congratulating Bommai, the Prime Minister said, "He brings with him rich legislative and administrative experience. I am confident he will build on the exceptional work done by our Government in the state. Best wishes for a fruitful tenure." Replying to the PM, Bommai said, "Thank you for reposing faith in me.  I assure you an efficient and transparent good governance in Karnataka which are your ideals and also assure your vision of “vibrant Bharat” will be fulfilled in Karnataka." Union Home Minister Amit Shah said, "I am sure under the guidance of PM Narendra Modiji, he will further boost BJP’s resolve to serve the poor and farmers of the state with his wisdom and experience." Hailing former Chief Minister, the Home Minister said, "Yediyurappaji has served the party and people of Karnataka with utmost devotion. His contribution and hard work towards strengthening the BJP at the grassroots level in Karnataka is truly inspiring. I am sure he will continue to guide the party and government." Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/pm-modi-congratulates-bommai-lauds-yediyurappas-contribution-1013747.html
28-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai refutes 'rubber stamp' notion; says it will be team effort||Amid chatter that he will be a “rubber stamp, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday asserted that his governance will be a team effort. Speaking to reporters, Bommai said the power centre in the new government will not be with any individual, but it will be vested with the team. “I want this government to have a people-centric stamp,” Bommai said, answering a question on whether he will work independent of other influences within the party, especially of his predecessor B S Yediyurappa. It is widely believed that Yediyurappa played a significant role in Bommai’s elevation as the CM.  Being a Yediyurappa loyalist, there is talk in the party that Bommai will be reduced to a “rubber stamp.”  However, Bommai said he would fill in Yediyurappa’s shoes when it came to Covid-19 management. “During Covid, Yediyurappa has managed the administrative and financial situation well. I will work towards doing justice to his thoughts and actions on these lines,” he said. “There are different government wings and the CM is the team leader. I want to take everyone along,” Bommai said.  Bijapur City MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, who has been a vocal critic of the Yediyurappa administration, expressed solidarity with Bommai. On being asked whether Bommai would remain in Yediyurappa’s shadow, Yatnal said: “Bommai is intelligent. He will work independently even though some people are making allegations about him becoming a rubber stamp. He will not be anyone’s shadow,” he said, adding that Bommai will distance himself from “that family” to take everyone along, referring to Yediyurappa’s family. BJP vice-president and Yediyurappa’s son B Y Vijayendra said on Wednesday that he was happy that he did not carry the ‘super CM’ tag anymore. Vijayendra was dubbed “super CM” due to his alleged interference in the Yediyurappa administration. Asked about Yediyurappa becoming a power centre in the Bommai government, Vijayendra said: “Bommai has been chosen as the CM unanimously. I request the media to let go of such speculation at least now.”  To lessen the delay in file movements a new system will be introduced, and a file clearance drive will be held and detailed order will be issued in this regard, he said. "Intention is to bring in an updated file clearance system, where files are cleared within 15 days." Speaking on improving the state's financial condition, the Chief Minister said discussions will soon be held with the finance department on reducing committed expenditure along with planned expenditure, aimed at bringing in financial discipline. "The immediate priority is Covid and floods management," he said, adding, steps that need to be taken on controlling the possible coronavirus third wave and vaccination, will be given utmost importance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-refutes-rubber-stamp-notion-says-it-will-be-team-effort-1013888.html
28-07-2021||Main Article||Pegasus snoopgate: The Orwellian apocalypse||Upon discovery of a leaked database of 50,000 numbers worldwide, which may have been targeted for surveillance by clients of the Israeli NSO Group, maker of the Pegasus spyware, there has been a great hue and cry in India, partly because NSO Group has made it known that it sells its spyware only to “vetted governments” around the world to combat terrorism. In the Indian context, the thought that some highly placed individuals were potential targets of government or military services— when the air is thick with toxic discourses of what constitutes anti-nationalism— is unnerving, because such remote surveillance through an individual’s smartphone, secretly unlocking its contents and transforming the phone into a listening and seeing device, thrives on State paranoia. Surveillance could bolster State security, but in its crudest form has enabled practices of colonial rule, perpetuated racist and gendered forms of identification and classification, regulated and policed migration, and contained dissent. Such surveillance— which means “watching from above”— implies a power relationship that seeks to control, regulate, or modulate behaviour.   Way back in 1791, the social reformer and philosopher Jeremy Bentham introduced a new type of penitentiary design that he called the Panopticon, Greek for ‘all-seeing place’. Panopticism thrives on the belief that control over individuals is made possible through a system that “facilitates the continuous, automatic, disciplinary surveillance of persons determined to be in need of correction or normalisation”. The ideas behind Panopticism were derived from Bentham’s work by French philosopher Foucault in his influential work Discipline and Punish: The Birth of the Prison (1975), which is a piece of architecture that allows a watchman to observe the inmates without the inmates knowing whether or not they are being watched. The extent of State surveillance operations, exposed by Edward Snowden in 2013 through a trove of US National Security Agency (NSA) documents, was a shocker. It offered us a clue as to how the lines between internal and external security, between common crimes and crimes against the State have been progressively blurred and how intrusive surveillance activities have seriously dented the privacy and civil liberties of citizens. In the name of national security, intelligence and law enforcement organisations, now vested with ex-cathedra powers, can infiltrate and intercept citizens’ communications on a daily basis with impunity. The expansion of surveillance technology penetrating citizens’ everyday lives has grown to such an extent that today the use of the private sector as a primary surveillance facilitator or third party in national security intelligence collection and dissemination is considered the new normal. This is the significance of the Pegasus scandal. Bothered by our “too much democracy”, we may be drawing upon China which, a generation after the tanks rolled into Tiananmen Square, thanks to its autocratic leaders, is using powerful new technologies to create the largest and most effective surveillance state the world has ever seen where, as the joke goes, citizens can scarcely scratch their private parts or buy an orange without the Party knowing, and posting a satirical comment online about President Xi's facial features can land one in jail. The 'Operating System for Dictators'— a crippling surveillance system promoted by Beijing— has buyers in Africa and Asia, Russia and the Middle East. A look into the profile of people targeted for surveillance and also how many of those attempts were successful can give us a clue. Ashok Lavasa, for instance, was the only member of the three-man Election Commission to fault Prime Minister Narendra Modi for having violated the Model Code of Conduct while campaigning for the 2019 general election. The notable journalists in the Pegasus list such as Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, Siddharth Varadarajan and Prem Shankar Jha are not people known to be too enamoured of the Modi government. While snooping on Prashant Kishor, the ace poll strategist, who recently steered the Trinamool Congress to victory in the West Bengal elections and also helped the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam in Tamil Nadu and the Congress in Punjab to strategise and fight polls, and on TMC MP and Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee, might seem obvious, surveillance on Dr Gagandeep Kang, one of the top virologists of the country, or on Ashwini Vaishnaw, who recently replaced Ravi Shankar Prasad as the Information Technology minister, and who, in line with Home Minister Amit Shah, pointed to role of ‘disrupters’ and ‘obstructers’ in making the press reports public a day before the monsoon session of Parliament, might have been dictated by some other unfathomable exigencies. The Pegasus episode demonstrates that a chain of surveillance system was trained on a set of people thought to be ‘inimical’ to a coterie of powerful people in the government, putatively on a hidden agenda. It bared the pathology of a surveillance state with the trappings of a democracy. In 2018 — around the time that Pegasus software seems to have been in play— the Narendra Modi government had empowered 10 central probe and snoop agencies under the Information Technology (IT) Act to conduct computer interception and analysis. The National Automated Facial Recognition System (AFRS) the government is building is said to be the largest centralised facial recognition technology surveillance system in the world. The State’s mad paranoia that governs its drive to tag, monitor and criminalise its opponents and dissenters has, in effect, unleashed an Orwellian regime that might well boomerang on the people who set this in motion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/pegasus-snoopgate-the-orwellian-apocalypse-1013645.html
28-07-2021||National||DH Toon | 'BJP's downfall is imminent!'||Amidst attempts by a section of leaders in the BJP to dislodge him, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Sunday clarified that he would abide by whatever decision the party’s central leadership takes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-bjps-downfall-is-imminent-1013644.html
28-07-2021||National||Flash floods triggered by heavy rains hit Himachal; 1 killed, 10 missing||At least one person was killed while 10 have gone missing as flash floods triggered by incessant rains lashed Himachal Pradesh, a senior disaster management official said on Wednesday. State disaster management director Sudesh Kumar Mokhta said that one person was killed and nine went missing in flash floods triggered by a cloudburst in the tribal district of Lahaul-Spiti while another man was reported missing from the Chamba district. In Lahaul-Spiti, the incident took place at Udaipur in Lahaul at around 8 pm on Tuesday, he said. Two tents of labourers and a private JCB have been washed away, he said, adding that a 19-year-old labourer, Mohammad Altaaf of Jammu and Kashmir, was injured and rushed to a nearby hospital. The state police and the ITBP teams were dispatched for searching the missing people but a heavy flow of water hampered the search operation on Tuesday night, the official said. He said that the search operation resumed on Wednesday morning. In Chamba, a JCB helper has been washed away in the flash floods triggered by heavy rains in Chaned tehsil on the Chamba-Pathankot road, he said. A search operation is being carried out by the police and fire brigade teams. Several roads have been blocked and around 60 vehicles stuck as multiple landslides and flash floods occurred in various parts of Lahaul-Spiti, Mokhta said. A landslide near Kirting village on state highway number 26 (SKTT) in Lahaul has led to a road blockade. A JCB has been sent for its restoration, he said. Meanwhile, heavy rains continue to lash various parts of the state with the Shimla meteorological centre issuing a red weather warning. Earlier on Tuesday, several people were evacuated from Lahaul-Spiti's Darcha village after the water level rose in the Bhaga river following a heavy spell of rain, Mokhta said. According to the Darcha police check-post, the water level in the river increased considerably due to the heavy rainfall, damaging three shops near the river bank. People living near low-lying areas have been safely evacuated by the police, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/flash-floods-triggered-by-heavy-rains-hit-himachal-1-killed-10-missing-1013703.html
28-07-2021||National||With 43,654 new infections, India's daily Covid-19 cases rise again||India logged 43,654 fresh Covid-19 cases taking its tally to 3,14,84,605, while 640 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 4,22,022, according to Union Health Ministry data on Wednesday. The number of active cases stood at 3,99,436, an increase of 1,336 in a span of 24 hours, and comprises 1.27 per cent of the total infections. The national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 97.39 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. As many as 17,36,857 Covid-19 tests were conducted on Tuesday, taking the total number of tests conducted so far to 46,09,00,978. The daily positivity rate increased to 2.51 per cent from 1.73 per cent on Tuesday. The weekly positivity rate stood at 2.36 per cent, the data showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,06,63,147, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, it stated. The total number of Covid vaccine doses administered so far as part of the nationwide vaccination drive has reached 44.61 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. The caseload crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 640 new fatalities include 254 from Maharashtra, 156 from Kerala and 60 from Odisha. A total of 4,22,022 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,31,859 from Maharashtra, 36,437 from Karnataka, 33,966 from Tamil Nadu, 25,046 from Delhi, 22,754 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,095 from West Bengal.  The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities.  "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-43654-new-infections-indias-daily-covid-19-cases-rise-again-1013712.html
28-07-2021||National||PM Modi condoles loss of lives in Barabanki road accident||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday expressed grief at the loss of lives in a road accident in Uttar Pradesh's Barabanki district and extended his condolences to the bereaved families. In a tweet, Modi said he has also spoken to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and arrangements are being made for the proper treatment of the injured. यूपी के बाराबंकी में हुए सड़क हादसे की खबर से बहुत दुखी हूं। शोकाकुल परिवारों के साथ मेरी संवेदनाएं हैं। अभी सीएम योगी जी से भी बात हुई है। सभी घायल साथियों के उचित उपचार की व्यवस्था की जा रही है। At least 18 people were killed and 25 injured after a truck hit a double-decker bus in Barabanki late on Tuesday night, police said. The axle of the bus had broken down and it was parked on the road. Some passengers were standing outside the bus while others were sitting inside at the time of the incident, they said. Modi also announced an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each from the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund for the next of kin of the deceased. The injured would be given Rs 50,000 each. The rescue operation is currently underway at the accident site, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-condoles-loss-of-lives-in-barabanki-road-accident-1013737.html
28-07-2021||National||Deeply saddened by deaths due to cloudburst in J&K: Prez Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday said he was deeply saddened by the death of many people due to a cloudburst in Jammu and Kashmir's Kishtwar district and extended his condolences to the bereaved families. He also wished authorities success in the relief and rescue operations that are currently underway. At least five people were killed and 12 injured after flash floods triggered by a cloudburst swept away houses in Kishtwar's Honzar village early this morning, officials said. Over 25 people are reported missing. A joint rescue operation by the police, the Army and the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) is underway, they said. "Deeply saddened by the death of many people due to cloudburst in Jammu and Kashmir's Kishtwar. I wish success in the ongoing relief and rescue operations for the missing people and extend my heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families," Kovind said in a tweet in Hindi. जम्मू-कश्मीर के किश्तवाड़ में बादल फटने से हुए कई लोगों की मृत्यु से बहुत दुख हुआ। मैं, लापता हुए लोगों के लिए जारी राहत व बचाव कार्यों में सफलता की कामना करता हूं और शोकाकुल परिवारों के प्रति हार्दिक संवेदना व्यक्त करता हूं। Most parts of the Jammu region have been receiving heavy rains for the past few days. With the prediction of more rains till July-end, authorities in Kishtwar have already asked people living along water bodies and slide-prone areas to remain vigilant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deeply-saddened-by-deaths-due-to-cloudburst-in-jk-prez-kovind-1013741.html
28-07-2021||National||Indian badminton great Nandu Natekar passes away||Legendary badminton player Nandu Natekar, the first Indian to win an international title in 1956, died here on Wednesday. The 88-year-old, who won over 100 national and international titles in his career, was suffering from age-related ailments. He is survived by his son Gaurav and two daughters. "He passed away peacefully at home and we were all with him and he has been ailing for the last three months and he passed away peacefully," Gaurav told to PTI. Natekar, who was considered one of most popular sportspersons of his time, was also a former World number three. Born in Sangli in western Maharashtra, Natekar won over 100 national and international titles in a career spanning over 15 years. He was also conferred with the prestigious Arjuna Award in 1961. "With deepest sorrow, we would like to inform you that our beloved father Nandu Natekar passed away on 28th July, 2021," The Natekar family said in a message. "Keeping in mind the Covid-19 guidelines, we will not be having a condolence meeting. Please keep him in your thoughts and prayers." In his distinguished career, Natekar made it to the quarterfinals of the prestigious All England Championships in 1954 and became the first Indian player to win an international event when he claimed the Sellanger International in Malaysia in 1956. He was also won 12 out of the 16 singles matches and 8 out of 16 in doubles as part of the Indian team at the Thomas Cup between 1951 and 1963. He also had the distinction of leading the country in the tournament in 1959, 1961 and 1963. He had also represented India at the 1965 Commonwealth Games in Jamaica.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-badminton-great-nandu-natekar-passes-away-1013742.html
28-07-2021||National||Acts of vandalism by MLAs inside House not protected from criminal proceedings: SC ||The Supreme Court on Wednesday declared that parliamentary privileges can't be extended to members for acts of vandalism and destruction of properties inside the House. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah dismissed a petition filed by the Kerala government seeking a direction to withdraw cases against prominent CPI(M) leaders for alleged vandalism in the Kerala state Assembly in 2015. "There is no immunity or privilege that protects legislators from criminal law," the bench said, pronouncing the judgement. The court said it is a misconception that elected representatives stood on unequal footings or above the general law. "Vandalism and destruction inside the house is not essential for exercising legislative function. It does not serve public function or come under freedom of speech," the bench said. The privileges and immunity are not a mark of status which makes them stand on an unequal footing, the Supreme Court said in its judgement.  The top court said the withdrawal of cases against the accused persons will be against public justice and policy.  The current ruling party in the State was in opposition at the time of the incident. The top court said that the trial court was correct in rejecting the application to withdraw the FIR. The Kerala government, in its plea, cited privileges and immunity to MLAs and urged the top court to drop cases against the Left leaders.  The Kerala High Court, in an order passed on March 12, had refused to give its nod saying that the elected representatives are expected to uphold the prestige of the House or face consequences.  The MLAs had vandalised Speaker's dais, uprooted his chair, pulled out mic, computer etc.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/acts-of-vandalism-by-mlas-inside-house-not-protected-from-criminal-proceedings-sc-1013743.html
28-07-2021||National||Pegasus issue: Opposition leaders discuss strategy to corner govt in Parliament||The Opposition on Wednesday resolved to fight to the end on the Pegasus issue in Parliament with like-minded parties holding a meeting to strategise on the way forward while insisting that it was the government that is disrupting the Monsoon Session. Leaders of 14 parties, including Congress' Rahul Gandhi, met in the morning before the Parliament assembled and decided to stick to their demand for a debate on Pegasus with the Prime Minister and the Home Minister in attendance and a Supreme Court-monitored probe. In the meeting, sources said, Rahul said the government was trying to defame the opposition by accusing them of not allowing Parliament to run and it should be countered. In Lok Sabha, Opposition parties submitted identical adjournment motions, including in the name of Rahul, but were not allowed leading to disruption of the House. Besides Rahul, those who attended the meeting chaired by the leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge included Adhir Chowdhury and Jairam Ramesh (Congress), DMK's TR Baalu, Tiruchi Siva and Kanimozhi, NCP's Supriya Sule and Praful Patel, Shiv Sena's Sanjay Raut, National Conference leader Hasnain Masoodi, CPI-M's Elamaran Karim, CPI's Binoy Viswam, RSP's NK Premachandran, AAP's Bhagwant Mann and RJD's Manoj Jha. Leaders of Samajwadi Party, Muslim League, Kerala Congress and VCK also attended the meeting. Trinamool Congress, JD(S) and BSP did not attend the meeting but indicated their support to the Opposition strategy on Pegasus. Opposition leaders also addressed the media in the afternoon with Rahul squarely blaming the government for the disruption in Parliament, saying it was running away from discussion. He said the Pegasus episode is an "issue of nationalism, treason... it is an anti-national work." "We just have one question. Has the Government of India bought Pegasus, yes or no? Did the government use the Pegasus weapon on its own people, yes or no? That is all we wish to know. The opposition is united for a discussion on the Pegasus issue... We are not going anywhere till it is discussed in Parliament," Gandhi told reporters. He claimed that the government was refusing to allow a discussion because it has "done something wrong, something dangerous" for the country. Baalu said the government has given an impression that the opposition is against holding discussions in Parliament. Samajwadi Party leader Ram Gopal Yadav termed the government's claim that the opposition was running away from a discussion as "false propaganda".  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pegasus-issue-opposition-leaders-discuss-strategy-to-corner-govt-in-parliament-1013755.html
28-07-2021||National||J&K cloudburst: Amit Shah speaks to LG, DGP to take stock of situation||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday spoke to Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha and Director General of Police Dilbagh Singh and took stock of the situation arising due to a cloudburst in Kishtwar district of the union territory. "I have spoken to LG and DGP of Jammu and Kashmir regarding cloudburst in Kishtwar (J&K). SDRF, Army and local administration are engaged in rescue work, NDRF is also reaching there. Our priority is to save as many lives as possible. I express my condolences to the bereaved families," he said in a tweet in Hindi. किश्तवार (J&K) में बादल फटने के संबंध में मैंने जम्मू-कश्मीर के LG और DGP से बात की है। SDRF, सेना और स्थानीय प्रशासन बचाव कार्य में लगा हुआ है, NDRF भी वहाँ पहुँच रही है। अधिक से अधिक लोगों की जान बचाना हमारी प्राथमिकता है। शोकाकुल परिवारों के प्रति संवेदना व्यक्त करता हूँ।||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-cloudburst-amit-shah-speaks-to-lg-dgp-to-take-stock-of-situation-1013758.html
28-07-2021||National||Govt closely monitoring situation in Kishtwar following cloudbursts: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday that the central government is closely monitoring the situation in Kishtwar and Kargil following cloudbursts. All possible assistance is being provided to the affected areas, he said, wishing for everyone's safety and well-being. Over 25 people are reported missing in the cloudburst which struck Honzar village in Dacchan tehsil around 4.30 am, officials said, adding that a joint rescue operation by police, Army and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-closely-monitoring-situation-in-kishtwar-following-cloudbursts-pm-modi-1013759.html
28-07-2021||National||Man held for sexually assaulting minor girl in Delhi||A 27-year-old man was arrested for allegedly sexually assaulting a minor girl in northwest Delhi's Shalimar Bagh area, police said on Wednesday. The accused was identified as Salim Ahmed, a resident of Rampur district of Uttar Pradesh, they said. On Sunday, the nine-year-old girl stepped out of her house to buy something when Ahmed met her and offered to buy her clothes. The girl went with him and he sexually assaulted her, the police said. The girl narrated her ordeal to her parents after she returned home. She did not tell anything to the police or the counsellor. A medical examination of the girl confirmed sexual assault, a senior police officer said. Thereafter, a case was registered under sections 363 (punishment for kidnapping), 376 (punishment for rape) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act at Shalimar Bagh police station, the officer said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (northwest) Usha Rangnani said it was a blind case since the victim did not know the accused. "We scanned the footage of around 300 to 350 CCTV cameras to identify the route through which the accused took the girl with him. Local intelligence was also activated and Ahmed was arrested on Tuesday from Wazirpur area," she said. During interrogation, it was revealed that Ahmed took the girl to a shanty near the railway line where he sexually assaulted her, the police said. The accused, who sometimes works as a sweeper in factories, was also arrested in a criminal case in UP's Rampur. He had tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted to a hospital from where he escaped and reached Delhi, they said. Another case under Section 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension) of the IPC was registered against him at Azim Nagar police station in Rampur in connection with his escape, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-held-for-sexually-assaulting-minor-girl-in-delhi-1013764.html
28-07-2021||National||Delhi riots: HC stays Rs 25,000 costs on Delhi Police, refuses to interfere with strictures for now||The Delhi High Court Wednesday stayed the imposition of Rs 25,000 costs on the police in a case related to north-east Delhi riots but refused to interfere with the trial court's strictures against its investigation at this stage. “We can't expunge the remarks without hearing you (Police). Costs may not be deposited till the next date of hearing,” said Justice Subramonium Prasad who was hearing Delhi Police's challenge to the trial court order calling its investigation into the case “callous and farcical” and imposing Rs 25,000 costs. The trial court order was passed in a challenge to magisterial court order that had directed Delhi Police to register an FIR on the complaint of one Mohammad Nasir, who lost his left eye after suffering a gunshot injury during the riots. The high court issued notice on Delhi Police's plea against the trial court order and sought response of the complainant, Nasir, in 10 days. Additional Solicitor General S V Raju, appearing for the police, said that at present, the main grievance was against the costs and the strictures. He also submitted that an FIR pertaining to the alleged incident had already been thoroughly investigated and the accused was found to be not present at the spot at the relevant time. “All investigation will lead to one conclusion,” Raju said. Advocate Mehmood Pracha, representing the complainant, claimed that the police's stand was misleading and his client was under “tremendous pressure to withdraw” his pleas before court. The matter would be heard next on September 13. In its challenge to the trial court order, police said the imposition of fine, which was to be recovered from the station house officer (SHO) of Bhajanpura police station and his supervising officers, was unwarranted and uncalled for. Filed through advocates Amit Mahajan and Rajat Nair, the plea argues that the July 13 order was in violation of principles of natural justice as it was passed without giving any opportunity to the DCP to make his submissions, and that very serious remarks were made against the investigation even prior to the commencement of trial. In its order, Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav had pulled up the police for lack of efficacy and fairness in the investigation in the case and said that it had been done in a most casual, callous, and farcical manner. It was the police stand that there was no need to register a separate FIR on the basis of the complaint as it had already registered one earlier and there was no evidence against the persons who allegedly shot him as they were not present in Delhi at the time of the incident. The judge had said that Mohammad Nasir was free to exhaust his remedies available to him in accordance with the law to get a separate FIR registered in respect of his complaint. Communal clashes had broken out in north-east Delhi on February 24, 2020 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 700 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-riots-hc-stays-rs-25000-costs-on-delhi-police-refuses-to-interfere-with-strictures-for-now-1013778.html
28-07-2021||National||Lok Sabha conducts Question Hour without adjournments for first time in current session||The Lok Sabha on Wednesday conducted Question Hour without any adjournments for the first time since the start of the Monsoon session of Parliament on July 19 despite vociferous protests by Opposition members on various issues. As soon as the House met for the day, Opposition members trooped into the Well as they sought to raise various issues. Some members were shouting slogans and displaying placards. From the Pegasus spyware controversy to the three farm laws, the members wanted to raise various issues during the Question Hour. Speaker Om Birla continued with the Question Hour despite the protests and more than ten questions related to various ministries as well as supplementaries were taken up. This is the first time in the current Monsoon session that the Question Hour went on without any adjournments. Since the commencement of the session on July 19, the proceedings have been repeatedly adjourned due to Opposition protests. On Tuesday, there were nine adjournments in the Lower House before proceedings were adjourned for the day in the evening. After being adjourned nine times, the lower house reassembled at 4.30 PM and Rajendra Agrawal, who was in the Chair, had once again taken up one matter of urgent public importance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-conducts-question-hour-without-adjournments-for-first-time-in-current-session-1013784.html
28-07-2021||National||Chandrayaan-3 likely to be launched during third quarter of 2022: Jitendra Singh||Hit by delays due to Covid-19, the government on Wednesday said the Chandrayaan-3 lunar mission will likely be launched in the third quarter next year. “Chandrayaan-3 is likely to be launched during the third quarter of 2022 assuming normal work flow henceforth,” Minister of State in the PMO Jitendra Singh told the Lok Sabha. He said work on the lunar mission was hampered due to lockdowns forced by Covid-19 pandemic, but scientists had carried out works that were possible in the work-from-home mode. “Chandrayaan-3 realisation resumed after commencement of unlock period and is in matured stage of realisation,” Singh said. A follow-up mission of Chandrayaan-2, ISRO was planning to launch the mission, comprising a lunar lander and a rover, some time this year. The realisation of Chandrayaan-3 involves various processes including finalisation of configuration, subsystems realisation, integration, spacecraft level detailed testing and a number of special tests to evaluate the system performance on earth. Earlier, the government had told Parliament that the propulsion module has been realised and final testing was in progress. ISRO scientists had also realised the Lander structure and it was being integrated with the propulsion system. On July 22, 2019, India had launched Chandrayaan-2, which tried to land a rover on the Lunar South Pole. However, the lander Vikram hard-landed on September 7, 2019, crashing India's dream to become the first nation to successfully land on the lunar surface in its maiden attempt. The Chandrayaan-3 mission hopes to fulfill the unfinished agenda and will carry only the lander and the rover and not the lunar orbiter which was part of the previous mission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chandrayaan-3-likely-to-be-launched-during-third-quarter-of-2022-jitendra-singh-1013798.html
28-07-2021||National||PM Modi to address education community on first anniversary of NEP||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address policy makers in the domain of education and skill development, besides students and teachers from across the country on Thursday via video conferencing to mark the completion of one year of reforms under the National Education Policy 2020. The Prime Minister's Office said Modi will also launch multiple initiatives in the education sector, including the Academic Bank of Credit that will provide multiple entry and exit options for students in the higher education besides first year engineering programmes in regional languages and guidelines for internationalization of the higher education. The initiatives to be launched also include Vidya Pravesh, a three month play based school preparation module for Grade 1 students, Indian sign language as a subject at secondary level and NISHTHA 2.0, an integrated programme of teacher training designed by the NCERT. SAFAL (structured assessment for analysing learning levels), a competency based assessment framework for Grades 3, 5 and 8 in CBSE schools and a website dedicated to artificial intelligence will also be launched, the PMO said. The event will witness the launch of National Digital Education Architecture (NDEAR) and National Education Technology Forum (NETF). These initiatives will mark a significant step towards realization of the goals of NEP 2020 and will make the education sector more vibrant and accessible," the PMO said. The NEP, 2020 is the guiding philosophy for changing the learning landscape, making education holistic and for building strong foundations for an Atmanirbhar Bharat, its statement noted, highlighting that it is the first education policy of the 21st century and replaces the 34-year-old National Policy on Education (NPE), 1986. Built on the foundational pillars of access, equity, quality, affordability and accountability, this policy is aligned to the 2030 Agenda for sustainable development and aims to transform India into a vibrant knowledge society and global knowledge superpower by making both school and college education more holistic, flexible, multidisciplinary and suited to 21st century needs while aimed at bringing out the unique capabilities of each student.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-address-education-community-on-first-anniversary-of-nep-1013802.html
28-07-2021||National||Anil Deshmukh graft case: CBI carries out searches in 8 cities||The CBI has conducted searches at 12 locations in eight cities of Maharashtra, including at the premises of ACP Sanjay Patil and DCP Raju Bhujbal, in connection with allegations of corruption against former state home minister Anil Deshmukh, officials said on Wednesday. The searches were carried out in Mumbai, Pune, Ahmednagar, Nashik, Thane, Solapur, Sangli and Osmanabad, they added. The premises of "encounter specialist" Patil in Pune and Mumbai, and those of Bhujbal in Ahmednagar and Mumbai were covered during the operation, which concluded on Tuesday night, the officials said. The other premises belonged to alleged middlemen whose names have not been disclosed by the agency. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has booked Deshmukh and other unidentified persons under the IPC section related to criminal conspiracy and sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act for "attempting to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of public duty". In his letter to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray after he was removed from the Mumbai police commissioner's post, Param Bir Singh had alleged that Deshmukh asked Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Waze to extort over Rs 100 crore a month from the bars and restaurants of the city, the officials said. "The preliminary enquiry prima facie revealed that a cognizable offence is made out in the matter, wherein the then home minister of Maharashtra, Anil Deshmukh, and unknown others have attempted to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of their public duty," the CBI FIR alleges. According to the CBI manual, a preliminary enquiry is initiated to assess if there is enough prima facie material in the allegations to proceed with a regular case for a full-fledged probe, the officials said. The CBI enquiry found that Waze was reinstated into the police force after being out of service for more than 15 years. Waze was entrusted with most of the sensational and important cases of the Mumbai City Police and Deshmukh, the then Maharashtra home minister, was aware of it, the FIR alleges. It further alleges that Deshmukh "and others" exercised undue influence over the transfer and posting of officials, thereby exercising undue influence over the performance of their official duties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anil-deshmukh-graft-case-cbi-carries-out-searches-in-8-cities-1013811.html
28-07-2021||National||In spats with Twitter, GoI begins messaging shift to rival Koo||Twitter Inc is fast losing its sheen as a favoured communications tool for many Indian government departments and ministers keen to promote home-grown rival Koo while the US firm comes under fire for non-compliance with India's laws. The most high-profile example has been India's new IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw. Taking office this month, he opened a new Koo account and soon after announced a review of social media firms' compliance with strict new rules - information not posted to his 258,000 Twitter followers. "The idea is to create an alternative to Twitter," said one government official in media relations, declining to be identified as he was not authorised to speak on the matter. That sentiment is shared by other ministers and members of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) who are irked by what they see as a defiant Twitter, a senior person in the party's IT department told Reuters. Prime Minister Narendra Modi's administration first took umbrage with the US firm in February when it refused to fully comply with an order to take down accounts and posts accused of spreading misinformation about farmers protests that have been the biggest display of dissent faced by the government. Twitter argued some requests were not in line with Indian law. That dispute saw some ministers promote Koo, which unlike Twitter also accommodates content in eight Indian languages, and its downloads surged 10-fold in two days to more than 3 million. Subscriber numbers for the 16-month old platform have since grown to 7 million. Twitter, which has about 17.5 million users in India, has only seen friction with the government escalate, including over its failure to meet a May 25 deadline for installing compliance and grievance officers mandated under the new social media rules. It has since filled two of the three positions. It is also now the subject of five police investigations in different parts of India that allege the US company has abused its platform. Twitter declined to comment on the Indian government's use of Koo but said it works directly with various ministries and authorities, playing a critical role in disaster management amid the pandemic. "These institutions and their members seek our strategic counsel to use the power of Twitter by way of training, mobilising resources, and driving public engagement initiatives," a spokesperson said. Underlining Twitter's reach, Modi, who has 69.8 million Twitter followers, has not yet joined Koo while many government ministers and departments continue to use both platforms even if news on Koo is disseminated first. India's IT ministry, the prime minister's office and the government's media wing did not respond to requests for comment. The head of the BJP's IT department, Amit Malviya, declined to comment. Staging a Koo Koo's growing traction can be seen with the trade ministry's account which now has 1.2 million followers on Koo compared with 1.3 million on Twitter. State governments are getting in on the act. The disaster management arm of Uttar Pradesh, India's most populous state, has pinned a tweet telling its 21,900 followers to join Koo - where it has just 992 followers - for "exclusive and latest updates". The cold shoulder that many authorities are now giving Twitter contrasts sharply with the past. Modi and the BJP have used it extensively to connect with the public, particularly ahead of the 2014 election, as well as in diplomacy. And in 2018, Modi and Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey were all smiles when they met in New Delhi, with the Indian premier tweeting he had made "great friends" on the platform. Koo says while it has no specific government outreach plan, Modi's campaign of promoting local businesses has worked in its favour. "I think it's a matter of a few more months and you'll see pretty much everyone is on Koo," co-founder Mayank Bidawatka said in an interview. Tech-sector experts don't see Koo becoming that big that fast but say Koo's greater local language reach will stand the company in good stead as it pursues long-term growth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-spats-with-twitter-goi-begins-messaging-shift-to-rival-koo-1013814.html
28-07-2021||National||Covid-19 wrap-up: Govt trashes reports on missing July-end vaccine target||Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-govt-trashes-reports-on-missing-july-end-vaccine-target-1013816.html
28-07-2021||National||J&K to be granted statehood at appropriate time: Govt||Jammu and Kashmir would be granted statehood at an "appropriate" time after normalcy is restored there, the government told Parliament on Wednesday. Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai stated this in a written reply to Rajya Sabha. He was replying to a question on whether the government had any proposal to "reinstate" the statehood of Jammu and Kashmir and whether some efforts have been made to end the year-long ban on different means of communication. "Statehood to Jammu and Kashmir would be granted at an appropriate time after normalcy is restored in Jammu and Kashmir," he said. "In view of the constitutional changes and bifurcation of the erstwhile state of the Jammu and Kashmir into Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir and Union territory of Ladakh, in national interest and also in the interest of security of J&K, temporary restrictions on various communication channels like internet and mobile services were resorted to in Jammu and Kashmir," the minister stated.  Subsequently, the matter "was reviewed from time to time and restrictions imposed were gradually eased out in a phased manner and 4G internet data services were restored in the entire Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir from February 5, he said. The Centre had revoked the special status of the erstwhile state that was provided to it under Article 370 and bifurcated it into union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh in 2019. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-to-be-granted-statehood-at-appropriate-time-govt-1013825.html
28-07-2021||National||Rahul rejects govt charges on Parliament disruption, says Opposition united on Pegasus||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi Wednesday said the Opposition was united in demanding a discussion on the Pegasus snooping row in Parliament in the presence of the prime minister or the home minister. He rejected the government's charges over the disruption of Parliament and said the Opposition was only fulfilling its responsibility. He also attacked the government over the Pegasus snooping row, accusing Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit of "hitting the soul of India's democracy". The voice of Opposition was being suppressed in Parliament, he alleged. "We are only asking if the government bought Pegasus and snooped upon Indians." "We are not disturbing Parliament, we are only fulfilling our responsibility," he said. He also said the Pegasus row "for us is an issue of nationalism, treason". "This is not a matter of privacy. It is an anti-national work." He said the Opposition was united over the issue. The government has been rejecting all Opposition charges over the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-rejects-govt-charges-on-parliament-disruption-says-opposition-united-on-pegasus-1013830.html
28-07-2021||National||India skips key London climate meet||India, the world's third-biggest emitter of greenhouse gases, skipped a key climate meeting of more than 50 countries, the environment ministry said Wednesday, citing technical and other difficulties. The two-day conference in London was the first face-to-face talk among governments in more than 18 months and offered a chance of compromise ahead of the pivotal COP26 climate summit in November. The talks on Sunday and Monday followed a G20 meeting last week in Naples where the leaders failed to reach a consensus, with India, a big player in climate negotiations, resisting a timeline to phase out coal power generation. Other countries such as Russia, China and Turkey also resisted such efforts. The London meeting also ended without an agreement to phase out the polluting fossil fuel, according to Britain's COP26 president, Alok Sharma. Gaurav Khare, the spokesman of India's environment ministry, said the government had decided against attending the London conference as it had already made its views known at the G20 in Naples. "We attended the G20 ministerial and made our stand clear. The UK Climate ministerial was right after that," Khare said in a statement. "It was being held in the middle of the parliament session (in India) so it was decided that this time we cannot be present." Khare also said India wanted to participate virtually but couldn't "because of various technical issues". The London event covered the goal of keeping to the 1.5 degrees Celsius temperature rise limit, exploring topics such as climate finance on which India has been vocal. The United Nations is pushing for a global coalition committed to net-zero carbon emissions by 2050 which will cover all countries. At the G20 ministers' meeting in Naples however, India's new environment minister Bhupender Yadav resisted international pressure to announce such a target. He reiterated India's stand that the richest countries should lead in cutting emissions and urged G20 nations to make a pledge that focused on per-capita emissions. While India is the third-largest emitter, its emissions per head are low owing to its huge population of 1.3 billion. India is a signatory to the 2015 Paris Agreement that aims at cutting down greenhouse gas emissions to combat global warming. It currently generates more than 40 per cent of its electricity from coal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-skips-key-london-climate-meet-1013841.html
28-07-2021||National||As China hosts Taliban, India, US say Afghanistan will be pariah if militants grab power by force||Even as the Chinese Government hosted a delegation of the Taliban, India and the United States on Wednesday underlined that if the Sunni Muslim militants went on to occupy power in Afghanistan through violent means, it would not be recognized by the rest of the international community. “An Afghanistan that does not respect the rights of its people, an Afghanistan that commits atrocities against its own people would become a pariah state,” US Secretary of State Antony Blinken told journalists in New Delhi. He said that the reports of the Taliban’s military offensives and advances in Afghanistan and its atrocities on people of the country were “deeply troubling” and certainly did “not speak well for their intention for the country”. The Taliban’s military offensive in Afghanistan was high on the agenda of Blinken’s meeting with his counterpart in New Delhi, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, as well as National Security Advisor Ajit Doval on Wednesday. “The peace negotiation (between the Afghan Government and the Taliban) should be a negotiation and should lead to cessation of violence and peace,” Jaishankar said during the joint news conference with Blinken. “We don’t think the outcome should be decided by force on the battlefield.” Jaishankar and Blinken exchanged views on Afghanistan, even as the Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi hosted a delegation of Taliban led by its political head Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar. Blinken said that the US would continue to support Afghanistan through development and security assistance even after the withdrawal of troops. The Taliban took control of a large number of districts in Afghanistan over the past few weeks as the US and its NATO allies continued to withdraw troops, leaving it to the Afghan National Security and Defence Force to fight the militants. India is worried over the “strategic depth” Pakistan would gain in Afghanistan if the war-torn country again goes under the control of Taliban. New Delhi, however, reached out and engaged with some sections of the Taliban, even as it underlined that if the militants took control of Afghanistan through violence, it would lack legitimacy. “The world wishes to see an independent, sovereign, democratic and stable Afghanistan at peace with itself and with its neighbours but its independence and sovereignty will only be ensured if it is free from malign influences,” Jaishankar said, taking a dig at Pakistan, which was accused by President Ashraf Ghani’s government in Kabul of sabotaging the peace-process and supporting the military offensive by tje Taliban. “Similarly, the External Affairs Minister added, “unilateral imposition of will by any party will obviously not be democratic and can never lead to stability nor indeed can such efforts ever acquire legitimacy.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-china-hosts-taliban-india-us-say-afghanistan-will-be-pariah-if-militants-grab-power-by-force-1013842.html
28-07-2021||National||Cabinet clears amendment to LLP Act to decriminalise various provisions||The government on Wednesday cleared amendments to the Limited Liability Partnership (LLP) Act, with an aim to decriminalise various provisions under the law and foster the ease of doing business in the country. Changes include removing criminal action for failure to comply with provisions of the Act will help about 2.30 lakh such firms in the country. With the approval, the total number of penal provisions in the Act will be reduced to 22, the number of compoundable offences will be only seven, the number of non-compoundable offences will be only three, and the number of defaults will be only 12, among others, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said after the Cabinet meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-clears-amendment-to-llp-act-to-decriminalise-various-provisions-1013851.html
28-07-2021||National||Lok Sabha passes IBC amendment bill without debate||The Lok Sabha on Wednesday passed the IBC amendment Bill without debate, which among other things provide for a pre-packaged resolution process for stressed MSMEs. Minister of State for Corporate Affairs Rao Inderjit Singh moved the Bill for consideration and passage amid the din. The Bill was approved by the House without any discussion, as opposition members continued their protest over Pegasus snooping issue and three new farm laws. Singh said the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Bill, 2021, will replace the ordinance that was promulgated on April 4 as part of efforts to provide relief to MSMEs adversely impacted by the pandemic. The proposed amendments would enable the government to notify the threshold of a default not exceeding Rs 1 crore for initiation of the pre-packaged resolution process. The government has already prescribed the threshold of Rs 10 lakh for this purpose. The Bill proposes a new chapter in the IB Code to facilitate the pre-packaged insolvency resolution process for corporate persons that are Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs). As per the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Bill, it seeks to specify a minimum threshold of not more than Rs 1 crore for initiating the pre-packaged insolvency resolution process as well as provisions for disposal of simultaneous applications for initiation of the insolvency resolution process and pre-packaged insolvency resolution process, pending against the same corporate debtor. There would be a penalty for fraudulent or malicious initiation of the pre-packaged insolvency resolution process, or with intent to defraud persons, and for fraudulent management of the corporate debtor during the process. Further, punishment would be meted out for offences related to the pre-packaged insolvency resolution process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-passes-ibc-amendment-bill-without-debate-1013854.html
28-07-2021||National||Vandalism inside House not freedom of speech: SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday declared that a member of the legislature cannot claim parliamentary privileges or immunity to acts of vandalism or destruction of properties inside the House. "Privileges and immunities are not gateways to claim exemptions from the general law of the land, particularly the criminal law which governs the action of every citizen. To claim an exemption from the application of criminal law would be to betray the trust, impressed on the character of elected representatives as the makers and enactors of the law," a bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud said. The court said a member of the legislature, including of opposition, has a right to protest on the floor but they are not a mark of status which makes the legislators stand on an unequal pedestal.  The court maintained that destruction of properties inside the House cannot be equated with freedom of speech, enjoyed as privileges and immunities by the legislators to let them function without hindrance, fear or favour. The top court dismissed a plea by the Kerala government to allow withdrawal of prosecution of CPI(M) leaders including Education Minister V Sivankutty for damaging furniture and articles including the Speaker’s chair, computer, mike, emergency lamp and electronic panel, causing a loss of Rs 2.20 lakh, during their protest as opposition leaders in 2015. "The persons, named as the accused, held a responsible elected office as MLAs in the Legislative Assembly. Like any other citizen, they are subject to the boundaries of lawful behaviour set by criminal law. No member of an elected legislature can claim either a privilege or immunity to stand above the sanctions of the criminal law, which applies equally to all citizens," the bench, also comprising Justice M R Shah, said. The court highlighted that freedom of speech in Parliament and the State Legislatures was to ensure elected representatives can perform their duties and functions effectively. "Those duties and functions are as much a matter of duty and trust as they are of a right inhering in the representatives who are chosen by the people. We miss the wood for the trees if we focus on rights without the corresponding duties cast upon elected public representatives," Justice Chandrachud wrote in a 74-page judgement on behalf of the bench. The court said the public prosecutor in the case filed an application for withdrawal of prosecution on a misconception that Article 194 of the Constitution provided privileges and immunities to elected members of the legislature from the general application of the criminal law. "Allowing the prosecution to be withdrawn would only result in a singular result, which is that the elected representatives are exempt from the mandate of criminal law. This cannot be countenanced as being in aid of the broad ends of public justice," the bench said. The top court said it would exercise caution before disturbing concurrent findings of the High Court and the trial court which had refused withdrawal of prosecution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vandalism-inside-house-not-freedom-of-speech-sc-1013861.html
28-07-2021||National||No room for complacency in Covid fight, absolute case numbers still high: MHA to states||The Union Home Ministry Wednesday said there is no room for complacency in the approach to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic as the absolute number of positive cases is still significantly high. Extending the existing pandemic guidelines till August 31, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla also said there should be continuous focus on the five-fold strategy of 'test, track, treat, vaccinate and adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour' for effective management of Covid-19. He also said there is a need to ensure adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour (CAB) in all crowded places in view of the upcoming festivals. In his communication to all states and union territories, Bhalla said that with the decline in the number of active cases, states and UTs are reopening economic and other activities in a gradual manner. "While the decline in the number of cases is a matter of satisfaction, it may be noted that the absolute case numbers are still significantly high," he said. Therefore, the home secretary said, there is no room for complacency and the process of relaxing restrictions should be carefully calibrated, as has been reiterated in his earlier communications. Bhalla said the reproduction number of the virus, commonly known as the 'R' factor, is hovering just below 1 but is high in some of the states. Referring to his letter dated July 14, the home secretary said all efforts should be made to ensure that there is no increase in the 'R' factor. "Further, strictest possible measures should be taken in the districts that are still showing high positivity rates. "In view of the upcoming festivals, there is need to ensure Covid Appropriate Behaviour (CAB) in all crowded places," he said. Bhalla urged state governments and UT administrations to issue strict directions to the district and all other local authorities to take necessary measures for Covid-19 management. "The officers concerned should be made personally responsible for any laxity in strict enforcement of Covid appropriate behaviour. "I would also advise that Orders issued by the respective State governments and UT administrations, district authorities in this regard, should be widely disseminated to the public and to the field functionaries, for their proper implementation," he said. India logged 43,654 fresh Covid-19 cases taking its tally to 3,14,84,605, while 640 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 4,22,022, according to Union Health Ministry data on Wednesday. The number of active cases stood at 3,99,436, an increase of 1,336 in a span of 24 hours, and comprises 1.27 per cent of the total infections. The Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 97.39 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. As many as 17,36,857 Covid-19 tests were conducted on Tuesday, taking the total number of tests conducted so far to 46,09,00,978. The daily positivity rate increased to 2.51 per cent from 1.73 per cent on Tuesday. The weekly positivity rate stood at 2.36 per cent, the data showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-room-for-complacency-in-covid-fight-absolute-case-numbers-still-high-mha-to-states-1013863.html
28-07-2021||National||MP govt to print pictures of PM, CM on ration bags; Congress calls it 'personal branding' of BJP leaders||The Madhya Pradesh government's plan to distribute ration in bags bearing the pictures of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and state Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan from the next month has not gone down well with the opposition Congress, which on Tuesday dubbed the move a "personal branding" of BJP leaders at the cost of real beneficiaries. The state government is organising “Ann Utsav” on August 7, which will be virtually addressed by PM Modi. A public relations department official has said that the ration will be distributed in bags to 100 beneficiaries each at 25,435 PDS (Public Distribution System) shops in Madhya Pradesh on August 7 during the upcoming "Ann Utsav,". Justifying the move to print pictures of the prime minister and the CM on the ration bags, MP's Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bisahulal Singh told reporters that ration stock for two months is being provided free by the Centre and for three months by the state government to the eligible families. “We have decided that the beneficiaries of the PDS will be given rice stock of five months in a bag, at the 'Ann Utsav'. What is wrong in having the photos of the PM given that the Centre is providing free ration to people? Similarly, a ration stock of three months is being given free by the state government,” he told reporters on Tuesday. Singh said the pictures of Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and the food minister of that state are printed on the ration bags. "The Union government is providing free ration to Chhattisgarh as well so they should ideally put a picture of the PM on the bags along with that of the chief minister (Baghel)," he said. Slamming the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government, former minister and Congress MLA PC Sharma said the BJP has failed to provide free ration to intended beneficiaries but is doing the personal branding of the party leaders. “They are organising such programmes to dish out huge figures of beneficiaries of PDS for the PR work. The truth is that lakhs of BPL (Below Poverty Line) beneficiaries in Madhya Pradesh are yet to receive the ration of five months as announced earlier. Several such applications are pending with the district administration,” Sharma claimed while speaking to PTI. He alleged that the reality and the figures put out by the state government are contradictory. "Farmers are committing suicide due to mounting loan burden in the state," he alleged. Madhya Pradesh BJP secretary Rajneesh Agrawal said the bags will bear the pictures of the PM and the CM and not of the state unit party president. "This is well under the Constitutional arrangement,” he said. Refuting Congress' allegations, Agrawal said ration is being given continuously to beneficiaries and the distribution is monitored. “States ruled by Congress are in the dock over the issue of providing benefits to the poor under the PDS system. The Congress is anti-poor. They gave the slogan to eliminate poverty but they cannot see the good work in this direction,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mp-govt-to-print-pictures-of-pm-cm-on-ration-bags-congress-calls-it-personal-branding-of-bjp-leaders-1013864.html
28-07-2021||National||Majority in big states have Covid-19 antibodies: Survey||More than 70% of people in eight of India's large states are estimated to have Covid-19 antibodies, a government survey showed on Wednesday, suggesting that a second surge in infections affected many more people than the reported figures. The survey, which tested a sample of the population for the presence of Covid-19 antibodies, was conducted in June and July and showed that two-thirds of India's 1.3 billion people were likely to have been exposed to the virus. The sero-prevalance survey, which tested around 29,000 people across the country, showed that in eight of India's largest and most populous states, more than 70% had antibodies for Covid-19, according to a government statement. In the central state of Madhya Pradesh, 79% of its estimated population of 70.3 million had antibodies, the survey showed. At least 75% of the population in the impoverished and densely populated eastern state of Bihar showed the presence of antibodies, as did 71% of the 220 million people in the country's most populous state of Uttar Pradesh, data showed. India's daily cases have fallen after a devastating second wave that overwhelmed the healthcare system. On Wednesday, it reported 43,654 new cases and 640 deaths, down from a peak of 414,188 daily cases reported on May 7. India's vaccination has picked up after a lull in April and May, but it may still not be able to meet its stated aim of inoculating all 950 million adults by the end of the year. As of Wednesday, a total of 440 million Indian adults had received at least one Covid-19 shot, with just over 10% of its eligible population fully vaccinated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/majority-in-big-states-have-covid-19-antibodies-survey-1013866.html
28-07-2021||National||Appointing contingent worker is non-compliance of IT rules, Delhi HC pulls up Twitter ||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday pulled up Twitter for stating that it has appointed chief compliance officer and grievance officer as 'contingent workers', saying this was non-compliance of its assurance.  Senior Advocate Sajan Poovayya, representing Twitter, submitted before the court that two affidavits have been filed in connection with the appointments of chief compliance officer and grievance officer and the microblogging site will no longer use the word 'interim'. A single judge bench Justice Rekha Palli, however, objected to the use of word 'contingent worker' in the appointments. "What is this term contingent worker? What does this mean? This gives an impression that his duties are based on some contingencies," the bench asked. The court noted that it is not clear, who is the third-party contractor? “This is not done. Tell me. I don't understand, you are saying contingent, this is not compliance," the judge further added.  The court asked Twitter, on replacing the word interim with contingent, “Are you serious?”  Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma, representing the Centre, said, "This repeated non-compliance by nuance terminologies and seeking time……Your lordship is correct, if they want to comply, comply wholeheartedly". The court, citing the affidavit, said this is "even worse" and demanded a clearer affidavit.  The high court also questioned Twitter, why it made the appointment via a third-party contractor whose name has also not been revealed.  The court said the affidavit shows total non-compliance.  “You do business here, earn so much revenue but don't comply with rules, court has given you a long rope," the court said.  Poovayya assured the court that a clearly worded affidavit will be filed by Twitter in the matter.  The court pointed out that chief compliance officer says he is not an employee and has been engaged as contingent worker.  “It's a chief compliance officer, there has to be some seriousness about the post. This in itself is in the teeth of the rule," the court said. After hearing arguments, the high court gave one week, as the final opportunity, to Twitter to file a better affidavit in terms of the earlier orders passed.  The court posted the matter for further hearing on August 6.  Advocate Amit Acharya filed a plea in court against the non-compliance by Twitter India and Twitter Inc with the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 (IT Rules, 2021).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/appointing-contingent-worker-is-non-compliance-of-it-rules-delhi-hc-pulls-up-twitter-1013868.html
28-07-2021||National||Parliamentary panel meeting to question govt officials on Pegasus postponed due to lack of quorum||Controversy once again hit the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information and Technology, chaired by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor with a BJP MP accusing another member of the panel from Trinamool Congress of calling him a "Bihari goonda". Meanwhile, the panel meeting called to question government officials on the Pegasus spyware had to be postponed due to lack of quorum as members from the ruling party refused to participate. On a day Mamata Banerjee met several Opposition leaders and gave a call for nationwide Opposition unity to take on Narendra Modi-led BJP in 2024 general elections as well in 2022 UP Assembly polls, BJP MP Nishikant Dubey took to Twitter alleging Trinamool Congress member of using the word "Bihari goonda" and abusing people of entire Hindi belt including Bihar.  Tagging the Twitter handles of Mamata Banerjee and Trinamool Congress, Dubey said, "This abuse by your party MP Mahua Moitra has exposed the hatred of your party towards North Indians, especially the Hindi belt dwellers." Soon, politics kicked in Gorakhpur BJP MP Ravi Kishan said, "Us, the people of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, have left the hope of respect from TMC long back". BJP state general secretary of Andhra Pradesh S Vishnu Vardhan Reddy said, "Such a response by a TMC member is not surprising. However, coming from an MP, it is highly condemnable. It has to be seen how Tejashwi Yadav and Manoj Kumar Jha (leaders of RJD in Bihar) respond to it." Moitra denied the charge saying Dubey was not even present in the panel meeting. "Am a bit amused by charges of name-calling. IT meeting did not happen because of no quorum - members did not attend. How can I call someone a name who was not even present!! Check attendance sheet!," she tweeted tagging the panel Chairman Tharoor and other Congress and TMC members from the panel Karthi Chidambaram, Nasir Hussain and Nadimul Haque. Am a bit amused by charges of name-calling.IT mtng did not happen because NO quorum - members did not attend.  Sources close to Dubey said he had gone to attend the meeting but did not sign on the attendance register as BJP members were protesting against the meeting that was supposed to discuss the issue of 'citizens safety' and 'data protection'. Officials from the Information and Technology Ministry and the Home Ministry were to depose before it on the Pegasus issue. Since the BJP members did not sign the attendance register, it led to a lack of quorum and the meeting could not happen. Also, the officials who were asked to appear before the panel did not arrive, citing various reasons. Karti Chidambaram tweeted, "BJP members come to the IT Committee and refuse to sign the attendance register to deny a quorum. Further, all the witnesses called from MiEIT and MHA wrote in excuses and didn't appear as called to testify. It's very clear that Pegasus is a no go area for this government." He asked why is the BJP "shy/hesitant/reluctant/unwilling/afraid to discuss about Pegasus?" "Every desperate act of the @BJP4India clearly indicates that they have a lot hide.#Pegasus. The @BJP4India wants to expunge #Pegasus from any debate, scrutiny or enquiry! What are they so afraid of?," the Congress MP asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliamentary-panel-meeting-to-question-govt-officials-on-pegasus-postponed-due-to-lack-of-quorum-1013873.html
28-07-2021||National||India has received 26 Rafale aircraft till date: Centre||India has so far received 26 Rafale aircraft out of the 36 it has ordered from Dassault Aviation, Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt said Wednesday. "The delivery of 36 Rafale aircraft is proceeding as per schedule. As on date, a total of 26 aircraft have been accepted and ferried to India," Bhatt said in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha. The multi-role Rafale jets, built by French aerospace major Dassault Aviation, are known for air superiority and precision strikes. The first batch of five Rafale jets arrived in India on July 29, 2020, nearly four years after India signed an inter-governmental agreement with France to procure 36 aircraft at a cost of Rs 59,000 crore. The Rafale jets are India's first major acquisition of fighter planes in 23 years after the Sukhoi jets were imported from Russia. The Rafale jet is capable of carrying a range of potent weapons. European missile maker MBDA's Meteor beyond visual range air-to-air missile and Scalp cruise missile will be the mainstay of the weapons package of the Rafale jets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-received-26-rafale-aircraft-till-date-centre-1013874.html
28-07-2021||National||DRDO to get 2% royalty from Dr Reddy's on sale of anti-Covid drug 2-DG in India: Govt||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) will get two per cent royalty from Dr Reddy's Laboratory (DRL) on the sale of anti-Covid drug 2-DG, Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt said on Wednesday. In a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha, Bhatt said the DRDO developed the technology (for 2-DG) along with DRL, Hyderabad. The pricing is solely decided by DRL. The actual price fixed by Dr Reddy lab is Rs 990 per sachet, he said. The DRDO works under the Defence Ministry. DRL is a private listed company. "DRDO will get 2 per cent royalty on the sale of 2-DG in the Indian market as per Transfer of Technology agreement," Bhatt said. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) approved the 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG) drug for emergency use as an adjunct therapy in moderate to severe coronavirus patients in early May. The first batch of this oral drug, developed by the DRDO was released on May 17 by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and then Health Minister Harsh Vardhan. The Defence Ministry on May 8 had said that the clinical trials of 2-DG showed that it helps in faster recovery of hospitalised patients and reduces supplemental oxygen dependence. The drug comes in powder form in sachet and is taken orally by dissolving it in water.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drdo-to-get-2-royalty-from-dr-reddys-on-sale-of-anti-covid-drug-2-dg-in-india-govt-1013881.html
28-07-2021||National||I-T portal issues to be resolved soon: FM Sitharaman||With glitches still haunting the new income tax portal, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday said she wished the Infosys-developed website did not have such a launch but hoped issues will be sorted out soon. Sitharaman said Infosys had done trial runs before the June 7 launch but users faced technical issues in accessing the portal. "I wish it hadn't happened this way. But we are correcting the course and sooner the portal will be as is planned, easy to use," she said. The new income tax e-filing portal 'www.incometax.gov.in' had a bumpy start from the day of its launch on June 7 as it continued to face tech glitches. Talking to reporters, Sitharaman said her ministry along with Infosys had done trial runs before launching the portal, but still users experienced "quite a lot of difficulties" after its launch. "Infosys is quite closely working with the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) and the ministry and rapidly, at least from what I hear from chartered accountants and income tax professionals, there is definitely a lot of improvement," she added. Infosys was in 2019 awarded a contract to develop the next-generation income tax filing system to reduce processing time for returns from 63 days to one day and expedite refunds.  The government has so far paid Rs 164.5 crore to Infosys between January 2019 to June 2021 for developing the portal. Sitharaman had on June 22 called a meeting with key officials of Infosys to review the issues on the portal. In the meeting, the ICAI members highlighted the issues faced by taxpayers and tax professionals on the portal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-t-portal-issues-to-be-resolved-soon-fm-sitharaman-1013890.html
28-07-2021||National||Parliament passes amendment Bill to strengthen juvenile justice law||Parliament passed the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Amendment Bill, which seeks to increase the role of district magistrates and additional district magistrates in matters concerning child care and adoption. The Bill was passed by Lok Sabha in March 2021. Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani moved the Bill in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday and it was passed amid a ruckus as the Opposition parties kept up their protests over Pegasus snooping row, farm laws and price rise. The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Amendment Bill, 2021, which seeks to amend the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, proposes to increase the role of district magistrates and additional district magistrates in matters concerning child care and adoption, she said. "The children of our country deserve a united house to support the amendments proposed. The amendments empower the district magistrates, enhance CWC (child welfare committee) and enhance accountability. Hence I beseech that this House irrespective of its political differences stand together in service of our children," Irani said amid protests. According to the amendments, background and educational qualification checks will be included in the process of selection of a member of a child welfare committee. "If an individual has a record of violation of human rights, that individual can never be appointed as a member of the child welfare committee. If an individual is convicted of an offence involving moral turpitude and has not been granted pardon, that individual cannot serve as a member of the child welfare committee. If an individual has ever abused a child, employed a child labour or indulged in immoral acts, that individual cannot serve in the child welfare committee," Irani said. "To ensure that there is absolutely no conflict of interest, those individuals who run child care institutions or other NGOs that profit from the government, who are from the management part of child care institutions, they cannot be a part of child welfare committees," she said. The Bill also seeks to categorise offences wherein the maximum sentence is more than seven years' imprisonment but no minimum sentence or a minimum sentence of less than seven years has been provided as "serious offences" under the Juvenile Justice Act, and to remove difficulties in interpretation of the Act. "Serious offences" include those for which the punishment under the Indian Penal Code or any other law for the time being is imprisonment between three and seven years. The Bill intends to ensure that the district magistrate is suitably placed to ensure effective coordination among the stakeholders for facilitation of necessary services for children's rehabilitation or re-integration. By further empowering district magistrates to deal with child protection and adoption processes, it aims to facilitate a coordinated and effective response of the administration to various issues pertaining to children, including adoption, the Bill said. On the child welfare committee, the Bill said no person shall be appointed as a member unless he or she has been actively involved in health, education or welfare activities pertaining to children for at least seven years or is a practising professional with a degree in child psychology or psychiatry or law or social work or sociology or human development. The Bill further proposes that the appointment of any member of the committee shall be terminated by the state government, after making an inquiry, if they fail to attend the proceedings of the committee consecutively for three months without any valid reason or if they fail to attend less than three-fourths of the sittings in a year. The Bill makes the district magistrate the grievance redressal authority for the child welfare committee, and anyone connected with a child may file a petition before the official, who shall consider and pass appropriate orders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-passes-amendment-bill-to-strengthen-juvenile-justice-law-1013893.html
28-07-2021||National||Illegal mining scam: CBI carries out searches at 15 locations||The CBI carried out searches at 15 locations on Wednesday in connection with illegal mining in Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL) in West Bengal, the agency said. "The searches include at the premises of then officials of ECL, including then two general managers (present and one retired), manager (security), inspector (security) and colliery agent etc.," CBI Spokesperson RC Joshi said in a statement. He said cash amounting to around Rs 20 lakh, jewellery and property documents were recovered from the premises of the incumbent general manager. Property documents, locker keys and incriminating documents were recovered from the possession of the other accused, Joshi added. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) lodged a case on November 27, 2020 against six named accused as well as unidentified persons on allegations of illegal mining and theft of coal in the leasehold areas of ECL, Asansol and its adjoining private land, the agency spokesperson said. He said it was also alleged that the scam ran into crores of rupees. "Searches were earlier conducted at more than 100 places in various states. One private person was earlier arrested during investigation. The investigation is continuing," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/illegal-mining-scam-cbi-carries-out-searches-at-15-locations-1013895.html
28-07-2021||National||Jewellers cry foul over mandatory gold hallmarking||From receiving damaged gold items to delay in getting hallmarked jewellery from the assaying centres and imposition of an ID system on goods, jewellers are facing many challenges after mandatory gold hallmarking came into force from June 16 in a phased manner, jewellers' body GJC said on Wednesday. The government has identified 256 districts from 28 states and union territories for phase-1 implementation of gold hallmarking.         Gold hallmarking, a purity certification of the precious metal, was voluntary in nature so far.               "We are ready for mandatory gold hallmarking but there are certain problems which small jewellers are facing. If these are not addressed, then the industry will be on the verge of complete collapse," All India Gem and Jewellery Domestic Council (GJC) Director Dinesh Jain told reporters.         A major problem being faced by jewellers is that they now have to upload on a Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) portal a six-digit hallmark unique identification number (HUID) that is affixed with each hallmarked gold article, he said.       "This HUID system is extremely time consuming due to which Assaying and Hallmarking Centres (AHCs) are not able to hallmark more than 150 to 20 pieces per day," Jain said.       Both AHCs and the jewellers have to upload the HUID. Since it is a cumbersome, time-consuming process, there is delay in hallmarking at AHCs, which is further disrupting the entire supply chain and causing delays in the delivery of goods to consumers, he added.       The government introduced the HUID system as a component of hallmarking to ensure traceability of such certified articles in a bid to protect consumers from being cheated.       According to GJC, the HUID system must not be made applicable to jewellers. As followed earlier, the jewellers must be permitted to submit jewellery for hallmarking through delivery challan in accordance with Rule 55 of the CGST Rules, 2017.       AHCs, after completing the hallmarking process, should mark the jewellery appropriately. But the HUID number and the corresponding data should be maintained solely by AHCs and should not be transferred to the jewellers account on the BIS portal, it said.       Jain also said that since each jewellery has to sport a HUID that needs to be uploaded on the BIS portal, AHCs are testing the purity of each piece, instead of batches of 40 pieces as done earlier.     "This delay in hallmarking is affecting our business. We cannot deliver our goods timely to customers. What will happen during festivals and marriage season if this plight continues?" he said.       The existing stock of about 5 crore jewellery pieces are required to be hallmarked.       "At the current capacity of hallmarking centres, 1 lakh pieces per day, it will take around 500 days, equivalent to 18 months to hallmark the existing stock lying with jewellers," Jain said. If so much time is taken for the old stock, then hallmarking new manufactured stock of  12 crore pieces would eventually lead to collapse of the industry, he added.       Maharasthra Sarafa Swarnakar Mahamandal President Fatehchand Ranka said since introduction of the mandatory hallmarking regime, 72 hallmarking centres have been either cancelled or suspended across the country.        "Previously, out of 933 centres, almost 450 centres were suspended. This shows that one out of two AHCs was either cancelled or suspended for contravention of law. How can we rely on such a system and such hallmarking centres and become victims of their failure?" he said.       Further, Ranka said the new marking system under the guise of HUID has been introduced to monitor hallmarking centres. "...jewellers have been dragged into the administrative process of HUID, which has no relevance to purity," he said.     All India Bullion and Jewellers Federation President Yogesh Singhal said, "The current process followed by AHCs ends up in damaging certain finished products and leads to gold wastage, causing losses to the jeweller and inconvenience to the customer."       He said the government should adopt a non-destructive process for sampling and testing of jewellery, including a clear methodology for testing the non-homogeneous nature of the precious metal articles submitted by the jewellers.       If these new systems are imposed on jewellers, only a handful of corporates and large retailers can survive, while the rest will have no choice but to wind up their businesses, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jewellers-cry-foul-over-mandatory-gold-hallmarking-1013910.html
28-07-2021||National||US subtly nudges Modi govt to let media, court, civil society uphold democracy in India||The United States on Wednesday subtly nudged Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government to support media, judiciary and civil society to freely uphold democratic principles in India, even as it noted that all democracies, including its own, were work in progress. The Modi government, however, defended its human rights records, underlining that “freedom” should not be equated with “lack of governance”. The shared “commitment of India and the United States to democratic values” is part of the “bedrock” of the relationship between the two nations, President Joe Biden’s Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, said in New Delhi. He tacitly conveyed to his counterpart and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar the concerns in the United States over the perception that India was backsliding on human rights and freedom of speech and religion. Jaishankar, however, said during a joint news conference with Blinken that many of the policies and decisions of the Government of India in the past few years had been driven by its “moral obligation” to right the historical wrongs. He was apparently justifying the decisions the Modi Government had drawn flak for – stripping Jammu and Kashmir of its special status and reorganizing the erstwhile state into two Union Territories and amending a law to provide only for non-Muslim migrants from Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan a fast track to citizenship in India. At a time of rising global threats to democracy and international freedoms – “a democratic recession” – it was important for the US and India, the two leading democracies of the world, to continue to stand together in support of free media, independent courts, a vibrant and free and fair electoral system, the Blinken said during a meeting with the civil society representatives. “And, of course, both of our democracies are works in progress. As friends, we (India and the US) talk about that, because doing the hard work of strengthening democracy and making our ideals real is often challenging.” “Freedoms are important, we all value them. But never equate freedom with non-governance or lack of governance or poor governance,” said the External Affairs Minister. He was responding to a question by a US journalist on the state of freedom of speech and religion in India. With the US lawmakers expressing concerns over the state of freedom of expression and religion in India, the officials of the Biden Administration had last week indicated that Blinken would take up issues related to democracy and human rights with the Modi Government during his visit to New Delhi. The International Press Institute (IPI), a global network of editors, journalists and media executives, too had on Tuesday urged the US Secretary of State to express concern during his visit to New Delhi over “the stifling press freedom environment in which independent media is operating in India, amidst threats and legal harassment by the government at the Centre and in the States ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party”. “The Indian people and the American people believe in human dignity, in equality of opportunity, the rule of law, fundamental freedoms, including freedom of religion and belief,” Blinken said on Wednesday, adding: “We believe that all people deserve to have a voice in their government and be treated with respect no matter who they are.” “These are fundamental tenets of democracies like ours, and our purpose is to give real meaning to these words and constantly renew our commitment to these ideals.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-subtly-nudges-modi-govt-to-let-media-court-civil-society-uphold-democracy-in-india-1013912.html
28-07-2021||National||Sebi slaps fine on Viaan Industries, Raj Kundra, Shilpa Shetty for violation of insider trading norms||Markets regulator Sebi on Wednesday slapped monetary penalty on Viaan Industries Ltd, Shilpa Shetty Kundra and Ripu Sudan Kundra, who is also known as Raj Kundra, for disclosure lapses and consequent violation of insider trading norms. According to a Sebi order, a total fine of Rs 3 lakh has been imposed on them to be paid jointly and severally. Shilpa and Ripu are the promoters of Viaan Industries. The order follows a probe conducted between September 2013- December 2015 to ascertain violation of Prohibition of Insider Trading (PIT) norms by the entities. In October 2015, Viaan Industries made a preferential allotment of 5 lakh equity shares to four persons and 1,28,800 lakh shares each, amounting to Rs 2.57 crore each, were allotted to Ripu and Shilpa in the allotment. In this regard, they were required to make timely requisite disclosure to the company in terms of PIT norms since the transactions exceeded Rs 10 lakh in value. "It is on record that the relevant disclosures under the PIT Regulations were made by the Noticees with a delay of more than three years," Sebi noted. "Therefore, considering these facts and circumstances, I hold that this case deserves imposition of monetary penalty upon the Noticees," said adjudicating officer Suresh B Menon in an order. Noticees refer to Viaan Industries, Shilpa Shetty Kundra and Ripu Sudan Kundra. Shilpa and Ripu are the promoters of the firm. Viaan Industries was formerly known as Hindustan Safety Glass Industries Ltd.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sebi-slaps-fine-on-viaan-industries-raj-kundra-shilpa-shetty-for-violation-of-insider-trading-norms-1013914.html
28-07-2021||National||NASA's Swati Mohan on converting passion into a career||Physics or Biology? The question of which stream to choose in the high-school was quite difficult for Bengaluru-born Dr Swati Mohan, the celebrated aerospace engineer who was part of NASA’s Mars 2020 mission.  To become a doctor was Mohan's childhood dream, but space-related events always fascinated her. She had to choose between her dream and passion, and she chose the latter.  Physics “came naturally to me” and Biology was “harder”, Mohan told the inaugural session of #DiasporaSeries organised by the US Consulate General in Chennai. US Consul General in Chennai, Judith Ravin, inaugurated the virtual series.   “I was better at applying than memorising,” she said, explaining how the decision that she made changed her life.  Mohan, who was born in a family of doctors, always dreamt of becoming one when she grew up and never thought she would become an aerospace engineer. But she took a keen interest in space-related events and followed developments in the field closely. “Self-discovery” and “trial and error” are the secret to achieving success, the aerospace engineer said during the one-hour long session. Three things, according to her, define one’s life –“know and accept who you are”, “creating a supporting system”, and “actively doing your best.”  “I had no intention of going into space mission and when I grew up I always wanted to become a doctor. I was working towards becoming a doctor but I loved watching space. It was my hobby but I did not know how to build a career,” she said.  When she was asked to choose the stream at high school, she chose physics over biology. “It was a very hard choice to make. Space came naturally to me but biology was hard. That is when I switched to engineering,” the aerospace engineer said, adding that once she was in the field she focussed on getting into NASA.  Mohan said asked young students to use each opportunity that comes their way to learn, experience and decide the next step. “Seek out opportunities in line with your goals,” she said. She is the Guidance, Navigation, and Control Systems Engineering Group Supervisor at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) who led the operations of the NASA Mars 2020 mission. She played a pivotal role in landing the US space agency’s historic Perseverance rover on the Martian surface on February 18, 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nasas-swati-mohan-on-converting-passion-into-a-career-1013943.html
28-07-2021||National||Centre extends Covid-19 guidelines till August 31||The Centre on Wednesday extended the validity of the existing Covid-19 guidelines till August 31 as fresh infections continued to be on the rise in some parts of the country. In a communication to all states and union territories, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said that with the decline in the number of active cases, states and UTs were reopening economic and other activities in a gradual manner. “While the decline in the number of cases is a matter of satisfaction, it may be noted that the absolute case numbers are still significantly high,” he said. He said the existing pandemic guidelines were being extended till August 31 and urged states and UTs to focus on the five-fold strategy of 'test, track, treat, vaccinate and adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour' for effective management of the infectious disease. The home secretary said there was no room for complacency and the process of relaxing restrictions should be carefully calibrated, as has been reiterated in his earlier communications. Bhalla said the reproduction number of the virus, commonly known as the 'R' factor, is hovering just below 1 but is high in some of the states. Referring to his letter dated July 14, the home secretary said all efforts should be made to ensure that there is no increase in the 'R' factor. “Further, strictest possible measures should be taken in the districts that are still showing high positivity rates. In view of the upcoming festivals, there is a need to ensure Covid Appropriate Behaviour (CAB) in all crowded places,” he said. Bhalla urged state governments and UT administrations to issue strict directions to the district and all other local authorities to take necessary measures for Covid-19 management. India reported 43,654 fresh Covid-19 cases taking its tally to 3,14,84,605, while 640 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 4,22,022, according to Union Health Ministry data on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-extends-covid-19-guidelines-till-august-31-1013945.html
28-07-2021||National||Help us remove vaccine hesitancy, PM Modi urges religious leaders||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday urged religious and social organisations to help combat rumours and confusions about Covid-19 vaccines to ensure wider reach of the vaccination drive. In a virtual interaction with representatives of religious and social organisations, Modi asked them to spread the message 'Sabko Vaccine, Muft Vaccine' amongst their followers and create awareness about the vaccination drive. The prime minister asked them to work in collaboration with the government, especially in areas where there is high vaccine hesitancy. He exhorted the religious and community leaders to join the efforts of the government by helping spread awareness about vaccination and help combat rumours and confusions about the vaccines.  He appreciated the work done by these organisations towards meeting the challenges posed by Covid-19. The help provided to people was beyond caste or religious considerations and was a shining example of ‘Ek Bharat-Eknishtha Prayas’, the prime minister said. He noted that across the country, temples, mosques, churches and gurudwaras doubled up as hospitals and isolation centres, while also helping the needy get food and medicines. The interaction was attended by Prof Salim Engineer, Convenor, Kendriya Dharmik Jan Morcha and Vice President, Jamaat-e-Islami Hind; Maha Rishi Peethadheeshwar Goswami Sushil Maharaj, National Convenor, Bharatiya Sarv Dharam Sansad; Swami Omkaranand Saraswati, Peethadheeshwar, Omkar Dhaam; Singh Sahib Giani Ranjit Singh, Chief Granthi, Gurudwara Bangla Sahib. Dr M D Thomas, Founding Director, Institute of Harmony & Peace Studies; Swami Veer Singh Hitkari, President, All India Ravidasiya Dharam Sangathan; Swami Sampat Kumar, Galta Peeth; Acharya Vivek Muni, President, International Mahavir Jain Mission; Dr A K Merchant, National Trustee & Secretary, Lotus Temple and Indian Baha'i Community; Swami Shantatmanand, President, Ramakrishna Mission; and Sister B K Asha, Om Shanti Retreat Centre also attended the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/help-us-remove-vaccine-hesitancy-pm-modi-urges-religious-leaders-1013948.html
28-07-2021||National||Antony Blinken meets Dalai Lama's representative in India||United States Secretary of State Antony Blinken met a representative of the Dalai Lama and the Tibetan Government in Exile based in India during his visit to New Delhi on Wednesday – sending out a message to China. Blinken had a meeting with Ngodup Dongchung, the representative of the Dalai Lama in New Delhi, just before his meeting with his counterpart in the Government of India, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar. Dongchung also serves as a representative of the Tibetan Government in Exile (TGiE) based at Dharamshala in India. This is the first time a US Secretary of State publicly met a representative of the Dalai Lama or the TGiE while visiting India. Blinken’s meeting with Dongchung came amid escalating tension between the US and China and the continuing military stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army. The Dalai Lama set up the TGiE – formally called Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) – on April 29, 1959, just a few weeks after he arrived in India following his escape from Tibet, which had been occupied by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army in 1950-51. The CTA, which has its headquarters in Dharamshala in Himachal Pradesh, calls itself the “continuation of the government of independent Tibet”. Beijing, which calls the Dalai Lama a ‘splittist’, in the past pressed the Government of India hard to shut down the TGiE. New Delhi, however, has been allowing it to function, albeit without officially recognising it. The US Congress late last year passed the Tibetan Policy and Support Act (TPSA) of 2020, acknowledging the legitimacy of both the Tibetan Parliament in Exile (TPiE) and the TGiE or the CTA. The TPSA 2020, which the then US President Donald Trump signed into law, acknowledged the Central Tibetan Administration as the “legitimate institution reflecting the aspirations” of the Tibetan Diaspora around the world with Sikyong as its President. The US had hosted the then Sikyong of the TGiE Lobsang Sangay at the State Department and the White House in Washington D.C. in October and November last year. The US also acknowledged the legitimacy of the election of Penpa Tsering early this year as the successor of Sangay in a global poll which saw participation by exiled Tibetans around the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/antony-blinken-meets-dalai-lamas-representative-in-india-1013954.html
28-07-2021||National||India, US share deep commitment to values of democracy: Modi to Blinken||The societies of India and the United States share a deep commitment to the values of democracy, freedom and liberty, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told President Joe Biden’s Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Wednesday. Blinken called on the Prime Minister before concluding his tour to New Delhi. Modi told Blinken that the Indian diaspora in the United States had contributed immensely to the enhancement of bilateral ties. The India-US strategic partnership would have even greater significance for the world in the coming years, in the context of the challenges posed by Covid-19 pandemic, global economic recovery and climate change, he said. Blinken conveyed to Modi greetings from Biden and the US Vice President Kamala Harris. He also said that the Biden administration was strongly committed to further deepening India-US strategic relations in various sectors, including defence, maritime security, trade and investment, climate change and science and technology. The US Secretary of State took note of the “increasing convergence” between the two nations “on a wide range of bilateral and multilateral issues and the commitment of both strategic partners to convert the convergence into concrete and practical cooperation”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-share-deep-commitment-to-values-of-democracy-modi-to-blinken-1013956.html
28-07-2021||National||US announces Rs 185 crore financial support for Covid-19 vaccination in India||The United States on Wednesday announced an additional financial assistance of $25 million (Rs 185 crore) to support the Covid-19 vaccination programme in India. After a meeting with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar in New Delhi, the US Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, announced the additional financial assistance to support vaccine supply chain logistics and campaign against vaccine hesitancy in India. “The US support will help save lives by strengthening vaccine supply chains across India,” Blinken said during a joint news conference with Jaishankar. They, however, did not reveal if they had any discussion on the vaccines allocated for India out of the 80 million doses the US had promised to donate from its own stockpile to other countries. The US already started despatching the vaccines to several countries, including Pakistan, Bangladesh and others in the neighbourhood of India. India, however, did not receive any Covid-19 vaccine from the US so far, because Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government could not yet take a call on the issue of indemnity. Blinken had last week told a TV channel that the US had millions of Covid-19 vaccine doses ready to be dispatched to India once the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government would complete the necessary legal process. “We focus today on expanding vaccine production to make it globally affordable and accessible. We also discussed travel challenges resulting from Covid-19,” Jaishankar said after his meeting with Blinken on Wednesday. The US Agency for International Development stated that the it would partner with the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare of the Union government of India as well as the State governments to support vaccine supply chain logistics, address misinformation and vaccine hesitancy and train healthcare workers to deliver vaccines safely and effectively across India. The USAID will also collaborate with key stakeholders, including the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, UNICEF, the World Health Organization, and the GAVI – the Vaccine Alliance to promote equitable vaccine delivery and strengthen pandemic preparedness. The USAID since March 2020 allocated more than $226 million (about Rs 1,670 crore) in Covid-19 aid to India, including more than $100 million (about Rs 740 crore) to support India’s response to the recent surge and more than $50 million (about Rs 370 crore) in emergency supplies. “The vaccination efforts in India and countries around the world over the coming months are critical to stopping the threat of new Covid-19 variants. The United States’ support will boost India’s vaccination efforts and help save lives," Blinken said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-announces-rs-185-crore-financial-support-for-covid-19-vaccination-in-india-1013961.html
28-07-2021||National||Over 45 crore Covid vaccine doses administered in India: Govt||The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country have crossed 45 crore with those in the 18-44 age group receiving more than 15.38 crore jabs, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. Nearly 40 lakh (39,42,457) vaccine doses have been administered on Wednesday, the ministry said citing a provisional report at 7 pm. The ministry said 20,54,874 vaccine doses were administered as first dose and 3,00,099 as second dose to those in the 18-44 age group on Wednesday. Cumulatively, 14,66,22,393 persons in the age group 18-44 years across all states and union territories have received their first dose and a total of 71,92,485 have received their second dose since the start of Phase 3 of the vaccination drive. Five states -- Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh -- have administered more than one crore cumulative doses of Covid-19 vaccine to people in the 18-44 age group, the ministry said. As on Day-194 of the vaccination drive on Wednesday, a total of 39,42,457 vaccine doses were given. The ministry said 27,41,794 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 12,00,663 beneficiaries received the second dose of vaccine till evening on Wednesday. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-45-crore-covid-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-govt-1013966.html
28-07-2021||National Politics||Rajnath Singh holds bilateral talks with Belarusian counterpart in Dushanbe||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday held bilateral talks with his Belarusian counterpart Lt Gen Viktor Khrenin on the sidelines of a conclave of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) in Dushanbe. Officials said the two ministers deliberated on bilateral defence cooperation and touched upon regional security challenges. "Raksha Mantri Shri @rajnathsingh meeting the Defence Minister of Belarus, Lieutenant General Viktor Khrenin on the sidelines of SCO Defence Ministers' meeting in Dushanbe," Singh's office tweeted. The defence minister reached the capital city of Tajikistan on Tuesday on a three-day visit to attend the conclave of the defence ministers of the member states of the SCO. In his address at the conclave, Singh is expected to pitch for concerted efforts to deal with terrorism and other security challenges facing the region. The defence minister is also expected to meet his Tajik counterpart Col Gen Sherali Mirzo to discuss bilateral as well as other issues of mutual interest. Tajikistan is chairing the SCO this year and hosting a series of ministerial and official-level meetings. The SCO, seen as a counterweight to NATO, is an eight-member economic and security bloc and has emerged as one of the largest transregional international organisations. India and Pakistan became its permanent members in 2017. The SCO was founded at a summit in Shanghai in 2001 by the presidents of Russia, China, the Kyrgyz Republic, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. India has shown keen interest in deepening its security-related cooperation with the SCO and its Regional Anti-Terrorism Structure (RATS) that specifically deals with issues relating to security and defence. India was made an observer at the SCO in 2005 and has generally participated in the ministerial-level meetings of the grouping which focus mainly on security and economic cooperation in the Eurasian region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajnath-singh-holds-bilateral-talks-with-belarusian-counterpart-in-dushanbe-1013756.html
28-07-2021||National Politics||Democracy part of bedrock of India-US ties, says Blinken, meets Jaishankar||The shared “commitment of India and the United States to democratic values” is part of the “bedrock” of the relationship between the two nations, President Joe Biden’s Secretary of State, Anthony Blinken, said in New Delhi. Blinken arrived in New Delhi on Tuesday. The US Secretary of State referred to “India’s pluralistic society and history of harmony” during a meeting with the representatives of the civil society just before his talks with his counterpart, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, on Wednesday. With the US lawmakers expressing concerns over the state of freedom of expression and religion in India, the officials of the Biden Administration had last week indicated that Blinken would take up issues related to democracy and human rights with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government during his visit to New Delhi. The International Press Institute (IPI), a global network of editors, journalists and media executives, too had on Tuesday urged the US Secretary of State to express concern during his visit to New Delhi over “the stifling press freedom environment in which independent media is operating in India, amidst threats and legal harassment by the government at the Centre and in the States ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party”. “The Indian people and the American people believe in human dignity, in equality of opportunity, the rule of law, fundamental freedoms, including freedom of religion and belief,” Blinken said on Wednesday, adding: “We believe that all people deserve to have a voice in their government and be treated with respect no matter who they are.” “These are fundamental tenets of democracies like ours, and our purpose is to give real meaning to these words and constantly renew our commitment to these ideals,” he said, subtly sending out a message to the Modi Government. New Delhi was not been amused by the US State Department’s remarks confirming Blinken’s plan to take up with Jaishankar the issues related to democracy and human rights in India. A source in New Delhi said that India was “proud of its achievements in both domains” and was “always glad to share experiences”. The source also took a subtle dig at the US, stating that India had “a long-standing pluralistic society” and would be ready to engage with those who “now” recognised the value of diversity. Blinken, however, noted on Wednesday that democracy was neither flawless in the US nor was it so in India. “And of course, both of our democracies are works in progress. As friends, we talk about that, because doing the hard work of strengthening democracy and making our ideals real is often challenging,” said the US Secretary of State.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/democracy-part-of-bedrock-of-india-us-ties-says-blinken-meets-jaishankar-1013766.html
28-07-2021||National Politics||Govt pushes three bills without discussion as Congress members throw papers, torn placards at Chair in Lok Sabha||The Government on Wednesday pushed three bills through Parliament even as opposition members tore papers and flung placards disrupting proceedings for the seventh consecutive day demanding discussion over allegations of snooping in the Pegasus revelations. It took just six minutes to pass The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Bill in the Lok Sabha, while the Appropriations (No. 4) Bill authorising an additional expenditure of Rs 23,675 crore from the national exchequer, was approved in nine minutes without any debate. The Rajya Sabha passed the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Amendment Bill without any discussion. It was trouble from the word 'go' in the Lok Sabha as the chair disallowed the notice for adjournment motion moved collectively by opposition leaders. Members of Congress and CPI(M), who were in the Well raising slogans, tore Parliament papers and flung a placard, which narrowly missed media persons seated in the press gallery. Both, the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha, witnessed repeated adjournments and the government pushed through three bills in the melee. The opposition and the ruling BJP traded charges and accused each other of running away from debate in Parliament. “When Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said he is ready for any debate in Parliament, why is the opposition running away from debate,” I&B Minister Anurag Thakur said. “There are limits to protests in the House. But, the Congress and Trinamool members crossed all limits. Is it appropriate for the members to throw papers at the Speaker, wave placards in the Well and snatch papers from the hands of a minister?” Thakur asked. On the other side, former Congress President Rahul Gandhi accused the Modi government of throttling the voice of the Opposition in Parliament by not allowing a debate on the Pegasus revelations. He said the Opposition was not running away from debate, but wanted Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah to be present in the House during the debate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-pushes-three-bills-without-discussion-as-congress-members-throw-papers-torn-placards-at-chair-in-lok-sabha-1013804.html
28-07-2021||National Politics||Enough of 'ache din', now we need 'sachche din': Mamata continues to attack Modi-led BJP||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday once again batted for Opposition unity to take on the ruling BJP, saying people have had enough of 'ache din' (good days) and they now need 'sachche din' (truthful days). She added that it will be difficult to stop a political 'thoofan' (storm) that may hit the country. As she spent the third day in the national capital meeting senior Opposition leaders like Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Arvind Kerjriwal, Mamata said the game is not over yet and her aim is to help the Opposition to "bell the cat" and she did not want to be the "face" but a "simple cadre". Repeated questions during an interaction with a select group of journalists on who would lead the Opposition in 2024 Lok Sabha elections and whether she would throw her hat in the ring met with a repeated assertion that she cannot impose her choice on other parties and a leader would emerge as the situation evolves. "I am not a political astrologer. It depends on the situation, structure. I have no problem if someone else leads. When the matter is discussed we can decide. I cannot impose my opinion on others... I have a sweet home in Kolkata... I want to help all the Opposition parties to bell the cat. I don't want to be a leader, but a simple cadre," she said on the leadership issue. The Trinamool Congress supremo, who steered her party to a consecutive third victory in the West Bengal Assembly elections, targeted Modi-led BJP and exuded confidence that the Opposition would be stronger than the ruling party in the near future. Responding to questions on the failure to forge Opposition unity in 2019 and what changed in two years, she cited the examples of the election after the Emergency, the return of Indira Gandhi in 1980, V P Singh in 1989 and later A B Vajpayee to say that one can see change even within one year. "We have had a lot of 'ache din', now we want 'sachche din'," Mamata said. Asked whether leaders like YSR Congress' Jagan Mohan Reddy and BJD's Naveen Patnaik, who supports the BJP in Parliaments on Bills, join the Opposition camp, she said it may not be happening today but it can happen later. "It would be difficult to contain a political 'thoofan'," she said. Mamata said there would be a meeting of Opposition parties soon after Parliament session ends to decide on how to strategise on the upcoming elections in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Uttarakhand among others. "If we (Bengal) can defeat the BJP, then others can also do," she said. Asked whether she sees a chance of JD(U) chief and Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar joining the Opposition ranks, she said he is still with the NDA and that can happen only if he leaves them. "You make him understand. I won't interfere in his party's affairs," she said. On the demand to bifurcate West Bengal and create a separate North Bengal, she said the BJP was raising the issue because they could not take it that they have lost ground in the state. "They want to divide India, divide Bengal. We will not allow that. That is our commitment. It is very difficult to fight us. We won't bow down," she said. Asked about the Pegasus row, Mamata said the Centre should have suo moto announced a probe as one needs to respond in a democracy. "Everywhere they are sending ED, I-T for raids. Here, there is no response... The situation is very serious, it's more serious than the Emergency," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/enough-of-ache-din-now-we-need-sachche-din-mamata-continues-to-attack-modi-led-bjp-1013836.html
28-07-2021||National Politics||No problem if someone else leads anti-BJP front: Mamata||With Sonia Gandhi and Rahul having a 'chai pe charcha' with her and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee saying she has "no problem if someone else leads", Opposition unity move got a momentum on Wednesday. "We discussed the political situation in general. It was a very good and positive meeting. A positive result should come out of it in the near future. It is necessary for everyone to come together to defeat the BJP," Banerjee said after the meeting at 10 Janpath, the official residence of Sonia Gandhi. Banerjee's meeting with Sonia and Rahul was preceded by a meeting of Rahul with leaders of 14 Opposition parties in Parliament over joint floor strategy to corner the government.  While TMC's absence in this meeting kicked off a talk of a divide in Opposition ranks, Banerjee's party was quick to rule it out. Congress insiders said the party has shown the importance given to Banerjee with the bilateral meeting and nothing more needs to be read out in TMC not being present at the Opposition meeting in Parliament. At a separate meeting with a select group of journalists, Banerjee, replying to repeated queries on the leadership of an united Opposition front and to a direct question on whether she would lead such a front she said, "I want to help all the Opposition parties to bell the cat. I don't want to be a leader, but a simple cadre." Pressed further she said, "I am not a political astrologer. It depends on the situation, structure. I have no problem if someone else leads. When the matter is discussed we can decide. I cannot impose." Earlier, Congress leaders had also made reconciliatory voices, showing the party's keenness to draft in regional satraps from other parties in its larger fight against the BJP and sort of shedding off its insistence on the leadership of Congress for such an alliance even as many insisted on Congress being the "fulcrum" of any Opposition unity move. Unlike in the past, the Opposition unity move this time has begun nearly three years before the next general election, a very long time in politics with its set of advantages and disadvantages. The greatest challenge is whether the parties will be able to keep the momentum generated with the hattrick victory of CM Mamata Banerjee in West Bengal and how the BJP performs in 2022 elections in seven states, out of which it is in power in six including Uttar Pradesh with 80 Lok Sabha seats. Aware of the Uttar Pradesh challenge, where the BJP has got over 50 per cent votes in last Lok Sabha polls, Banerjee said if the Opposition leaders concerned have to win against the BJP in Uttar Pradesh, they have to come together. "Poore desh me khela hoga (The game will be played across the country)", said Banerjee whose poll slogan for West Bengal was "Khela Hobe". "If Bengal could do, so why can the other states not do so?," she asked. "The BJP may be big in terms of size but from political angle, the Opposition will be stronger than the BJP. They will make history" she said. Banerjee also spoke to RJD leader Lalu Prasad over phone. She expressed confidence that more regional parties will take a stand in coming days. "If all regional parties come together, it will be stronger than one party system," Banerjee said. "If someone like Mayawati wants to fight alone, she will. What can I do about it? I respect all of them, as much respect as they deserve," she said. On Tuesday, Banerjee had insisted that the unity of Opposition parties will take shape on its own and "the country will lead the Opposition unity" was her cryptic reply to questions on whether she will lead the Opposition parties. Banerjee's meeting with Sonia Gandhi was the focal point of her five-day visit to the national capital during which she also met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, her party MPs, an array of Opposition leaders including Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and a select group of journalists in the national capital on Wednesday. After the meeting, Kejriwal said he "discussed several political issues with her." The last in person meeting of Banerjee with Sonia and Rahul had taken place in 2018 amid the buzz of creating a federal front to take on the BJP-led NDA in 2019 general elections.  Banerjee had also attended an online meeting called by Sonia Gandhi in August 2020 with seven Opposition Chief Ministers on issues including GST, JEE and NEET.   BJP hits back As Banerjee met Opposition leaders discussing the Pegasus spyware snooping controversy and the Covid-19 situation and sought to build a common campaign strategy against the government, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra reminded how Opposition leaders -- Sonia Gandhi, Mamata Banerjee, Mayawati and others -- were seen together on a stage in Karnataka in 2018. "Rahul ji, you said the entire Opposition has come together. When was this Opposition not together? Today, Mamata ji is also sipping tea with Sonia ji. You are saying we are all together. Remember how all these leaders of Opposition were hand holding each and saying all of us Opposition leaders will together defeat BJP. Rahul Gandhi and Akhilesh Yadav, two good boys of UP rode a bicycle together in UP (Congress-SP alliance for 2017 UP polls). Before 2019 polls also, all these Opposition parties have come together in West Bengal. What happened after that?" Patra asked. Raising the "parivaar" charge against Opposition parties, Patra said all these Opposition parties are only keen for the welfare of their families -- be it Congress, TMC, Shiv Sena, RJD or SP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-problem-if-someone-else-leads-anti-bjp-front-mamata-1013894.html
28-07-2021||National Politics||Congress attacks Centre over Rakesh Asthana's appointment as Delhi Police Commissioner||Congress on Wednesday sought to find fault with the Centre appointing senior IPS officer Rakesh Asthana as Delhi Police Commissioner, saying it was "blatant disregard" towards the Supreme Court and the laws of the land. Asthana was appointed the Commissioner of Delhi Police on Tuesday, four days ahead of his retirement, with an extension of services by one year. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said the Ministry of Home Affairs issued the notification naming him as the Police Commissioner effectively granting him a one-year extension from the date of his superannuation "as a special case in the public interest". "Not just is it an issue of inter-cadre appointment, the issue expands to another instance of blatant disregard towards the Supreme Court of India and the laws of the land," Khera told reporters. Khera said that the Supreme Court had stated that the recommendation for appointment to the post of Director General of Police by the Union Public Service Commission and preparation of panel should be purely based on merit from officers who have a minimum residual tenure of six months i.e. officers who have at least six months of service prior to the retirement. "With just four days left before the retirement of Rakesh Asthana, this notification by the Modi government issued under the seal of approval by (Home Minister) Amit Shah is downright illegal and in direct contravention of the judgment of the Honourable Supreme Court of India," Khera said. Reminding that Chief Justice N V Ramana had expressed reservations to the candidature of Y C Modi and Rakesh Asthana for the post of CBI chief, Khera said, "as both the officers had less than six months for retirement, based on the observations of the CJI, their names were dropped despite being the two senior-most IPS Officers in the fray to become the Director, CBI." "Despite being apprised of this, yet again, this government deemed it fit to arbitrarily proceed with the appointment of Rakesh Asthana as the Delhi Police Commissioner," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-attacks-centre-over-rakesh-asthanas-appointment-as-delhi-police-commissioner-1013900.html
28-07-2021||National Politics||There will be 'khela' across India: Mamata Banerjee attacks Modi government||There will be 'khela' across the country, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee asserted here on Wednesday as she threw down the gauntlet to the BJP with her now-famous election warcry of 'Khela hobe' (game is on) that led her to victory over the saffron party in the state. “If Bengal could do it, so can the other states,” she said, addressing the media here. The Trinamool Congress chief, who is a bitter critic of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, said in a lighter vein that she has learnt Hindi from him and even chimed "Kem cho(how are you)" in Gujarati, which, she said, she learnt from Home Minister Amit Shah. Asked if she has decided on a slogan for a united opposition like 'Khela Hobe' which is used in her assembly poll campaign, Banerjee quipped in Hindi, “Poore desh mein khela hoga (The game will be played across the country). "It is a continuous process... When Modi will fight the next election, it will be with the country,” the chief minister, who is on her first visit to the national capital after defeating the BJP in West Bengal, said implying that it will be Modi versus a united opposition in the next Lok Sabha polls. When asked how her Hindi has significantly improved over the last few years, Banerjee quipped, “Have learnt Hindi from Narendra Modi and Gujarati from Amit Shah.” Gujarat, the home state of Modi and Shah, will go to polls in December next year, and on July 21, when the TMC observes 'Martyrs' Day, it had aired Gujarati translation of Banerjee’s speech in all districts of the state. It was also beamed for the first time, also in other states like Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Punjab, Tripura and Uttar Pradesh. The landslide victory in the West Bengal Assembly polls has buoyed Banerjee to try and reach out to the rest of the country. She is being positioned by her party as the face of a united opposition in their bid to oust the BJP in the 2024 general election. The CM, however, has been ambivalent about it. “You are asking me the name of the child even before it is born,” she quipped to a query related to a "united opposition". Hitting out at the Modi government, Banerjee said that the "mismanagement" of the coronavirus crisis will hurt the saffron party. "I want to see sachhe din, bahut achhe din dekh liya (I want to see truthful days, have seen enough of good days," the Trinamool Congress chief said, in a jibe at the BJP's 2014 poll slogan of 'achhe din aane wale hai' (Good days are coming). Throughout the briefing with the media, she took digs at the Modi government. Clad in her trademark white saree and sandals, Banerjee spoke both in Hindi and English and also expressed her love for the sweets of Varanasi, Prime Minister Modi's Lok Sabha constituency. “Narendra Modi was popular in 2019….Today, they have not kept a record of the bodies, last rites were denied and bodies were thrown in river Ganga. Those who lost their loved ones will not forget and forgive,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/there-will-be-khela-across-india-mamata-banerjee-attacks-modi-government-1013924.html
28-07-2021||National Politics||Rajasthan Congress's power-tussle resolution may drag on for a few more days||A resolution of the vexed internal power tussle in Congress-ruled Rajasthan may drag on for a few more days as the party is keen to resolve the issue completely from the district level to the state unit. The Congress-led government has completed more than half of its term. The resolution will begin with a Cabinet reshuffle in the state in which Sachin Pilot's loyalists would be accommodated. After a long Tuesday evening meeting with Sachin Pilot, AICC general secretary-incharge for the state Ajay Maken held one to one meetings with a bunch of MLAs in Jaipur on Wednesday discussing a range of issues including achievements of the government, the implementation of the CM Chiranjeevi Health Insurance scheme and the steps required shore up the government's performance and image. Maken will be meeting the legislators even tomorrow, which has prompted the Opposition BJP to claim that all is not well within the ruling Rajasthan Congress unit. "The ruling party has this level of dispute that one-on-one meetings with MLAs are required, the government cannot function well. Such governments are not able to function well and cannot do well for the people," Leader of Opposition Gulabchand Kataria said in Jaipur. Congress had come to power in Rajasthan along with Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh in December 2018. It lost Madhya Pradesh to BJP after Jyotiraditya Scindia rebelled against the old guard Digvijay Singh and Chief Minister Kamal Nath in March 2020, while a power tussle is now brewing in Chhattisgarh between Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and senior leader T S Singh Deo. Deo had on Tuesday walked out of Chhattisgarh Assembly in protest against some allegations levelled against him by a party MLA, prompting the AICC to issue a notice to him. After the party high command made Navjot Singh Sidhu the Punjab PCC chief, ignoring the objections of Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, Pilot camp is hopeful of larger role of their leader (read CM face) in 2023 state elections. The AICC leadership is treading on the Rajasthan issue cautiously as they feel that the majority of MLAs in Rajasthan are still with Gehlot. There are indications that Pilot will have to cool his heels for some time in the AICC as generally secretary of a key poll-bound state. Gujarat could be such a state, whose AICC general secretary Rajiv Satav, a close aide of Rahul Gandhi succumbed to Covid-19 this year. Congress had stalled the BJP at 99 seats in Gujarat in last Assembly polls and with Modi and Shah both being saddled with the central politics, the Congress is hopeful it can make a kill in the state this time, which has been out of bounds for it for over 25 years. Pilot, who has been largely credited for bringing the party to power in Rajasthan in 2018 and strengthening the organisation in six years from 2014 to 2020 till he was removed from the post after rebellion against the Gehlot government, could be entrusted the responsibility of the key state, where a good showing for the party could further boost his credentials. For the time being, MLAs close to Pilot will be accommodated in the Gehlot ministry where there are nine vacancies at present. "The Chief Minister himself holds 38 portfolios. Is this manageable," a leader from the Pilot camp told DH. After meeting Gehlot on Saturday night, Maken and AICC general secretary K C Venugopal had said there was "no dispute" within the party on the Cabinet reshuffle and the decision had been left to the party high command. In the 200-member House, the Congress has 106 MLAs while a good number of 13 independent MLAs support it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-congresss-power-tussle-resolution-may-drag-on-for-a-few-more-days-1013928.html
28-07-2021||North and Central||7 dead, 17 injured as cloudburst hits Jammu and Kashmir's Kishtwar district||A cloudburst hit a remote village in Jammu and Kashmir's Kishtwar district early Wednesday, leaving seven people dead and 17 others injured, officials said. Six houses and a ration depot situated on the banks of a stream besides a bridge were damaged in the cloudburst which triggered flash floods in the area around 4:30 am. A search and rescue operation by police, Army and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) is underway to locate over 14 people who are still missing from the scene of the cloudburst at village Honzar in Dacchan tehsil, the officials said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the Centre is closely monitoring the situation in Kishtwar. All possible assistance is being provided to the affected areas, he said, wishing for everyone's safety and well-being. Union Home Minister Amit Shah spoke to Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha and DGP Dilbagh Singh and took stock of the situation arising due to the cloudburst.    "Seven bodies were recovered from the cloudburst-hit village, while 17 others were rescued in an injured condition so far,” a police official told PTI.         He said efforts are on to locate 14 missing people.        Condition of five of the rescued persons was reported to be critical, the official said.         Earlier, District Development Commissioner, Kishtwar, Ashok Kumar Sharma said a massive rescue operation is underway as a number of persons are still missing.          Director General of Police-cum-Commandant General Home Guard, Civil Defence and SDRF, V K Singh, said two women are among the seven people killed in the cloudburst. “One of our SDRF teams from Kishtwar reached the affected village and two more teams are on their way from Doda and Udhampur districts. Two more SDRF teams are waiting for the weather to improve to get airlifted from Jammu and Srinagar to the scene and join the rescue mission,” Singh said, adding a NDRF team from Ludhiana in Punjab is also on the way to Kishtwar. “Inclement weather is hampering the rescue operation as our teams are waiting at the airports. The village is a three-hour journey on foot from the last road connectivity,” he said.          The officials said floods have also been reported from Machail, Paddar and Bunjwah in the district.          The district development commissioner, Kishtwar, said two cloudbursts struck remote Lambard area overnight but there was no report of any loss of life.       “There is some damage to infrastructure but exact details are awaited,” Sharma said.         He said 60 families were evacuated to safety from the Paddar area in view of incessant rains which posed a threat to their homes. A defence spokesman said two columns of the Army were mobilised to assist the civil adminstration in rescue operation. "First Army column mobilised early morning and joined civil administration in rescue operation while a second column is reaching the scene shortly," the spokesman said. He said one SDRF column is ready to be airlifted from the Jammu Air Force Station subject to weather clearance   Union minister Jitendra Singh and J-K Lt Governor Sinha said they are monitoring the situation arising out of the natural calamity.         The Union minister, in a tweet, said he spoke to district magistrate Kishtwar and air force authorities were contacted for lifting the injured as and when required.          “…Keeping close track of the situation. Every kind of further help will be provided as per requirement.” In a tweet on the handle of Office of LG J-K, Sinha said, “Saddened over loss of precious lives due to flash floods caused by cloudburst in Dacchan, Kishtwar. My thoughts are with bereaved families.       “Spoke to senior authorities and district administration. Army and SDRF team working on war footing to rescue people and trace the missing persons. I am continuously monitoring the situation,” the Lt Governor wrote.          Spoke to senior authorities and district administration. Army and SDRF team working on war footing to rescue people and trace the missing persons. I am continuously monitoring the situation. Senior PDP leader and former legislator Fidroud Tak also expressed shock over the “unfortunate incident” and called for intensification of the rescue operation to save precious lives. Most parts of Jammu region have been receiving heavy rains for the past few days. With the prediction of more rains till July-end, authorities in Kishtwar have already asked people living along water bodies and slide-prone areas to remain vigilant.        "The meteorological department has predicted heavy rains during the coming days and water levels in rivers and drains are expected to rise, which can pose a threat to the inhabitants residing near rivers, drains, water bodies and slide-prone areas," the district administration said in an advisory issued late on Tuesday night.          A MET spokesperson said widespread intermittent rain is most likely to continue across Jammu and Kashmir till July 30.         “Heavy to very heavy rain is possible at some places and may lead to flash floods, mudslide, landslide and water logging (in low lying areas). People are advised to remain alert as water level has risen in all rivers (owing to incessant rains),” the spokesperson said, also asking people not to venture on hilly, landslide and mudslide prone areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/7-dead-17-injured-as-cloudburst-hits-jammu-and-kashmirs-kishtwar-district-1013716.html
28-07-2021||North and Central||18 killed, 25 injured after truck hits bus in Uttar Pradesh||At least 18 people were killed and 25 injured after a truck hit a double-decker bus, police said on Wednesday. The incident took place under Kotwali Ramsanehighat area late on Tuesday night. The private bus was on its way to Bihar from Ludhiana in Punjab, they said. The axle of the bus broke down and it was parked on the road when a speeding truck coming from behind hit it, killing 18 people on the spot and injuring 25 others, the police said. Some passengers were standing outside the bus while others were sitting inside at the time of the incident, they said. Police rushed to the spot after receiving information about the accident and the rescue operation is underway. The injured were rushed to the hospital with the help of locals, Additional Director General of Police, Lucknow Zone, S N Sabat said. It was raining heavily when the accident took place and this posed some problems in the rescue operation, he said. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has expressed grief over the loss of lives in the accident and directed officials to extend all possible help to the victims.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/18-killed-25-injured-after-truck-hits-bus-in-uttar-pradesh-1013739.html
28-07-2021||North and Central||8 feared dead, 7 missing in flash floods triggered by heavy rains in Himachal Pradesh||At least eight people are feared dead and seven reported missing in flash floods triggered by heavy rains in Himachal Pradesh, a senior disaster management official said on Wednesday. State Disaster Management director Sudesh Kumar Mokhta said four people are feared dead in Kullu district and one person is feared dead in Chamba. Three people were killed and seven are missing in Lahaul-Spiti. In Kullu, a 26-year-old woman, Poonam, and her four-year-old son Nikunj were swept away in Brahamganga, a tributary of the Parvati river, near Manikaran around 6:15 am on Wednesday due to a sudden surge in the water level, he said. Another woman and a man were also swept away in the flash floods, he added. In Lahaul's Udaipur, two tents of labourers and a private JCB were washed away in the flash floods triggered by a cloudburst around 8 pm on Tuesday, Mokhta said. Three people were killed and seven labourers are still missing, he said. He said police and Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) teams were dispatched to search for the missing people but the heavy flow of water hampered the search operation on Tuesday night. The search operation resumed on Wednesday morning. Lahaul-Spiti Deputy Commissioner Neeraj Kumar told PTI that a team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has been requisitioned for rescuing the labourers trapped under the debris of the landslide. "The NDRF team is on its way and is likely to reach the spot by afternoon," he said. The district administration is arranging the necessary equipment at the spot for a prompt rescue operation by the NDRF, he added. In Chamba, a JCB helper was washed away in the flash floods in Chaned tehsil, Mokhta said. In Lahaul-Spiti, several roads have been blocked and around 60 vehicles are stranded due to multiple landslides, he said. Many roads in various other parts of the state have been blocked due to landslides. A car was damaged in a landslide in Vikas Nagar in Shimla city, he said. Meanwhile, heavy rains continued to lash various parts of the state. The Shimla Meteorological Centre has issued a 'red' weather warning. On Tuesday, several people were evacuated from Lahaul-Spiti's Darcha village after water levels rose in the Bhaga river following a heavy spell of rain, Mokhta said. According to the Darcha police check-post, the water level in the river increased considerably due to the heavy rainfall, damaging three shops near the river bank. People living near low-lying areas have been safely evacuated by police, Mokhta said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/8-feared-dead-7-missing-in-flash-floods-triggered-by-heavy-rains-in-himachal-pradesh-1013748.html
28-07-2021||North and Central||UP journalists protest over fake case against scribe||Journalists took out a march in the district on Wednesday in protest against lodging of an alleged fake case against a scribe and demanded suspension of Inspector-in-Charge of Nagar Kotwali in this connection. Taking part in the protest organised by the district unit of Uttar Pradesh Working Journalist Union (UPWJU), journalists associated with various media organisations marched from Clock Tower to collectorate carrying placards with slogans against Inspector in-Charge Madhup Nath Misra and the police administration. They also raised slogans for the removal of the inspector. The representatives of the journalists later met the District Magistrate and the Superintendent of Police and submitted a memorandum and warned that they will sit on an indefinite dharna incase their demands were not met in 24 hours. Besides, Misra's suspension, they also demanded that the investigator in the case be changed. Union's Bahraich unit president Virendra Srivastava said that an accredited journalist associated with a national-level TV channel and a news agency, Salim Siddiqui, has alleged that Misra, who was having some personal problems with him, lodged a fake case against him this month in connection with encroachment of Waqf land. Srivastava said that a delegation had met the DM and the SP five days ago to lodge a protest against this, but since no action was taken, the journalists had to take to the road. District Magistrate Dinesh Chandra said that the land-related investigation of the case registered against the journalist has been given to the chief revenue officer (CRO). The Superintendent of Police has transferred the investigation of the case registered against the journalist from Kotwali Nagar to the Crime Branch. An officer of the Deputy Superintendent of Police-level is investigating the demands raised in the memorandum given by the journalists organisation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-journalists-protest-over-fake-case-against-scribe-1013790.html
28-07-2021||North and Central||Some officers obstructing my departmental work to please CM Khattar: Anil Vij||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Wednesday alleged that some officers are obstructing his departmental work to "please" Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar as they think that there are differences between the two. Asserting that he and Khattar are "good friends", Vij, who also holds the health portfolio, said such officers will have to pay a heavy price for playing this "dirty game". Vij's remarks came after a recent tussle between him and the chief minister over Director General of Police Manoj Yadava's tenure. Khattar was keen on retaining Yadava as the state police chief while Vij was in favour of replacing him after his two-year term ended earlier this year. Though Yadava was granted a one-year extension by the Centre, he sought premature repatriation to the Intelligence Bureau last month citing "career considerations and family requirements". In a statement, Vij said some officers are obstructing his departmental works to please Khattar as they think that he and the CM are against each other. "They are very badly mistaken. Me (I) and Hon'ble CM are good friends," said Vij, who also holds Urban Local Bodies, Technical Education, Science and Technology departments. Officers playing this "dirty game" will have to pay a heavy price for this, he added. While Vij did not name any officer in his statement, his displeasure seems to be directed towards some senior bureaucrats, sources said. In January last year, Vij and Khattar were involved in a tussle over the control of the CID wing. The CID department, which was then held by Vij as the home minister, was eventually allocated to Khattar. Differences between the two leaders had been brewing since Vij was given the crucial home portfolio after he won his seat for a sixth time in the 2019 state assembly polls while most of the ministers of the BJP government lost. The home portfolio was with Khattar during his first term in 2014-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/some-officers-obstructing-my-departmental-work-to-please-cm-khattar-anil-vij-1013815.html
28-07-2021||North and Central||Lok Sabha approves first batch of supplementary demands totalling Rs 23,675 crore||Amid a din, the Lok Sabha on Wednesday approved the first batch of supplementary demands authorising the government to spend an additional Rs 23,675 crore, including Rs 17,000 crore for the Health Ministry, in the current financial year. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman introduced the supplementary demands for grants and relevant Appropriation Bills. As per the first batch of supplementary demands for grants tabled in the Lok Sabha by Sitharaman on July 20, although the gross additional expenditure is over Rs 1.87 lakh crore in 2021-22, the actual cash outgo will only be Rs 23,674.81 crore as the remaining spending will be met through savings and higher receipts and recoveries. A substantial chunk of the total gross spending is towards transfer to states for shortfall in Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation cess. A total of Rs 1.59 lakh crore would be transferred to states as back-to-back loan in lieu of the GST compensation shortfall. However, this will not entail any cash outgo. To meet the various Covid-related and other health preparedness expenditure, Rs 16,463 crore extra spending has been earmarked for the Department of Health and Family Welfare. An extra Rs 526 crore has been allocated to the Department of Health Research for Emergency Epidemic Preparedness and Response. Approval for Rs 2,050 crore for Ministry of Civil Aviation was sought, which includes Rs 1,872 crore towards loans and advances to Air India for recoupment of advance from the Contingency Fund of India. The cash outgo also includes Rs 1,100 crore for Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution towards providing assistance to sugar mills for the 2019-20 sugar season. Further, the Lok Sabha approved the relevant appropriation bills, authorising the government to withdraw funds from the Consolidated Fund of India to meet additional expenditure. The Bills were passed without any debate as the Opposition members continued their protest against Pegasus snooping row and three new farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lok-sabha-approves-first-batch-of-supplementary-demands-totalling-rs-23675-crore-1013850.html
28-07-2021||North and Central||Pregnant woman carried on cot across swollen river due to lack of bridge||A pregnant woman in labour pain had to be carried on a cot to a hospital across a swollen river in Madhya Pradesh’s Chhindwara district in the absence of a bridge over it, although the child delivered at the facility could not be saved, local residents said on Wednesday. The incident occurred on Tuesday near Tekadhana village under Damua block, which falls under the Chhindwara Lok Sabha constituency earlier represented by Congress's state unit chief Kamal Nath. Dilip Batke, former sarpanch of the village, said that local people have been seeking a bridge over the Bhadanga river since a long time, but the demand has remained unfulfilled so far, which is causing hardships to them. "On Tuesday, Pinki, a 24-year-old village woman, was in labour pain and due to rains the river was in spate. Therefore, some villagers decided to take her to the hospital located across the river by carrying her on a cot. They crossed the river by holding the cot over their shoulders, which posed a risk not only to the woman but to themselves," he said.  Chhindwara is known for its development in the state, but this incident has exposed the tall claims, he said. "Tekadhana, which is situated about 70 km away from the district headquarters, turns into an island during the rainy season every year. Local people have been demanding construction of a bridge over the river since a long time," Batke added. The villagers somehow took the woman to Rampur community health center and later to Damua government hospital, where Dr Sanjay Bhatkar attended her. The doctor later told the villagers that since the woman’s condition was serious, the child could not be saved. "The child could not be saved as the woman was brought to the hospital late in a serious condition,” Batke quoted the doctor as saying. The woman was discharged from the hospital after treatment. Damua's chief municipal officer (CMO) P Khande said that people of the village have given a memorandum for the construction of the bridge a number of times and the same was forwarded to the district authorities. "The bridge will be constructed as soon as the local authorities get permission for it," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pregnant-woman-carried-on-cot-across-swollen-river-due-to-lack-of-bridge-1013882.html
28-07-2021||North and Central||A hand sanitiser that you can wear like a wristwatch?||A hand sanitiser that you can wear like a wristwatch? An engineering graduate in Jhalawar district claims to have developed just that. Worried that his mother, who is a health worker, could catch coronavirus, 25-year-old Ayaz Sheikh came up with a refillable device that is always at hand. Jhalawar’s Chief Medical Health Officer Sajid Khan said his department has procured around 600 units and nurses at government centres have begun using it.  The wristband has a 15-ml capacity and weighs just 30 gm when filled with sanitiser. The container is two-inch wide and an inch high. It incorporates a tiny pump three-quarters of inch long. Sheikh says the device sprays a tenth of a millimetre each time in an “optimum” manner because of the angle at which it is placed. That’s 150 spray shots from each refill. His innovation has been registered under I- Start, a state government programme to promote start-ups, and he has applied for a patent for the device. It is called "CoRakshak Band" and is being sold through an e-commerce site. Sheikh says he got the device right in January after four failed attempts. “My mother is a health worker and I was worried about her. So I started working on a gadget for my mother initially,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/a-hand-sanitiser-that-you-can-wear-like-a-wristwatch-1013883.html
28-07-2021||North and Central||UP woman dies after doctors leave piece of cloth in stomach during C-section||A woman, who was taken seriously ill after doctors at Government Medical College here allegedly left a piece cloth in her stomach during a cesarean operation, has died during treatment in a Lucknow hospital. The woman, who was admitted to the trauma centre of King George's Medical College in a serious condition and was on ventilator, died on Monday, her husband said on Wednesday. Taking note of the matter, the principal of the medical college, Rajesh Kumar, had formed a three-member inquiry committee to investigate the allegation. The husband claimed that the committee has not taken his version yet. The woman's husband Manoj, a resident of Ramapur North under the Tilhar police station here, had alleged that his wife Neelam (in her 30s) had given birth to a baby girl on January 6 during which a piece of cloth was left in her stomach. Talking to PTI over phone, Manoj said that his wife died during treatment at the Lucknow trauma centre on Monday night. Manoj said after the birth of their daughter, his wife used to complain of stomach pain. With no relief from treatment by private doctors, he claimed that he got her admitted to a private medical college in Shahjahanpur during which a piece cloth was found in her stomach which was removed through an operation. She was later admitted to Lucknow trauma centre after her condition did not improve, he said. Medical College spokesperson Dr Puja Tripathi, however, said that earlier when the inquiry committee tried to take the statement of the concerned doctor over phone, he did not give a satisfactory reply.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-woman-dies-after-doctors-leave-piece-of-cloth-in-stomach-during-c-section-1013905.html
28-07-2021||Oasis||Conquering with forbearance||Recently spiritual leader Dalai Lama XIV, in his 86th birthday message, reiterated his commitment to serve humanity and protect the climate. He also mentioned his refugee status without any degree of anger and asked everyone to keep the two attributes of compassion and non-violence until death. Like Gautama Buddha, his forbearance is like the Himalayan mountains that remain undisturbed in the face of any number of adversities.  Forbearance is the quality of being patient and being able to forgive someone or control yourself in a difficult situation. The Buddha himself faced many storms of blame and squalls of abuse during his lifetime, but his forbearance remained firm. His loving kindness towards these slanderers knew no bounds. The legend goes that on one occasion when the Buddha was teaching a group of people, a bystander started heckling him. The bystander seemed to be angry about something and his outburst was directed at the Buddha. The Buddha did not interrupt while the stranger vented his rage. Then he said to the group and to the stranger: “If someone gives a gift to another person, who then chooses to decline it, tell me, who will then own the gift? The giver or the person who refuses to accept the gift?” “The giver,” said the group after a little thought. “Any fool can see that,” added the angry stranger. “Then it follows, does it not,” said the Buddha, “whenever a person tries to abuse us or unload their anger on us, we can each choose to decline or to accept the abuse. In other words, whether to make it ours or not. By our personal response to the abuse from another, we can choose who owns and keeps the bad feelings.” The essence of the Buddha’s teaching is to choose wisely before responding to a situation. All decisions have consequences, for while we can make choices, we can’t choose the results. To quote Mahatma Gandhi: “We should meet abuse by forbearance. Human nature is so constituted that if we take absolutely no notice of anger or abuse, the person indulging in it will soon weary of it and stop”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/conquering-with-forbearance-1013637.html
28-07-2021||Opinion||Blinken visit: Eyes on India's human rights||The India-United States Global Strategic Partnership will be up for review as External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and US Secretary of State Anthony Blinken sit down to take a holistic view of the engagement that spreads across various sectors ranging from space to sea. Secretary Blinken's maiden visit to India in his new avatar is a swift follow up to the sojourn of Jaishankar to Washington DC this May. He is the second high-ranking member of the Joseph Biden administration to arrive in New Delhi since Secretary of Defence Lloyd Austin in March this year. In between came a quick call-on by John Kerry, the US President's Special Envoy on Climate Change. The preliminary agenda outlined by the US include cooperation in times of the global health pandemic, Indo-Pacific engagement, shared regional security interest, shared democratic values and addressing the climate crisis. India would prefer a detailed conversation on these, emphasising the evolving situation in Afghanistan, while seeking to engage Washington on human rights and democracy. Human Rights While the State Department announcement of the visit made no specific reference to human rights, Dean Thomson, Acting Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asian Affairs in the Biden administration, has flagged the issue stating: "and with respect to the human rights and democracy question…we will raise it, and we will continue that conversation, because we firmly believe that we have more values in common on those fronts than we don't. And we believe India is going to be a really important part of continuing those conversations and building strong efforts on those fronts in partnership as we go forward."  Thomson had observed this in response to a question on how the Biden administration views the situation in the backdrop of the 'cosy relationship' India had with the Trump administration amidst a perception the government passed legislation unfavourable to minorities. Unlike the US, India preferred to swiftly communicate through anonymous officials its willingness to engage those who "value its diversity", "we believe in equity, fairness, whether in development, climate change or global decision making." For the past few decades, human rights keep cropping up on the agenda intermittently from Washington. Yet not always do conversations held inside the room on the subject seep out. Human rights watch groups remain ever so active with the State Department's Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labour presenting periodic reports to the US Congress, including India. According to people privy to the Bureau's work, reports on the India situation sent to higher echelons in the administration were accorded low priority until a few years ago. The current political landscape in the United States is quite different in the post-Trump era. President Biden is conducting affairs of the state when the Republicans remain aggressive, and a section of his Democratic Party is pushing a progressive agenda.  The Biden administration continues to negotiate with the Republicans to his Build America Better initiative through massive infrastructure spending, creating more jobs at home, dealing with China and reconfigure the US economy. He is balancing it with the priorities of the progressive Democrats advocating liberalised daily wages, better working conditions, racial justice and the BLM (Black Lives Matter) movement. The progressives on Capitol Hill include two of the most prominent Indian-Americans, Rohit' Ro'Khanna (California) and Pramila Jayapal (Washington State). They raise issues such as the farmers' agitation in India after the passage of the farm laws and the situation in Jammu and Kashmir. During Blinken's visit, the human rights talk should be seen in the context of domestic and Congressional assertions. In fact, after his visit, Defence Secretary Austin maintained he raised the issue with India. Interestingly, nearly a decade ago, when a secretary from the then administration sought to convey to an Indian Minister on the Raisina Hill that he has to report to the US Congress on developments on an issue, the minister shot back, stating they too have to answer in Parliament.   Covid-19 cooperation On the other hand, several members of Congress, both on the Senate and House side, including the progressive, coaxed the Biden administration to extend help to India when people were facing the brutality of the second wave of global health pandemic. After the devastating Covid-19 swept through India this summer, the United States, through its government, corporate and public-spirited people, mounted a major relief operation allocating $226 million since March 2020, including $100 million after April this year. In addition, its citizens and corporations pumped in aid worth $400 million. Quad and Indo-Pacific  The Wednesday meeting should also review the vaccine programme, especially since the Quad decided that India would produce the vaccines with funds from the United States and Japan and logistics support from Australia. Later this autumn, Washington is preparing to host the first in-person Summit of Quad leaders, a follow up of the virtual meeting earlier this year.  Early into his presidency, Biden moved the pieces on Quad and announced continuity on the Indo-Pacific construct. Secretary of State Blinken and Defence Secretary Lloyd have been travelling to countries in the region to provide a concrete shape to the idea. The United States is also scheduled to host the 2+2 later this year. Afghanistan Like most other countries in the region, India continues to track developments in the war-torn country where the landscape is changing. The Taliban is engaging in an armed push seeking to expand its hold on districts. Some estimate nearly half of the 400 districts are already under its shadow. With the Americans on course to end their "forever war" by September 11, it is anybody's guess whether the Ashraf Ghani government in Kabul can hold on to the position even as the Taliban emphasised his leadership was not acceptable. The catch is whether the Taliban would force its way through or await the outcome of a negotiated settlement as international pressure is being garnered around the idea. Jaishankar should be sharing New Delhi's assessment of the developing situation and viewpoint of several governments in the region following his trips to a few Central Asian countries during the past fortnight. While there appears to be a thaw in India-Pakistan relations since the ceasefire agreement earlier this year, New Delhi is wary of Islamabad's intention in Afghanistan, given its deep-rooted connections with the Taliban leaders. Will Washington exert greater influence on Islamabad as it rolls out another Quad diplomatic platform with Afghanistan, Pakistan and Uzbekistan with the spotlight on regional connectivity? The development comes around a time the United States, China and Russia included Pakistan in the extended Troika for a peaceful settlement in Afghanistan. (Ends) (The writer is a Delhi-based journalist.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/blinken-visit-eyes-on-indias-human-rights-1013719.html
28-07-2021||Opinion||Here is why outsider Basavaraj Bommai trumped the rest||After throwing some red herrings to keep everyone guessing by circulating a handful of probable and improbable names for the new chief minister of Karnataka, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)'s central leadership has settled on 61-year-old Basavaraj Bommai, who represents both continuity and change. After pushing BS Yediyurappa to resign "voluntarily", the BJP wanted to make sure that not to antagonise him further, and his successor would have his cooperation and blessings. Once Yediyurappa resigned on the day he completed two years in office and made his displeasure at being pressurised to quit known at his farewell speech, the BJP moved gingerly to appoint a new chief minister. With Yediyurappa's advancing age impacting administration and 2023 Assembly elections in mind, the party had begun nudging the Lingayat strongman to step aside. However, after making the tough call of sidelining him and immediately facing the backlash from his powerful community, the BJP had little option but to choose another Lingayat to replace him. But, a "hurt" Yediyurappa refused to name anyone nor place his cards before the party high command. On his last day as chief minister, he even declared that he was not interested in any gubernatorial post and would remain active in politics in the state, "serving the BJP till my last breath." Indications were that Yediyurappa wanted a non-Lingayat to replace him, perhaps hoping to retain his supremacy in the party.  To get around his doggedness, the BJP sent the names of two Lingayats, Aravind Bellad and Basavaraj Bommai, with the central observers of the party, Dharmendra Pradhan and G Kishen Reddy. They met Yediyurappa just before the legislature party meeting and asked him to choose between the two. Bommai, his perceived confidant, got the approval. Bellad being the bright, young MLA from north Karnataka with impressive qualifications, had caught the fancy of the Narendra Modi-Amit Shah duo. They perhaps even briefly toyed with the idea of making him the chief minister and presenting a brand new look to their government in Karnataka. But, given the volatility of politics in the state, they quickly fell back on a conservative approach rather than being adventurous. By getting Yediyurappa to propose Bommai's name, the BJP had achieved multiple objectives. It made Yediyurappa happy that his 'right-hand man' had got the job, though, in reality, he had endorsed a Lingayat candidate selected by the central leadership. With Bommai's elevation to the chief minister's post, the BJP has also quietly nipped in the bud Yediyurappa's desire to see his son, Vijayendra, made a deputy chief minister, which would not have gone down well within the party. The preference given to an outsider like Bommai – he migrated from the Janata Dal Parivar to the BJP only in 2008 – over the claims of party loyalists and those with the RSS background, as conventional wisdom would suggest, presents new thinking in the BJP. Bommai is a moderate and carries no 'RSS baggage', which perhaps helps BJP widen its appeal. As the state BJP is riddled with factionalism, Bommai's neutrality, calm demeanour, and previous experiences might come in handy to manage the situation and keep the party together till the next Assembly elections. Like his father, SR Bommai was chief minister in 1988-89; Basavaraj Bommai makes the second father-son duo after HD Deve Gowda and HD Kumaraswamy to achieve a rare feat. Unlike Kumaraswamy, who had generous helping from his father, Bommai has worked his way up after being in politics for nearly three decades, twice as an MLC and three times as an MLA. From his early days in politics, he has displayed a shrewd political brain. As political secretary to former chief minister JH Patel in 1999-2000, he played a significant role in the survival of the Patel government, which was caught in the crossfire between the supporters of the then Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda and his bête noir, Ramakrishna Hegde. As the water resources minister in the first Yediyurappa cabinet in 2008, Bommai showed considerable skills in assisting the state's legal team in Delhi fighting the river disputes with the neighbouring Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. After Yediyurappa resigned in 2011 on corruption charges, Bommai made it to two more short-tenure governments headed by DV Sadananda Gowda and Jagadish Shettar that followed based on his ability and non-controversial nature. When Yediyurappa returned to power in May 2019, Bommai was entrusted with the prestigious home portfolio at the instance of Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Later, he handled parliamentary affairs and coordinated the legislature work after 14 defectors from the Congress and the Janata Dal (S) joined the ministry. As head of the government, his focus will be on administration and ensuring that the development works, which have lagged, are speeded.  It will be interesting to see what role Yediyurappa will play in the next two years till the elections. Yediyurappa would perhaps like to become the chairman of a coordination committee that acts as the bridge between the party and the government. But, it may create a parallel power centre, and the BJP leadership is unlikely to agree to it. Considering that Bommai looks upon Yediyurappa as his mentor, he may not be averse to the idea of Yediyurappa playing an active role in the party while he concentrates on administration. State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel's tenure will be coming to an end shortly. Yediyurappa may be offered its presidentship for a third term, but whether he has the energy and appetite for it remains to be seen. (The writer is a senior journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/here-is-why-outsider-basavaraj-bommai-trumped-the-rest-1013828.html
28-07-2021||Panorama||Making digital delivery work||A young man at Delhi’s farmer protests was holding a sign that read: “Jitna bhi digital India banalo, roti Google se download nahi hogi.” (No matter how digital you make India, you can’t download a roti from Google.)  All the basic services that we expect from a government — roti, makaan, bijli, sadak, paani (food, house, electricity, road and water)— are physical things. We have no doubt that technology— especially mobile internet— can help ensure these services reach every single person. What digital technology enables, however, is better governance; as our friend with the sign reminds us, the internet alone is not sufficient to ensure delivery. Delivery job is complete only when the recipient actually enjoys the service. An old joke says it best: A politician asks for votes by saying “you voted for me last time, and I got taps installed here. Vote for me again and I will make sure there is water coming from those taps” When we speak of digital delivery of services, what we actually mean is digital governance. Governance is the ability to oversee and manage the processes, institutions and persons involved in the delivery. One cannot download water from the internet; one can, however, file a water connection request or pay one’s water bills online— and the water department can view all connections, repair requests and manage billing and receipts online, as well. Can some services be delivered online? Definitely. Information of any kind can be digitally delivered: Certificates, licences, permissions, receipts etc. Even money is just a piece of paper with numbers on it, so those numbers could be delivered digitally instead. Moving from paper-based systems to digital ones is a great way to boost productivity and reduce the amount of sheer drudgery involved in service delivery, for citizens and government employees alike.  In Andhra Pradesh, for instance, the 2019 Lean Data Survey found that the e-governance system saved, on average, 11 hours of work every week for local government employees. Most of this was the time they had spent on recording or reporting data— a dull and repetitive task, prone to errors when done manually. Automating the process improved data quality and made employees more productive; between 2015 and 2019, the time taken to address a service request shrank from an average of 24 days to just 5 days, and three in five citizens reported that it was easier to receive services from the city government. The gains are not limited to efficiency or satisfaction alone. Andhra Pradesh more than doubled revenues collected from property tax by urban local bodies (ULBs), from approximately Rs 540 crores in 2015 to nearly Rs 1,150 crores in 2019. In Punjab, citizens logged more than 14 lakh transactions in just two years, totalling nearly Rs 520 crores in swift and convenient revenue collections. Making digital delivery and governance work is India’s next big employment opportunity. Even when a service can be delivered digitally, the citizen receiving it has to be comfortable with the medium; many are not, and this is where a digital assistant comes in. Just as our primary health system relies on ASHAs to be the last-mile connect, we can have a whole cadre of workers whose job is to enable the delivery of services, by facilitating enrolment, requests, follow-ups etc. All in the citizen’s language and from the comfort of their homes. The next wave of improvement in citizen wellbeing and government efficiency alike will come from efforts like these, as more and more cities adopt digital governance platforms, basic steps like data reporting, performance management and identifying inefficiencies will be built into the system itself. Ensuring that delivery is complete— that a citizen actually enjoys the service— requires the “screen” and the “street” to work together. We have already seen examples of such collaboration in action. For instance, Andhra Pradesh’s new ward secretariat program and the Delhi government’s efforts towards doorstep delivery. As citizens who care about equity, agency and last-mile impact, we should study such initiatives, and find ways to apply them in every state, district, and city across India. (Tyagi is CEO and Naik is Senior Manager at eGovernments Foundation)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/making-digital-delivery-work-1013642.html
28-07-2021||Panorama||NEP, one year later: Promises to keep and miles to go||A year ago, the government of India announced one of its most transformative public policy initiatives— The National Education Policy (NEP) 2020, whose vision states: “This policy envisions a complete overhaul and re-energising of the higher education system to overcome these challenges and thereby deliver high-quality higher education, with equity and inclusion… The main thrust of this policy regarding higher education is to end the fragmentation of higher education by transforming higher education institutions (HEI) into large multidisciplinary universities, colleges and HEI clusters/Knowledge Hubs...” The first year of the NEP focussed on three efforts that were needed to effectively implement the policy in the context of HEIs: 1. Galvanisation of intellectual consciousness among the stakeholders regarding the vision and objectives of the NEP: This was essential and the effort was led by the prime minister and the education minister, reflecting  the seriousness of the government’s intent to implement the policy. 2. Developing internal capacities within the ministry and other regulatory bodies: This is a sine qua non for effective implementation of the NEP since it would not be possible to have the same organisational structure with the same set of individuals having the responsibilities to implement the NEP. 3. Important reform initiatives as a prelude to the implementation: While the Covid-19 crisis created the necessary impetus for the education sector to innovate, the Education Ministry and other regulatory bodies such as the UGC announced new and progressive regulations to promote online education including empowering select universities to offer 100% online degrees. The “Institutions of Eminence” were also empowered to have more flexibility in online education, but more needs to be done in this regard. The Academic Bank of Credit has created a foundation to bring much the needed flexibility in study programmes for the benefit of the students. The first year of the NEP was challenging given that schools, colleges and universities switched to online mode of education, which was the only option available. The scenario created huge challenges to access education due the digital divide that is widely prevalent in India. Implementation challenges The implementation of any policy requires enormous political will and leadership, bureaucratic support and coordination along with a sense of acceptability that promotes participation among stakeholders. While the last year helped advance efforts, there are a few specific challenges that need to be addressed: 1. Creation of new institutions: It is absolutely critical to create new institutional mechanisms at the national level that are vested with the responsibility of implementing the NEP. These could be in the form of committees, working groups and even advisory bodies that will be responsible to implement different aspects of the NEP. It will be a mistake to assume that existing institutional capacities that are available within the ministry and in the other regulatory bodies can fulfil the task of implementing the NEP. 2. Significant legislative and statutory reform initiatives: One of the major challenges of implementing any policy is the absence of legislative backing and statutory support. If this aspect of the NEP is not dealt with immediately, it runs the risk of being challenged in a court of law, leading to inordinate delay and undermining its implementation in an expedited manner. The Higher Education Commission that has been envisaged in the NEP needs a legislative framework, while many other proposals may require other forms of statutory backing. 3. Stronger recognition of the role of state governments and private HEIs: A large number of HEIs are under the state governments. Nearly 70% of HEIs in India are in the private sector when we include universities and colleges. Over 70% of students in India are studying in private HEIs. The entire government machinery, including the Education Ministry and all other regulatory bodies, need to recognise the substantive and significant role of state governments and private HEIs for the successful implementation of the NEP. Plan of action There is a national consciousness that has developed in the last year around the NEP. While there will be disagreements on certain aspects of NEP among stakeholders, a majority of the recommendations have been welcomed. The following should become the plan of action for NEP implementation in the near future: 1. The HEIs should be empowered to take complete ownership and assume leadership in the implementation of the NEP. This is absolutely essential. The nature of policy implementation requires empowerment at the ground level and the NEP is no different. 2. Strong institutional incentives should be developed to promote the implementation of the NEP. Incentives could be financial, but need not be limited only to that. The concept of “Graded Autonomy” that was promoted by the government of India could be linked to the effective implementation of the NEP. 3. While empowerment of the HEIs and provision of incentives will form the core of the plan of action, these efforts need to be continuously monitored and assessed. But the monitoring and assessment need not always be centralised. We can be imaginative in creating peer group-type monitoring and feedback mechanisms involving quasi-governmental organisations such as the Association of Indian Universities. As a nation and society, we need to take the NEP more seriously. Every effort ought to be taken to ensure that the NEP is implemented in letter and spirit and in an expedited manner. (The writer is a Rhodes Scholar and the founding vice chancellor of O P Jindal Global Institution of Eminence Deemed to be University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/nep-one-year-later-promises-to-keep-and-miles-to-go-1013643.html
28-07-2021||Panorama||Another nuclear missile base for China and many questions on strategy||In the barren desert 1,200 miles west of Beijing, the Chinese government is digging a new field of what appears to be 110 silos for launching nuclear missiles. It is the second such field discovered by analysts studying commercial satellite images in recent weeks. It may signify a vast expansion of China’s nuclear arsenal— the cravings of an economic and technological superpower to show that, after decades of restraint, it is ready to wield an arsenal the size of Washington’s or Moscow’s. Or, it may simply be a creative, if costly, negotiating ploy. The new silos are clearly being built to be discovered. The most recent silo field, on which construction began in March, is in the eastern part of Xinjiang province, not far from one of China’s notorious “re-education” camps in the city of Hami. It was identified late last week by nuclear experts at the Federation of American Scientists, using images from a fleet of Planet Labs satellites, and shared with The New York Times. For decades, since its first successful nuclear test in the 1960s, China has maintained a “minimum deterrent,” which most outside experts judge at around 300 nuclear weapons. (The Chinese will not say, and the US government assessments are classified.) If accurate, that is less than a fifth of the number deployed by the United States and Russia, and in the nuclear world, China has always cast itself as occupying something of a moral high ground, avoiding expensive and dangerous arms races. But that appears to be changing under President Xi Jinping. At the same time that China is cracking down on dissent at home, asserting new control over Hong Kong, threatening Taiwan and making far more aggressive use of cyberweapons, it is also headed into new territory with nuclear weapons. “The silo construction at Yumen and Hami constitutes the most significant expansion of the Chinese nuclear arsenal ever,” Matt Korda and Hans M Kristensen wrote in a study of the new silo field. For decades, they noted, China has operated about 20 silos for big, liquid-fuel missiles, called the DF-5. But the newly discovered field, combined with one hundreds of miles away in Yumen, in northeast China, that was discovered by the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies in Monterey, California, will give the country roughly 230 new silos. The existence of that first field, of about 120 silos, was reported earlier by The Washington Post. The mystery is why China’s strategy has changed. There are several theories. The simplest is that China now views itself as a full-spectrum economic, technological and military superpower— and wants an arsenal to match that status. Another possibility is that China is concerned about American missile defenses, which are increasingly effective, and India’s nuclear buildup, which has been rapid. Then there is the announcement of new hypersonic and autonomous weapons by Russia, and the possibility that Beijing wants a more effective deterrent. A third is that China is worried that its few ground-based missiles are vulnerable to attack— and by building more than 200 silos, spread out in two locations, they can play a shell game, moving 20 or more missiles around and making the United States guess where they are. That technique is as old as the nuclear arms race. “Just because you build the silos doesn’t mean you have to fill them all with missiles,” said Vipin Narang, a Massachusetts Institute of Technology professor who specialises in nuclear strategy. “They can move them around.” And, of course, they can trade them away. China may believe that sooner or later it will be drawn into arms-control negotiations with the United States and Russia — something former president Donald Trump tried to force during his last year in office, when he said he would not renew the New START treaty with Russia unless China, which has never participated in nuclear arms control, was included. The Chinese government dismissed the idea, saying that if the Americans were so concerned, they should cut their arsenal by four-fifths to Chinese levels. The result was a stalemate. At the very end of the Trump administration, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and his arms control envoy Marshall Billingslea, wrote that “we’ve asked Beijing for transparency, and to join the United States and Russia in crafting a new arms control agreement covering all categories of nuclear weapons.” “It is time that China stopped posturing and began to comport itself responsibly,” they wrote. But the Biden administration had concluded that it would be unwise to let New START expire with Russia simply because China refused to join. Once in office, President Joe Biden moved quickly to renew the treaty with Russia, but his administration has said that at some point it wants China to enter into some kind of agreement. Those conversations have yet to begin. The deputy secretary of state, Wendy Sherman, is in China this week for the first visit of a senior American diplomat since Biden took office, though it is not clear that nuclear weapons are on the agenda. She is headed next to nuclear discussions with Russia. At the White House, the National Security Council declined to comment on evidence of the expanding Chinese arsenal. It is likely that American spy satellites picked up the new construction months ago. But it all became public after Korda, a research analyst at the Federation of American Scientists, a private group in Washington, used civilian satellite images to examine the arid hinterlands of Xinjiang province, a rugged area of mountains and deserts in northwestern China. He was hunting for visual clues of silo construction that matched what researchers had already uncovered. The new construction site is in a remote area that Chinese authorities have cut off from most visitors. It sits roughly 60 miles southwest of the city of Hami, known as the site of a re-education camp where the Chinese government detains Uyghurs and members of other minority groups. And it is roughly 260 miles east of a tidy complex of buildings with large roofs that can open to the sky. Recently, analysts identified the site as one of five military bases where the Chinese forces have built lasers that can fire beams of concentrated light at reconnaissance satellites, mostly sent aloft by the United States. The lasers blind or disable fragile optical sensors. Narang said the two new silo fields gave the Chinese government “many options.” “It’s not insane,” he said. “They make the United States target a lot of silos that may be empty. They can fill these silos slowly if they need to build up their force. And they get leverage in arms control.” “I’m surprised they didn’t do this a decade ago,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/another-nuclear-missile-base-for-china-and-many-questions-on-strategy-1013647.html
28-07-2021||Right in the Middle||The 'dabba' protocol||“For what do we live, but to make sport for our neighbours and laugh at them in our turn?” asked Jane Austen’s Mr Bennett. Had Mr Bennett been a middle-class South Indian of our time, he might have said: “For what do we live, but to send kootu to our neighbours and get vangibhath in our turn?” The exchange of homemade goodwill is a common sight in our society and the usual conduit is the stainless steel dabba, or its upstart rival the Tupperware box, changing hands across neighbours’ walls and travelling up and down apartment complex floors. Or making its way across town inside a deliveryman’s carrier. Sometimes shiny, sometimes scarred and dented, the dabba brings not only something to eat but an unwritten message with it. The giver is saying: “I made this, and thought of you,” or “Sorry you’re unwell, get well soon,” or sometimes just “Yes, yes, we’ve had your avakai, but THIS is what it should taste like!” And very often, it comes back bearing gratitude in the form of something sweet or spicy, or at least the complimentary apple. The containers go back and forth in a chain of benevolence that might well be endless but for callous breakers of the cycle. These are people who just neglect to return them or those who send them off thoughtlessly to someone else. In the households of the former, they languish in a kitchen cupboard with other orphans, dull and lid-less. And the latter, who think nothing about giving your dabba away to someone else, eventually get themselves into a blacklist. They find that the chaklis and chutney pudis that were once so obligingly pressed upon them begin to dwindle and soon stop coming altogether. I’ve even heard a stickler compare these defaulters to nurses who switch babies at birth. Sad but true— the same generous souls who want to ply you with goodies can turn curmudgeonly when the containers don’t come back. Although recent years have seen the rise of disposables, nothing will do the job as well as a stainless steel dabba. Old-school snobs are even particular about the quality of the steel they allow into their kitchens. The house-proud matron can pick up a steel dabba at a store, tap a finger on it and reject it for not being the venerated “Salem grade.” So, while some present-day kitchens have their stack of white disposables, and the thrifty among us might even hoard the rasmalai takeout boxes, nothing can dislodge the steel dabbas from their number-one status. And if you want to be part of the great game of give-and-take, you’ll know better than to breach the dabba protocol.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-dabba-protocol-1013639.html
28-07-2021||Second Edit||Sero survey numbers: Do not slack off||The results of the fourth nation-wide sero survey which indicated that two-thirds of the country may have developed antibodies against Covid should not lead to any complacency about fighting the epidemic. The results are based on testing some 27,000 people spread over 70 districts in 21 states in June and early July. The prevalence of antibodies was 67.6% overall, and 62% among the unvaccinated group. The last survey, conducted in the same districts, had shown a prevalence rate of 24.1%. The increase in the antibody presence is not surprising because the second wave of the pandemic took place, and some vaccinations were done between the two surveys. The rise in antibody levels is positive at a time when the case load is increasing in some parts of the country. But it is better to look at the survey to see how many people do not have adequate presence of antibodies. The survey shows that about 400 million people are still vulnerable. That is large enough to overwhelm the public health system again if a third wave of the epidemic happens and if more potent variants of the virus arise. This is not entertaining negative thoughts for the sake of it but considering the possibility of the worst scenario to be able to fight it best. It may also be unwise to think that the sample of 27,000 would give a correct picture about the whole of India. A sero survey done in Delhi in January had found that over 50% of the city’s population had antibodies. But the city was ravaged by the second wave a few weeks later. Experts have always warned that the presence of antibodies is no guarantee against infection by the virus. This has been proved again and again in India and in other countries. The ICMR has recently made this clear. Sero surveys are useful and are needed at the state level also as part of the data needed to understand the disease, but government policies and the conduct and behaviour of people should not solely depend on their results. There is the need to avoid large social, religious or political congregations. The Supreme Court recently stopped such festivities and reprimanded the Kerala government for relaxing some restrictions under pressure from interest groups. There should be more testing and surveillance and genomic studies. It should also be noted that the vaccine coverage is still low. Though it was announced that vaccinations would touch about one crore daily in August, it is known that even the lower target for July has not been reached. So, all the elements of Covid protocol like washing of hands, wearing of masks and maintaining social distance are still of utmost importance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/sero-survey-numbers-do-not-slack-off-1013648.html
28-07-2021||South||Strict action would be taken in dowry harassment cases, creating awareness an option: Kerala CM||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday said dowry related violence against women can be prevented by creating awareness against the menace and warned of strict action in such matters. He mentioned this in the assembly while referring to the rising cases of dowry harassment and domestic violence in the state. The Chief Minister pointed out that Governor Arif Mohammed Khan's recent fast against the practice of dowry was a Gandhian tactic of spreading awareness. Between 2011-2016 there were 100 deaths, including suicides, due to dowry harassment and this number reduced to 54 in the period from 2016-2021, he noted. In 2020 and 2021 there were six deaths each due to dowry harassment. The CM provided the data in response to a query put to him during the Assembly session on the number of deaths reported in the state due to dowry harassment and domestic violence after Vijayan assumed office, number of cases registered and the action taken. Vijayan also said the police are investigating each such case and strict action would be taken against the perpetrators.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/strict-action-would-be-taken-in-dowry-harassment-cases-creating-awareness-an-option-kerala-cm-1013751.html
28-07-2021||South||Congress demands Kerala education minister's resignation||The opposition Congress in Kerala demanded resignation of Education Minister V Sivankutty as the Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed a petition filed by the Kerala government seeking a direction to withdraw cases against CPM-led Left Democratic Front leaders for the bedlam in the Kerala state Assembly in 2015. Opposition leader V D Satheesan and Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president K Sudhakaran demanded Sivankutty's resignation. The Minister has no moral right to continue as he has to face trial, they said. However, Sivankutty, who is CPM leader, said that there is no reason for resignation as the trial in the case is still pending. The apex court only directed that the accused in the case should face trial, he said adding that he was confident of proving innocence in court. The CPM leadership is also learnt to be backing him. Six Left Democratic Front leaders, including Sivankutty and former industries minister E P Jayarajan, are the accused in the case pertaining to violent protest in the state Assembly in 2015. The LDF, which was the then opposition party, staged the protest to prevent then Finance Minister K M Mani in the Oommen Chandy government from presenting the state Budget as he faced allegations of taking bribe from the bar owners for diluting state's excise policy. The fresh development has put Mani's son Jose K Mani in an embarrassing situation as he is now with the LDF. LDF leaders are facing the case under the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act as properties worth Rs. 2.2 lakh were damaged in the bedlam. The LDF members climbed the speakers dais and damaged the chair and electronic systems. The LDF government that subsequently came to power moved the court for withdrawing the case citing that the incident happened inside the assembly and the house took action against the MLAs. It also maintained that the Legislature Secretary gave police complaint without the Speaker's nod.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-demands-kerala-education-ministers-resignation-1013774.html
28-07-2021||South||Kerala CM says extreme poverty to be eradicated in 5 years, hails SC verdict||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday hailed the recent Supreme Court verdict that begging could not be banned until poverty is eradicated and said his government aims to put an end to it in the state in the next five years. No one turns to begging as they want it but poverty and hunger force them to do so, he said in a Facebook post. The apex court verdict reflects a relevant humane perspective of a major socio-economic issue, the Chief Minister observed. Noting that poverty and begging, one of its outcomes, could not be eradicated by ban, he said such perspective should be changed and the society should have "sympathy and willingness to help" the poor people. A world without begging is possible only if hapless people are given support and made them free from poverty, he said adding that it is not an easy task to fulfill. Vijayan said what the top court had demanded was that the matter should become the policy of the land and should implement it effectively. "A first step in this direction is the new project launched by Kerala to eradicate extreme poverty. A survey, that is being conducted as part of it, will be completed within four months," the Chief Minister said. After that micro-plans would be prepared under the aegis of local self government institutions and necessary steps would be taken to free families suffering from extreme poverty from their pathetic state, he said. "Kerala's aim is to eradicate extreme poverty in the next five years. Let's all move forward together to achieve that goal in a better way," Vijayan added. The Supreme Court on Tuesday made clear it would not take an "elitist view" that no beggars be allowed on the streets and asked the Centre and Delhi government to respond to a plea seeking vaccination and rehabilitation of beggars and vagabonds in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The apex court, which observed that a large number of people including children are compelled to be on the streets to beg due to absence of education and employment, said this is a "socio-economic issue". The court told the counsel appearing for the petitioner that it would not consider one part of the prayer which sought a direction to the authorities to restrain beggars and vagabonds from begging on traffic junctions, markets and public places to avoid spread of Covid-19 pandemic in all the states and Union Territories (UTs) across India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-says-extreme-poverty-to-be-eradicated-in-5-years-hails-sc-verdict-1013786.html
28-07-2021||South||International Tiger Day: A rescued tiger cub gets 're- wilding' lessons in Kerala forest||With bad hind-limbs and cloudy eyes, she was too feeble when found abandoned by her mother near a forest temple on the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border last year. From that frail 60-day-old tiger cub, 'Mangala', fondly being called as by the forest personnel who rescued and nursed her back to health, is now ready to learn the basics of survival and hunting skills in the sprawling Periyar Tiger Reserve (PTR), located in the Western Ghats. When the International Tiger Day falls on Thursday (July 29), a group of forest personnel, under the aegis of PTR deputy director Sunil Babu, would begin the 're-wiliding' process of the female tiger cub in the reserve forest, spread over 777 km, tomorrow. The PTR, currently, has 42 tigers, as per the figures. The nearly nine-month-old animal, which was reared in these months under the watchful eyes of the forest officials, would be given the training to go back to her wild nature as per the protocol of the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), Babu said. "Re-wilding is a process to familiarize the animal with the environment of a natural forest. It will learn the hunting and other survival skills as part of the procedure under our observation," he told PTI. According to the NTCA protocol, the tiger cub should be reared in an in situ enclosure for a minimum of two years. "Normally, the animal would be released in the original forest after two years of re-wilding. Here, we will decide about its release after observing the nature and health condition of the animal," he said. Though the tiger cub was too fragile with bad hind-limbs and poor eye sight when it was rescued, the animal is perfectly healthy now, the official added. As part of the re-wilding process, the baby big cat would be shifted to a 'cage' which is spread in a nearly half-hectares of forest land inside the PTR. The enclosure would be widened in the later period as per the cub learning the hunting and survival skills. Fencing would be erected considering the safety of the animal and it would be under strict camera surveillance of the forest personnel throughout the day and night. "The core objective of the procedure is to restore the wild nature of the animal which was reared under captivity for some period and make it self-reliant to live in an original forest," he said. Though the animal would be given some feed like domestic animals such as goat in the initial period, it is expected to learn hunting down prey in the later days. "To give maximum feel of the original natural forest, the human presence in the enclosure will be made nil in the later months," the official said. Though it is an expensive procedure, the exact cost is yet to be estimated, he added. The tiger cub was suspected to have been abandoned by its mother, but officials spotted the tigress lurking around the Mangala Devi shrine in Periyar Tiger Reserve, nearly a week after it was rescued on November 21 last year. Officials believed the cub was left alone in the wild when the tigress engaged in a fierce internecine combat of tigers in the forest. Two wildlife doctors had been deployed to save the cub, which could hardly stand and if left abandoned, could have died, Department sources said. All Standard Operating Procedures of the National Tiger Conservation Authority were followed in rescue, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/international-tiger-day-a-rescued-tiger-cub-gets-re-wilding-lessons-in-kerala-forest-1013826.html
28-07-2021||South||Sabarimala priest discrimination case posted to August 12||Kerala High Court has refused to issue an interim order in the petitions against the alleged discrimination in the selection of Sabarimala Ayyappa temple 'Melsanthi' (Head priest). Considering a batch of petitions, the Devaswom Bench of the High Court sought an affidavit from the Travancore Devaswom Board that manages the temple and posted the case to August 12 for a detailed hearing. The petitioners sought an interim order as the selection process was already on. The final selection of the Head Priest through a draw of lots at the temple premises after screening is scheduled to be held on August 16. Seven priests from non-Brahmin communities have approached the Kerala High Court against the notification of the Travancore Devaswom Board inviting applications for Sabarimala head priest that states that only 'Malayala Brahmins' could apply for the post. Petitioners allege that it is discriminatory and against the Constitution.  Though an amicus curiae was appointed by the court to look into the matter in a similar petition in 2017, it was still pending.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sabarimala-priest-discrimination-case-posted-to-august-12-1013865.html
28-07-2021||South||Centre's responsibility to prevent gold smuggling: Kerala CM||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday said the power and responsibility to crackdown on gold smuggling rackets rest solely with the Centre and its agencies and the state government has nothing to do with it. The Customs and airport security do not come under the jurisdiction of the state, he told the state Assembly during the zero hour. Vijayan was replying to a notice seeking an adjournment motion moved by the Congress-led UDF opposition alleging attempts to sabotage a gold smuggling case in which local leaders of the ruling CPI(M)'s youth wing Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) are allegedly involved. The opposition raised doubts about the death of Ramees K C, a friend of the main accused in the Karipur gold smuggling case Arjun Ayanki, following a road accident soon after he was summoned by the Customs for interrogation in connection with the case. Dismissing the opposition version of "mysterious death", the Chief Minister, however, said as per the medical reports, the critical injuries to the head and ribs caused in the accident had claimed his life. It was prima facie a case of accident death according to police and Ramees, who had driven the bike without wearing a helmet, had turned his vehicle carelessly and rammed it into a car, he said. On the alleged involvement of local party activists in the illegal transfer of the gold through airports, he said the state government has nothing to do in it as the Customs is a central subject. "The Central government has the absolute power and responsibility to prevent transfer of articles through airports without paying the customs duty. The Customs falls under the union list of the seventh schedule of the Constitution," Vijayan reminded the opposition. However, the state government had taken stringent measures in the cases of law and order issues related to the sale of the smuggled gold, brought due to the lapses of the agencies concerned, he added. Stating that investigation is progressing into the death of Ramees, he said the opposition came up with the matter as they were facing dearth of topics to be raised in the House. Congress legislator and former Home minister, Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan, who sought notice, said it is the responsibility of the Chief Minister to ensure law and order in the state and asked whether it was suitable for him to evade from the responsibility. He also alleged that Ayanki had a 50-member criminal gang, named in local parlance as kuruvi (sparrows), to loot the smuggled gold brought through airports. Leader of Opposition in the State Assembly V D Satheesan said the Chief Minister was even reluctant to utter the names of criminals involved in the gold smuggling in the House. The goons, who were used by the CPI(M) to annihilate their political opponents, were now using their party affiliation to cover up their criminal activities including extortion and murder, he alleged. The opposition later staged a walkout after Speaker M B Rajesh rejected leave for the motion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/centres-responsibility-to-prevent-gold-smuggling-kerala-cm-1013871.html
28-07-2021||South||Tamil Nadu launches free vaccines at private hospitals||In a first, Tamil Nadu on Wednesday launched administering of free vaccines at private hospitals using Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds of corporates and private firms. Chief Minister M K Stalin launched the scheme at Kauvery Hospitals here as part of the government’s efforts to inoculate the eligible population at the earliest. With lakh of doses that are allotted to private hospitals every month lying unused, the Tamil Nadu government thought of a novel idea to maximise the usage of vaccines at such institutions. It allowed private firms to use their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds to sponsor vaccines to people at private hospitals. At the event, CII handed over a cheque of Rs 2.20 crore to Stalin for funding the scheme at a private hospital, while popular restaurant chain Adyar Ananda Bhavan contributed Rs 7 lakh for the scheme. The state has so far collected over Rs 4 crore from various companies to buy vaccines from private hospitals that are unused and administer them to people free of cost. The state has so far administered 2.15 crore vaccines shots of which 14.37 lakhs are from the private sector. Of the 17 lakh doses allotted for private hospitals in July, they have paid money only for 5 lakh doses. Not just corporate and private firms, the government is allowing interested individuals to sponsor the vaccines to people who need them. The state came up with the idea to ensure that all doses that are allotted to private hospitals are administered to the people. The Union Government follows a 75:25 vaccination distribution formula under which it supplies 75 per cent doses to the states free of cost and 25 per cent to private hospitals. Lakhs of vaccine doses at private hospitals in Tamil Nadu are not used owing to a slew of factors including its high cost, while the supplies given to the state government run out quite fast. The state government has asked the Union Government to revise the 75:25 formula to 90:10 so that the state government can continue with its vaccination drive without any hindrance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-launches-free-vaccines-at-private-hospitals-1013872.html
28-07-2021||South||Tamil Nadu constitutes committee for revival of MSMEs||Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday constituted a committee consisting of experts and entrepreneurs to look into challenges faced by the Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), and suggest measures for the sector’s revival.  In a statement, the MSME department said the committee was being constituted in line with an announcement made in the Governor’s address. Tamil Nadu has over 8.5 lakh MSMEs and the sector employs over 20 lakh persons. Several MSMEs are under severe stress due to losses incurred during the Covid-19 lockdown.  The Committee for Revival of MSMEs in Tamil Nadu will be headed by Dr N Sunderadevan, Former Industries Secretary of Tamil Nadu.  The members of the committee include Prof. M Vijayabhaskar, Professor, Madras Institute of Development Studies (MIDS), Bindu Anand, former Member of RBI Committees on financial inclusion, SME Finance and Securitization, and N Balasubramanium, former Chairman and Managing Director, Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI).  Other members of the committee are Hemalatha Annamalai, Cofounder and Ex-CEO Ampere Vehicles (Electric Vehicle) and Past Chair, TiE Women, Israr Ahamed, Regional Chairman, Federation of Indian Export Organisations, Anburajan, President, Tamil Nadu Small and Tiny Industries Association (TANSTIA), and R Anand, Ex-partner, Ernest and Young and Chartered Accountant.  The committee will have Secretaries from Finance, Industry, as ex-officio members, Industries Commissioner as member convener, and Chairman of the State Level Bankers Committee. The Committee will look into the challenges faced by the MSME sector in Tamil Nadu and will suggest immediate, medium-term and long term measures required for the revival of the MSME sector.  “The Committee will suggest measures needed to improve loan facility to MSMEs and to boost exports by MSMEs. It will also look into infrastructure, ease of doing business and manpower related issues that are affecting MSMEs,” a senior official said.  The Committee has also been asked to suggest measures to promote industrial growth in backward regions of the State, the official said, adding that the committee will submit its report within three months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-constitutes-committee-for-revival-of-msmes-1013886.html
28-07-2021||South||Sasikala cannot capture AIADMK: O Panneerselvam||Breaking his silence on V K Sasikala’s assertion that she will take a plunge into active politics, AIADMK coordinator O Panneerselvam on Wednesday said “nobody can capture” the party and asserted that the dual leadership will continue. Panneerselvam also said the AIADMK in the past four-and-a-half years has demonstrated that it can run the affairs without the dominance of an individual or a particular family. The comments by Panneerselvam assume significance as it comes after he and the joint coordinator of the AIADMK, Edappadi K Palaniswami, met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah in New Delhi on Monday and Tuesday respectively.  DH had on July 28 reported that the BJP counselled Palaniswami and Panneerselvam to stay united and ensure that the current arrangement of dual leadership under which the two leaders run the party is not disturbed. A BJP leader who spoke to DH on the condition of anonymity said Sasikala’s re-induction did not figure in the talks the two leaders had with Modi and Shah.  “AIADMK in the past four-and-a-half years has successfully put in place a system that the party affairs are run without the dominance of an individual or a particular family. The mechanism that we have created is democratic and cadres are happy with the current set up,” Panneerselvam, who is said to be sulking over Palaniswami’s dominance in the party, said.  “It could only be speculation,” was all Panneerselvam replied when asked about Sasikala’s statement that the cadre was with her. The former deputy chief minister was responding to questions on Sasikala’s assertions that she will make a comeback into AIADMK and “set things right” in the party. Though Palaniswami has been making his anti-Sasikala stand very clear, this is the first time Panneerselvam has openly criticised the Sasikala family after the party’s defeat in the April 6 Assembly elections. It was also speculated that Panneerselvam might side with Sasikala if he continues to be sidelined by the Palaniswami faction in the party. However, Wednesday’s remarks show both Palaniswami and Panneerselvam may be on the “same page” vis-à-vis Sasikala. The party has also been expelling cadres who speak to Sasikala over the phone for “anti-party activities.” Panneerselvam was speaking to reporters after leading a demonstration against the DMK government, accusing it of not fulfilling promises.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sasikala-cannot-capture-aiadmk-o-panneerselvam-1013898.html
28-07-2021||South||After Bakrid relaxations, Onam's pressure on Kerala govt to ease Covid restrictions||Close on the heels of criticisms against the Kerala government over the three days of relaxations in lockdown for the Bakrid festival,  the state government is again coming under pressure for relaxations in lockdown as the Onam festival is approaching. Already prominent traders' outfits in Kerala have made a call for opening all shops on all days from August 9 citing that traders are under severe financial and mental stress owing to the prolonging lockdown. The Onam festival is in the third and fourth weeks of August. The 'Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samithi' leaders said that though they had earlier decided to open all shops on all days defying the restrictions like alternate working days for non-essential commodities shops, they kept off from the move following favourable assurance from Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. However, as the restrictions were still continuing the traders were forced to defy it as the livelihood of traders were badly affected. Many already ended life by suicide and many were on the verge of taking extreme steps, the forum leaders said. The Kerala government is caught up in a tight spot as there is no relief in the Covid situation of the state as the TPR is still above ten per cent. In the last two days, the number of fresh cases also witnessed a steep increase of over 20,000 as the number of daily tests were increased. If it was 22,129 fresh cases on Tuesday with TPR at 12.35 per cent, on Wednesday it was 22,056 fresh cases with TPR at 11.2 per cent. Kerala, which initially received much appreciation for Covid management, is now facing criticism from various quarters. The Centre also alerted the state to take stringent measures to contain Covid. The centre is also planning to send another team to review the situations in the state, said sources. With North Kerala districts of Malappuram and Kozhikode having a high number of fresh Covid cases over the last several days, there were criticisms that the state was paying the price for giving relaxations in lockdown from three days in view of Bakrid. Social distancing norms were widely flouted in the state following the three-day relaxation from July 18 to 20. The opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front in Kerala had also raised concerns over the prolonging lockdown norms in Kerala. Even experts had been flaying that restrictions like limited working hours for shops and weekend lockdown were unscientific.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/after-bakrid-relaxations-onams-pressure-on-kerala-govt-to-ease-covid-restrictions-1013906.html
28-07-2021||South||Yuvraj Singh initiative helps Telangana get 120 critical care unit beds||While the Telangana government plans to ensure better medical aid, oxygen support for the Covid-19 patients during a possible third wave, charities and corporate companies are coming forward doing their part. Under its #Mission1000Beds initiative, YouWeCan Foundation run by cricketer Yuvraj Singh has set up 120 critical care unit (CCU) beds at the Government Medical College & General Hospital in Nizamabad, with financial support from Accenture. Funds contributed by the consulting firm have also been utilised by YouWeCan to provide medical equipment like BiPAP machines, ICU ventilators, patient monitors, crash carts and oxygen cylinders to the hospital. The facility was inaugurated virtually by Singh on Wednesday in an event attended by Telangana home minister Mahmood Ali. “We have all suffered tremendously during the Covid-19 second wave, including losing loved ones and struggling to procure oxygen, ICU beds and other critical care facilities when our family members were fighting for their lives. After witnessing such an unprecedented crisis and loss of life all around as well as going through a personal loss myself, I felt the need to step up to support our healthcare providers and frontline workers in their fight against this deadly virus,” Singh said. Through the initiative #Mission1000Beds, YouWeCan is setting up Covid-19 critical care facilities at hospitals across the country to expand existing capacities. In May, when the pandemic second wave was at its height in the country, Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, who is also incharge of the health department, directed officials for setting up of 48 oxygen generation plants at various government hospitals. Neighbouring Andhra Pradesh is also preparing for an uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen to hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/yuvraj-singh-initiative-helps-telangana-get-120-critical-care-unit-beds-1013926.html
28-07-2021||South||SSLC exam results: Please don't troll students, urges Kerala minister||With the record pass percentage in the Kerala SSLC examination triggering a series of social media trolls, Kerala Education Minister V Sivankutty made an appeal that students who won the exams shall not be trolled. An all-time high pass percent of 99.47 was recorded in the 2021 Kerala SSLC exams results that were announced on July 14. The state higher secondary exam results announced on Wednesday also recorded a high pass percent of 87.94.  Following reports that even very weak students cleared the SSLC exams owing to the liberal conduct of examination, in view of Covid, the social media was flooded with trolls claiming: even students who did not attend examinations were declared pass.  Referring to it, the minister said that it was sad that students who studied amid the Covid-19 situation and cleared the exams were being insulted by the social media trolls. Politicians are used to social media trolls. But please spare the students, he urged as trolling over the higher pass percentage in higher secondary was also anticipated. Meanwhile, the higher pass percentage by liberal conduct of examination had also triggered concerns over the kind of students heading for higher studies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sslc-exam-results-please-dont-troll-students-urges-kerala-minister-1013929.html
28-07-2021||South||AP CM Reddy wants ITI, polytechnic courses in oxygen plant maintenance||The Andhra Pradesh government is planning for the initiation of oxygen plant maintenance and related courses in the Industrial Training Institutes and Polytechnic colleges. The move is to ensure the availability of properly trained personnel for the upkeep of the oxygen plants, supply conduits, valves etc., to avoid a possibility of technical lapses resulting in life loss. Deaths of several Covid-19 patients under treatment in the government hospitals in Hindupur, Tirupati had shocked the state in May, during the height of the Covid-19 second wave. The mishaps allegedly happened due to reasons like interruption in oxygen supply and lag in utilizing the cylinders kept on reserve. On Wednesday, Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy held a review on Covid-19 cases and vaccine situation in the state. During the meeting, the CM ordered the formation of a special division for proper maintenance of the concentrators, cylinders and oxygen generation plants at various hospitals. Reddy said that a separate cell should be created under the Andhra Pradesh Medical Services and Infrastructure Development Corporation (APMSIDC) for the same and the staff recruited area and hospitals' distribution wise should be trained properly for the task. The Chief Minister also directed the officials to initiate courses in the polytechnics and ITIs under which skills are imparted in oxygen plant management, electrical, AC repair, plumbing and other allied services helpful in hospital's medical oxygen and other infrastructure maintenance. Reddy who has earlier initiated a plan to set up oxygen plants at the district/area hospitals, has asked the officials to arrange oxygen concentrators at the Primary Health Centres. The state government which is providing a 30 percent subsidy for oxygen generation plants and extending relaxations in power tariffs wants such plants come up immediately in 100 bedded private hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ap-cm-reddy-wants-iti-polytechnic-courses-in-oxygen-plant-maintenance-1013947.html
28-07-2021||State||Drive to develop nutritious gardens in Dakshina Kannada schools, anganwadi centres||Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Dr Kumar said that a campaign to raise nutritious garden, under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Development Scheme (MGNREGS), will cover schools, colleges, hostels and hospitals across the district. ZP CEO presiding over a meeting said fresh leafy vegetables should be cultivated in the available land in schools. Medicinal plants should be planted in the premises of Primary Health Centres in the district. An implementation and monitoring committees will be set up at the district and taluk-level for ensuring successful implementation of nutrition garden campaign in the district. Steps should be taken to plant the saplings of mango, sapota, guava, drumstick, lemon, gooseberry and papaya in the premises of schools, anganwadi centres and hostels. The officials should ensure that schools, colleges, anganwadi centres, hostels and hospitals have a compound wall and water facility before being invlpp-e. After developing the nutritious garden, the work on maintenance should be entrusted to the staff of the schools, hospitals and hostels by imparting them proper training, said the CEO. The campaign to develop nutritious garden will be taken up in 50 schools, 60 anganwadi centres, 11 hostels and seven hostels run by backward classes. The success story should be documented. The BEOs should discuss the implementation of scheme with headmasters. Horticulture department deputy director H R Nayak, Social Welfare department deputy director Yogesh, Women and Child Development deputy director Papa Bhovi and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/drive-to-develop-nutritious-gardens-in-dakshina-kannada-schools-anganwadi-centres-1013657.html
28-07-2021||State||Light vehicles likely to be allowed on Maravoor bridge from July 30||The restoration work on Maravoor bridge connecting Mangalore International Airport (MIA) is nearing completion and light vehicles are likely to be allowed from July 30. The slab of the bridge on Mangaluru-Athradi state highway built across Phalguni river had sunk on June 15 and the movement of vehicles was banned on the stretch. Recently, the Public Works Department (PWD) which had taken up the repair work on Maravoor bridge, had restored the semi-collapsed concrete slab of the bridge built across River Phalguni using sophisticated jacks. Following ban on the movement of vehicles, vehicles were forced to use alternative routes to reach the airport. Now, the repair work has been completed. A team of experts will assess the bridge on July 29 by conducting road test. Based on the recommendation of experts, light vehicles will be allowed on the bridge from July 30, sources from PWD said. The PWD had completed the work on the advise of R K Jaigopal, managing director of Bengaluru-based Struct Geotech Research Laboratories Pvt Limited. The foundation was also strengthened. The flow of water was also diverted by building a cofferdam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/light-vehicles-likely-to-be-allowed-on-maravoor-bridge-from-july-30-1013660.html
28-07-2021||State||Speak Out: July 28, 2021||Five-time legislator Basavaraj Bommai will take oath as Karnataka’s chief minister on Wednesday, a decision the BJP took after weighing several factors, including the caste and the region he represents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/speak-out-july-28-2021-1013674.html
28-07-2021||State||Nearly 70% people in Karnataka were exposed to Covid-19, suggest sero-survey||Nearly 70 per cent of people in Karnataka were exposed to SARS-CoV-2 in the last one and half years, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday, directing states to carry out sero-prevalence surveys on their own in order to find out inter-district variations to guide actions on the ground. Releasing state-wise results from Indian Council of Medical Research’s fourth sero-prevalence survey, the Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan asked the states to generate district-level data on sero-prevalence, which is essential in formulating localised public health response measures. Carried out in June-July, the fourth ICMR survey found a sero-prevalence of 67.6 per cent for the nation, which means nearly two-thirds of the Indians were exposed to the Covid-19 virus. However, there is widespread variation between the states ranging from 79 per cent in Madhya Pradesh to 44 per cent in Kerala. The exposure, however, doesn’t mean 67 per cent Indians suffered from Covid-19 infections. It only signals the silent spread of the infection among the majority of the Indians, while only a small fraction of them fell sick. In southern India, Covid-19 specific antibodies were detected in 70 per cent of people in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, 63 per cent of individuals in Telangana and 44 per cent in Kerala. In the north, it is 79 per cent in Madhya Pradesh, 76 per cent in Rajasthan and Bihar, 75 per cent in Gujarat and 71 per cent in Uttar Pradesh. Maharashtra reported a sero-prevalence of 58 per cent. "This means a lot of cases and deaths must have gone unreported in the northern states as Kerala and Maharashtra have better case detection rate. Compared to Bihar detecting one out every 134 cases and Uttar Pradesh’s one out of 100 infections, Kerala has a detection rate of one out of every six cases and Maharashtra one out of every 12 cases,” Rijo John, a health economist and a visiting professor at the Indian Institute of Management, Kozhikode told DH. ICMR’s national sero-survey was designed to capture the extent of the spread of Covid-19 infection at the national level and not to reflect the heterogeneity of sero-prevalence between districts and even between the states, the ministry said in a statement. "The ICMR survey was conducted in 70 districts and was not a truly representative one. District specific surveys, on the other hand, would provide a much better picture. Every state should carry out such surveys,” said John. Some of the other states with high sero-prevalence are Chhattisgarh (74.6 per cent), Uttarakhand (73 per cent), Odisha (68 per cent) and Punjab (66.5 per cent). The ministry advised the states to conduct sero-prevalence studies in consultation with ICMR, so that such studies follow a standardised protocol and the findings can be utilised to guide objective, transparent and evidence-based public health responses to the epidemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/nearly-70-people-in-karnataka-were-exposed-to-covid-19-suggest-sero-survey-1013962.html
28-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Basavaraj Bommai to take oath as Karnataka CM at 11 am on Wednesday||Newly appointed leader of the BJP legislature party Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday said Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot has invited him to form the government and he will take oath as Chief Minister at 11 am on July 28. "I have informed the Governor about my election as the leader of the legislature party. He has invited me to form the government. We have discussed and decided that I will take oath tomorrow at 11 am," Bommai said. According to the Governor's office, the oath taking ceremony will be at the Glass House in the Raj Bhavan. The 61-year-old leader also said that he alone will take the oath of office on Wednesday. Soon after his election as the leader of the BJP legislature party, Bommai, along with caretaker Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, drove to the Raj Bhavan to stake claim to form the government. Ending months of speculation over his exit, Yediyurappa on Monday stepped down as the Chief Minister, coinciding with his government completing two years in office. The Governor had accepted Yediyurappa's resignation and dissolved the Council of Ministers headed by him, with immediate effect, but had asked him to continue to function as Chief Minister till alternate arrangements were made.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/basavaraj-bommai-to-take-oath-as-karnataka-cm-at-11-am-on-wednesday-1013624.html
28-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Wife of Karnataka CM-designate Basavarj Bommai says will ask him to do work that benefits all||After BJP leader Basavaraj Bommai was picked as Karnataka chief minister on Tuesday, his wife Chennamma Basavaraj said his hard work has paid off and that she would ask him to do work that benefits all. Bommai was on Tuesday elected as the leader of the BJP legislature party meeting to replace B S Yediyurappa, who had resigned as chief minister on Monday. "As a chief minister's wife I would ask him to do work that benefits all," Chennamma told reporters here. Expressing her joy over Bommai becoming the next chief minister, Chennamma said this has happened due to the blessings of God. "We feel that the hard work of Basavaraj has paid off. We feel that he will do good work as he had done during the Covid time," she said. Chennamma said her husband would be a successful chief minister given his experience as a minister in the Yediyurappa government. To a question, she said Bommai has seen his father as a chief minister which will encourage him to do the good work. Basavaraj Bommai's father S R Bommai served as chief minister of the state during 1988-1989. When asked whether she knew that her husband would be the chief minister, Chennamma said he had never spoken a word about it even on Tuesday. "He doesn't discuss politics with me much but he does say about certain developments. He did not say anything yesterday or today about political development," Chennamma said. Bommai's son Bharath Bommai expressed his gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP national president J P Nadda for his father's elevation. Bharath Bommai said he had no prior information that his father would be elected as the leader and that he got to know about it through the media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/wife-of-karnataka-cm-designate-basavarj-bommai-says-will-ask-him-to-do-work-that-benefits-all-1013667.html
28-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||1.76 crore vehicles in Karnataka to instal high-security number plates in 3 years||As many as 1.76 crore vehicles across the state will have to change their number plates into high security registration plates (HSRP) in the next three years, with the government preparing to make an announcement in this regard soon. An HSRP, introduced as a measure to check theft and misuse of vehicles, comes with a hologram with the plate in the back attached to the vehicle, with a snap lock which can't be reused or replaced. A sticker on the windshield integrates the registration number along with engine and chassis numbers. The number is integrated with the government's Vahan portal for verifying authenticity. As per the direction of the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, all vehicles bought after March 31, 2019 come with HSRP which are issued by the dealers. However, the application of the rule for 1.76 crore vehicles which were registered has been delayed following legal challenges to the bids invited by the department as well as red tape. After failing to meet several deadlines set by the Union government and the Supreme Court over the past two decades, the government had recently directed the officials at the Regional Transport Office to expedite the matter. Additional Commissioner of Transport L Narendra Holkar said the process of selecting a vendor through the bidding process will be completed soon. "We will give three years of time for compliance, which will be enough for changing the plates of the vehicles,," he said. A senior official, however, said the RTO officials have failed to include inspection as a prior procedure before issuing HSRP. "In Bengaluru alone, about 500 vehicles are stolen per month. We have come across many bogus registration certificates (RC) created for use of stolen vehicles. Such vehicles will be legalised if HSRP is given without inspecting the validity of the RC," he said. Transport Commissioner N Shivakumar said they will discuss the issue. "Bogus RCs are not rampant. Still, we will discuss the matter and decide on including it in the procedure," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/176-crore-vehicles-in-karnataka-to-instal-high-security-number-plates-in-3-years-1013669.html
28-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Basvaraj Bommai takes oath as 26th Karnataka CM in a 3-minute ceremony||In a ceremony that lasted just a little over three minutes, Basavaraj Bommai was sworn in as chief minister on Wednesday. Supporters and party workers from Haveri, Bommai’s home district, arrived in large numbers at Raj Bhavan to witness the first person from their district become the chief minister. The sloganeering in support of the new chief minister reached its peak as he took oath in the name of God. Present at the Glass House in Raj Bhavan during the ceremony were his beaming family members, senior BJP leaders and legislators of the party. “We are very happy that Bommai sir is appointed the new chief minister,” said Mohan S, a Yuva Morcha worker from Haveri present at the venue. For more than a decade, the people of North Karnataka have waited for the appointment of a chief minister from the region, he said, adding that Bommai’s ascent to the top post will herald new days for the relatively young Haveri district. The first person to greet Bommai after he was sworn in was his predecessor B S Yediyurappa, flanked by former deputy chief minister Govind Karjol. Earlier, Yediyurappa, Bommai and former minister Murugesh Nirani posed for the photographers together, with a smiling Yediyurappa waving his signature victorysign. While a sizable number of supporters were ensured passes to enter Raj Bhavan and witness the event, a few hundred people had to wait outside its premises, having failed to avail entry passes. However, this did not deter the supporters from cheering loudly for the next chief minister during and after his swearing-inceremony. Later, Bommai addressed his Shiggaon constituents at an event in Palace Grounds. Thanking them profusely, Bommai sought their cooperation. “No matter what heights I reach, I’ll always be Basavaraj for you, forever,” he said. “We’re at an important stage politically and administratively. Your Basavaraj Bommai has taken up the weight of all-round development of the state. There are huge challenges ahead,” he said.  Sources said Bommai personally telephoned all senior BJP leaders, including MPs, and sought their blessings to his government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/basvaraj-bommai-takes-oath-as-26th-karnataka-cm-in-a-3-minute-ceremony-1013732.html
28-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||New ministers’ team will be ready within a week: Kateel||A new Council of Ministers under Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai will be sworn in within a week, BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel said. Speaking to reporters following the swearing-in ceremony of Bommai, he said that appointing ministers to the state Cabinet was left to the discretion of the CM. "He will take a decision in consultation with BJP high command," Kateel said. On whether 'migrant' legislators will be accommodated in the Cabinet, he said that the high command would take a call. Meanwhile, MTB Nagaraj — among the migrants from the Congress-JD(S) coalition — said that he was confident that the party and former Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa would fulfill their promise and continue those who joined from Congress and JD(S) in the Cabinet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/new-ministers-team-will-be-ready-within-a-week-kateel-1013771.html
28-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Kashmiri Pandits feeling more secure of late, many have returned to Valley: Govt||Kashmiri Pandits have been feeling "more secure" and over 3,800 youngsters from the community have moved back to Kashmir recently to take up jobs provided as part of the prime minister's rehabilitation package, the government informed Parliament on Wednesday. Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai said this in a written reply to a question put to his ministry in the Rajya Sabha. He was asked a clutch of questions on Kashmiri Pandits such as whether the government is aware that many of them have become "insecure" in the last few years, the number of Kashmiri Pandit and Dogra Hindu families currently staying in the Kashmir valley and their demands from the government. "As per the report of the Relief Office set up in 1990 by the government of Jammu and Kashmir, 44,167 Kashmiri migrant families are registered, who had to move from the valley since 1990 due to security concerns. "Out of these, the count of registered Hindu migrant families is 39,782," the minister stated. "Kashmiri Pandits have felt more secure in the recent past, as evident from the fact that 3,841 Kashmiri migrants youth have moved back to Kashmir and have taken up jobs in various districts of Kashmir under the Prime Minister's rehabilitation package," he said. Rai added that another 1,997 candidates were selected for jobs under the same package in April and they will be moving to Kashmir soon. "It is also pertinent to mention that as many as 26,684 Kashmiri migrant youth showed interest in going back to the valley by applying for the above referred 1,997 posts, which were advertised by the Jammu and Kashmir's recruitment board in December, 2020. "The government has also prepared a comprehensive policy to provide residential accommodation to these Kashmiri migrants who have moved back to Kashmir," Rai said. He said 6,000 residential units are being constructed for them at an "accelerated pace" and 1,000 residential units are already being used by these employees. The minister also gave the number of these families based in the Valley. "Approximately 900 such families, including Kashmiri Pandit and Dogra Hindu families, are residing in Kashmir. As regards those who never migrated from Kashmir, the government allowed their inclusion in the jobs package for Kashmiri migrants," he said. Besides, they are getting all the benefits of government schemes along with others in Kashmir, Rai added. The government has taken "necessary steps" to protect the life and property of people and these include proactive operations against terrorists, identification and arrest of overground workers or supporters of terrorism, action against members of banned organisations, intensified night patrolling checking at nakas, security arrangements through appropriate deployment, coordination meetings amongst intelligence agencies and maintaining a high level of alertness, he stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kashmiri-pandits-feeling-more-secure-of-late-many-have-returned-to-valley-govt-1013858.html
28-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai approves new scholarship scheme for farmers' children||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai kickstarted his innings Wednesday by signing off on some welfare measures, which includes a new scholarship scheme for children of farmers. Speaking to reporters after chairing his first Cabinet meeting, Bommai said Rs 1,000 crore will be set aside for the scholarship scheme aimed at encouraging farmers' children to pursue higher education.  His maiden Cabinet meeting was held with officials as he is yet to induct ministers.  "The new government will be oriented towards the welfare of farmers and the vulnerable sections of the society," Bommai said. The Cabinet also decided to increase pensions under various schemes. Pension under Sandhya Suraksha scheme (old-age pension) will go up from Rs 1,000 to Rs 1,200, benefiting 36 lakh persons. Widow pension will be increased from Rs 600 to Rs 800, covering 17 lakh beneficiaries, and disability pension (40-75% disability) from Rs 600 to Rs 800, benefiting 4 lakh. These measures will cost the exchequer an additional Rs 1,367.52 crore.  More welfare schemes will be introduced in the days to come, Bommai said.  Admin boost Bommai also chaired a meeting with senior officials. Keen on sharpening the administrative machinery, he said he wanted to do away with the "chalta hai" attitude among officials. The government will bring in a new file management system for quicker file movement. Until then, a file clearance drive will be taken up. All departments have been given 15 days to bring all files up to date, he said. He also emphasised on inter-departmental cooperation. A ranking system will be introduced to encourage departments to perform well, he added. "I have told officials that the new administration will get a new orientation," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-approves-new-scholarship-scheme-for-farmers-children-1013862.html
28-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Pressure mounts as Bommai prepares to form Cabinet||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai might be at least a week away from getting his own team, party leaders said Wednesday, as ministerial aspirants mounted pressure for Cabinet berths amid a debate on whether or not seniors should enjoy primacy.  Bommai himself was unable to say when he would induct ministers, hinting that the process will start only after his visit to New Delhi.  “I've asked PM Modi for an appointment. My first visit to Delhi will be to meet and wish him, the Home Minister and the Defence Minister. As for the Cabinet formation, a decision will be taken after this meeting, in consultation with senior party leaders at the Centre and here in the state,” Bommai said, adding that it would not take much time. "I need a complete team to work, given the Covid-19 pandemic and the flood situation.” Apparently, ministerial aspirants have started manoeuvres to convince the top leadership on their inclusion into Bommai’s Cabinet.   “It will take time, at least a week,” former minister R Ashoka said on Cabinet expansion. On speculation that he will become Bommai’s deputy, Ashoka said: “No discussion has happened on this."  It is said that several senior leaders are wary of not being made ministers in order to make way for fresh faces. Even the migrant camp - MLAs who came from Congress and JD(S) and were ministers in the previous government - is unsure.  However, Ashoka, the revenue minister in the previous Yediyurappa administration, said seniority will be considered. “There's no procedure in the party to overlook seniority,” he said.  Senior leader Umesh Katti, a minister in the previous government, said he would join Bommai’s Cabinet. “I’m 120% confident I’ll become a minister,” he said. “I am also a fresh face.”  Among those batting for fresh faces to be made ministers is BJP vice-president B Y Vijayendra. “I am confident that the new Cabinet will have more and more youngsters,” he said.  Shettar says no to Cabinet berth Former chief minister Jagadish Shettar has informed the party that he would not like to become a minister in the new Cabinet. Shettar said his decision was based on his seniority and on moral grounds. Shettar was a minister when he was elevated as CM in 2012. He went on to become a minister in the previous B S Yediyurappa government. However, Shettar is not comfortable working under Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, a political junior.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pressure-mounts-as-bommai-prepares-to-form-cabinet-1013907.html
28-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's daily Covid deaths fall below 20 for the first time in over three months||Karnataka on Wednesday reported 1,531 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 28,99,195 while 19 deaths pushed the toll to 36,456. Daily deaths fell below 20 for the first time in over three months. The day also saw 1,430 discharges, continuing to outnumber fresh cases, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 28,40,147. Out of new cases reported on Wednesday, 376 were from Bengaluru Urban, apart from three deaths. The positivity rate for the day stood at 1.03% and the case fatality rate at 1.24%. The total number of active cases stood at 22,569. Out of deaths reported on Wednesday, five deaths were reported from Dakshina Kannada. Among the districts where new cases were reported, Dakshina Kannada reported 337 cases and Udupi 109. Cumulatively, a total of 3,82,16,908 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,48,319 were tested on Wednesdayalone. On Wednesday, 1,65,465 doses were administered taking the total doses administered so far to 2,95,90,262.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-daily-covid-deaths-fall-below-20-for-the-first-time-in-over-three-months-1013921.html
28-07-2021||West||Building collapses in Mumbai, fireman among 6 injured||Six people, including a fireman, were injured after a part of a four-storey building collapsed in suburban Andheri shortly after midnight on Wednesday, a fire brigade official said. A portion on the north side of Mehta Babu Chawl near Salami hotel in Juhu Galli crashed around 12.30 am, he said. Five persons, including a senior citizen, from the building and a fireman from the rescue team were injured, the official said. "Another 10 people were trapped on the first and second floors of the building and they all were safely rescued," he said. The six injured persons were rushed to the nearby Cooper Hospital. Out of them, fireman Vishwas Rahate (51) was discharged after treatment. The five others were undergoing treatment at the hospital, a civic official said. Currently, four fire engines are at the site and work of clearing the debris is on with the help of civic and police personnel, the fire brigade official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/building-collapses-in-mumbai-fireman-among-6-injured-1013720.html
28-07-2021||West||Porn films case: Shilpa Shetty breaks down, shouts at Kundra during search||Her husband Raj Kundra's arrest and his alleged involvement in producing pornographic content has left Actor Shilpa Shetty shocked.  "We have everything, what was the need to do all this," Shetty had reportedly told Kundra. The actor, who recorded her statement, broke down upon seeing Kundra, police sources told the publication. She said that the reputation of their family had been ruined, “their endorsements in the industry were being cancelled and that she had to give up many projects”. She also talked about financial losses, according to the publication. The couple live with their two children in the bungalow. Police are currently also investigating Shetty’s reason for quitting as director of Kundra’s Viaan Industries last year and her financial documents are reportedly being audited. However, police have said that Kundra, who has challenged his arrest in court, has not been cooperating with the investigation Kundra had been sent to judicial custody till August 10 in connection with the porn case. Nine people, including Ryan Thorpe, Kundra’s close aide, have been arrested in the case. Four of Kundra’s employees have stated that they were asked to delete clips uploaded from Hotshots, his app that was being used to stream pornographic content, according to the publication. The app has been removed from Play Store and App Store, police said. Shetty has been questioned twice so far and no connection to the case has been traced back to her yet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/porn-films-case-shilpa-shetty-breaks-down-shouts-at-kundra-during-search-1013773.html
28-07-2021||West||SIT formed for probe into extortion case against Param Bir Singh||In yet another action against controversial IPS officer Param Bir Singh, a Special Investigation Team (SIT) has been formed against him in connection with the case registered against him and others in an extortion case in the Marine Drive police station.  Singh, a 1988-batch IPS officer has served as Commissioner of Police in Mumbai and Thane and is now posted as Commandant General of Home Guards.  Singh’s allegations of corruption against the then Home Minister and senior NCP leader Anil Deshmukh had put the Maha Vikas Aghadi government into a major embarrassment.  The SIT has been formed by Mumbai Police Commissioner Hemant Nagrale, who is incidentally his successor and a Director General of Police-level officer. In fact, after Singh was shunted out Nagrale, who was then the acting Director General of Police of the state was sent as Mumbai Police chief.  The seven-member SIT would directly report to Nagrale.  The SIT would be headed by Deputy Commissioner of Police Nimit Goyal, who is posted in the local arms department, the official said. Goyal will be the supervising officer and Assistant Commissioner of Police )Deonar Division), M.S. Mujawar will be the investigating officer in the case, the official said. The other members of the SIT are Economic Offences Wing (EOW) inspector Prinam Parab; Anti-Extortion Cell (AEC) inspector Sachin Puranik; Azad Maidan police station inspector Vinay Ghorpade, Crime Branch’s Assistant Police Inspector Mahendra Patil; and cyber police station Assistant Police Inspector Vishal Gaikwad.  Nagrale in his order instructed ACP Mujawar to take possession of all documents related to the cases from the Marine Drive police station and ACP crime (D-West), he said. The Marine Drive police last week registered an FIR against Singh, five other police officers and two other persons on charges of extortion, cheating and forgery, following a complaint filed by a builder. Besides Singh, others named in the complaint are Deputy Commissioner of Police Akbar Pathan, Assistant Commissioner of Police Shrikant Shinde, Assistant Commissioner of Police Sanjay Patil, Police Inspector Asha Korke, Police Inspector Nandkumar Gopale. Two of the builder's partners, Sunil Jain and Sanjay Punamia, have been arrested in the case, he said. According to the complaint, Jain and Punamia had conspired with police officials and demanded Rs 15 crore from the builder to withdraw some cases against him, he said.  The FIR was registered in the Marine Drive police station under India Penal Code sections 387, 387, 389 for extortion, section 403 for dishonest misappropriation of converts to his own use, 409 for criminal breach of trust by a public servant, 420 for cheating, 423 for fraudulent execution of deed of transfer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sit-formed-for-probe-into-extortion-case-against-param-bir-singh-1013777.html
28-07-2021||West||Raj Kundra's bail plea in porn films case rejected by Mumbai court||A Mumbai court on Wednesday rejected the bail plea of businessman Raj Kundra in a case related to the alleged creation of pornographic films and publishing them through some apps. Kundra, the husband of Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty, was arrested July 19 by the city police's crime branch after being booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act. On Tuesday, a magistrate's court here remanded him in judicial custody for 14 days. Kundra had filed a bail plea, but the court rejected it on Wednesday. On Tuesday, the Bombay High Court had also refused to give him any urgent temporary relief. The police claimed that during the probe into the case, it was found Kundra set up Armsprime Media Pvt Ltd, which, through London-based Kenrin Pvt Ltd, bought Hotshots app to upload objectional videos on social media. They had also alleged that Kundra earned over Rs 1.17 crore between August and December last year by uploading pornographic content online, through Hotshots. The police also claimed to have found 51 obscene videos- 35 with Hotshots logo and 16 with BollyFame logo, during searches at the office of the accused. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/raj-kundras-bail-plea-in-porn-films-case-rejected-by-mumbai-court-1013779.html
28-07-2021||West||Mahadayi water diverted mostly during monsoon: Goa's Water Resources Minister Filip Nery Rodrigues||Karnataka has diverted most of the water from the Mahadayi river during the monsoon season when the natural flow of the river is at its peak, Goa's Water Resources Minister Filip Nery Rodrigues told the state legislative assembly on Wednesday. Speaking during the ongoing monsoon session of the assembly Rodrigues also said that he would not be able to reveal the state government's strategy or table data related to the ongoing river dispute because Karnataka was watching the proceedings of the House and that "certain facts" could not be stated openly. "Diversion is happening in their (Karnataka) territory. We are thinking about what kind of mechanism to adopt to quantify the quantum of water diverted. More quantity flows now, during the rains, because of the natural flow. During the lean season, there is not much diversion," Rodrigues said. Earlier, the treasury benches were grilled by the Opposition MLAs, led by Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat, former deputy Chief Minister Vijai Sardesai and others about the failure of the state government to secure the interests of Goa in the ongoing tri-state dispute. Rodrigues however said that the Goa government was focused on the dispute, adding that it was constantly pursuing the matter in the Supreme Court, where the Goa government has already filed a special leave petition challenging the contents of the Mahadayi Water Dispute Tribunal's award as well as filed two contempt petitions against Karnataka for illegally diverting water from the Mahadayi river basin, while the case was being heard in the apex court. Rodrigues also said that Karnataka was diverting water from the Mahadayi river, using illegal means. "Before the award, we had filed an application before the Tribunal, saying that Karnataka is going on with illegal activity and diversion. The Tribunal had already passed an interim award restraining the Karnataka government from diverting water," Rodrigues said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mahadayi-water-diverted-mostly-during-monsoon-goas-water-resources-minister-filip-nery-rodrigues-1013843.html
28-07-2021||West||CBI raids DCP, ACP in Anil Deshmukh case||In a major swoop, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has carried out a search on two senior police officers - Deputy Commissioner of Police Raju Bhujbal and Assistant Commissioner of Police Sanjay Patil and 10 others in connection with the case involving former Maharashtra Home Minister and senior NCP leader Anil Deshmukh. The CBI teams the houses of Bhujbal in Mumbai and Ahmednagar and Patil’s residence in Mumbai and Pune. The CBI as well as the Enforcement Directorate (ED) are conducting investigations against Deshmukh. Former Mumbai Police Commissioner and current Commandant General of Home Guards Param Bir Singh had alleged that Deshmukh had fixed a collection target of Rs 100 crore per month for now dismissed Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze, who is now under arrest of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the twin cases of planting a gelation-sticks laden Scorpio near the residence of Reliance Industries Ltd Chairman Mukesh Ambani and the murder of the SUV owner Mansukh Hiran. Besides Mumbai, Ahmednagar and Pune, raids were also conducted in Thane, Nashik, Sangli and Solapur. The other people raided were middlemen, however, their details were not immediately available. In fact, in the letter in which Singh wrote to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray against Deshmukh, he had mentioned the names of Bhujbal and Patil.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cbi-raids-dcp-acp-in-anil-deshmukh-case-1013856.html
28-07-2021||West||Maharashtra slashes school fees by 15% in wake of Covid||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday decided to slash school fees by 15 per cent for the current academic year. “Maharashtra Cabinet today decided to slash school fees by 15 per cent for this academic year. A detailed order of this decision will be issued soon,” School Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad told reporters. This decision is taken on the lines of the Rajasthan government, she said. Parents' bodies have been demanding some relief from the state government in terms of slashing school fees in view of the Covid-19 pandemic situation. Schools continue to remain closed in Maharashtra due to the pandemic and amid fear of a likely third wave. "Schools affiliated to various education boards, including the Maharashtra board, have informed the state government earlier that they will abide by rules regarding the slashing of fees. The government order will cover various issues and intricacies to avoid any confusion among the parents and school management," the minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-slashes-school-fees-by-15-in-wake-of-covid-1013903.html
28-07-2021||West||Maharashtra cabinet minister Jayant Patil rushed to hospital||Maharashtra’s water resources and command area development minister and senior NCP leader Jayant Patil was rushed to a private hospital in Mumbai after he complained of uneasiness. A senior politician, Patil (59) is a seven-time MLA from the Sangli district of the state.  During the devastating floods in the twin districts of Sangli and Satara and neighbouring Kolhapur district, Patil was working 24x7.  He was seen wading through knee-deep waters, taking boats and rafts to reach out to stranded people, stood on an open truck and travelled distances and rode pillion in motorcycles.  Patil was also in touch with the neighbouring Karnataka government on the release of water from the Koyana dam and Almatti dam - to reduce flooding in both the neighbouring states.  Meanwhile, Patil clarified that he is okay. "With everyone's blessings, I am okay. For a regular check-up, I went to the hospital. Doctors have advised me to rest. Don't believe in any rumours," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cabinet-minister-jayant-patil-rushed-to-hospital-1013915.html
28-07-2021||West||Maharashtra Rains: Toll mounts to 213, assessment still on||Over 2.5 lakh people of the flood-ravaged Konkan and Western Maharashtra are staying in relief camps even as the death toll in latest nature’s fury rose to 213. At the weekly Cabinet meeting presided over Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray the flood situation in the twin regions were reviewed.  Thackeray and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, who is state’s finance minister, asked for emergency relief to be extended through the State Disaster Relief Fund. “Since the water level has not yet receded in several places, the panchanama has not happened… In a fortnight’s time, the government will announce a detailed relief package,” an official source said.  The government has set up 349 camps in which 2.5 lakh persons are staying. During the massive operations that are still continuing, more than 4.35 lakh people have been evacuated. Meanwhile, Thackeray is expected to go to the Western Maharashtra towns on Thursday, however, there is no official confirmation.  In a related development, leader of opposition in Assembly Devendra Fadnavis and his counterpart in Council Pravin Darekar are now in the Western Maharashtra region.  “The situation is serious and people need help. We are meeting people and listening to them. Once our tour is complete, we will give a report to Thackeray,” Fadnavis, a former chief minister, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-rains-toll-mounts-to-213-assessment-still-on-1013944.html
