29-07-2021||First Edit||Basavaraj Bommai at the helm, faces challenges||At the end of the day, the change of guard in Karnataka turned out to be a smooth affair with the BJP high command successfully placating former Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa by appointing his nominee Basavaraj Bommai as his replacement. Hitting two birds with one stone, the central leadership has taken the wind out of the sails of seers who were demanding the continuation of Yediyurappa by appointing another Lingayat as the new Chief Minister. Bommai’s ascension has surprised, rather disappointed many hardliners within the party who were expecting the mantle to fall on a strong right-winger with RSS links and some of the names that were doing the rounds earlier had also pointed in this direction. Bommai, who is not an original BJP man, having joined the party from the Janata Dal (S) in 2008, that is, only 13 years ago, is moored to socialistic and secular ideals, just like his father S R Bommai who was the Chief Minister in 1988-89. In a way, he also mirrors his mentor Yediyurappa who too had shunned the hard Hindutva agenda, preferring to tread the middle path. Bommai has taken over the reins at a critical time when the state’s finances are in the doldrums with the revenue flow reduced to a trickle on account of Covid-related lockdowns, forcing the government to resort to huge borrowings to bridge the deficit. Even as the third wave of the pandemic looms large, heavy rains and floods have wreaked havoc across the state. Raising funds for developmental works at a time when countering Covid and rehabilitating those affected by the floods, would be a tall order. Thus, Bommai would be required to tighten the purse strings and be prudent in financial management by cutting all wasteful expenditure. While running the government under the current situation might be a tightrope walk, a bigger challenge would be to manage the internal dynamics of the BJP. On the one hand, he has to mollify other hopefuls who have their daggers drawn to strike at the opportune moment, and on the other, he has to emerge out of the shadows of Yediyurappa, who many suspect, will try to run the government through proxy. Karnataka has seen chief ministers change three times since the 2018 assembly elections and Bommai would be required to display enormous political astuteness to ensure stability so that investor confidence is not impacted. Above all, his first task is to provide clean administration and keep the former CM’s family members as far away as possible from Vidhana Soudha, as Yediyurappa was accused of corruption and nepotism by his own party men, which ultimately led to his downfall. Bommai should not allow history to repeat itself.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/basavaraj-bommai-at-the-helm-faces-challenges-1014041.html
29-07-2021||In Perspective||How to reclaim your old ways post-Covid||For the past one and a half years, humanity is under lockdown due to Covid-19 which has snatched our social instincts which is an inherent ability of we humans. Isolation and social distancing from the beginning of 2020 till date was enforced to break the cycle of Covid replication as the virus thrives by spreading from one human to the other. This strategy was the need of the hour and it did work fairly well and we were able to quell further spread of the virus to a large extent. Most of us adapted to the new social order and took precautions like masking, social distancing, hygiene and avoiding going out unnecessarily. The introduction of the vaccine provided further protection. Some, however, were in a denial mode and refused to heed to the suggested precautions and have suffered. There is also a third group of individuals who shut the doors to the outside world and isolated themselves into a cocoon and continue to do so even now. It is this group of individuals who have borne the maximum brunt of lockdown. A morbid fear of acquiring the infection with the slightest of exposure has not only pushed them deeper into the cocoon but has led to misery, hardship and marked anxiety which may lead to depression. Internet did provide some degree of contact with the outside world; however, it is definitely not anywhere near a physical face to face contact, which I feel is the core of human functioning and essence of life both in humans and animals. For this third group of people, breaking away from isolation and joining the mainstream may become difficult due to the initial inertia, morbid fear and inability to break the self-imposed shackles. The way forward is having a firm resolve to return to normalcy. It is also important to realise that even infants need various kinds of stimuli such as interacting with other humans and nature and need regular external stimulation. It is important to realise that as children grow older, they also need healthy interaction with others to develop optimally. After such interactions, it is possible that some may catch routine common viral infections which cannot be avoided and may be considered as a normal part of life. A simple suggestion which could be considered: One may start by inviting relatives who are already vaccinated to visit you or go to their place, which can be later extended to close associates and friends. When we started our clinic towards the end of second Covid wave, we too were apprehensive for the initial couple of days which finally passed away. We, however, took all the necessary precautions. Vaccination certificate When planning to have physical meetings instead of the webinars, one has to make it mandatory that to attend, one should possess a vaccination certificate. This way we plan to get back our old life and also be safe. Covid is here to stay with us, this pandemic will get converted to an endemic infection and surface from time to time. Gradually we will learn to live with it as we learn more about the epidemiology of this disease. Extensive research has shown that Covid in children is a very mild disease in 90% of the children, and those who need hospitalisation are also very few in number. Children’s vaccination programme is still in the preliminary stage and may take a few more years before infants and preschool children are vaccinated. Some scientific facts and explanations: Let’s assume that you are walking in the forest and suddenly you come face to face with a tiger; how do we humans react? We generally go into either flight (runaway) or fight stage, and for this to happen the sympathetic nervous system has to kick in and activate the smooth muscles (to run or fight) and simultaneously the heart rate has to increase so that these essential organs receive enhanced blood supply and also raise the metabolism to generate the required energy for the activity. These actions help us deal with the threat effectively. Hence, essentially in such situations, one develops palpitation (increased heart rate), tense tremulous muscles and sweating. Contrary to this, we all know that the essential function of the parasympathetic nervous systems function could be described as one to “rest and digest”. Hence, during stress, when the blood is essentially diverted to the heart, smooth muscles and gland cells, it is done at the cost of reduced blood supply to the gastrointestinal system and thus one gets the often-encountered burps of indigestion during stressful situation. These anxiety reactions are peculiar in that they may also occur when there no actual danger and often the very thought of a stress is enough to kick in a ‘fight-flight’ reaction. Stress buster breathing exercises work magically to control such situations and have to be practised often so that one can control anxiety as soon as it begins. With resilience and resolve Covid can certainly be neutralised. (The writer is President, Indian Academy of Paediatrics, Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/how-to-reclaim-your-old-ways-post-covid-1014045.html
29-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Sharada Vidya Mandir students excel in II PU exams||The students of Sharada Vidya Mandir, Sri Jayachamarajendra PU College, Mysuru, have excelled in the II PU exams. S V Pavan from Science stream has scored centum in all the subjects with 600 marks and Tejas H Badala from Commerce stream has scored 597. Prathima Prabhu and Swaroop S Acharya have scored 598 marks. B R Sujala has scored 595, M Sanjana, 594, Tashu Mehta and Deepashri, 593, Sinchana Math, 592, Hita T Raj 591. In all, 90 students have secured distinction and 135 students secured first class in the Science stream, 16 students have secured distinction and 76 have first class in the Commerce stream.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sharada-vidya-mandir-students-excel-in-ii-pu-exams-1013976.html
29-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka districts take measures to tackle 3rd Covid wave; special wards for children to tackle third wave||With Covid-19 second wave having a devastating impact with people struggling to get hospital beds, oxygen cylinders and timely treatment, the district administrations of Mysuru, Hassan, Chamarajanagar and Mandya have taken all measures to tackle the possible third wave. With the number of positive cases declining and many persons being discharged after recovery, the Health department is utilising this ‘calm’ period to upgrade the medical facilities, to train the medical staff and to ensure proper treatment for children. Mysuru District Health Officer Dr K H Prasad said the system is being streamlined and the preparations will be completed within a week. As oxygen shortage had turned into a nightmare, oxygen units have been established in all the taluks, except Periyapatna. A plant will be set up there also soon, he assured. Each taluk headquarters will have five paediatric intensive care units, which will be increased to 10. While, Cheluvamba Hospital in Mysuru has 150 beds, Princess Krishnajammanni Superspeciality Hospital has 150 beds, the District Hospital on KRS Road has 75 beds, and around 120 beds have been kept ready at 12 private hospitals, in case of any emergency. A survey has been conducted on the number of malnourished children and they are provided nutritious food and are being monitored. Severely malnourished children will be treated at the Nutrition Rehabilitation Centre of Cheluvamba Hospital. An awareness campaign will be conducted for the parents to protect their children, the DHO said. Several rounds of meeting have been held. Doctors and nurses have been recruited. The 170 newly-appointed staff have been given training. They will be deployed at the community and the taluk health centres. In the districts Chamarajanagar, which grabbed the attention of the nation, due to the oxygen tragedy that claimed more than 24 lives, has been reporting nil deaths recently. The district administration and the Health department officials are on a high alert, to prevent any such incident in the coming days. Special training has been given to Asha and anganwadi workers, teachers, nurses and the Health department personnel. Strict instructions are given to ensure that the Health personnel are trained to manage ventilators and other treatment, said Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi. All precautionary measures are being taken and oxygen units set up at the district and the taluk hospitals. The process is on to purchase ventilators, ambulances and other medical equipment at a cost of Rs 3.5 crore. The MLA and MP funds are being utilised for Covid-19 treatment facilities, he said. Rs 2 crore from donors The Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences (HIMS) has made all preparations with a 18-bed Paediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) on the third floor. The facility, established at a cost of Rs 2 crore from donors, has 18 ventilator beds. Hassan Deputy Commissioner R Girish has directed the authorities to keep the ventilators and other medical equipment in the ICUs ready in all the hospitals. He directed to keep a 200-bed paediatric ward ready, along with ICU ventilators and oxygen supply. As per experts, out of 1,000 Covid-19 positive cases, 120 will be children. Every day, six children may require hospital treatment and ICU facility. All medical equipment and experts’ teams should be ready. The doctors and para-medical staff will be trained, he said. Mandya district too has geared up to tackle the third wave, with additional beds allocated for children in all the hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-districts-take-measures-to-tackle-3rd-covid-wave-special-wards-for-children-to-tackle-third-wave-1013977.html
29-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Hassan man jumps into river, ends life||A 72-year-old man died of suicide, after jumping from a bridge into the Yagachi river, in Belur taluk of Hassan district on Wednesday. Basavaiah of Sompura village is the deceased. He had allegedly jumped into the river at around 3 pm. Two people Imran and Majnu, who saw him washed away in the river, jumped to his rescue and dragged him to the shore. They provided first aid and later shifted to the government hospital. However, the doctors declared him brought dead.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hassan-man-jumps-into-river-ends-life-1013980.html
29-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Two held for selling fake stone as 'Nagamani' for Rs 30 lakh||Police arrested two persons for allegedly selling a fake stone as 'Nagamani', cheating a Bengaluru-based man of Rs 30 lakh. The arrested are Sannappagowda of Yarambadi village and Tangavelu of Koodaluru village of Hanur taluk. However, the prime accused, Raju of Saragur village of Kollegal taluk, is at large. According to the police, Raju, along with his friends, sold a shining stone for Rs 30 lakh to Manish of Bengaluru a month ago, convincing him that it is a 'Nagamani'. After a few days Manish realised that he had been cheated and lodged a complaint with Ramapura police on July 26. Police, who initiated a probe, nabbed the accused. Search is on to nab Raju. Manish told the police that he had purchased the stone, as there is a belief that 'Nagamani' brings prosperity and good luck. According to the police, Sannappagowda and Raju were habitual offenders. They had cheated one Gangadhar from Bengaluru in 2006-07 by selling a fake stone as 'Nagamani' for lakhs of rupees. They were sentenced to jail. But they used the same modus operandi to cheat another person.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-held-for-selling-fake-stone-as-nagamani-for-rs-30-lakh-1013982.html
29-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Five held for possessing equipment for poaching||Forest department officials of Biligiri Ranganatha Temple Tiger Reserve have arrested five persons for possessing guns and other equipment used for poaching. While three of the arrested are from Somwarpet in Kodagu district, one is from Badagalapura in Chamarajanagar taluk and two are from Malleswaram in Bengaluru. Two guns, one of them without licence, six live cartridges, one knife, battery lights and other equipment were seized. The arrested are Kishan Kumar, 34, Dhananjay, 30, and Ashik, 30, from Kodagu district, Govindaraju, 29, from Chamarajanagar taluk and Pramod, 27, of Malleshwaram, Bengaluru. The department personnel, on patrol, intercepted a car bound for Chamarajanagar, near Vadgalapura and found guns, live cartridges and other equipment, according to Deputy Conservator of Forest G Santosh Kumar. They also seized knives, digging tools, battery lights and others from another car parked elsewhere. Legal action has been initiated, Santosh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/five-held-for-possessing-equipment-for-poaching-1013983.html
29-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Krishna flood: Situation in downstream areas grave||A massive four lakh cusec discharge from Almatti reservoir on Wednesday evening has posed a grave flood threat to the downstream districts. The farmers of Araladinni, Yelagur, Yellammana Budhihal, Masuti, Kashinakunte among others on the banks of swollen Krishna river have suffered crop damage extensively. Nidagundi is worst-hit, where acres of sugarcane, banana, sunflower and other crops have been submerged. Thousands of acres have completely gone under water and with outflow from Almatti is expected to go further up on Wednesday night, the situation will only worsen on Thursday. The flood situation in Narayanapur backwaters has become grave due to heavy discharge of water from Almatti and the swollen Malaprabha river which meets Krishna at Kudalasangama. The floodwaters have reached the steps of Sangamanatha temple. High alert has been sounded in the villages on the banks of Krishna, said Nidagundi Tahsildar Satish Kudalagi. Narayanapur reservoir on Wednesday released 4 lakh cusec of water by lifting all 30 crest gates. The massive discharge has increased the severity of floods in downstream districts - Yadgir and Raichur. The Huvinahedigi bridge in Devadurg taluk, a major road link between Raichur and Kalabuaragi, has remained under water. Scores of people in the flood-hit Aralahalli, Mushtalli and Shellagi villages have been evacuated to safer places. Meanwhile, the floodwaters in Tungabhadra have started subsiding with a rapid reduction in inflows into the Tungabhadra reservoir. The inflow into TB dam has come down from 1.50 lakh cusec on Monday to 70,000 cusec on Wednesday. The outflow has come down to 40,000 in the day. The reservoir, the lifeline of Koppal, Ballari and Raichur districts - has reached its full reservoir level for the first time, this monsoon season. While the downstream districts are grappling with severe floods, the situation has eased a bit in the upstream districts - Belagavi and Bagalkot. With the rainfall having receded in catchments of Maharashtra and Khanapur in Karnataka, inflows into Krishna river and its tributaries and outflows from Hidkal and Malaprabha dams have come down drastically. However, several villages and towns in Chikkodi, Kagwad, Raibag and Athani taluks continued to remain under floodwaters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/krishna-flood-situation-in-downstream-areas-grave-1013990.html
29-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Bidar tahsildar held while taking Rs 15 lakh bribe for mutation of land entry||The Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths on Wednesday arrested Grade-1 Tahsildar Gangadevi from her Anandnagar Colony house while accepting a bribe of Rs 15 lakh for mutation of land record entry. Leeladhar, a hardware trader and a resident of Vidyanagar Colony, had bought 2 acres 25 gunta land bearing Survey Number 15/1A7 located at Patel Nagar. He had submitted an application seeking mutation of the said land in his name. A case worker had asked Leeladhar to meet tahsildar with a bribe of Rs 25 lakh. Leeladhar had lodged a complaint with ACB. The anti-graft agency laid a trap and took the tahsildar to their custody while she was accepting the bribe money from the complainant. The local court has remanded her to judicial custody. The ACB team comprising Bidar DySP Hanumantharaya and staff, under the guidance of Kalaburagi SP Mahesh Meghannavar, conducted the operation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bidar-tahsildar-held-while-taking-rs-15-lakh-bribe-for-mutation-of-land-entry-1013993.html
29-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Ullal police recover stolen valuables||The Ullal police have recovered valuables, stolen from a jewellery store at Hosangadi in Manjeshwara taluk of Kasaragod district, from a car that was left behind by robbers after attacking police personnel at KC Road Junction near Talapady. City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar said that the accused Mohammed Gouse from Farangipet, Imran from Surathkal and others were in the car in which they were escaping after the heist. Acting on a tip-off that a gang is crossing the border after committing a crime in Kerala, the police tried to intercept the car. However, miscreants in the car, who were carrying weapons, attacked SI Pradeep T R and other police personnel and fled from the spot leaving behind the car. While checking the car, the police recovered 7.5 kg of silver articles, Rs 1.90 lakh cash, 30 precious stones, branded watches, DVR, sizer, chilly powder, spray paint, electronic weighing machine, siren light, small gas cylinder, iron cutter, number plate, iron rod and other items. The value of the total seized properties is Rs 30 lakh, Kumar said. Pradeep suffered injuries in the incident. The Commissioner said that two teams, led by ACP Ranjith, had been constituted to nab the accused. The gang had bashed up the watchman, tied and gagged him before committing the robbery in the jewellery store. The Ullal Police have registered an attempt to murder case against the gang members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ullal-police-recover-stolen-valuables-1014159.html
29-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||11.50 lakh beneficiaries vaccinated against Covid-19 in Dakshina Kannada||With the vaccination against Covid-19 in progress, so far, a total of 11,51,850 beneficiaries have been administered vaccines in the Dakshina Kannada district. The vaccination began with the Covid warriors on January 16 in the district. As many as 8,87,712 beneficiaries have availed the first dose of jab while 2,64,138 have availed even the second dose till July 27. About 31.53 per cent of the targeted beneficiaries in the age group of 18 to 44 years have been administered the first dose while 4.48 per cent have received the second jab. In the age group of 45 to 59 years, 64.52 per cent of the targeted beneficiaries have availed the first dose while 38.13 per cent have received the second dose. About 91.94 per cent of the beneficiaries in the above 60 years category have received the first dose while 55.34 per cent of them have received the second dose, according to the statistics available with the Department of Health and Family Welfare. According to statistics, 62,577 people were administered vaccines in 313 vaccination sessions held in educational institutions in the district in the last two months. Of these, 50,914 were students, 5,286 teaching staff, and 6,377 non-teaching staff. Vaccination camps were held at District Wenlock Hospital, Belthangady Taluk Hospital, PHCs in Naravi, Mundaje, Charmadi, Dharmasthala, Ujire, and sub-centres at Barya and Puduvettu on Wednesday.  In Udupi A total of 7,31,990 people have been administered vaccines in the Udupi district of which, 5,39,102 have received their first dose while 1,92,888 have received even the second dose. Among the healthcare workers, 24,239 have been administered with the first dose while 20,419 have received the second dose. In the frontline workers category, 7,060 were administered with the first dose while 4,311 have received the second dose. In the age group of 18 to 44 years, a total of 1,78,434 have received the first dose while 4,265 beneficiaries have received the second dose. In the above 45 years category, 3,29,369 beneficiaries have received their first jab while 1,63,893 have received a second dose.  Fine for violation The officials in Dakshina Kannada district have collected a fine of Rs 99,93,217 by registering 81,954 cases pertaining to violation of Covid rules, including wearing masks and maintaining social distance, since March last year. The fine was slapped by revenue officials, urban local bodies, gram panchayats, DK police and Mangaluru city police. The officials said that the teams are continuing their drive against Covid-19 violations in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/1150-lakh-beneficiaries-vaccinated-against-covid-19-in-dakshina-kannada-1014164.html
29-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru student bags Rs 19 lakh package offer||B Rachana, a student of Electronics and Communication Engineering, GSSS Institute of Engineering and Technology for Women (GSSSIETW), Mysuru, has bagged a salary package offer of Rs 19 lakh from Amazon during the campus recruitment drive recently. The students of GSSSIETW have bagged best paper and best project awards. T R Supritha, K N Sahana, T Priyanka and B Rachana of the eighth semester, department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, received the best paper award for their paper Detection of Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome Using Follicle Recognition Technique at an international conference on Computing System and its Applications (ICCSA - 2021) organised by Acharya Institute of Technology, Bengaluru, in association with the Technical Institute for Engineers, under the guidance of B D Parameshachari and R Sunitha. The same team of students have received the best project at the fifth national level IEEE Project Competition organised by IEEESB at GSSSIETW, Mysuru, recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-student-bags-rs-19-lakh-package-offer-1014285.html
29-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru receives 8% more rains in July, but faces shortfall||Mysuru district has received 8% more rainfall in the month of July. However, the district is facing an overall shortage of 11% rainfall. Despite continuous rainfall and heavy outflow of water from Kabini dam in Beechanahalli in HD Kote taluk, no cases of crop loss have been reported till date. But, Kapila River waters logged on the fields on banks for a couple of days. During the normal years, the district used to receive 111 millimetre (mm) rainfall in July. However, this year the district received 119 mm rainfall registering an additional 8% rains. The additional rainfall has not damaged crops. In May and June, the district faced shortage of rains. While the district received 38% less rain in May, the shortage in June was 31%. According to Joint Director for Agriculture Mahanteshappa, the district was facing shortage in overall rainfall, but had been receiving continuous rainfall for the last 15 days. “This year, we have received more rain in July than in previous years,” he said. The officer said that no case of flood or crop loss was reported in the district. "River Kapila was overflowing as the outflow was increased to 30,000 cusec from the Kabini dam. There was a fear of floods in Nanjangud region. The water was logged on agriculture fields. But, there was no crop loss either due to rainfall or floods," he said. "This time, the Agriculture department expects good yield as the standing crops cultivated during pre-monsoon are safe. The district has achieved 53% cultivation. It was targeted to cultivate 3.95 lakh hectare, but the district achieved cultivation in 2.11 lakh hectare," he said. “Paddy, a major crop of Mysuru, is cultivated on one lakh hectare land. We achieved a more than 100% target,” he said. "The department has distributed seeds to farmers and cultivation will be completed by 20 days," he added. The officer said that as many as 4,000 farmers had enrolled for Karnataka Raitha Suraksha Pradhana Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana last year and 525 farmers had received claims of Rs 45.5 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-receives-8-more-rains-in-july-but-faces-shortfall-1014307.html
29-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Cycle jatha organised on International Tiger Day||A large number of wildlife enthusiasts participated in the bicycle jatha  organised by the Forest department as part of International Tiger Day at Melukamanahalli in the taluk on Thursday. Speaking at the programme, Chief Conservator of Forest Vijay Kumar Gogi said that the ecological balance was very important for a healthy environment. "It is important for everyone to be aware of the fact that the survival of humans depends on the stability of the environment," he said. "The department personnel, who patrol the forest on foot, are the real protectors of land, water and forest. Others are just extending support," he opined. Wildlife photographer Kripakar recalled the interest of former prime minister Indira Gandhi in conserving the forest and tigers and stated that other politicians were not interested in wildlife. "Wildlife sanctuaries were her dreams and the environmentalists should remember her," he said. A book on the birds spotted during the 2020-21 was released. Bandipur Tiger Project director S R Natesh, ACFs Ravikumar and Paremesh were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cycle-jatha-organised-on-international-tiger-day-1014311.html
29-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka govt targeted over 'false claims' in advertisement on houses||Several flood victims are yet to get houses promised by the state government even after two years. The victims alleged that the state government had given false advertisement in this regard. Around 42 families of Bidarahalli Circle 42 in Sargur taluk lost houses due to floods in 2019 and the government had promised them new houses. In a press conference here Cheluvi, one of the victims complained that the government had made false claims in the advertisements published that the new houses were constructed and the flood victims were leading a dignified life. “We are living amidst rodents and reptiles and the rainy season is a nightmare. Many are suffering health issues. Even after two years, the government has failed to keep the promise,” she blamed. The then District in-Charge Minister Somanna had issued a cheque for Rs 50,000 which was taken back. The government had identified land belonging to Cauvery Neeravari Nigam Limited. It had not been handed over to the Revenue department. Socialist Unity Centre of India (Communist) district unit secretary B Ravi threatened to launch a protest if the government failed to construct the houses soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-govt-targeted-over-false-claims-in-advertisement-on-houses-1014317.html
29-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Krishnarajamudi utsav celebrated at Melkote||The historical Krishnarajamudi Utsav was celebrated in a traditional manner with religious rituals at Melkote in Mandya district on Thursday night. The procession idol was decorated with the diamond studded crown (Rajamudi) presented by Mummadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar of Mysuru. Special pujas and rituals were performed at the temple and at Yoga Narasimhaswamy temple atop the hill. Chaluvarayaswamy's idol adorned with a diamond studded crown, accompanied by the idols of goddesses Sridevi and Bhoodevi, was taken out in a procession. The procession was limited within the temple premises as a precautionary measure due to the Covid-19 second wave. The entry of devotees was restricted during the procession to the temple. However, they were allowed to have darshan of the presiding deity till 4 pm. Deputy Commissioner S Aswathi, officials, temple priests and trust members were allowed during the utsav. The 10-day Ashada Jatra will conclude on August 4.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/krishnarajamudi-utsav-celebrated-at-melkote-1014326.html
29-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||AT&S employees protest complete 150 days||The protest of the terminated AT&S employees entered its 150th day on Thursday. The protesters took out a march from the factory. They alleged that the factory management had asked the employees to resolve their issues and get their problem sorted out through the court. All India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTUC) district secretary Chandrashekar Meti said that the company was violating the law of the land and failed to abide by the Human Rights and Employees related Acts. The company had neither given bonus nor minimum wages to the employees who worked for more than 10 years. "The employees have approached the court seeking regularisation of jobs. The company has been harassing them to withdraw their petition. It has targeted the employees who approached the court and terminated them from service," he said. Leader of Swaraj India Ugranarasimhegowda said,"It is not right to terminate the service of the employees who urged to resolve their issues." All India Mahila Sanskritik Sangathan (AIMSS) state vice-president P S Sandhya, AITUC district unit joint secretary Muddukrishna and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ats-employees-protest-complete-150-days-1014332.html
29-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Think alternative to Mekedatu project: Sanjay Gubbi||Wildlife biologist Sanjay Gubbi has suggested shifting the drinking water project proposed at Mekedatu to Simsha as the project at Mekedatu would destroy the river forest wealth at Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary. Gubbi was replying to a question during a webinar organised by Sri Chamarajendra Zoological Gardens (Mysuru Zoo) as part of Global Tiger Day. He said there is a need to think of an alternative to the Mekedatu project. He said Mekedatu is located in the heart of Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary and thus, the precious forest areas of the sanctuary will be submerged if the dam is built. Animals, like 'Grizzled Giant Squirrel', are available only in Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary and the tiger density is increasing in the areas of Veligiriranganabetta, Satyamangala and Male Mahadeshwara Hill, he added. A large quantum of water can be stored if the dam is constructed at the gorge near Simsha, he opined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/think-alternative-to-mekedatu-project-sanjay-gubbi-1014365.html
29-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka CM sanctions Rs 210 cr for restoration of rain-damaged roads in Uttara Kannada||“Sir, my house has collapsed and because of it I am finding it difficult to pursue my studies. Please do something,” Vani Gajanana Bhat, a Class X student and a resident of the landslide-hit Kalache near Vajralli in Yellapur taluk, poured out her woes to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, with tears rolling down her face. The newly-elected chief minister tried to assuage her concerns by assuring of all government help in addressing the problems of the flood-affected villages. Bommai visited the flood-hit areas including the landslide-hit state highway 6 at Talakebail in Yellapur taluk. He also inspected flood-ravaged Gullapur and Shirur, where the swollen Gangavali river swept away several houses and crops on inundated vast tracts of farmland. He gave a patient hearing to the grievances of the flood-affected people in the district, which witnessed a devastating rain and flood last week. “I understand your problems. We’ll constitute an expert committee to carry out a geological study about the landslides in the Western Ghats and take measures to address the problem permanently, Bommai told the reporters. During the review meeting with officials, the chief minister announced Rs 210 crore to repair the district’s roads damaged in the landslides and flash floods and Rs 100 crore each will be released to PWD and RDPR Department to take up road repair works in the district. Further Rs 6 crore will be sanctioned for the damage caused to NH 63 at Arabail Ghat by landslides, the chief minister told the meeting. A proposal will be submitted to Union Minister Nitin Gadkari seeking central aid of Rs 35 crore, Bommai said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-cm-sanctions-rs-210-cr-for-restoration-of-rain-damaged-roads-in-uttara-kannada-1014372.html
29-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||D K Shivakumar greets new Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar greeted Basavaraj Bommai, who took charge as the new chief minister of the state, on Wednesday. He was speaking to reporters after participating in the condolence meeting held in memory of former MP G Madegowda at Hanumanthnagar in Maddur taluk of Mandya district. Shivakumar said, "The Congress party extends greetings to the new CM. Let him give good administration and bring reputation to the state." "The Union government has been meeting out injustice to the state in the Mekedatu project. Several projects could not be taken off as the Centre did not allocate funds. The MPs too have not raised their voice in the Parliament. The new CM should ensure that the Centre focuses on the Mekedatu project," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/d-k-shivakumar-greets-new-karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-1013981.html
29-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Cabinet selection after meeting top brass in Delhi: CM Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday said that the members of his Cabinet would be selected in a few days, after holding discussion with the BJP's national leaders in Delhi. "I will visit Delhi on Friday to get the blessings of Narendra Modi, Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh and J P Nadda. Within two-three days after that, I will meet them again after taking their appointment. Discussion about the Cabinet formation would be held then, and ministers would be selected," he said. Ministerial aspirants have started manoeuvres to convince the top leadership on their inclusion into Bommai’s Cabinet.  It is said that several senior leaders are wary of not being made ministers in order to make way for fresh faces. Even the migrant camp - MLAs who came from Congress and JD(S) and were ministers in the previous government - is unsure. In reply to former chief minister Jagadish Shettar's unwillingness to join his Cabinet, Bommai said, "I have already spoken to him. We have mutual love and admiration, and we maintained cordial relationship even when we were in different parties. His feelings will be conveyed to the party's top brass, and the issue will be resolved". Visit to Uttara Kannada  After becoming the chief minister, Bommai's first visit outside Bengaluru is to Uttara Kannada district on Thursday. He is visiting areas damaged due to heavy rains, and inspecting relief works taken up in Yellapur and Karwar-Ankola Assembly constituencies there. On his way via Hubballi, Bommai also visited samadhi of his parents' at Amargol near Hubballi, performed puja and paid respects to them. Before that, he also visited Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) office 'Keshav Kunj'. Expressing his love towards Hubballli-Dharwad, Bommai stated that he would make honest efforts for infrastructure and industrial development in the twin cities, after getting suggestions from Union Parliamentary Affairs Miister Pralhad Joshi, former chief minister Jagadish Shettar and others. "I did not expect that I would visit Hubballi as the chief minister. The party's national leaders have given me this responsibility, while former chief minister B S Yediyurappa has also blessed," he added. On the Upper Krishna Project  Assuring that he would give top priority for the implementation the third phase of Upper Krishna Project (UKP), the chief minister expressed hope that the permission to increase the height of Almatti dam would be available soon, as the inter-state dispute in this issue is expected to come for hearing in the Supreme Court within one-and-a-half months. This project would boost agriculture and economic growth of North Karnataka region. After getting the approval and gazette notification, resettlement and rehabilitation (R&R) plan would also be prepared before increasing the height of the dam, he noted, adding that he has clarity in this issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cabinet-selection-after-meeting-top-brass-in-delhi-cm-bommai-1014132.html
29-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Eshwarappa says he is an aspirant for the Karnataka Deputy CM post||Shivamogga Urban MLA and senior BJP leader K S Eshwarappa revealed that he was an aspirant for the deputy chief minister's post. Speaking to media persons here on Thursday, he said he also made it clear that he was not averse to becoming part of the cabinet headed by Basavaraj Bommai. "The party's central leaders have instructed all state leaders on how the party must be strengthened to get a complete majority in the next assembly polls and how the Bommai-led government must function. So, we will abide by them," he said. He said although BJP came to power in Karnataka four times under the leadership of B S Yediyurappa, the party did not get a complete majority even once. He exuded confidence that BJP would come to power in Karnataka on its own with the efforts of workers in the next assembly polls. He also made it clear that while he personally had no ambition of becoming a deputy chief minister, it was the leaders of Kuruba community and seers who wanted him to occupy the post. I am also keen to accept the post if it is given to me, he said. Referring to senior leader Jagadish Shettar's decision to remain out of the state cabinet, Eshwarappa said he would not take such a decision under any circumstances. The cabinet will be formed in a week. When questioned on Madhu Bangarappa's decision to embrace Congress by quitting JD(S), he said it would not have any impact on BJP as it is still strong in the Shivamogga district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/eshwarappa-says-he-is-an-aspirant-for-the-karnataka-deputy-cm-post-1014176.html
29-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||JD(S) will be part of TMC-led anti-BJP force: Datta||Senior JD(S) leader YSV Datta claimed that his party would be part of the anti-BJP force that is taking shape under West Bengal Chief Minister and All India Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee. Speaking to media persons on Thursday, he said the situation has come in India where all opposition parties have to join hands, just like they did in 1975 keeping their poles apart ideology away, to fight against this "undeclared emergency" in the country. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi is using taxpayers’ money to trample upon all democratic system in India through software such as Pegasus. Datta claimed that the Union government has spent at least Rs 2,500 crore of taxpayers money to purchase the snooping software — Pegasus — from Israeli cyber arms firm NSO Group. “As per NSO’s own acknowledgement they provide this software only to government and government agencies. They charge Rs 700 crore to hack into 50 mobiles. By that calculation the government has spent nearly Rs 2,500 crore to snoop on journalists, Supreme Court judges, opposition leaders and others,” he said. Datta said opposition leaders had joined their hands to restore democracy after Indira Gandhi had imposed the emergency in 1975. “There is a need for similar efforts even today against the Modi government,” he said. However, he failed to explain why JD(S) was not part of the 14 opposition parties that met in Delhi recently demanding a Supreme Court-monitored investigation into the Pegasus scandal.   ‘CM from JD(S) camp’ Datta termed the new Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai as a leader trained in JD(S) camp. “We are proud that one of our own has become chief minister of Karnataka, sidelining several RSS backed leaders,” he said and added that Bommai was more of ‘peace-time’ leader than ‘war-time’ leader. “Karnataka today is facing a war-like situation, as it has to tackle Covid-19, floods, water disputes and other major issues. It would be interesting to see how a ‘peace-time' leader tackles these challenges,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/jds-will-be-part-of-tmc-led-anti-bjp-force-datta-1014264.html
29-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Surjewala to meet district Congress leaders on Saturday||Karnataka Congress in-Charge Randeep Singh Surjewala will meet the party leaders of five districts in the city on Saturday. In a press conference on Thursday Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) working president R Dhruvanarayan said that the leaders of Mysuru, Chamarajanagar, Kodagu, Hassan and Mandya would attend the meeting chaired by Surjewala. "The objective of the meeting is to strengthen the party. Surjewala has conducted a meeting in Tumakuru and he will chair another in Hubballi on Friday," he said. KPCC president D K Shivakumar, Opposition party leader Siddaramaiah, leaders S R Patil, KPCC working presidents, MLAs of Mysuru region, former MLAs will be present in the meeting. MLAs H P Manjunath, C Anil, MLC R Dharmasena and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/surjewala-to-meet-district-congress-leaders-on-saturday-1014314.html
29-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||BJP MPs lack guts to get flood damage relief from Centre: D K Shivakumar||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) President D K Shivakumar charged that BJP MPs from the state lack the courage to speak to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and get compensation for damages caused by the floods here. "Modi did not visit Karnataka during the floods in previous years, and he would not come this time too. He had conducted aerial survey in other states, and had provided compensation, but neglected Karnataka," he said. Shivakumar told media persons here on Thursday that the BJP government in the state did not provide proper compensation to the flood-affected people since 2019. Heavy rains and flood situation have caused severe damages this time too. Congress leaders have already visited such places, and understood the people's problems. During the meetings of Congress leaders of Belagavi division, being held in Hubballi, discussions would also be held about how we can help people, and how to pressurise the government to come for their help, he said. 'Miserable failure' Leader of Opposition in Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah alleged that the B S Yediyurappa government miserably failed to provide compensation for flood-affected people since 2019, and what the new chief minister Basavaraj Bommai would do has to be seen. "I have already visited flood-affected areas in Bagalkot and Belagavi districts, and would visit Uttara Kannada on August 1, to know the ground reality by interacting with people," Siddaramaiah added. All-India Congress Committee (AICC) General Secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala, who is also in-charge of the party's affairs in Karnataka, stated that Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi is criticising Congress leader Rahul Gandhi due to his frustration for not becoming the chief minister. Grand welcome Earlier, hundreds of Congress workers gave a rousing welcome for Surjewala, Shivakumar, Siddaramaiah, and other leaders. They were taken in a procession on Gokul Road which included women carrying poornakumbha, and folk troupes. Later, Surjewala and others held meeting with leaders from Haveri and Vijayapur districts, and collected opinions regarding possible candidates to be fielded in by-elections to be held from Hangal and Sindagi Assembly constituencies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-mps-lack-guts-to-get-flood-damage-relief-from-centre-d-k-shivakumar-1014344.html
29-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Basavaraj Bommai hints at delay in Karnataka Cabinet expansion||Inclusion of new ministers to the Cabinet will take more time as Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai will likely have to travel to Delhi twice before getting a go-ahead from the party high command. “I will visit Delhi on Friday to seek the blessings of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah, Defense Minister Rajnath Singh, and party chief JP Nadda. Two-three days after that, I will meet them again in Delhi. Discussions about the Cabinet formation would be held then, and ministers would be selected,” Bommai said. On former chief minister Jagadish Shettar expressing his unwillingness to join his Cabinet, Bommai said that he had already spoken to him, and would speak to him again. “We have mutual love and admiration, and we maintained cordial relationship even when we were in different parties. His feelings will be conveyed to the party’s top brass, and the issue will be resolved,” he said. Pressure from groups of MLAs, Bommai said, was common ahead of any Cabinet expansion, he told reporters in Bengaluru. “When I visit Delhi, I will make use of the time available to meet all MPs and Union ministers from Karnataka, and hold discussions about the pending issues of the state,” he said. The CM said that he would hold separate talks on pending GST dues to Karnataka. “I am overseeing the issue of GST compensation,” Bommai, who was Karnataka’s representative in the GST council under the previous B S Yediyurappa government, said. The Rs 18,000 crore shortage under GST compensation this year will be provided by the Centre by raising loans, like it was last year. “I will hold separate discussions in the coming days and ensure we get what we are owed,” he said. Upper Krishna project Assuring that he would give top priority for the implementation of the third phase of the Upper Krishna Project (UKP), Bommai hoped that the permission to increase the height of Almatti Dam from the present 519 meters to 524 meters would be granted soon. A petition on the issue is expected to come up for hearing in the Supreme Court in one and a half months. This project would boost agriculture and economic growth of north Karnataka region. After getting the approval and gazette notification, resettlement and rehabilitation (R&R) plan would also be prepared before increasing the height of the dam, Bommai noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/basavaraj-bommai-hints-at-delay-in-karnataka-cabinet-expansion-1014375.html
29-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Bommai will be obligated to Yediyurappa: Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Thursday said that it will be 'inevitable' for Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to remain obligated to his predecessor B S Yediyurappa for getting him the job. He even cautioned Bommai that he would meet the fate of D V Sadananda Gowda, who had to step down as CM, after falling out with Yediyurappa. "It's inevitable... he will have to be under Yediyurappa's obligation. It's just like you'll be loyal to the one who gave you a job," Siddaramaiah told reporters. "If [Bommai] doesn't remain loyal, don't you remember what happened to D V Sadananda Gowda?" he added. The Congress leader said Yediyurappa was replaced due to corruption charges. "PM Modi knew that if Yediyurappa would continue, then it would be bad for the BJP. Everybody knew about the corruption in the Yediyurappa government. But, merely changing the CM won't help, because Bommai is Yediyurappa's candidate," Siddaramaiah said. Siddaramaiah was speaking after launching a booklet that lists out the 'failures' of the BJP government that completed two years in office on July 26. "The BJP did not focus on development at all. There's been bad governance, corruption and zero development in two years. There's no achievement of the Yediyurappa government," he said. "The corruption is so deep that they've made money on eggs given to children. Shashikala Jolle, the Women and Child Development Minister, was never asked to resign and Yediyurappa just kept quiet," he said. "Even during the Covid-19 pandemic, they took bribes in the procurement of equipment such as ventilators, masks, PPE kits and sanitizers," he charged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bommai-will-be-obligated-to-yediyurappa-siddaramaiah-1014376.html
29-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Ready to take any responsibility in Karnataka cabinet: K S Eshwarappa||Shivamogga Urban MLA and senior BJP leader K S Eshwarappa has said that he is ready to take any responsibility, including that of deputy chief minister or a minister's post given by the party high command but he would not lobby for it. Speaking to media persons here on Thursday, he also made it clear that personally, he has no ambition of becoming a deputy chief minister. "The leaders of Kuruba community and seers want me to become the deputy chief minister. Thus, I am also keen to accept the post if given by the party top brass", he said. Referring to senior leader Jagadish Shettar's decision to remain out of the Cabinet, he said, he would not take such a decision under any circumstance. The Cabinet would be formed in a week, he said. Eshwarappa said he is not averse to becoming a part of the Cabinet headed by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. "The party's Central leaders have instructed all state leaders on how the party must be strengthened to get a complete majority in the next assembly polls and how the Bommai-led government must function. So, we will abide by them," he said. He said BJP did not get a complete majority even once though BJP came to power in Karnataka four times under the leadership of Yediyurappa. He exuded confidence that the BJP would come to power in Karnataka on its own with the efforts of workers in the next assembly polls. When questioned on MLA Madhu Bangarappa's decision to embrace Congress by quitting JD(S), he said it would not make any impact on BJP in the district as it is still strong.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/ready-to-take-any-responsibility-in-karnataka-cabinet-k-s-eshwarappa-1014378.html
29-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Hopeful of getting better post in Karnataka cabinet: B Sriramulu||BJP MLA B Sriramulu said he is an honest worker of the party and expressed the hope that he is hopeful of getting a good position in the new dispensation. Speaking to reporters, he said he is not upset about not getting the post of deputy chief minister. "I have come up through people's support. I am not miffed about not declaring the deputy CM's post to me. I am hopeful of getting a good position." He also made it clear he has come to the city to take part in a puja programme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/hopeful-of-getting-better-post-in-karnataka-cabinet-b-sriramulu-1014381.html
29-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||HDK invites Tejaswini Ananth Kumar to JD(S)||In a curious development, former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy on Thursday invited Tejaswini Ananthkumar, the wife of late BJP leader H N Ananth Kumar, to join the JD(S) after her daughter Vijeta tweeted that the regional party "is still a very strong political force." In a tweet that created a buzz on social media, Vijeta wrote: "Why Karnataka politics is really interesting? JDS is still a very strong political force." Many JD(S) supporters responded to it online by inviting her to join the regional party. Some who were sceptic about it questioned her about the dwindling number of seats that JD(S) was securing of late. To this she replied that politics was not always about the "number of seats." Speaking to reporters, Kumaraswamy said Vijeta's statement came as an encouragement to the JD(S) cadre at a time when many were hastily writing off his party's prospects. "I thank her on behalf of all my party workers," he said, adding that if either Vijeta or her mother Tejaswini wanted to join the JD(S), they will be heartily welcomed. "I am not sure if the BJP has recognised her (Tejaswini's) efforts, but we will treat them with respect if they join our party," he further said.  Tejaswini was unavailable for comment. Ananth Kumar was known to have had cordial ties with JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda. In 2019, there was heartburn when the BJP picked a much younger Tejasvi Surya over Tejaswini as the party's candidate from the Bangalore South Lok Sabha segment. Tejaswini, an ABVP activist during her student days, was later made the BJP vice-president.  Last month, Tejaswini shared a quote by Andy Stanly which said, "Leaders who don't listen will eventually be surrounded by people who have nothing to say." This was perceived as a commentary on the goings-on in the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/hdk-invites-tejaswini-ananth-kumar-to-jds-1014390.html
29-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Mekedatu: Kumaraswamy accuses Centre of bowing to TN's pressure||JD(S) legislators on Thursday took out a march from Vidhana Soudha to Raj Bhavan protesting against the Centre's apathy towards irrigation and drinking water projects in Karnataka.  Speaking to mediapersons after meeting Governor Thaawar Chand Gehlot, JD(S) Legislature Party leader H D Kumaraswamy said the party had submitted a representation to the President of India, through the Raj Bhavan. The representation stated that there has been an inordinate delay in issuing gazette notification of Upper Krishna and the Kalasa-Banduri projects. Also, even though Karnataka prepared a Detailed Project Report (DPR) for the Mekedatu balancing reservoir project at the behest of the Union government, it has failed to take the project forward, it said. "The Centre asked us to prepare a DPR for the project and then has kept the project in cold storage bowing to pressure from Tamil Nadu," Kumaraswamy said, stressing that the Mekedatu project was also a solution for addressing drinking water woes of Bengaluru. The party, in its representation, has urged the Centre to intervene and resolve the pending issues pertaining to these water projects, Kumaraswamy said. Led by party supremo H D Deve Gowda, JD(S) leaders would soon seek an appointment to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Ram Nath Kovind, he added.  'Karnataka now has Janata Dal govt' With the BJP appointing Basavaraj Bommai as the chief minister, Karnataka now has a Janata Dal government, JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy quipped. "I am feeling like there's a Janata Dal Chief Minister. He was part of the Janata Parivar before and even to this day he is a good friend and a well wisher," he said. Taking a dig at the BJP national leadership, Kumaraswamy hoped that the Centre would cooperate with Bommai, unlike how it treated former chief minister B S Yediyurappa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/mekedatu-kumaraswamy-accuses-centre-of-bowing-to-tns-pressure-1014392.html
29-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||RSS leaders suggest Karnataka BJP to not induct controversial legislators||RSS leaders have suggested Karnataka BJP leaders not to induct “controversial” legislators, mostly those who brought court injunction against media from writing defamatory news, in the Basavaraj Bommai-headed government, BJP sources said. The controversial legislators, whether they came from other parties or original BJP, should not be inducted as they maligned the image of the BJP government in Karnataka, the RSS leaders reportedly suggested the saffron party. The Sangh leaders also cautioned that if “tainted” legislators were inducted, it would send the wrong message among people of the state, as the party has to face the Assembly elections in the two-year down the line, said a leader from the BJP. After former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi sex CD came into public, six former ministers mostly those who joined BJP from different parties under "Operation Kamala," brought court injunction against media writing or showing any defamatory news against them. Some of the BJP legislators also brought injunctions. "The party hasn't taken any decision on whom to induct, but leaders are still deliberating about implications on the government if these MLAs are kept out," said the leader. Bommai, who already held one round of talks about cabinet expansion with state BJP leaders in Bengaluru, is likely to finalise the decision by the end of next week after discussing with central leaders, said the leader. The CM, who will be coming to Delhi on Friday, will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP National President J P Nadda as a courtesy. He will also host lunch for Karnataka MPs during his stay in the national capital. On Friday night, he is expected to meet some of the top BJP leaders in Delhi for deliberation on cabinet expansion. “With the party keen on forming the government with eyeing on the next assembly election, it is favouring more young faces with a clean image. The party is also discussing that instead of filling all ministerial posts at one go, it should be in phases to avoid any dissident activities,” said the leader. Separately, former Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa in Bengaluru said he would discuss with the CM the contribution of MLAs, who came from other parties, in the formation of the BJP government in Karnataka in 2019. Several ministerial aspirants, former Minister Umesh Katti already landed in Delhi and other leaders including Muniratna Naidu, C P Yogeshwar and R Ashok are expected to come to meet the party leaders here. Speaking to reporters, Katti said he came to his personal work and will also meet the party top leaders if get an appointment. However, he denied the rumours that he came to lobby as the cabinet minister. "If given an opportunity, I will work as ministers or else will remain as MLA," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/rss-leaders-suggest-karnataka-bjp-to-not-induct-controversial-legislators-1014406.html
29-07-2021||Main Article||Mental health crisis: Going beyond quick fixes||When the world suddenly went into lockdown and we were forced to shut schools overnight, we watched with horror as the entire learning system moved online and everyone was gung-ho that the world was finally recognising the power of EdTech. One year on, we are left picking up the pieces. A study by Oxfam India showed that 80% of parents in five states said digital schooling failed during the first wave and the recent ASER report showed that only one-third of the country’s schoolchildren were pursuing online education. I hope, at least in hindsight, we are able to see the online learning bubble for what it was. A quick fix. Even as we scramble to make sense of the disruption that has unfolded around us, there has been an overwhelming need to move to the next band-aid and for now, that is the mental health and well-being of children. This is a real and huge problem and should be the most important issue that we must address. But in the absence of any meaningful empirical evidence on the true nature of the mental health crisis that children are facing, we are again resorting to quick fixes to a complex problem. For example, sharing ‘activities’ with children and hoping it will help them cope with mental health challenges. Unfortunately, good mental health is not an outcome that we can expect from activities. It is not a pill that you pop.  When we talk about physical health, we understand that it requires us to exercise each day, invest in a good diet, have healthy sleep patterns, avoid junk food and other things that contribute to our physical health. Unfortunately, when it comes to the mental health of children, there is a belief that engaging children in activities is enough. Instead of trying to address the anxieties and grief that children are dealing with, these activities are simply designed to engage them in their free time. One of the established challenges of our current education system is the ‘one-size-fits-all’ approach to student learning. We are now, unfortunately, extending the same assembly-line model to the complex problem of developing the mental health of our children who are grappling with the effects of a global pandemic.  Consider the example of a popular WhatsApp Bot that invites children to follow a bunch of steps to develop their confidence. The first question on that particular activity is for the child to list its strengths. When I imagined myself as a 14-year-old, I was reminded of the many days when I felt good at absolutely nothing, despite having considerable privilege and not growing up in the middle of a pandemic. But when you enter ‘Nothing’ on the bot as an honest self-reflection of how you are feeling, the response you get is ‘That’s awesome. You are good at NOTHING!’. It does not stop there. The Bot continues to suggest a series of steps involving asking your friends and family whether they think you are good at nothing, and also gives you 50 points for being good at absolutely nothing. Pain and suffering Our children are dealing with enormous pain and suffering because we failed to provide even the basics of healthcare facilities or learning support while they grappled with the largest human tragedy in modern history. They are today the most invisible victims of the Covid catastrophe, and we cannot let that continue. The desire to fix children’s mental health challenges, only so that they can come back to school and start learning math and science again is problematic. Instead of recognising that it was a broken school system that did next to nothing to prepare children for a challenge of this magnitude, we are eager for things to go back to ‘normal’. Mental health is now like an intermediary that can prepare children to come back to that same system of education that measures them on their ability to memorise outdated facts, while in their lived reality they are dealing with complex social and ecological challenges unforeseen in recent history. The need of the hour is an overhaul of existing systems and structures to allow for a new approach to learning and teaching based on Social-Emotional Learning (SEL) practices, trauma informed schools/trauma responsive education that focuses on the overall wellbeing of our young people who are currently coping with more than they can handle. A robust life skills curriculum and SEL curriculum grounded in young people’s reality can enable young people to build emotional resilience and self-regulate; cultivate free, critical and creative thinking, and nurture healthy relationships with people and the environment. Educating teachers about mental health and wellbeing and creating awareness within the teacher community on how trauma may show up in the classroom can go a long way in equipping them to help young people. Teachers are often first responders and understanding how to respond appropriately to young people showing signs of trauma will help these children move forward and thrive, despite adversity. For this to happen, teachers will need to be trained in life skills and trauma responsive education. This will also mean that we will need to redefine learning spaces to go beyond the existing school structures, where community learning could be made possible through the participation of both parents and the community, because that is where healing can happen. While all of these will need time to integrate, there is an urgent need for trauma responsive education to become a part of the educational ecosystem. One thing is sure, now is not the time to build-back-better. Let us build-back-different. Fundamentally different. (The writer is CEO, Dream a Dream, an organisation working towards empowering young people from vulnerable backgrounds)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/mental-health-crisis-going-beyond-quick-fixes-1014044.html
29-07-2021||National||DH Deciphers | Why is the Assam-Mizoram border dispute getting out of hand?||The decades-long boundary dispute between Assam and Mizoram took a bloody turn on July 26 when six policemen from Assam were killed and 42 others wounded in firing by Mizoram police. One civilian in Mizoram was also injured. The blame game about whose forces fired first and the call for peace followed. But people living on either side of the 165.6-km-long border do not see an early end to such conflicts given the inflexible attitude of both states and the complications involved in the process. Here's the lowdown on the dispute: Why do Assam, Mizoram clash on the border? The border dispute between Assam and Mizoram is a legacy of two British-era notifications of 1875 and 1933, when Mizoram was called Lushai Hills, a district in Assam. The 1875 notification differentiated Lushai Hills from the plains of Cachar and the other demarcated boundary between Lushai Hills and Manipur. While Mizoram became a state only in 1987 following years of insurgency, it still insists on the boundary decided in 1875. Assam, on the other hand, wants the boundary demarcated in 1986 (based on the1933 notification). "Why would we accept a Colonial era order? In that case, entire Mizoram was part of Assam before the Independence," Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on July 27. Mizoram says the 1986 agreement is not acceptable as the Mizo civil society was not consulted at that time. What is the current status of the border? According to an agreement signed between the two states some years ago, a status quo is to be maintained till a solution is found. But alleged encroachments from both sides have led to frequent clashes on the 165.6km long border between Assam's Cachar, Karimganj and Hailakandi and the districts of Kolasib, Aizawl and Mamit in Mizoram. Both the states also share border with Bangladesh. Violence broke out in February 2018 after a group from Mizoram constructed a resthouse inside the forest land on the border in Cachar. Mizoram claims that Bangladeshi settlers living in Assam often try to encroach on the forest land, which belongs to Mizoram. Several schools were bombed in Karimganj district in October last year, which Mizoram claimed were constructed on their land.   What triggered the latest clash? According to Assam, a police team led by an IGP went to the border at Lailapur area in the Cachar district after it found that the Mizoram government had constructed a road and a security post in a forest land which belongs to Assam. Lailapur shares a border with Mizoram's Kolasib district. As the team was holding discussion with the Kolasib superintendent of police, armed residents attacked them and then Mizoram police indiscriminately fired at them. Mizoram Chief Minister Zoramthanga claimed that nearly 200 Assam police overran a CRPF camp and a Mizoram police post, and reached an autorickshaw stand at Vairengte in the Kolasib district, fired tear gas shells and opened fire at local residents who gathered and protested there. Mizoram police retaliated in defence.  What's the role of the neutral force, i.e. the CRPF?  There is a CRPF camp on the disputed forest land. On July 26, Mizoram alleged that the Assam police had overrun the CRPF camp and entered their area. Assam denied the allegation. After the latest clash, police of both the states vacated their camps, and the CRPF has been deployed there.   What's the way forward? Assam is planning to petition the Supreme Court for maintaining the status quo. But people in both the states want the Centre to demarcate the border soon and end the conflict forever. The Supreme Court had earlier directed the Centre to set up a boundary commission but nothing much happened on that. In fact, the latest clash happened two days after Union Home Minister Amit Shah held a meeting in Shillong with chief ministers of all the states in the Northeast and asked them to solve the long border amicably through talks. The opposition Congress asked why Shah could not solve the issue when the BJP or its allies are in power in all the states. What are the other border conflicts in the Northeast? Assam has similar border conflicts with Meghalaya, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh, which were carved out of it as seperate states between 1963 and 1972. Tripura also has a border dispute with Mizoram. Violent clashes have taken place along the Assam-Nagaland border since 1965, more recently in 2017, leading to deaths and displacements. Similar violence was also witnessed on Assam-Meghalaya and Assam-Arunachal Pradesh borders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-deciphers-why-is-the-assam-mizoram-border-dispute-getting-out-of-hand-1014006.html
29-07-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Even one day is a long time in politics!'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday congratulated Basavaraj Bommai on taking oath as the new chief minister of Karnataka and said he brings with him rich legislative and administrative experience.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-even-one-day-is-a-long-time-in-politics-1014053.html
29-07-2021||National||Covid-19 lockdown negatively impacted women’s nutrition in India, as per a study||The nationwide lockdown in India last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic caused disruptions in agricultural supply chains that negatively impacted the nutrition of women in the country, according to a study. The research, published in the journal Economia Politica, shows that although food value chains and allied activities were exempted from the lockdown, women's dietary diversity -- the number of food groups consumed -- declined during the period compared to 2019. The researchers at Tata-Cornell Institute for Agriculture and Nutrition (TCI), New Delhi, found that the drop was due to decreased consumption of foods like meats, eggs, vegetables and fruits, which are rich in micronutrients that are crucial to good health and development. "Women's diets were lacking in diverse foods even before the pandemic, but Covid-19 has further exacerbated the situation," said Soumya Gupta, a research economist at TCI who co-authored the study. "Any policies addressing the impact of the pandemic on nutritional outcomes must do so through a gendered lens that reflects the specific, and often persistent, vulnerabilities faced by women,” Gupta added. The nationwide lockdown was enforced to slow down the spread of Covid-19 on March 24, 2020. The lockdown was lifted on May 30, lat year, though some restrictions remained in certain areas of the country. The researchers, including TCI director Prabhu Pingali, Mathew Abraham, assistant director, and consultant Payal Seth, analysed surveys of food expenditures, dietary diversity and other nutrition indicators at the national, state and district levels in the states of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Odisha. They found that unequal burden on women was also caused in part due to the closure of aanganwadi centers during the lockdown. The centers, which provide take-home rations and hot cooked meals to nursing and expecting mothers, are an important source of nutrition for women and children. Data from 155 households surveyed showed 72 per cent of eligible households lost access to aanganwadi services during the pandemic. The study found that disruptions to agricultural supply chains subsequently led to price fluctuations especially for non-staple foods. Nearly 90 per cent of survey respondents reported having less food, while 95 per cent said they consumed fewer types of food. The largest drop in food expenditures was for micronutrient-rich fresh and dried fruits, as well as animal products such as meat, fish and eggs, according to the researchers. Expenditures returned to pre-lockdown levels in June 2020 at the national and state levels but remained low at the district level, they said. The study suggests that underdeveloped regions were disproportionately affected by access and availability constraints, the researchers said. Surveys also suggest a decrease in the quantity and quality of nutritious foods consumed by women during the pandemic. For example, some women said that during the lockdown they halved the amount of dal, or red lentils, that they prepared, or that they prepared thinner dals. "The decline in women's diet diversity combined with a likely decrease in quantities consumed points to a greater risk for micronutrient malnutrition as compared to before the pandemic,” Gupta said. "Due to the spill over effects of maternal malnutrition, that risk poses a threat not only to women’s productivity and well-being, but also that of their children," she said. Nutrition security declined across the board during the lockdown, but researchers found reason to believe that women's nutrition was disproportionately impacted. The number of women consuming vitamin A-rich fruits and vegetables dropped by 42 per cent, they said. A previous study by TCI showed that Indian women eat less diverse diets than their households. Researchers explained that many factors have been associated with gender differences in food allocation across the world, including income, bargaining power, social status, interpersonal relationships, tastes and preferences. Uneven food allocation within households has also been associated with the role of women in different family systems, including women eating after all other members have eaten, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-lockdown-negatively-impacted-women-s-nutrition-in-india-as-per-a-study-1014063.html
29-07-2021||National||India logs 43,509 new Covid-19 cases, 640 deaths||India on Thursday logged 43,509 new Covid-19 cases and 640 deaths according to data published by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. The country's caseload currently stands at 3,13,28,114, while the death toll adds up to 4,22,662. 38,465 individuals recovered from the viral infection, slowing the recovery rate to 97.39 per cent. The 4,03,840 active cases comprise 1.27 per cent of the total cases. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-43509-new-covid-19-cases-640-deaths-1014085.html
29-07-2021||National||As NEP completes a year, Pradhan calls for making education affordable, accessible||Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan Thursday called for reiterating the resolve to make education holistic, affordable, accessible and equitable. As the new National Education Policy (NEP) completes one year Thursday, Pradhan tweeted, "On 1 year of NEP2020, let us reiterate our resolve to make education holistic, affordable, accessible and equitable. Let us work together to realise the aspirations of a 21st-century #AatmanirbharBharat and to make India a vibrant knowledge economy. "A year ago, on this day under the leadership of Hon PM @narendramodi, NEP2020– a visionary education policy of the 21st-century was launched with the aim to bring out the capabilities of each student, universalise education, build capacities and transform the learning landscape," he said, sending out a series of tweets. The NEP replaced the National Policy on Education framed in 1986. It is aimed at paving the way for transformational reforms in school and higher education systems to make India a global knowledge superpower. "Today, on the completion of 1 year of transformative reforms under the NEP, PM @narendramodiji will launch multiple initiatives that will prove to be a significant milestone in realising several goals envisaged under the New Education Policy and guide us through his address," Pradhan added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-nep-completes-a-year-pradhan-calls-for-making-education-affordable-accessible-1014111.html
29-07-2021||National||India consistently prevented efforts to dilute focus on terrorism: UN Ambassador Tirumurti||India has consistently kept the spotlight within and outside the UN Security Council on combating terrorism and prevented efforts to "dilute" the focus on the scourge, New Delhi’s envoy here said, with the country set to host a signature event relating to the Secretary-General’s report on ISIS during the Council's Presidency next month. India will assume the rotating Presidency of the 15-nation UN Security Council on August 1, the country’s first Presidency during its 2021-22 tenure as a non-permanent member of the Security Council. India will again preside over the Council in December next year, the last month of its two-year tenure. “India has consistently kept the spotlight on combating terrorism, both inside the Council and outside as well," India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti told PTI in an interview. "We have not only strengthened the efforts to combat terrorism, especially for example in the financing of terrorism, we have also prevented efforts to dilute the focus on terrorism,” he said. During its Presidency, India will focus on the themes of maritime security, peacekeeping and counter-terrorism and preside over high-level signature events on these issues. Tirumurti stressed that in the Security Council, India has highlighted terrorism-related issues and “will also host a signature event during our Presidency in the context of the Secretary-General’s report on ISIL/Da’esh.” The next report of the Secretary-General on the threat posed by ISIS (Daesh) to international peace and security is expected in the coming days. Earlier this year, India had said that the Secretary General’s report on ISIL should also cover activities of proscribed terrorist entities under ISIL and Al Qaeda Sanctions regime like Lashkar-e-Taiba and other Pakistan-based terror groups like Jaish-e-Mohammad and frontal organisations that raise funds for their activities. “The world is fully aware that these groups also perpetrate terrorist activities from safe havens in Pakistan, including through violent attacks in Afghanistan that have disrupted the peace process," Tirumurti had said in February during a Security Council briefing when the UN body had considered the 12th report of Secretary-General on the threat posed by ISIL (Da’esh) to international peace and security. "We are also witnessing the relocation of terror groups to Afghanistan, especially in Kunar and Nangarhar provinces, across the Durand line. To not name them in this report is doing a disservice as it gives only a partial and a biased view of the situation in the region,” he had said. The report had said that Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant - Khorasan (ISIL-K) is currently assessed to have between 1,000 and 2,200 fighters in Afghanistan spread across several provinces and is expected to continue to target Kabul and provincial capitals in future attacks. Highlighting the role of India in recent months on terrorism-related issues, Tirumurti said that on the Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy, India played an extremely active role in the shaping of the final outcome of the strategy. "We ensured that there was a stronger focus on threats posed by new financing methods and new technologies to support terror. We prevented countries from diluting the global fight against terrorism by dividing terrorists into “your terrorists” and “my terrorists” by introducing several sub-categories of terrorism,” he said. At the adoption of Resolution on 7th Review of Global Counter Terrorism Strategy (GCTS) this month, Tirumurti had said that it is essential for all member states to ensure that “we do not give the slightest opportunity to provide excuses or justification for terrorism, thereby diminishing our collective fight." India had also prevented attempts to dilute the fight by bringing in religious and other issues, he said, adding that during the High-Level Week on Counter-Terrorism, India and France along with the UN hosted an important side event on “Countering financing of terrorism”. In his remarks to the side event, Tirumurti had said that preventing terrorists from accessing financial resources is crucial to successfully counter the threat of terrorism. "India has been a victim of terrorism, particularly cross-border terrorism, over the last several decades," Tirumurti had said. He noted that while some states lack the legal-operational frameworks and necessary capacities for countering the financing of terrorism, "there are other states that are clearly guilty of aiding and supporting terrorism, and wilfully providing financial assistance and safe havens to terrorists." In response to a question on whether there can be a briefing on the situation in Afghanistan under India’s Council Presidency, against the backdrop of the US withdrawing its forces from the war-torn country ahead of the August 31 deadline set by President Joe Biden, Tirumurti said the situation in Afghanistan, especially the continuing violence, is a matter of deep concern. “As you know, for India, we would like to see an independent, neutral, unified, peaceful, democratic and prosperous Afghanistan. We have been calling for an immediate cessation of violence and to ensure that neighbours are not threatened by terrorism, separatism and extremism," Tirumurti said. "We have consistently underlined that the gains of the last two decades, especially with respect to women and minorities, should not be lost,” he said, adding that “I believe these are common concerns of members of the Security Council.” Tirumurti said there is, as such, no mandated meeting on Afghanistan in August, though there is one that is mandated for September. “However, we cannot discount the possibility of the Security Council meeting to take stock of the situation depending on how it evolves,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-consistently-prevented-efforts-to-dilute-focus-on-terrorism-un-ambassador-tirumurti-1014137.html
29-07-2021||National||Choice between Physics and Biology propels Swati to NASA||It was the choice between physics and biology that had made all the difference to Indian-born Swati Mohan to pursue her passion in space science at NASA. Swati, who was part of the Mars 2020 Perseverance Mission, said her decision to opt to study physics in high school helped to pursue her passion at NASA. "Physics was easy and biology didn't come naturally to me the internship at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) gave me the opportunities to learn and explore," the guidance, navigation and control systems engineering group supervisor of NASA's JPL, said. She was speaking at the launch of the #DiasporaDiplomacy held under the aegis of the US Consulate General in Chennai, on Wednesday. US Consul General in Chennai Judith Ravin inaugurated the virtual series. From enrolling in space camp at NASA to selecting a school to taking up internships, Swati said she was drawn to exploring and learning about other places in the solar system. Her parents and her family members including her husband were "super supporters" in helping her chase her passion, the mother of two daughters said. "There are many Indian Americans and Indians working on Mars 2020 and JPL as a whole," she said responding to queries from students and participants. Asked if the Indian premier space agency ISRO and NASA would take up joint missions in future, Swati replied, NASA and ISRO are collaborating on NISAR (NASA ISRO Synthetic Aperture Radar) satellite. The ISRO instrument team is at JPL integrating their portion of the instrument with the JPL portion. "The JPL team will come to India next year to integrate and launch the spacecraft from India," she said and hoped that NASA and ISRO partnership would continue to grow in future. NISAR is expected to be launched into a near-polar orbit to observe our planet's land and ice-covered surfaces every 12 days over the course of its three-year mission of imaging the earth's land, ice sheets and sea ice. While responding to a query on whether she faced trouble because of her origin, she replied, "in my career journey I faced more difficulty in being a woman in a male dominated field than being an Indian." However, she considered herself blessed at "a diverse organisation like JPL which has a lot of diaspora from many different cultures." Is she missing India and anything in particular? "I especially miss the street food in India so good especially the corn roasted by the vendors," she replied. Every time she visits India, she ensures a visit to the restaurants here because the food is so much better. She however hastens to add "of course we have good Indian restaurants here (in USA)."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/choice-between-physics-and-biology-propels-swati-to-nasa-1014144.html
29-07-2021||National||LS proceedings adjourned; Speaker says hurt over unruly behaviour of some Oppn members||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Thursday adjourned the House proceedings till 11:30 AM amid protests, and also expressed displeasure over unruly behaviour by some opposition members on Wednesday. As the House convened for the day, the Speaker said he was "very hurt" over Wednesday's incident. On Wednesday, when papers were being laid in the House, Congress members Gurjeet Aujala, TN Prathapan, Hibi Eden and some others threw business papers of the day as well as torn pieces of paper and placards at the Chair. A piece of the torn placard landed in the press gallery just above the Speaker's podium. Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha, said the opposition has not been able to put forth it point due to the stubborn attitude of the government. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said the members who resorted to tearing papers don't even want to apologise. As the protest continued, Speaker Birla adjourned the proceedings. The Opposition members have been protesting over the Pegasus snooping controversy and three farm bills.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ls-proceedings-adjourned-speaker-says-hurt-over-unruly-behaviour-of-some-oppn-members-1014148.html
29-07-2021||National||SCBA President raises issue of alleged killing of Jharkhand judge||SC Bar Association president and senior advocate Vikas Singh on Thursday asked the top court to take Suo Motu cognisance of the incident related to the killing of Additional District Judge Dhanbad, Uttam Anand in Jharkhand. "If someone is killed like this after rejecting a gangster's bail, it is dangerous situation for the judiciary," he said, mentioning the matter before a bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana. The Chief Justice of India said he spoke to the Chief Justice of the High court in the morning about the incident.  "The HC has issued notice to the police and district officials. They are hearing this matter on Thursday. Let them handle it. It does not require interference by us at this stage," the CJI said.  Singh said the issue is an important one and is in the interest of justice. "We are aware of this incident, and also at the same time, we are overwhelmed with the initiative of the SCBA and also appreciated the steps taken by it (SCBA)," the bench said. Before mentioning the matter in the court of the CJI bench, Singh sought to raise it before a bench presided over by D Y Chandrachud. "This is a brazen attack on the independence of the judiciary. The video which has gone viral was actually being taken by someone who was recording with prior knowledge of the attack," Singh said.  He said that the CCTV footage of the area should be taken on record. "This incident looks like a premeditated attack on the judge," he said. Justice Chandrachud, however, asked him to mention the matter before the CJI, though he assured that he will use his good offices to convey the message to the CJI. ADJ Anand was hit by an auto-rickshaw on his morning walk on Wednesday. He was taken to a hospital where he succumbed to the injuries. The CCTV footage showed that he was deliberately hit by the auto-rickshaw which was stolen the previous night. The wife of the deceased judge has reportedly lodged a murder case against unknown people. The judge was said to be handling cases related to gangsters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scba-president-raises-issue-of-alleged-killing-of-jharkhand-judge-1014161.html
29-07-2021||National||Centre reserves 27% medical seats for OBCs, 10% for EWS||In a bid to prioritise medical education and make it more accessible the Centre on Thursday made a landmark decision on reservation for backward classes and economically weaker sections of the society. 27 per cent of seats will now be reserved for Other backward Classes (OBCs) and 10 per cent seats for Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) in the All India Quota (AIQ) Scheme for undergraduate and postgraduate medical/dental courses (MBBS/MD/MS/Diploma/BDS/MDS) from the current academic year 2021-22 onwards.  देश में मेडिकल एजुकेशन के क्षेत्र में सरकार द्वारा ऐतिहासिक निर्णय लिया गया है। ऑल इंडिया कोटे के तहत अंडरग्रेजुएट/पोस्ट ग्रेजुएट, मेडिकल तथा डेंटल शिक्षा में OBC वर्ग के छात्रों को 27% व कमजोर आय वर्ग (EWS) के छात्रों को 10% आरक्षण दिया जाएगा। (1/2) Prime Minister Narendra Modi, at a meeting held on Monday, had directed the Union ministries concerned to facilitate an effective solution to this long-pending issue, a statement issued by the health ministry said. "This decision would benefit nearly 1,500 OBC students in MBBS and 2,500 OBC students in postgraduation and also around 550 EWS students in MBBS and around 1,000 EWS students in postgraduation," it said. "The present government is committed to providing due reservation both to the backward category as well as the EWS category. The Union government has now taken a historic decision to provide for 27 per cent reservation for OBCs and 10 per cent reservation for EWS in the AIQ scheme," the ministry stated. OBC students from across the country shall now be able to take the benefit of this reservation in the AIQ scheme to compete for seats in any state. Being a central scheme, the Central List of OBCs shall be used for this reservation. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-reserves-27-medical-seats-for-obcs-10-for-ews-1014189.html
29-07-2021||National||BJP MP Nishikant Dubey accuses TMC member of name-calling him 'Bihari Gunda,' raises matter in Lok Sabha||BJP MP Nishikant Dubey on Thursday raised in the Lok Sabha the issue of a TMC member allegedly calling him a 'Bihari Gunda' during a Parliamentary committee meeting. "I want to draw attention of all members of this House. This is my 13th year as an MP and the way I was called 'Bihari Gunda' at the Parliamentary committee meeting yesterday by a woman, by Trinamool Congress, I have not seen this in my life," Dubey said, amid din in the House due to protests by Opposition over Pegasus and farm bill issues. "What is our mistake? Our mistake is in developing this country. We have worked as labourers, as Hindi-speaking people whether from Uttar Pradesh or Madhya Pradesh... we have worked hard. We have learnt sessions from Lord Ram," Dubey said. However, Dubey did not name the TMC member. As Dubey was speaking, Rajendra Agrawal, who was chairing the proceedings, adjourned the House till 12:30 pm. As the House reassembled at 12:30 pm, Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs Arjun Ram Meghwal urged the Chair to allow Dubey to complete the issue he was raising before the House got adjourned. However, Agrawal called for papers to be laid on the table. As opposition slogan-shouting continued, Agrawal adjourned the proceedings till 2 pm. The meeting of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information and Technology, chaired by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, on Wednesday was set to question government officials on the Pegasus spyware issue. However, the meeting was postponed due to lack of quorum. Even though the meeting did not take place, the gathering of BJP and opposition party members witnessed drama. Dubey had alleged that Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra called him a 'Bihari Gunda'. Dubey, in a tweet on Wednesday tagged TMC supremo and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, and alleged that Moitra's comments show her party's attitude towards the people of Bihar and the Hindi-speaking parts of the country. Moitra denied the charge, saying Dubey was not even present for the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-mp-nishikant-dubey-accuses-tmc-member-of-name-calling-him-bihari-gunda-raises-matter-in-lok-sabha-1014193.html
29-07-2021||National||Juhi Chawla withdraws HC plea over dismissal of her suit against 5G rollout||Bollywood actress Juhi Chawla Thursday withdrew from the Delhi High Court her plea in connection with the dismissal of her lawsuit against 5G wireless network technology. Justice Jayant Nath allowed the withdrawal of the plea after a statement made by Chawla's counsel, advocate Deepak Khosla. “Learned counsel for the plaintiff (Chawla) wants to withdraw the application with liberty to avail remedy before the appellate court. Application is dismissed as withdrawn,” the court said. Chawla had moved the application seeking that her lawsuit against 5G rollout be declared “rejected” instead of “dismissed”. Chawla's counsel argued that the plaint, which “never went up to the level of suit”, could only be rejected or returned in terms of the Civil Procedure Code, and not dismissed. The court had then also granted a week's time for deposit of Rs 20 lakh costs after Chawla decided to not press the application for its waiver. Application for refund of court fees was also withdrawn by Chawla.                 In June, the court had described the lawsuit by Chawla and two others against 5G roll out as "defective", "abuse of process of law" and filed for "gaining publicity" and dismissed it with costs of Rs 20 lakh. Justice J R Midha said the plaint in which questions have been raised about health hazards due to the 5G technology was "not maintainable" and was "stuffed with unnecessary Scandalous, frivolous and vexatious averments" which are liable to be struck down. The court said the suit filed by actress-environmentalist and others was to gain publicity which was clear as Chawla circulated the video conferencing link of the hearing on her social media account which resulted in the repeated disruptions thrice by unknown miscreants who continued disruptions despite repeated warnings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/juhi-chawla-withdraws-hc-plea-over-dismissal-of-her-suit-against-5g-rollout-1014195.html
29-07-2021||National||Fact-check: PM Modi’s UP speech a mix of false claims, half-truths, exaggerated praises||The Uttar Pradesh legislative assembly elections will be held between February to March next year. Campaigning for the polls has begun and it is not unusual for the incumbent government to make assertions about the milestones it has achieved in the past years. On July 15, PM Narendra Modi inaugurated various development projects in UP and praised Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s governance. During the length of the 30-minute speech, the Prime Minister made various claims and among them were false or misleading statements. There were also instances where the PM presented his favourable opinions about BJP’s governance as facts.    Claim 2: Number of medical colleges in UP has increased four times under CM Yogi    Claim 3: Jal Jeevan mission project is progressing rapidly  Claim 4: UP is safe for women under CM Yogi’s tenure The 2017 Unnao rape case had also revealed UP’s mishandling of sexual crimes. It took two years to punish BJP leader and MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar accused of raping a minor and only after she tried self-immolation outside the CM’s residence and her father died in judicial custody. Alt News studied the latest NCRB data found that the following stats indicate an alarming situation in UP: The Prime Minister praised the UP government on several counts, exaggerating its achievements and presenting his opinion of CM Adityanath’s governance as facts. He disregarded Covid deaths and oxygen shortage in the state, instead praised the CM’s work without presenting accurate data. UP contributions the most to crimes against women, yet the PM said that women now “feel safe” in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-pm-modi-s-up-speech-a-mix-of-false-claims-half-truths-exaggerated-praises-1014196.html
29-07-2021||National||We support all peace initiatives aimed at lasting political settlement: India on Afghanistan||India on Thursday said it has a steadfast policy to support a sovereign, democratic and peaceful Afghanistan and it is in touch with various stakeholders within and outside Afghanistan including regional and international partners. The comments by the Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan in Rajya Sabha came a day after India and the US strongly pitched for an immediate intra-Afghan peace process to end the violence in Afghanistan and find a political settlement. Muraleedharan said India supports all peace initiatives leading towards a lasting political settlement through an inclusive Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled process. The Taliban has been making rapid advances across Afghanistan by resorting to widespread violence since the US began withdrawing its troops on May 1. The US has already pulled back the majority of its forces and is looking to complete the drawdown by August 31. "As a contiguous neighbour and strategic partner, India has a steadfast policy to support sovereign, democratic and peaceful Afghanistan, where the interest of all sections of Afghan society including women, children and minorities are protected," he said. "India supports all peace initiatives leading towards a lasting political settlement through an inclusive Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan controlled process which would lead to peace and stability in the region," the minister said. He also referred to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar's online participation in September last year in the inaugural session of the intra-Afghan negotiations in Doha. "The external affairs minister participated in the inaugural session of the intra-Afghan negotiations in Doha held in September 2020. The government is in touch with various stakeholders within and outside Afghanistan, including regional and international partners," Muraleedharan said. On September 12, an Indian delegation attended the inaugural ceremony of the intra-Afghan negotiations featuring various stakeholders including the Afghan government and the Taliban in Doha. Jaishankar joined it through video conference. The evolving situation in Afghanistan figured prominently during talks bewteen Jaishankar and US Secretary of State Antony Blinken here on Wednesday. Blinken said there can be no military solution to the Afghan conflict and India has and will continue to make vital contributions to Afghanistan's stability and development as a leader and a critical American partner in the region. The US Secretary of State said that both India and the US "largely" see Afghan conflict in the same light, warning that an Afghanistan that does not respect the rights of its people and commits atrocities against them would become a "pariah state". India has been a major stakeholder in the peace and stability of Afghanistan. It has already invested nearly $3 billion in aid and reconstruction activities in the country. India has been supporting a national peace and reconciliation process which is Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled. It has also been calling upon all sections of the political spectrum in Afghanistan to work together to meet the aspirations of all people in that country including those from the minority community for a prosperous and safe future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-support-all-peace-initiatives-aimed-at-lasting-political-settlement-india-on-afghanistan-1014209.html
29-07-2021||National||Mamata calls on Gadkari, discusses projects in West Bengal||On Day 4 of her visit to the national capital, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday met Union Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari, DMK leader Kanimozhi and noted lyricist Javed Akhtar, whom she requested to compose a song on her poll slogan of "khela hobe". During her meeting with Gadkari in the afternoon, Banerjee discussed several infrastructure projects in her state in a bid to invite global investors. She told the Union minister that it would be good if West Bengal gets an electric vehicle manufacturing industry. The chief minister also said the state requires proper roads as it borders Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan and northeastern states. Banerjee, who is in Delhi to initiate talks with opposition parties to stitch together a united front against the ruling BJP, brought up pending road and transport projects, including the deep-sea port at Tajpur, during her discussions with Gadkari, sources said. The proposed seaport, nearly 200 km from Kolkata, is expected to draw an investment of Rs 15,000 crore and generate 25,000 jobs in West Bengal. "Nitin Gadkari asked me to send my chief secretary.... My chief secretary is coming to Delhi today for a meeting on Friday. As per the convenience of Gadkariji, I will send my chief secretary to meet him," she said. "I requested Gadkariji that it will be good if we get a manufacturing industry in our state to make electric vehicles. Bengal shares borders with Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan and northeastern states, so we need proper roads," Banerjee said after the meeting. Sources said Banerjee will also meet ministers of key departments such as petroleum, aviation, railways and commerce soon to discuss various development projects in the state. "Chief Minister of West Bengal Mamata Banerjee called on Union Minister Nitin Gadkari today. In the presence of officials they reviewed various road projects being undertaken in the state," Gadkari's office said in a tweet. Sources said Banerjee also presented a report to the Union minister on the construction of rural roads in West Bengal under the third phase of the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana. Later, she met DMK MP Kanimozhi and discussed political situation in their respective states. In the evening, lyricist Akhtar and actor Shabana Azmi met the West Bengal chief minister and congratulated her on her recent victory as well as thanked her for her support to a bill that assures royalty for artistes. "It is the history of Bengal that it has led revolutionary movements. I believe that there should be a parivartan (change). There are many tensions in the country right now, there is the issue of polarisation. Many give aggressive statements... there are incidents of violence. It's a shame that Delhi witnessed communal riots," said Akhtar when asked if the country needs change. When asked if Banerjee should lead the opposition against the BJP, the lyricist said that during his discussions with the WB CM, she never said that she had ambition to be the leader of a third front. "However, she believes in parivartan. She fought for Bengal earlier, now she wants to fight for India," he said. Asked to comment on the now-viral slogan of "Khela Hobe (game is on)", Akhtar said that the slogan did not need any endorsement any more. "It is beyond any discussion now," he said. Banerjee, who was standing silently as Akhtar spoke, quipped, "Khela hobe se aapko ek gaan banana hai (you have to compose a song on khela hobe)." The chief minister arrived in the national capital on Monday on a five-day visit, her first since assuming office for a third straight term. She is scheduled to leave the city on Friday afternoon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-calls-on-gadkari-discusses-projects-in-west-bengal-1014217.html
29-07-2021||National||Rajya Sabha adjourned for day amid Opposition protest||The Rajya Sabha proceedings were adjourned till Friday amid continuous protests by opposition parties over the Pegasus snooping controversy, farm laws and price rise. After the House resumed after lunch at 2 pm, the government introduced the Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2021. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman introduced the bill amid the protest and sloganeering by the Opposition members and said it will provide relief to the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector. The bill will help the sector ensure a smoother capital cycle and healthier cash flow, she added. Deputy Chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh, who was in the chair, asked the agitating Opposition members, who had trooped into the Well of the House, to return to their seats. He called the members to participate in the discussion on the bill. However, barring those from the ruling BJP, AIDMK and TRS, who supported the bill, no one turned up for the discussion. Singh then called Sitharaman for her reply and the bill was passed. After that the deputy chairman adjourned the House till Friday 11 am.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-adjourned-for-day-amid-opposition-protest-1014220.html
29-07-2021||National||Lok Sabha proceedings adjourned for the day; two Bills passed||Lok Sabha on Thursday passed two Bills before the proceedings were adjourned for the day amid continuous protests by opposition members over the Pegasus spying row and farmers' issue. The Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India (Amendment) Bill 2021 and The Inland Vessels Bill, 2021 were passed without debate. When the House met at 2 pm, Kirit Premjibhai Solanki, who was chairing the proceedings, took up the two Bills. He urged the protesting members to go back to their seats. Amid din, Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia moved the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India (Amendment) Bill, 2021. Similarly, Ports, Shipping and Waterways Minister Sarbananda Sonowal moved the Inland Vessels Bill, 2021, which seeks to provide safety of navigation, protection of life and cargo and prevention of pollution that may be caused. Earlier in the day, Speaker Om Birla had expressed his displeasure over the unruly behaviour by some opposition members, and said he was "very hurt" over Wednesday's incident. On Wednesday, when papers were being laid in the House, Congress members Gurjeet Aujala, TN Prathapan, Hibi Eden and some others had thrown business papers of the day as well as torn pieces of paper and placards at the Chair. A piece of the torn placard landed in the press gallery just above the Speaker's podium. As Opposition continued their protest on Pegasus snooping controversy and three farm laws, Birla adjourned the House till 11.30 am. After the Question Hour ended at 12 noon, Rajendra Agrawal, who was chairing the proceedings of the House, asked protesting members to go back to their respective seats. "We are starting Zero Hour, please go back to your seats," he appealed to the members. Soon after he adjourned the House till 12:30 pm. Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha, said the opposition has not been able to put forth its point due to the stubborn attitude of the government. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said the members, who resorted to tearing papers, don't even want to apologise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-proceedings-adjourned-for-the-day-two-bills-passed-1014221.html
29-07-2021||National||BJP plans to field bigwigs in Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls||In an apparent bid to boost the morale of the party workers and tackle groupism within the party, the BJP plans to field its top Uttar Pradesh leaders, including chief minister Yogi Adityanath and deputy CM Dinesh Sharma in the upcoming Assembly polls in the state, due early next year. According to the sources in the BJP, state saffron party president Swatantra Deo Singh could also be fielded in the Assembly elections. Besides some other senior leaders, who were current members of the state legislative council, are also likely to be fielded in the polls. Adityanath, who is a member of the UP legislative council, may contest from Gorakhpur, his home town, or Ayodhya Assembly seat while Dinesh Sharma might be fielded from one of the assembly constituencies in Lucknow city. Adityanath represented the Gorakhpur Lok Sabha seat before his appointment as UP chief minister.  The present BJP MLA from Ayodhya Ved Prakash Gupta has offered to withdraw his claim from the seat in case the party decides to field Adityanath from there. ''I am more than ready to offer the seat (Ayodhya) to Yogiji,'' Gupta said. Sources said that deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya, who too was a member of the state legislative council, could contest from the Kaushambi seat. Kaushambi is Maurya's hometown. ''The presence of senior leaders in the electoral contest will certainly boost the morale of the party workers... It will send a positive message to the workers and will also have a positive impact on the assembly seats, which are nearby,'' said a UP BJP leader while speaking to DH. The leader said that it would also control the prevailing groupism within the UP BJP. ''We expect all the factions to fight unitedly with the aim of ensuring victory to the party nominees,'' he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-plans-to-field-bigwigs-in-uttar-pradesh-assembly-polls-1014227.html
29-07-2021||National||Parliament passes Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill to help MSME sector||Parliament on Thursday passed the Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2021, to bring changes in the legislation aimed at helping the MSME sector. The Bill, that will help the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector in the availability of working capital, was passed in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday. It was passed by the Lok Sabha on July 26. Piloted by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, the Bill was passed after a discussion of 15 minutes amid protest and sloganeering by the opposition. It will provide relief to the MSME sector and help them in ensuring a smoother capital cycle and healthier cash flow, the finance minister said. "It is a very important Bill which will benefit the MSMEs of this country because a difficulty is constantly expressed by the MSME that their receivables are getting delayed. "As a result, there is a provision of selling their receivables to a third party. If the third party is going to make an immediate availability of funds, they shall be able to move their business smoothly. There are several such advantages in factoring from payment of the seller," Sitharaman said. It ensures a smoother working capital cycle for the seller and healthier cash flow for MSME, she added. The Bill has incorporated many suggestions from the U K Sinha Committee. After that, the Bill was brought in September 2020 and then referred to the standing committee of the House. "After a detailed examination, the standing committee came up with a report on February 3 containing one legislative suggestion and eight non-legislative suggestions. All of those have been accepted by the government and this amendment bill, therefore, is with all those recommendations," Sitharaman added. Deputy Chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh, who was presiding the Rajya Sabha proceedings on Thursday asked the agitating opposition members, who have trooped into the Well of the House, to participate in the discussion over the Bill. MPs from the BJP, AIDMK and TRS, who supported the Bill, participated in the discussion. No members from the opposition took part. BJP MP Shiv Pratap Shukla said the Bill is very supportive of the MSME sector. TRS' K R Suresh said the Bill should have been more comprehensive in benefitting the sector. "What worries me is that these peace mill Bills coming to the house would not benefit the MSMEs in the true spirit," he said, adding, "There are a lot of statutory compliances, which the MSME is facing today. Many industries are closing down but the statutory compliances still continue." The minister should ensure that these statutory compliances go down and the benefits are passed on to the MSMEs, Suresh said. M Thambidurai of AIDMK supported the bill and said the MSME sector is facing a lot of problems in getting finance and in selling their products. Replying to it, Sitharaman said, "The way in which this Bill has been worked out, presently there are only seven NBFCs which can extend factoring benefits to MSMEs. After this amendment, we now will bring 9,000 NBFCs, all of whom can reach MSME." Highlighting the role of MSMEs in India, she said their contribution to GDP is very high. "They nearly contribute 40 per cent of all exports also in the manufacturing sector. If they are able to access NBFCs, who can perform as a factoring third party as well, you can imagine the number of MSMEs getting direct benefits because of this," said Sitharaman requesting the members to support the Bill. After the Bill was passed, Rajay Sabha proceedings were adjourned till Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-passes-factoring-regulation-amendment-bill-to-help-msme-sector-1014242.html
29-07-2021||National||Gujarat ATS nabs man wanted in seizure of drugs worth Rs 2,500 crore||A man allegedly involved in smuggling 530 kg of heroin worth around Rs 2,500 crore into the country via sea route from Pakistan on different occasions was arrested by the Gujarat ATS at the Delhi airport on Thursday, officials said. Shahid Kasam Sumra (35), a resident of Mandvi in Kutch district, was also allegedly involved in "narco-terrorism", as he funded terror activities with the money acquired from the illegal drug trade, they said. The accused was nabbed by a team of Anti-Terrorist Squad as soon as he landed at the airport in the national capital from abroad, the ATS said in a release. Four cases were lodged against him between 2018 and 2021 in Gujarat and Punjab, following the seizure of 530 kg of heroin worth around Rs 2,500 crore during that period from different parts of the two states. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) had taken over the probe into three of those cases, while one case is with the Gujarat ATS. According to the release, the ATS recently learnt that Sumra was also involved in "narco-terrorism" as he gave money, acquired through the illegal drug trade, to those involved in terror activities. He was on the run and had been hiding in various Gulf and African countries ever since his name first surfaced when the ATS seized 5 kg of 'Pakistan-origin' heroin from Salaya town of Gujarat's Devbhoomi Dwarka district in August 2018. A probe later revealed that Sumra and other accused had smuggled a total of 500 kg of heroin worth over Rs 2,300 crore from Pakistan through sea route and unloaded the consignment on Gujarat's Mandvi coast in August 2018. Later, Sumra and his aides sent the contraband to Punjab in trucks, the ATS said. They sent 300 kg of drugs in three trips to Punjab at the behest of one Simranjit Singh Sandhu, who was recently held by the Interpol in Italy, the release said. After some time, Sumra's associates transported the remaining 200 kg of heroin to Sandhu's contacts at Amritsar in Punjab, it said. Out of this consignment, the Punjab STF seized 188 kg and 5 kg of the contraband in separate operations, the ATS said, adding that the NIA is now conducting a probe into these cases, and Sumra was also wanted in this connection. In April this year, the ATS and the Indian Coast Guard intercepted a boat near the Gujarat coast and apprehended eight Pakistani nationals with 30 kg of heroin worth around Rs 150 crore. It later came to light that the accused were planning to smuggle the drug into Gujarat at the behest of Sumra, the ATS said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-ats-nabs-man-wanted-in-seizure-of-drugs-worth-rs-2500-crore-1014247.html
29-07-2021||National||14 tiger reserves get CA|TS accreditation||The Global Tiger Forum and WWF India have congratulated the 14 tiger reserves that have received CA|TS accreditation. CA|TS is a globally accepted conservation tool that sets best practices and standards to manage tigers and encourages assessments to benchmark progress.  Habitats that support tiger populations are the building blocks of wild tiger conservation and effectively managing them is essential for the long-term survival of wild tigers. CA|TS is being implemented across 125 sites in seven tiger range countries and India has the biggest number with 94 sites, out of which assessment was completed for 20 tiger reserves this year.   The sites went through the prescribed CA|TS process of site registration through external evaluation (including verification of evidence) to accreditation. The Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change made the formal announcement on Thursday. This was facilitated by the Global Tiger Forum (GTF) and WWF India, which are the two implementing partners of the National Tiger Conservation Authority for CA|TS assessment in India, a press statement issued here said. The 14 tiger reserves are Manas, Kaziranga, Orang (Assam), Sundarbans (West Bengal), Valmiki (Bihar), Dudhwa (Uttar Pradesh),  Panna, Kanha and Satpuda (Madhya Pradesh), Annamalai and Madumalai (Tamil Nadu), Pench (Maharashtra), Parambikulam (Kerala) and Bandipur (Karnataka). Dr Rajesh Gopal, Secretary-General, Global Tiger Forum said “CA|TS accreditation is a global recognition of good tiger governance. This recognition means a lot in the context of adaptation to climate change, sustainability of ecosystem services, and safeguarding disruption of zoonotic cycles, through an umbrella species approach.”  Ravi Singh, Secretary-General and CEO, WWF India said, “The CA|TS accreditation to 14 tiger reserves in India signifies that these reserves have achieved excellence in tiger site management. This accreditation will strengthen management practices in the sites as per international common criteria. WWF India will continue to support the CA|TS assessment process for tiger conservation landscapes.”  This is the first time that site assessments were carried out using CA|TS-LOG, the software that helps in visualising data and tracking site-based tiger conservation. India is the first country to roll this out nationally.  All the 14 accredited sites met the “Standard Exceeded” or “Standard Achieved” in the majority of the 17 elements under the 7 CA|TS pillars, i.e. importance and status, management, community, tourism, protection, habitat management and tiger populations, thereby reaching overall CA|TS scores of above 70% - the minimum required for consideration for accreditation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/14-tiger-reserves-get-cats-accreditation-1014248.html
29-07-2021||National||Jharkhand HC orders SIT probe into Dhanbad judge death case||The Jharkhand High Court on Thursday ordered an SIT probe into the death of Dhanbad judge Uttam Anand the day before when he was out for a morning jog. CCTV footages showed that Anand, a district and sessions judge of Dhanbad court, was jogging on one side of a fairly wide road at Randhir Verma Chowk early on Wednesday when a heavy auto-rickshaw veered towards him, hit him from behind and fled the scene. Another auto-rickshaw driver found him lying in a pool of blood and took to him to a nearby hospital, where the doctors declared him dead on arrival. Two persons have been arrested in this connection so far, according to Dhanbad SSP Sanjiv Kumar. Taking cognizance of a letter filed before the court by the Dhanbad principal district judge in the case, Chief Justice Ravi Ranjan converted it into a writ petition, and ordered the formation of a Special Investigation Team (SIT), under the leadership of Additional Director General of Police Sanjay Latkar, to look into the matter. He further said that Chief Justice of India N V Ramana has spoken to him in the matter, and expressed confidence that a fair investigation will be carried out in the case. The court said it will monitor the probe and sought updates from the SIT from time to time. It also observed that the law and order situation in Jharkhand has worsened as earlier, too, an advocate had come under attack in the state. Jharkhand Director General of Police Neeraj Sinha, during the hearing of the case, assured the court that the investigation would be carried out in a professional manner and suggested the name of Sanjay Lautkar as the head of the SIT. The court expressed its displeasure over the delay in registration of FIR following the incident. If at any point in time it appears to the court that the investigation is not heading in the right direction, then the case will be handed over to the CBI, the chief justice said. He asked the police to ensure that culprits, if any, are punished in the case. Not just the auto driver, the person who hatched the conspiracy should also be unmasked, he said. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, who is also the president of Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA), mentioned the matter before the Supreme Court during the day, and described the incident as a “brazen attack” on the independence of judiciary. Singh said investigation in the case must be entrusted to the CBI as the killing of a judicial officer, apparently for not granting bail to a gangster, is an assault on the judicial system. A Supreme Court bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justice Surya Kant, however, stated that the chief justice of Jharkhand High Court has already taken up the matter, and interference by the apex court at this stage may not be necessary. Singh also attended the proceedings in the high court and assured all help.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jharkhand-hc-orders-sit-probe-into-dhanbad-judge-death-case-1014266.html
29-07-2021||National||Power engineers, employees hold conventions against Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2021||The All India Power Engineers Federation (AIPEF) on Thursday said electrical engineers and employees have held state-level conventions to protest against the proposed Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2021. "State-level conventions were held on Thursday in different states by power sector engineers and employees to protest against the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2021, and the indifferent attitude of the central government towards them," AIPEF said in a statement. Power employees held a convention in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's constituency in Varanasi and submitted a memorandum in his office. The conventions were also held in Bengaluru, Trichi, Hyderabad, Chandigarh, and other state utility headquarters. In the statement, AIPEF spokesperson V K Gupta said a four-member delegation of the National Coordination Committee of Electricity Employees and Engineers led by convener Prashanta Chaudhary met Power Secretary Alok Kumar on Tuesday and handed over a memorandum against the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2021. AIPEF Secretary General Rathnakar Rao was also a member of the delegation. The delegation asked the power secretary why the employees and consumers are not being treated as stakeholders and the government is moving unilaterally without discussion with them. The power secretary said the concerns of organisations have already been considered, and the government does not want to proceed further through consultations and talks. This has left power sector engineers and employees with no choice other than to vehemently oppose their endeavours to privatise the electricity distribution, it stated. Gupta said that now, it is Parliament's responsibility to carefully deliberate on the Bill whenever presented before it and a detailed scrutiny process by the standing committee on energy should be allowed. The Bill passed in a hurry may fail to achieve its intended outcomes. The proposed reform is counterproductive and would lead to denial of electricity to underprivileged and increase in tariff for domestic and agriculture consumers, benefitting only a few privileged sections of society, it stated. Electricity is on the concurrent list and the states have played a dominant role in electrification. The Modi government is trying to tilt this delicate balance of authority when it comes to the draft Electricity Amendment Bill, 2021, it added. The Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2021 seeks to de-license power distribution to reduce entry barriers for private players in the name of creating competition, it alleged. In Mumbai, two private companies Adani and Tata supply power to the city. Both companies have their own generating stations and still the tariff in Mumbai is one of the highest in the country, it said. The study carried out by Prayas (energy) group Pune shows that the results of operationalisation of parallel licensing in Mumbai has been contrary to the expectation, as it has taken place with a series of unnecessary litigations, skyrocketing expenses, steep consumer tariffs, and regulatory failure. This exposes how competition has failed in Mumbai and how consumers have suffered, it stated. The power engineers and employees are not against reforms in the power sector. However, reforms don't mean that the the power sector will have to be privatised. They demand to go for all-round development in the power sector while keeping its public sector characteristics intact, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/power-engineers-employees-hold-conventions-against-electricity-amendment-bill-2021-1014267.html
29-07-2021||National||Pakistan govt is not spokesperson for Taliban, says Imran Khan||The Pakistan government is not a spokesperson for the Taliban and Islamabad cannot be held responsible for the actions of the insurgent group in Afghanistan following the withdrawal of soldiers from the US and its allies, Prime Minister Imran Khan has said. In his comments to Afghan media representatives that were aired on Thursday, Khan also said that Pakistan will have good relations with whoever the Afghans choose. "What the Taliban are doing or aren't doing has nothing to do with us. We are not responsible, neither are we spokespersons for the Taliban," Khan was quoted as saying by the Dawn newspaper. Khan's remarks were a continuation of Pakistan's repeated warnings that it would not accept the responsibility if it was blamed for any setbacks in the Afghan peace process. Under a deal with the Taliban, the US and its NATO allies agreed to withdraw all troops in return for a commitment by the militants that they would prevent extremist groups from operating in areas they control. US President Joe Biden has announced that American troops will be out of the country by August 31. The Taliban ruled Afghanistan by brute force from 1996 to 2001 when the US invasion toppled their government. The US invaded Afghanistan in October 2001 after the Taliban refused to hand over al-Qaeda’s leader Osama bin Laden, who was behind September 11, 2001, terror attacks in America. Khan again distanced Islamabad from the developments in Kabul, saying: "All we want is peace in Afghanistan." He said that the Afghans had a choice to make: to either pursue the US-backed military solution or to pursue a political settlement where there is an inclusive government. "(The latter) is the only solution," he said. "There are three million Afghan refugees in Pakistan, almost all of them are Pashtuns and most will have sympathies with the Taliban. How is Pakistan supposed to check who is going over there to fight when we have about 30,000 people crossing into Afghanistan every day. How is Pakistan going to check that?" Khan asked. Khan said it was not possible for Pakistan to sift through the refugee camps to find out who was pro-Taliban and who was not, adding that until recently there was no physical border between the two countries. "The Durand Line was imaginary," he said, referring to the 2,640-kilometre-long border between Afghanistan and Pakistan. He said that Pakistan has completed 90 per cent of the border fencing. "We are trying our best, but it is not possible to hold Pakistan responsible when you have over three million refugees here," he said. He said that it was not in Pakistan's interest to have civil war break out in Afghanistan. "What interest could Pakistan have in backing someone to take over Afghanistan?" he asked. What is clear is that no one party will be able to take over Afghanistan, he said, adding that in the 90s Pakistan had pursued the policy of 'strategic depth' as it was wary of Indian influence in Afghanistan. "In those days we did try to have favourites. Now, and especially in my government, we believe that Afghanistan can never be controlled from the outside," he said. So Pakistan will have good relations with whoever the Afghans choose, he said. "We have no favourites now." Commenting on the abduction and torture of the Afghan ambassador's daughter in Islamabad, Khan said that authorities had charted out the exact path taken by the victim. He said that taxi drivers were traced and interrogated. "Unfortunately, what the ambassador's daughter is saying and what the cameras show do not add up. She says she was put in a taxi, taken away and beaten up. But there is a picture of that taxi and she is sitting there and she is fine," Khan said. He said that the probe team from Afghanistan would be handed over all the information. Khan said that Pakistan had nothing to do with why 150,000 NATO troops did not succeed in Afghanistan. "It's exactly like what the Americans did in Vietnam. When they failed in Vietnam, they blamed insurgents from Cambodia or Laos." He said that Pakistan was told at one point that the Taliban's main sanctuaries were in North Waziristan. "They kept pushing us to take action. Finally, after four or five years, we took action [but] one million people were internally displaced [...] what difference did it make?" He said that the Americans should have spoken to the Taliban from a position of strength. "When there were 150,000 NATO troops, that was the time to talk to [the Taliban]. How can they expect the Taliban to compromise when an exit date has been given and a few thousand troops are left?" Khan also questioned what the US would achieve operating from Pakistan when it could not achieve its goal in Afghanistan for the last 20 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-govt-is-not-spokesperson-for-taliban-says-imran-khan-1014269.html
29-07-2021||National||Anti-Modi agenda alone won't sustain opposition front, says Congress leader Moily||An anti-Narendra Modi agenda alone will not help sustain an opposition front to take on the BJP, senior Congress leader M Veerappa Moily cautioned on Thursday, calling for drawing up a common minimum programme for parties to work together. The former Union Minister also warned that such a front will not take off if parties debate on which leader or political outfit should lead it at this stage itself. "They (opposition parties) should not bother about leadership now," Moily told PTI here. "If they start debating as to who should become its leader, which political party should lead, it will not take off," the former Karnataka Chief Minister said. He welcomed West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's meeting with the Congress chief Sonia Gandhi in the national capital on Wednesday, and her comments on the need for opposition parties to work together. On perception in some quarters that only an anti-Modi sentiment is bringing opposition outfits together, Moily said: "That alone should not be projected. Anti-individualism will not take take any political front forward." "That's what they (the then opposition parties) used to do -- anti-Indira Gandhi. That did not succeed," he said. Moily said the opposition agenda should not be based on personal issues. "It should be based upon ideological issues." He spoke out against adopting a policy of "opposition-for-opposition-sake" and a "negative approach". "Opposition parties should unite and come to a basic understanding.It should be principled opposition.They should draw up a common minimum programme as a result of unity.Otherwise, people will not trust us," Moily said. Without a common minimum programme, an opposition front will not take off, according to him. "The national debate should be on sustenance of democracy, secularism, and taking the country forward and also against the 'negative agenda' of the present government," Moily said. He said no party in the opposition front should oppose entry of any outfit wanting to come onboard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anti-modi-agenda-alone-wont-sustain-opposition-front-says-congress-leader-moily-1014271.html
29-07-2021||National||Can't take action against MLAs for procuring oxygen for Covid patients as govt failed: Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court Thursday took strong exception to target and prosecute leaders of a particular political party who as good samaritans arranged oxygen for the patients when both the Centre and Delhi government failed to provide sufficient medical oxygen to people of the national capital during the second wave of Covid-19. It was very unfortunate that a “human tragedy” has been used for “political capital,” observed the high court while coming down heavily on Delhi's drug control department for launching prosecution against AAP MLA Praveen Kumar for procuring oxygen cylinders and distributing it to the Covid-19 patients. Terming the action as consciously targeting leaders of a particular political party and witch hunting, a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said if the drug controller chooses to proceed against one person for procuring and distributing medical oxygen, it shall also prosecute all the gurdwaras, temples, churches, social organisations and other people who had procured and distributed oxygen during the second wave of Covid-19. “We will not allow this political capital. Then you proceed against all the gurdwaras, temples, churches and social organizations. Why pick only one person? The state, both the Delhi government and Union of India, failed in providing sufficient medical oxygen to the people of Delhi. There were some good samartians who provided oxygen. You can’t prosecute them,” the bench said. The bench granted time to the drug controller to clear its stand on whether it wishes to prosecute all such persons who had procured or distributed medical oxygen for free to the needy Covid-19 patients and listed the matter for further hearing on August 5. The high court referred to its previous order in which it was observed that the issue of medical oxygen is technical and different from the issue of hoarding Covid-19 medicines. “Had we not said that you will not proceed against oxygen? If this is the way you are going to proceed, then you proceed against half of Delhi and also proceed against all the gurdwaras. How can you take such a hyper technical view?” the bench said, adding that the purpose is to help society without causing any damage to others. The high court distinguished this case with that of cricketer-turned-politician and BJP leader Gautam Gambhir who had procured, stocked and distributed huge quantity of fabiflu medicine to Covid-19 patients. “The reason for picking Gambhir’s case was that he was very irresponsibly holding the Covid-19 medicines in huge quantity. He may have had the best of intentions but this is not allowed,” it said. The high court was informed by the counsel for drug controller that prosecution has been launched against Gautam Gambhir Foundation, and AAP MLA Imran Hussain Kumar for alleged violations under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act and a trial court had on July 28 taken cognisance of the issue and issued summons to them for August 26. Member of Parliament Gautam Gambhir is one of the trustees of the foundation. Senior advocate Kailash Vasudev, representing Gambhir, urged the high court to grant him a hearing as he wished to make certain clarifications and also requested the high court to clarify in its order that the adverse observations made against him here shall not be used against him before the trial court where prosecution has been initiated against him. The high court made it clear that the observations made by it earlier in these hearings shall not come in the way of proceedings in the trial court. The high court was hearing a PIL seeking lodging of an FIR on the allegations that politicians are able to procure in huge quantities and distribute Covid-19 medicines even as patients were running from pillar to post to get them. An application was also filed in the pending petition making allegations against Kumar. During the hearing, when advocate Viraj Gupta, appearing for petitioner Deepak Singh, contended that the Delhi Police and drug controller have given a wrong report and have misled the court, the bench warned him of imposing cost and said he has filed a public interest litigation and shall not make it a publicity interest litigation. Earlier, the Delhi drug controller had told the high court that Gambhir Foundation was found guilty of unauthorised stocking, procuring and distributing fabiflu medicine to Covid-19 patients. The high court had deprecated the manner in which a huge quantity of the drug was procured and said genuine patients who needed the medicine at that particular time could not get it as the bulk stock was taken away by Gambhir. AAP MLA Kumar has also been found guilty for similar offences under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act and action will also be taken against him, the court was informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cant-take-action-against-mlas-for-procuring-oxygen-for-covid-patients-as-govt-failed-delhi-hc-1014273.html
29-07-2021||National||India, US stand united in addressing scourge of terrorism, support transparent infrastructure: EAM||India and the US stand united in addressing the scourge of terrorism and supporting regional economic connectivity through transparent development of infrastructure, while ensuring respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Thursday in a veiled jibe at Pakistan and China. He said the two sides are together in opposing terrorist safe havens, countering terror-financing and strengthening cooperation against terrorist threats from groups, including those in India's immediate neighbourhood. In a written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha, Jaishankar said the India-US partnership is one of the major relationships in the world and the cooperation between the two countries is evident in the common commitment to address contemporary issues such as terrorism, climate change and pandemics. The external affairs minister's comments came a day after he held wide-ranging talks with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken with a focus on the Indo-Pacific engagement, Covid-19 response and economic recovery and the situation in Afghanistan. In his written response, Jaishankar said India and the United States have a comprehensive, strategic and global partnership based on shared democratic values and convergence of interests on regional and global matters and the relations have seen a steady growth and development after 2014. "Relations between India and the US have seen steady growth and development after 2014. This has extended over three administrations in the US. The India-US relationship is today one of the major relationships of the world and there is widespread appreciation of the significance of this relationship and the fundamental convergences therein," he said. Jaishankar also referred to a joint strategic vision of the two countries for the Asia-Pacific and Indian Ocean regions that calls upon all parties to avoid the threat or use of force and pursue resolution of territorial and maritime disputes through peaceful means and in accordance with international laws, including the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea. "To this end, India and the US are committed to respecting freedom of navigation, overflight and commerce throughout the region and the need to resolve territorial and maritime disputes peacefully and in accordance with international laws," he said in comments seen as directed at China. China's military assertiveness in the South China Sea as well as in the larger Indo-Pacific region has been a matter of considerable concern for leading global powers. Jaishankar said India and the US support bolstering regional economic connectivity through transparent development of infrastructure and the use of responsible "debt-financing practices", while ensuring respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity, the rule of law and the environment. There has been growing global criticism of China's Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) as Chinese financing has resulted in rising debt in several countries where infrastructure projects under the mega programme are being implemented. "India and the US stand united in addressing the global scourge of terrorism, inter alia by opposing terrorist safe havens, countering terror financing and strengthening cooperation against terrorist threats from groups, including those in our immediate neighbourhood," the minister said. "There are regular consultations on domestic and international terrorist designations listing proposals," he added. Jaishankar said the global partnership between India and the US is evident in their common commitment to address contemporary issues. "The India-US relationship is today one of the major relationships of the world and there is widespread appreciation of the significance of this relationship and the fundamental convergences therein," he said. Jaishankar identified healthcare and Covid-19 response, the digital innovation ecosystem, energy, knowledge and education and strategic and defence collaborations as the key priorities of the ties. "Healthcare has emerged as an important sector of collaboration during the Covid-19 pandemic. India's timely supply of critical medicines and protective gear to the US last year was well received," he said, adding that the US government and private sector deployed substantial consignments of critical medicines and oxygen-related equipment for India to combat the second wave of the pandemic. Jaishankar said the rapidly expanding commercial and economic linkages form an important component of the multi-faceted partnership and that the US is among India's largest trading partners and a major destination for its exports of goods and services, with the balance of trade in New Delhi's favour. "As global non-proliferation partners, the US has expressed strong support for India's early membership in the Nuclear Suppliers Group and has supported India's accession into the MTCR, Wassenaar Arrangement and the Australia Group," he added. Jaishankar said the US also supports India's permanent membership on a reformed UN Security Council. "India-US relations are on a strong footing, given the deep-rooted cooperation, shared values and interests. The leadership in both countries is committed to consolidating the relationship and global partnership in the coming years," he said. The external affairs minister said India and the US also work together under the aegis of the Quad framework.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-stand-united-in-addressing-scourge-of-terrorism-support-transparent-infrastructure-eam-1014280.html
29-07-2021||National||Centre will do whatever necessary to ensure India's security is protected: Jaishankar in Rajya Sabha||The government will do whatever necessary to ensure that India's security is adequately protected, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar informed Rajya Sabha on Thursday. Replying to a supplementary during Question Hour, he also assured the house that India is confident that its partners would help deal with regional and global challenges and members should be "reassured of the wisdom of our choices and the strength of our partners". The minister said he has had good discussions with the visiting US Secretary of State on various global issues including on human rights, democracy, trafficking and big tech, we well as Afghanistan. "We have a strong defence and security cooperation with the United States. We have policy exchanges, we conduct exercises, especially maritime exercises. The government of India will always do whatever is necessary to ensure that India's security is adequately protected," he told the house when asked if India has sought US help on dealing with China. He said he held very detailed conversation on a number of issues with the US Secretary of State Antony Blinken. "I had spelled them out and we have highlighted that in our approach to many global issues, we too are guided by our quest for a perfect union, but we seek to right many historical wrongs. But, when it comes to freedom, we should not see freedom as non governance or abdication of responsibilities. "We believe that our conversation on this subject should be balanced. We also feel that we should have the same standards when they look at the issues and that all conversations should be fact-based," Jaishankar said. Asked about Quad and its relevance in maintaining maritime security in the South China sea, especially in the wake of China's interference there, he said India has made its choices which serve our national interests on Indo-Pacific ties. "We look at Quad as a platform where four countries have come together for the good of the world, who are discussing a range of issues, from providing the world with making vaccines, to education, to connectivity, to maritime security. We are very clear what the Quad is. "I don't think any narrative which not based on reality which seeks to distort what is happening there will ever gain traction," he said. The External Affairs minister said he is very confident that the real objective view of Quad, which India has put forward, will be accepted by the world. He said in the policy of this country, to serve its legitimate national security and defence interests through its own efforts, India obviously has many international partners. "We are very confident of the cooperative outcomes when we work with these partners and we believe that these partners would help deal with many regional and global challenges. I think the member should be reassured of the wisdom of our choices and the strength of our partners," Jaishankar said on how effective Quad would be against Chinese assertiveness in South China Sea. On Afghanistan, the minister said he has held detailed discussions with the US Secretary of State and has articulated India's position. "We were very clear that there must be a negotiated political settlement in Afghanistan, that there cannot be a military solution and there cannot be a takeover by use of force in Afghanistan," he said. India will work with the international community to ensure that political negotiations for a settlement are pursued seriously and "we would never accept any outcome which is decided by force", he said. "I think there was a very strong convergence in our positions - India and the United States, on this issue," the minister said on ensuring peace in Afghanistan. The minister's reply came amid continued uproar in the house caused by opposition members, who raised slogans in the well during the question hour. Deputy chairman Harivansh continued to urge protesting members to return to their seats did not yield any result. He also asked members to maintain decorum as some were found whistling in the house. "Members should adhere to decorum of the house. There should be no whistling. I would have to name the member who is whistling," he warned, as opposition members continued to raise slogans. In his written reply to a starred question, the External Affairs minister said India and the US stand united in addressing the global scourge of terrorism, inter alia by opposing terrorist safe havens, countering terror financing, and strengthening cooperation against terrorist threats from groups, including those in our immediate neighbourhood. "India and the U.S. have the shared objective of ensuring peace, stability and prosperity of all countries in the Indo-Pacific region and beyond," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-will-do-whatever-necessary-to-ensure-indias-security-is-protected-jaishankar-in-rajya-sabha-1014290.html
29-07-2021||National||I-PAC team members granted bail in Tripura; TMC MPs reach state||The 23 members of poll strategist Prashant Kishor’s I-PAC team, the alleged detention of which in the BJP-ruled Tripura led the Trinamool Congress to attack the saffron party, surrendered before a local court on Thursday, which granted them bail. The Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC) team has been camping in Agartala to assess the political situation and potential support base for the TMC. The police allegedly detained them in a hotel citing Covid norms on Sunday night. Senior TMC leader and MP Derek O’Brien, who arrived in the state, alleged that the central leadership of the BJP is behind the incident. Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate S B Das granted bail to the I-PAC team members, who were summoned to appear before the police on August one following registration of an FIR against them on Tuesday. The police earlier said that the I-PAC team members will have to remain inside the hotel until their test report for Covid-19 is available. The reports came negative on Tuesday night. Their counsel Pijush Kanti Biswas said that a case against the state government will be filed for harassing them. “The I-PAC team members arrived in the state with Covid negative reports. But they were put under detention before the FIR was registered which amounts to harassment,” Biswas said. Additional Public Prosecutor Bidyut Sutradhar said a complaint was filed by the Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Sadar, against the team, which was registered at East Agartala police station under Section 188 of IPC (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and under the National Disaster Management Act. “The investigating officer served them notice to meet him on August one. There was no apprehension of arrest. But still, they surrendered before the court, prayed for bail and the court granted them bail,” Sutradhar told reporters. Sub-Divisional Police Officer, Sadar, Ramesh Yadav, said that as soon as the Covid test results of the 23 people came negative, they were freed on Tuesday night itself. “They were not detained but asked to stay in the hotel till the test reports are available. After receiving the test reports, some of them stepped out of the hotel on Wednesday,” the police officer said. Meanwhile, Derek O’Brien, senior Rajya Sabha MP of the TMC, said that the I-PAC team members hired by the party came here on a professional assignment, and alleged that they were detained by the Tripura Police on directions of the central leadership of the BJP. “What message did (Union Home Minister) Amit Shah and (Prime Minister) Narendra Modi give from Delhi? They directed from Delhi to arrest the I-PAC team members. They are trying to impose the Gujarat model across India,” O’Brien said. He claimed that Modi and Shah are not allowing opposition members to speak in Parliament and at the same time they are trying to silence the opposition voice here. He said that the TMC leadership has asked some party MPs to come to Agartala from Delhi even when the Parliament session is on. TMC MP Kakali Ghosh Dastidar has arrived here on Thursday while party general secretary and Lok Sabha member Abhishek Banerjee is scheduled to reach Tripura on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-pac-team-members-granted-bail-in-tripura-tmc-mps-reach-state-1014294.html
29-07-2021||National||IPS officer Rashmi Shukla misled Maharashtra govt while seeking phone tapping nod: Minister||A day after senior IPS officer Rashmi Shukla told the Bombay High Court that Maharashtra government gave her permission last year for intercepting certain phone numbers to verify complaints of corruption in police transfers and postings, state minister Nawab Malik said she misled the government while seeking the nod. Shukla, a 1988-batch IPS officer, had cited sedition as a reason for seeking permission to tap the phones, the minister told reporters, adding the permission was obtained by misleading the government. “Did Shukla seek the permission from the then chief minister,” Malik asked, in a veiled reference to BJP’s Devendra Fadnavis, who was the chief minister during 2014-19. A state minister had earlier this year claimed that Shukla was close to the BJP. She had sought phone tapping permission under the excuses of sedition and national interest, but tapped the calls of (BJP’s) political opponents, Malik said. Shukla’s counsel Mahesh Jethmalani had informed the court that when she was heading the state intelligence department, she was directed by the Maharashtra Director General of Police (DGP) to conduct surveillance of a few phone numbers. "The numbers belonged to a few brokers with political connections indulging in corruption and demanding massive monetary compensation for plum postings and transfers," Jethmalani had said. The court was hearing a petition filed by Shukla challenging an FIR filed against her by the Mumbai police's cyber cell in a case of illegal phone tapping and alleged leaking of sensitive documents. Shukla had earlier said that as commissioner (state intelligence) last year, she came across information of corrupt malpractices between politicians and police officers over “favourable” postings and transfers. She said that with the permission of “competent authority”, telephones of certain politicians and police officers were kept under surveillance and in August 2020, she submitted a detailed report to the then director general of police Subodh Jaiswal (now CBI chief) and sought necessary action. She had also claimed to have shown the damaging call transcript and data to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray in August last year. Thackeray is heading the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress post-election alliance government which came to power in November 2019. She claimed that on September 2 last year, she was “illegally and arbitrarily transferred” to the post of DG (civic defence). She is now the additional director general of the Central Reserve Police Force's (CRPF) South Zone at Hyderabad. Shukla said the state government's then Additional Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte (now the state Chief Secretary) had allowed her in July 2020 to carry out the surveillance. Earlier this year, Fadnavis had cited a letter purportedly written by Shukla to the then DGP about alleged corruption in police transfers. The letter also had details of intercepted calls, leading to an uproar with leaders of the Shiv Sena-led ruling coalition alleging that Shukla tapped phones without permission. Before the registration of the FIR, Kunte had alleged in a report submitted to Thackeray that it appears that Shukla herself had leaked the confidential report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ips-officer-rashmi-shukla-misled-maharashtra-govt-while-seeking-phone-tapping-nod-minister-1014306.html
29-07-2021||National||ISRO case: Interim relief for former Gujarat DGP||The Kerala High Court on Thursday granted interim protection from arrest to former Gujarat DGP R B Sreekumar in the CBI case pertaining to suspected conspiracy in the ISRO espionage case. The court directed the CBI not to arrest Sreekumar till the court hears the anticipatory bail plea on Monday. Sreekumar, who was a former deputy director of the Intelligence Bureau (IB) in Thiruvananthapuram, was among the 18 arraigned by the CBI in the case. Two former Kerala police officers were also granted interim protection from arrests. Opposing the anticipatory bail plea, the CBI was learnt to have maintained that the case assumed seriousness as the fake espionage case was initiated with involvement of Pakistan ISI. Earlier there used to be reports of ISI involvement in the ISRO espionage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isro-case-interim-relief-for-former-gujarat-dgp-1014309.html
29-07-2021||National||Army Chief General Naravane holds talks with senior US commander||Army Chief General M M Naravane held talks with Commander of US Special Operations Command General Richard D Clarke on Thursday, focussing on various key aspects of bilateral defence and security cooperation. General Clarke is on a three-day visit to India. "General Richard D. Clarke, Commander United States Special Operations Command #USSOCOM called on General MM Naravane #COAS and discussed issues of mutual interest," the Army said in a tweet. Officials said various dimensions of bilateral defence cooperation, including ways to further deepen it, figured in the talks. It is understood that General Naravane and General Clarke also briefly deliberated on the evolving situation in Afghanistan. Before meeting General Naravane, the US official laid a wreath at the National War Memorial. "The visit will enhance defence cooperation and military ties between the two nations," the Army said. Separately, General Naravane also held a telephonic conversation with Lieutenant General Charalampos Lalousis, Chief of Hellenic Army General Staff, focussing on defence cooperation between India and Greece. The Indo-US defence ties have been on an upswing in the last few years. In October last year, India and the United States sealed the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA) to further boost the bilateral defence ties. The pact provides for sharing of high-end military technology, logistics and geospatial maps between the two countries. The firming up of the BECA came two years after the two countries signed another pact called COMCASA (Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement) that provides for interoperability between the two militaries and the sale of high-end technology by the US to India. In June 2016, the US designated India as a "Major Defence Partner", intending to elevate defence trade and technology sharing with the country to a level commensurate with that of its closest allies and partners. The two countries had also inked the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) in 2016 that allows their militaries to use each other's bases for repair and replenishment of supplies as well as provides for deeper cooperation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-chief-general-naravane-holds-talks-with-senior-us-commander-1014310.html
29-07-2021||National||Delhi HC begins hearing pleas by Gandhis, AAP against I-T assessment transfer||Transfer of an assessment to central circle of the Income Tax department is a black mark and can only be done in cases of search and seizure, senior advocate Arvind Datar told the Delhi High Court Thursday in petitions by three Congress leaders –- Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and others. Datar, who was appearing for Gandhis and others, argued before a bench of Justices Manmohan and Navin Chawla that while only rarest of the cases go out of faceless assessment, even those that are transferred are marked to the concerned assessment officer and not the central circle. “Sanjay Bhandari is in search and seizure (which forms the basis of transfer of cases of Gandhis, as per the authorities). No reason for transfer is given for the political party,” Datar submitted. The court was hearing a batch of nine petitions challenging the I-T authorities' decision to transfer the tax assessments of Gandhis, AAP and five charitable trusts to the central circle. The five charitable trust are Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Trust, Jawahar Bhawan Trust, Rajiv Gandhi Foundation, Rajiv Gandhi Charitable Trust and Young Indian. Datar submitted before the court that the question of law in the nine pleas was broadly the same and similar notices of transfer of assessment were issued to the parties before court. He stated that he would treat the plea by Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Trust as the lead matter for the purposes of his arguments. “Once faceless scheme has come into force, how can the cases be transferred outside to the centre circle,” he questioned. He argued that faceless assessment was the rule as the same avoided human contact and scope of any unhealthy practices. In March, the high court had issued notice to I-T department in pleas by the three Congress leaders against the transfer their IT assessments for assessment year 2018-19 to central circle for treating it along with arms dealer Sanjay Bhandari's group. The Gandhis have challenged the decision of the Principal Commissioner of Income Tax on the ground that they have nothing to do with the Sanjay Bhandari group's cases and there has been no instance of search or seizure in their cases. Bhandari, wanted in India on money laundering charges, has been allegedly linked to Priyanka Gandhi's husband, Robert Vadra, over a London-based flat. Vadra has denied any business connections with the accused. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta had then argued that since the transfer was within the city, no prejudice was caused and the mandate demanded that only if the transfer was from one city to another, the officer had to give a hearing to the assessee. Response on AAP's petition was sought by the court on July 23. In the petition, AAP has challenged the “illegal, arbitrary, unreasoned and discriminatory action” of the Commissioner of Income Tax, Exemption in transferring its case to the Central circle. It has alleged that the order was passed in complete violation of various statutory provisions, notification and circulars and was without jurisdiction. “Mere mentioning of a reason, that is, 'coordinated investigation' is not suffice in law to justify such transfer under Section 127 of the IT Act. The respondents are obligated to assign specific reasons with respect to 'coordinated investigation' so to be able to justify an order of transfer under section 127. Since in the present matter there is no investigation pending against the petitioner, no such specific reason could have been there to justify such transfer,” the plea said. The matter would be heard next on August 11.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-begins-hearing-pleas-by-gandhis-aap-against-i-t-assessment-transfer-1014313.html
29-07-2021||National||9,27,606 severely acute malnourished children identified, nearly 4 lakh in UP: WCD Ministry||Over nine lakh severely acute malnourished children aged between six months and six years have been identified in the country, out of whom 3,98,359 are from Uttar Pradesh, the Women and Child Development Ministry said. In response to a question in Rajya Sabha, Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani said the ministry has released Rs 5,312.79 crore to states and union territories from 2017-18 to 2020-21, out of which Rs 2,985.56 crore has been utilised up to March 31, 2021. "As per ICDS-RRS Portal (as on 30th November, 2020), 9,27,606 severely acute malnourished (SAM) children (6 months - 6 years) have been identified in the country, out of which 3,98,359 are from the State of Uttar Pradesh. Under the Integrated Child Development Services, supplementary nutrition is provided to children including severely malnourished children in the age group of 6 months-6 years," Irani said in a written reply. PTI had reported this data based on an RTI response in June. The World Health Organisation (WHO) defines 'severe acute malnutrition' (SAM) by very low weight-for-height or a mid-upper arm circumference less than 115 mm, or by the presence of nutritional oedema.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/927606-severely-acute-malnourished-children-identified-nearly-4-lakh-in-up-wcd-ministry-1014316.html
29-07-2021||National||Mamata not alone in the formidable task of Opposition unity||While Mamata Banerjee's meeting with Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday hogged headlines, a close look at the events surrounding her visit and scrutiny of her remarks point to multi-layer efforts to work out this seemingly herculean task of Opposition unity, which has failed to click multiple times in the past. So while Banerjee with her "Khela Hobe" at national level pitch left no one doubt that she is indeed in the reckoning for the larger Opposition gambit, other leaders also appeared adding their bit to this vexed exercise. While Banerjee spoke to Lalu Prasad in Delhi over phone, NCP boss Sharad Pawar drove to RJD chief's residence and "enquired about his health". Yadav's daughter and RJD MP Misa Bharti was also present. In Haryana, INLD chief Om Prakash Chautala, who is in touch with NDA's blow hot and blow cold ally Nitish Kumar's JDU, said on Tuesday he would contact opposition leaders soon to forge a third front at the national level.  JDU general secretary K C Tyagi, who has an old Janata Party-days association with Chautala, had met the INLD leader a few days back during which the two leaders had a telephonic conversation. Nitish Kumar is likely to visit Chautala next month. As if dropping indications of sorts, Chautala went to the extent of saying if a strong third front is formed, then many who support the government will leave it, ultimately leading to a situation where mid-term polls may take place.  Though this claim needs to be taken with a pinch of salt as BJP on its own has a brute majority in Lok Sabha and is not dependent on allies for completing its full term. However, this does reflect the intent of the senior leaders in the Opposition to reach out to all parties barring the BJP in its quest for the anti-Narendra Modi front. Chautala said he had "family relations" with Banerjee. While Chautala said, he will meet opposition leaders and urge them to come on one platform before September 25, the birth anniversary of former deputy PM Devi Lal and that Kumar will have lunch with him on August 1, Banerjee, talking to reporters in Delhi on Wednesday, said she has good relations BJD's Naveen Patknaik and YSRCP's Jagan Mohan Reddy, leaders who have frequently bailed out the Modi government in Parliament on some key bills and occasions.  Shiv Sena in its editorial piece in party mouthpiece Saamna on Thursday hailed Banerjee for setting up a panel to conduct a probe into the Pegasus snooping row. Banerjee is all set to visit the national capital again to meet all Opposition members after the Parliament session is over and the coronavirus situation normalises. Rahul Gandhi, who many in the non-Congress Opposition earlier believed, was not quite welcoming on drafting in other parties in the fight against the BJP, on Wednesday chose to acknowledge the wisdom in the Opposition camp after the meeting with leaders of 14 parties. "Sitting with the entire opposition is extremely humbling. Amazing experience, wisdom and insight in everyone present," he tweeted under the hashtag #United. Clearly, something is changing on the ground as far as Opposition politics is concerned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-not-alone-in-the-formidable-task-of-opposition-unity-1014322.html
29-07-2021||National||Shiv Sena legislators told to donate one month salary for flood relief||Maharashtra minister and Shiv Sena leader Eknath Shinde on Thursday appealed to party legislators to deposit their one month's salary in a party-operated fund for rain and flood-related relief work in the state. The move by the Sena, which heads the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition, to seek donations in the party's fund, instead of the Chief Minister's Relief Fund (CMRF), has the potential to stoke a controversy. Under the CMRF, the chief minister has the discretion to approve funds for medical assistance or help people in distress. Maharashtra BJP legislators have already announced donating their one month's salary to the CM Relief Fund. A message circulated in the media by the Shiv Sena says the appeal to legislators for donations is being made as per instructions of chief minister and party president Uddhav Thackeray and Sena leader Aaditya Thackeray, who is also a minister. The message has been attributed to Shinde and Sena chief whip Sunil Prabhu. The account, where legislators have to deposit money, is titled "Shiv Sena Madatnidhi" (relief fund) and held with Bhavani Sahakari Bank Ltd's branch in Mumbai's Dadar area. Praveen Pandit, a Sena office-bearer and in-charge of the account handling work, said, “It is true that the party has decided to raise funds and asked its legislators, including ministers, to donate their one month's salary into the bank account operated by the party. I will be helping our legislators with the donation procedure.” “It is not a new exercise for party workers. We have done it earlier as well,” he said. Large regions of Maharashtra, especially the coastal Konkan and western parts of the state, have been ravaged by recent heavy rains and floods. More than 200 people have been killed in rain-related incidents so far. The Congress and the NCP, constituents of the MVA, have not yet made any announcement about donation for flood relief work. Last year, the Shiv Sena and the BJP had locked horns after legislators of the opposition party in the state had donated their one month's salary to the PM Cares Fund, set up to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. The BJP was criticised by the Sena and its allies NCP and the Congress for not donating the money in the CM Relief Fund.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shiv-sena-legislators-told-to-donate-one-month-salary-for-flood-relief-1014325.html
29-07-2021||National||India rejects polls in parts of J&K occupied by Pakistan, calls it 'cosmetic exercise'||India on Thursday dismissed the recent elections conducted in parts of Jammu and Kashmir illegally occupied by Pakistan as “a cosmetic exercise” by Prime Minister Imran Khan’s government in Islamabad. New Delhi lodged a strong protest with Islamabad over the elections, alleging that it was an attempt by Pakistan to camouflage its illegal occupation of the territory of India. India also protested reference to Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) in a joint statement issued by China and Pakistan, after a recent meeting between the Foreign Ministers of the two nations. The polling for election of 45 of the 53 members of the assembly in J&K areas India accuses Pakistan of illegally occupying was held last Sunday. Twelve of the seats filled through elections are reserved for people, who had migrated from the erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir state of India and settled in mainland Pakistan. Five seats, which are filled through nomination, are reserved for women and three seats – one each for religious scholars, technocrats and overseas Kashmiris. New Delhi noted that the elections were protested and rejected by the local people. “Such an exercise can neither hide the illegal occupation by Pakistan nor the grave human rights violations, exploitation, and denial of freedom to people in these occupied territories,” Arindam Bagchi, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), said. “Pakistan has no locus standi on these Indian territories. We call upon Pakistan to vacate all Indian areas under its illegal occupation.” Khan’s party, Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaaf (PTI), won 25 of the seats that went to polls, defeating the Pakistan People’s Party and the Pakistan Muslim League (Nawaz), which won just 11 and six seats respectively. The local parties, Muslim Conference (MC) and Jammu and Kashmir People’s Party (JKPP), got one seat each. Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi recently hosted his Pakistani counterpart Shah Mahmood Qureshi in Beijing. According to a joint statement issued after the meeting between the two Foreign Ministers, Qureshi ‘briefed’ Wang on the “deteriorating situation” in J&K under control of India. Wang reiterated the Chinese Government’s position that the issue of J&K was a dispute left over from history between India and Pakistan and it should be resolved peacefully and properly through the United Nations Charter, relevant resolutions of the Security Council and the bilateral agreements. China also echoed Pakistan in opposing “any unilateral actions that complicate the situation”, apparently referring to the August 5, 2019 decision of the Government of India to strip J&K of its special status and to reorganize the state into two Union Territories. New Delhi rejected the reference to J&K in China-Pakistan joint statement. The union territories of J&K and Ladakh have been and will remain integral and inalienable parts of India, Bagchi told journalists on Thursday. He also denounced reference to the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), which passes through India’s J&K areas illegally occupied by Pakistan. “We resolutely oppose any attempts by other countries to change the status quo in areas illegally occupied by Pakistan as also to Pakistan bringing up any material change in Indian territories under its illegal occupation. We call upon parties concerned to cease such actions,” said the MEA spokesperson.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-rejects-polls-in-parts-of-jk-occupied-by-pakistan-calls-it-cosmetic-exercise-1014333.html
29-07-2021||National||Mary Kom was the clear winner: Kiren Rijiju||Union Law Minister Kiren Rijiju said boxer M C Mary Kom was the clear winner in Thursday's pre-quarterfinals in the Tokyo Olympics but judges have their own calculations. Six-time world champion Mary Kom's pursuit of a second Olympic medal ended in the pre-quarterfinals in Tokyo as she went down to the 2016 edition's bronze-medallist, Ingrit Valencia of Colombia, in a fiercely-fought showdown. "Dear Mary Kom, you lost in Tokyo Olympics by just one point but for me you are always a champion! You have achieved what no other female boxer in the world has ever achieved. You are a legend. India is proud of you. Boxing and Olympics will miss you," the former sports minister said in a tweet. He said for all Indians, Mary Kom "was the clear winner but judges have their own calculations".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mary-kom-was-the-clear-winner-kiren-rijiju-1014336.html
29-07-2021||National||500 people, groups write to CJI seeking Supreme Court intervention in Pegasus snooping matter||Over 500 individuals and groups have written to Chief Justice of India (CJI) N V Ramana seeking immediate intervention of the Supreme Court in the alleged Pegasus snooping matter. They have also sought a moratorium on the sale, transfer and use of Israeli firm NSO's Pegasus spyware in India. They have expressed shock over media reports that the spyware was used for surveillance of women students, academics, journalists, human rights defenders, lawyers and victims of sexual violence. Besides, the signatories to the letter have requested the top court to adopt a gender-neutral sexual harassment, data protection and privacy policy. The letter also referred to the issue of alleged snooping on the apex court official who had raised allegations of sexual harassment against then Chief Justice Ranjan Gogoi. “For women, the Pegasus scandal is deeply concerning, for speaking out against the state and men in positions of state power has meant that their lives are wrecked by such surveillance permanently. “Human rights defenders have been imprisoned, and victims of sexual harassment have also not been spared such shocking forms of state sponsored cyber-crimes, which are analogous to digital forms of state terror," the letter said. The letter has been signed by various activists including Aruna Roy, Anjali Bhardwaj, Harsh Mander; scholars and eminent lawyers like Vrinda Grover, Jhuma Sen among others. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on a list of potential targets for surveillance using Pegasus spyware.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/500-people-groups-write-to-cji-seeking-supreme-court-intervention-in-pegasus-snooping-matter-1014339.html
29-07-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi brainstorms pros and cons of Prashant Kishor joining party with Congress leaders: Report||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi brainstormed with senior party leaders recently on the pros and cons of poll strategist Prashant Kishor joining the party, sources said on Thursday. Senior Congress leaders A K Antony, Mallikarjun Kharge, Kamal Nath, Ambika Soni, Harish Rawat, K C Venugopal and some others attended the meeting held at Gandhi's residence here on July 22, they added. The main agenda of the meeting convened by Gandhi was to discuss the pros and cons of having the poll strategist in the party and what role should be assigned to him if he joins the Congress, the sources said. Most of the leaders who attended the meeting agreed that Kishor joining the Congress would be beneficial for the party, they added. Prior to this meeting, Kishor met Gandhi on July 13. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was also present at that meeting. Since then, there has been speculation about the poll strategist joining the Congress. There has been no official word on it from the party or from Kishor. After the West Bengal Assembly polls earlier this year, Kishor had said he would quit working as an election strategist. He had joined the Janata Dal (United) a few years ago, but had parted ways with the Nitish Kumar-led party subsequently. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-brainstorms-pros-and-cons-of-prashant-kishor-joining-party-with-congress-leaders-report-1014341.html
29-07-2021||National||38 lakh Covid-19 vaccines unused in pvt sector; CM Reddy wants their reallocation to Andhra Pradesh govt||As many as 38 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines allocated for the private sector immunisation in Andhra Pradesh have remained unused. These are out of the 43.38 lakh doses allotted for the private sector hospitals in the state for the months of May, June and July. The issue of the unconsumed vaccines lying with the private hospitals was brought to the notice of chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy on Wednesday. When officials informed that only 5,24,347 doses were utilised by the private hospitals, Reddy, according to CMO sources, said that he would write a letter to the central government seeking reallocation of the unused doses to the state government, “in order to speed up the vaccination drive.” Reddy had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi earlier requesting to dispense with the supply of vaccines to private hospitals “so that the entire stock is available with the state and central governments to take up the immunisation of all the eligible people.” “In a situation where there is not enough supply to cater to even the 45+ age group completely, and no possibility of taking up the free vaccination of 18-44 years for the next few months, it appears very unreasonable to allow some private sector hospitals to vaccinate people of all age groups at exorbitant rates,” Reddy said in his letter to Modi in May. Reddy had opined that providing vaccines to the private hospitals when the supply is limited is disadvantageous to the poorer sections who cannot afford the high cost. “It also creates a situation of vaccine black marketing, which administratively is a Herculean task to control.” Health officials said that the state government has administered over 2.04 crore doses of the Covid-19 vaccine till now of which 1.03 crore are of first dose. 50.46 lakh people received both doses. For effective control of Covid-19 in the state during a possible third wave, CM Reddy has called for the constitution of a committee to study the pandemic situation in various other states. There are 21,279 active Covid-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh, as of Thursday. The recovery rate is over 98 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/38-lakh-covid-19-vaccines-unused-in-pvt-sector-cm-reddy-wants-their-reallocation-to-andhra-pradesh-govt-1014358.html
29-07-2021||National||Covid-19: Not so rosy R value since June-end||After having the lowest ever value of R from mid-May to late-June since the epidemic began, India’s Covid-19 situation has started to look not so rosy from end-June with the experts maintaining that the next few days are crucial to determine whether it would tip over. While R or reproduction number is still less than one, it's higher numerical value means that the rate at which active cases were going down have slowed down considerably. This increases the likelihood of having another chance event pushing the country to another wave. The India-wide situation remains a worrying one as after going down a bit from 0.98 (July 6-10) to 0.92 (July 10-13), R is back again to 0.95 from July 22, as per the findings of a disease prediction model from scientists at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai. Reproduction number signals an epidemic’s ability to spread. For instance, an R value of 1.5 would mean that 10 Covid-19 positive persons can spread the infections to 15 others. For the epidemic to subside, the R value should stay below one. The Union Health Ministry data shows a consistent decline in average daily new cases since the week ending May 11 till June end. For the entire July, the number remains stagnant with no further dip. “Kerala, the state with the highest number of active cases continues to have R around 1.1, so looks like it will remain in the top spot for the next couple of weeks. The North-east continues to have a very bad situation with most states having R greater than one,” Sitabhra Sinha, IMSc scientist who has been tracking the pandemic with his model since last year, told DH. Another such model developed by Bhramar Mukherjee and her colleagues at the University of Michigan also conclude that Kerala and the North-East are the troubling spots. The health ministry on Thursday sent a high-level team to Kerala “to collaborate with the state health authorities to institute effective public health measures for Covid-19 management in view of the significantly enhanced number of daily Covid-19 cases being reported.” Among other states Uttarakhand has a R value very close to one (0.99 as per the IMSc model) at the moment because of which the hill state needs to be watched. Among the major cities Pune has a R greater than 1 whereas Delhi’s R value is also close to one as on July 24.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-not-so-rosy-r-value-since-june-end-1014359.html
29-07-2021||National||Chhattisgarh Assembly passes bill for acquiring pvt medical college; Oppn dubs it 'black law'||Amid strong opposition by the BJP, the Chhattisgarh Legislative Assembly on Thursday passed a bill that will enable the Congress government in the state to acquire a private medical college in state's Durg district. BJP legislators dubbed the bill as a “black law” and alleged that the government aims to provide relief to the college directors from debts. The opposition MLAs later staged a walkout demanding its withdrawal. Over the last couple of days, a controversy has erupted over the bill after a newspaper reported that the government's move to acquire the college raised questions of conflict of interest as the financially-strapped institute's management team includes members from a family in which Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel's daughter is married. The BJP had earlier alleged that the acquisition is aimed at “favouring” people associated with the institute. State Health Minister T S Singh Deo had on Wednesday tabled the Chhattisgarh Chandulal Chandrakar Memorial Medical College, Durg (Acquisition) Bill, 2021, and discussion on it was held on Thursday. During the discussion, Singh Deo said the state government had plans to open medical colleges in every Lok Sabha constituency of Chhattisgarh. At present, nine Lok Sabha constituencies have medical colleges while the remaining two will soon have this facility, he said. The minister said that the students of Chandulal Chandrakar Medical College met him many times, following which the decision of acquisition was taken. The main objective is to serve the citizens of the state and take care of the interest of students, he added. "Generally it takes 3-4 years to build a medical college, but we can start work from the available infrastructure of Chandulal Chandrakar Medical College. This medical college has 150 seats approved by the MCI. Its recognition has not expired. Earlier zero year was declared, but its recognition was cancelled," he said We have estimated Rs 140 crore cost per year to run this institution, he said. Opposing the bill, senior BJP MLA Brijmohan Agrawal said it is against the spirit of the Constitution, and it aimed at “benefitting” some people. "Without carrying out prior valuation of the assets, the government decided to acquire it. How can it waste public money by paying double of the actual valuation?" Agrawal asked citing provisions of the bill. The bill states that the government shall not be liable to any liability pending on college management towards any living or legal person prior to acquisition which is against the interest of those who had given loans to owners for the college, Agrawal claimed. Even the state government has provisioned in the bill that incumbent staff of the college would not be able to claim jobs to the government, which is also objectionable, he said. Supporting Agrawal on the issue, former chief minister Raman Singh said the government could have developed the Durg district hospital into a medical college hospital instead of acquiring a debt-ridden private college in such a situation when the state itself is facing financial crises. The Medical Council of India in 2018 had recommended to terminate the recognition of the college, he said. Owners of the college had drawn a loan of Rs 172 crore for the institute developed in Kachandur village by mortgaging Chandulal Chandrakar Memorial Hospital (CCMH) located in Nehru Nagar, Durg. The CCMH hospital was built on government land provided by the Municipal Corporation, he said. "The bill has been brought to ensure relief to directors of college from debts," Singh alleged. After discussion, Agrawal moved an amendment proposal on the bill and the opposition members demanded division of votes over it. In the division of votes, 56 votes were received against the amendment proposal, while 16 were received in favour of it, based on which the proposal was rejected. Subsequently, the bill was passed with a voice vote. BJP members raised slogans terming the bill as a “black law” and staged a walk out in the assembly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-assembly-passes-bill-for-acquiring-pvt-medical-college-oppn-dubs-it-black-law-1014360.html
29-07-2021||National||Over 25.82 lakh ITRs filed, 7.90 lakh e-PANs allocated at new I-T e-filing portal: Data||The new Income Tax Department website, which has been marred by glitches, has successfully received over 25 lakh returns, more than 3.57 crore unique logins and has allocated over 7.90 lakh e-PANs, according to latest official data on Thursday. The portal has been launched on June 7 with the new domain name www.incometax.gov.in, but it hit rough weather as a number of its functionalities did not function properly. Official sources in the tax department, however, say that the e-filing 2.0 website is now "gathering pace and processes are getting smooth". According to official data accessed by PTI, the e-filing website has seen 25,82,175 Income Tax Returns (ITRs) being filed successfully, has registered 4,57,55,091 logins and 3,57,47,303 unique logins by taxpayers over the last over two weeks time. A total of 80,23,266 ITRs have been drafted, over 6.07 lakh forms have been drafted out of which 5,51,150 were filed at the portal, the data stated. The website also received 69,45,539 successful requests for linking of the Permanent Account Number (PAN) with Aadhaar, while it allocated 7,90,404 e-PANs over the platform. A total of 2,92,601 digital signature certificates or DSC have also been received at the portal during the last over two weeks time period, it said. The functionalities are getting smoothened now and they are activated one after the other as is evident by the figures that the new portal is processing, official sources said. We hope that the website will be absolutely normal to use sooner than later, a senior tax department officer said. Officials said over 1.5 lakh ITRs every day are being filed at the portal since the last few days. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday had said that she wished that the Infosys-developed website did not have such a launch and she hoped that the issues will be sorted out soon.  "I wish it (technical issues) hadn't happened this way. But we are correcting the course and sooner the portal will be as is planned, easy to use," she told reporters. "Infosys is quite closely working with the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) and the ministry and rapidly, at least from what I hear from chartered accountants and income tax professionals, there is definitely a lot of improvement," Sitharaman said.  The government has so far paid Rs 164.5 crore to Infosys between January 2019 to June 2021 for developing the portal.  Sitharaman had on June 22 called a meeting with key officials of Infosys to review the issues on the portal in which the ICAI representatives highlighted the issues faced by taxpayers and tax professionals on the portal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-2582-lakh-itrs-filed-790-lakh-e-pans-allocated-at-new-i-t-e-filing-portal-data-1014362.html
29-07-2021||National||BJP blames Congress for Assam’s border disputes with neighbours||The ruling BJP in Assam on Thursday blamed the previous Congress governments for the state’s long-pending boundary disputes with its neighbours and said that the grand old party had adopted an escapist attitude to avoid contentious matters. The Congress, however, shot back, seeking to know what the BJP governments at the Centre and the state have done over the past few years to resolve the issue. Addressing a press conference here, BJP state spokesperson Pabitra Margherita said the conflict between Assam and its neighbouring states over interstate borders are a creation of the Congress. He alleged that several lakh hectares of Assam territory have been encroached over the years by the bordering states as the Congress, which was in power for most of the time since Independence, had adopted an “escapist attitude” to avoid such issues of concern. “There are numerous instances where people of our state residing in the border areas lost their lives and property due to aggression by neighbouring states but the Congress didn’t do much about it,” Margherita stated. He further claimed that the present Himanta Biswa Sarma-led state government, which took charge in May, has, however, ensured that not an inch of Assam land gets lost. Six Assam police personnel and a civilian were killed and over 50 injured during a bloody border clash between Assam and Mizoram on July 26. Margherita further accused the grand old party leaders of Mizoram of playing a part in promoting Twitter hashtag ‘#ShameonAssam’, which was trending on the microblogging site on Wednesday, and said, “The Congress leaders of the state, including its president Bhupen Bora, should seek forgiveness from common people for this.” He praised Sarma for “efficiently” handling the border tension with Mizoram. "The Mizoram government had to sign an agreement over the border dispute on Wednesday after initial resistance, and this is a victory for the chief minister," Margherita added. Rebutting the allegations, Assam Pradesh Congress Committee general secretary and senior spokesperson Apurba Kumar Bhattacharjee said an elected government "cannot escape by shifting the blame" on erstwhile dispensations "If, for a moment, I agree that the Congress had created these problems, why did they (BJP leaders) maintain silence for so long? "The BJP has been in power at the Centre since 2014 and in Assam since 2016. What initiatives were taken by them to resolve the border disputes?" he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-blames-congress-for-assam-s-border-disputes-with-neighbours-1014366.html
29-07-2021||National||144 tourists stuck in Lahaul-Spiti after cloudburst, landslides||As many as 144 tourists are stranded in Himachal Pradesh’s Lahaul-Spiti following a cloudburst and landslides triggered by heavy rainfall, according to a statement issued here on Thursday. The district administration said 204 people were stuck in Pattan Valley, of which 60 were rescued by police and Fire Department officials with the help of a ladder bridge. Earlier, State Disaster Management Director Sudesh Kumar Mokhta had said 175 people were stranded, including 60 women and 16 children. Deputy Commissioner Neeraj Kumar has sought helicopter support from the state government for their evacuation, a district spokesperson said. Mokhta said sorties with a state government helicopter have been planned for tomorrow due to weather conditions. Their evacuation through road seems difficult as the route via Pangi is not expected to be ready by Friday evening, Mokhta said. Several roads and bridges have been damaged in the district due to bad weather. In an SMS to PTI, a tourist from Punjab’s Hoshiarpur, Ravindra Sood, said, "More than 100 tourists have been stranded in Trilokinat and 35 in Fudan villages due to recent cloudburst in Jhalman, Shansha and Thirot areas in Lauhal Valley." Sood said the number of people stranded at Jhalwan and Udaipur villages is yet to be known and the road was damaged at several places between Kirting and Thirot. Earlier Sood told PTI that the telephone network was not working properly. When contacted, Lahaul-Spiti Deputy Commissioner Neeraj Kumar said those stranded have taken shelter at a temple and are getting adequate food. According to the list provided by the DC, 72 people are stuck at Trilokinat. Of them, 57 are from Kullu, seven each from Punjab and Mandi and one from Ladakh. Of the seven from Punjab, five are from Hoshiarpur and two from Sangrur, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/144-tourists-stuck-in-lahaul-spiti-after-cloudburst-landslides-1014383.html
29-07-2021||National||Delhi Assembly Speaker suspends BJP MLA for one day for derogatory remarks against AAP members||Delhi Assembly Speaker Ram Niwas Goel suspended BJP MLA Om Prakash Sharma from the House for the day for making derogatory remarks against AAP MLAs on the first day of the monsoon session on Thursday. The Speaker also marshalled out Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislators Vijender Gupta and Anil Bajpai for defying his directives and not letting the House function. Goel expressed his anguish and "deep pain" over depriving the house committees of their powers by the Centre. He gave a ruling that two hours of sitting of the House will be devoted to the Question Hour and special mentions under Rule 280. He stipulated that the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLAs will get 160 minutes while the opposition BJP legislators will be allowed 20 minutes to speak. "I will not allow the opposition MLAs to speak for even one second extra than 20 minutes as per the House rules," he said, while lamenting that the BJP legislators did not oppose divesting the House committees of their powers. As soon as the proceedings of the first day of the Assembly's monsoon session began, the BJP MLAs demanded to be heard during the Question Hour. They trooped into the well of the House and started shouting. Following this, some MLAs of the ruling AAP also entered the well, creating a pandemonium-like situation. The Speaker asked the members to return to their seats and "let the House function" but the BJP MLAs did not relent. The Speaker then asked the marshals to escort Gupta and Bajpai out of the House. In the melee, BJP's Sharma allegedly made derogatory remarks against some AAP MLAs and asked them to "stay in their limits". Taking cognizance of this, Goel asked Sharma to tender an apology. As the BJP legislator refused to oblige, he was suspended for the day. "Your remarks 'stay in the limits' to other members of the House are objectionable and since you did not apologise, I suspend Om Prakash Sharma for the entire day from the House," the Speaker said while issuing the ruling. Later, Sharma lodged a police complaint against an AAP MLA alleging that he was"disturbed and threatened" by him. The BJP has eight MLAs in the 70-member Assembly dominated by the ruling AAP that has 62 members in the House. BJP MLA Gupta said that short duration discussion on "failure" of the AAP government in setting up any new schools or colleges and shortage of teachers was removed from the list of business for the day, charging the ruling party was "evading" debates on real issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-assembly-speaker-suspends-bjp-mla-for-one-day-for-derogatory-remarks-against-aap-members-1014384.html
29-07-2021||National||Photojournalist Danish Siddiqui was executed by Taliban: Report||Pulitzer Prize-winning Indian photojournalist Danish Siddiqui was not simply killed in a crossfire in Afghanistan, nor was he simply collateral damage, but was "brutally murdered" by the Taliban after verifying his identity, according to a report published in a US-based magazine on Thursday. Siddiqui, 38, was on assignment in Afghanistan when he died. The award-winning journalist was killed while covering clashes between Afghan troops and the Taliban in Spin Boldak district of Kandahar city. According to the Washington Examiner report, Siddiqui travelled with an Afghan National Army team to the Spin Boldak region to cover fighting between Afghan forces and the Taliban to control the lucrative border crossing with Pakistan. When they got to within one-third of a mile of the customs post, a Taliban attack split the team, with the commander and a few men separated from Siddiqui, who remained with three other Afghan troops. During this assault, shrapnel hit Siddiqui, and so he and his team went to a local mosque where he received first aid. As word spread, however, that a journalist was in the mosque, the Taliban attacked. The local investigation suggests the Taliban attacked the mosque only because of Siddiqui’s presence there, the report said. “Siddiqui was alive when the Taliban captured him. The Taliban verified Siddiqui’s identity and then executed him, as well as those with him. The commander and the remainder of his team died as they tried to rescue him,” it said. “While a widely circulated public photograph shows Siddiqui’s face recognizable, I reviewed other photographs and a video of Siddiqui’s body provided to me by a source in the Indian government that show the Taliban beat Siddiqui around the head and then riddled his body with bullets,” wrote the writer Micheal Rubin, who is a senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute. The Taliban’s decision to hunt down, execute Siddiqui, and then mutilate his corpse shows that they do not respect the rules of war or conventions that govern the behaviour of the global community., the report said. Siddiqui won the Pulitzer Prize in 2018 as part of the Reuters team for their coverage of the Rohingya crisis. He had extensively covered the Afghanistan conflict, the Hong Kong protests and other major events in Asia, Middle East, and Europe. Siddiqui was laid to rest at the Jamia Millia Islamia graveyard where a sea of mourners gathered to pay their last respects. His body arrived at the Delhi airport in the evening of July 18 and was later brought to his residence in Jamia Nagar where a huge crowd, including his family and friends, had gathered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/photojournalist-danish-siddiqui-was-executed-by-taliban-report-1014387.html
29-07-2021||National||NDRF Director General Pradhan takes over additional charge of Narcotics Control Bureau from Asthana||NDRF Director General S N Pradhan on Thursday took over the additional charge of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) head from IPS officer Rakesh Asthana, who has been recently appointed as the Delhi Police Commissioner. Sharing pictures on Twitter of him taking charge, Pradhan, a 1988-batch IPS officer from Jharkhand cadre, wrote, "Hope to do my bit towards sustaining the national mission against narcotics & psychotropic substances". He is currently appointed as the DG of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF). An order issued by the Union Home Ministry for the NCB on Wednesday said Pradhan "shall hold additional charge of the post of DG, NCB vice shri Asthana (Rakesh) with immediate effect for a period of three months or till the appointment and joining of a regular incumbent or until further orders, whichever is earlier." Asthana, a 1984-batch Indian Police Service officer, had been holding the additional charge of NCB DG since July, 2019. The federal anti-narcotics agency, that functions as the apex national body on drugs and narcotics issues, had its last regular DG in IPS officer and current Odisha DGP Abhay who left the post on July 4, 2019. Abhay was then appointed as the Director of the Hyderabad-based Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy. Asthana was appointed the Delhi Police Commissioner On July 27 by the Union government. In a related development, the Union government recently changed the appointment rules for the NCB DG as it has been "upgraded" from the pay matrix level-15 (Additional DG rank in the IPS) to the apex level of 16/17 (DG or DG equivalent rank in the IPS), effective from June 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ndrf-director-general-pradhan-takes-over-additional-charge-of-narcotics-control-bureau-from-asthana-1014404.html
29-07-2021||National||CDSCO expert panel recommends nod to study on mixing doses of Covaxin, Covishield||The subject expert committee of India's drug regulator has recommended granting permission to Christian Medical College, Vellore to carry out studies on mixing doses of Covishield and Covaxin. The Vellore-based research institute had sought permission for conducting Phase IV clinical trials of mixing Covaxin and Covishield doses. Experts believe that combining different vaccines is important to study their efficacy against different strains of coronavirus and their safety. The subject expert committee of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) also sought more information from Biologicals E which had sought permission to conduct Phase II/III clinical trial of Covid-19 vaccine in the age group of 5-17 years. “The committee noted that the vaccine is under Phase II/III clinical trial in age group of 18 years and more, and full safety and immunogenicity data is not ready for assessment,” an official said. The committee also asked the firm to submit the clinical trial protocol along with data for further review by the committee. It recommended giving approval to Bharat Biotech for carrying out a study on interchangeability of its Covaxin and the under-trial adenoviral intranasal vaccine candidate BBV154, but asked the firm to remove the word “interchangeability” from the study title and submit a revised protocol for approval. Meanwhile, Johnson and Johnson (J&J) withdrew its appliation seeking permission to conduct phase-3 clinical trial of its single-dose Covid-19 vaccine. J&J had sought approval for conducting phase-3 clinical trial of its vaccine on approximately 600 participants in two age groups – those between 18 and 59 years, and 60 years and above – to evaluate the safety, reactogenicity, and immunogenicity of the jab in healthy Indian adults.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cdsco-expert-panel-recommends-nod-to-study-on-mixing-doses-of-covaxin-covishield-1014413.html
29-07-2021||National||Kingfisher Airlines case: Vijay Mallya mocks banks for saying he still owes them money||With reports of IDBI Bank fully recovering its dues from now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines, fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya on Thursday mocked banks for saying he still owed them money. Posting on twitter a clipping of a news item that reported that IDBI Bank has recovered its entire dues totalling Rs 753 crore from the airlines, Mallya said, "And the Banks say I owe them money!". His tweet comes after a British court on Monday granted a bankruptcy order against him, paving the way for a consortium of Indian banks led by the State Bank of India (SBI) to pursue a worldwide freezing order to seek repayment of debt owed by Kingfisher Airlines. The same day Mallya, wanted in India on fraud and money laundering charges, had also tweeted, "ED attach my assets worth (Rs) 14K crores at behest of Govt Banks against debt of (Rs) 6.2K (sic) crores. They restore assets to Banks who recover 9K crores in cash and retain security over 5K crores more. Banks ask Court to make me Bankrupt as they may have to return money to the ED. Incredible." ED attach my assets worth 14K crores at behest of Govt Banks against debt of 6.2K crores.They restore assets to Banks who recover 9K crores in cash and retain security over 5K crores more.Banks ask Court to make me Bankrupt as they may have to return money to the ED. Incredible. The 65-year-old businessman remains on bail in the UK while a "confidential" legal matter, believed to be related to an asylum application, is resolved in connection with the unrelated extradition proceedings. Mallya, who fled to the UK in March 2016, is wanted in India over a default of Rs 9,000 crore that was loaned to Kingfisher Airlines (KFA) by several banks. India has been seeking his extradition from the UK. He had in the past offered to repay 100 per cent of "public money" but accused the banks and government of refusing his offer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kingfisher-airlines-case-vijay-mallya-mocks-banks-for-saying-he-still-owes-them-money-1014414.html
29-07-2021||National||Parle tops most-chosen FMCG brand list in India: Report||Homegrown food company Parle Products has emerged as the most-chosen brand among the fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG) companies in the country, according to the 'Brand Footprint' report by marketing research firm Kantar. Parle Products leads this year's rankings, as the most-chosen FMCG brands, based on Consumer Reach Points (CRPs), Kantar India said in a statement on Thursday. CRPs consider the actual purchase made by consumers and the frequency at which these purchases are made in a calendar year. It is followed by Amul, Britannia, Clinic Plus and Tata Consumer Products. "With a CRP score of 5,715 (million), Parle holds the top spot for a record 9th year in a row," it said. According to the report, the COVID-19 pandemic impacted the frequency of purchase as average trips made to purchase groceries reduced but more purchases per trip were recorded in 2020. "Purchase frequency reduced by one per cent but spend per trip grew by five per cent. This resulted in a lower number of brands (50 per cent) growing in terms of CRP as compared to 2019 (72 per cent)," it added. In a year dominated by health and hygiene, Dettol unsurprisingly grew a whopping 48 per cent in CRP's and entered the top-25 brand list. "Dettol was followed by Lifebuoy with a growth of 25 per cent CRPs, Vim at 21 per cent CRPs (1454 Mn), Dabur at 14 per cent CRPs (1458 Mn) and Britannia at 11 per cent CRPs (4694 Mn)," it added. Overall CRPs have increased from 86 billion (Bn) to 89 Bn. However, the rate of growth has come down to 4 per cent from 18 per cent in 2019. K Ramakrishnan, managing director-South Asia (worldpanel division) at Kantar, said: "The biggest gainers in brand footprint 2020 were expectedly the hygiene brands. That said, the traditional leaders also held their positions by ensuring penetration growths even during the pandemic."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parle-tops-most-chosen-fmcg-brand-list-in-india-report-1014416.html
29-07-2021||National||Over 45.55 crore Covid vaccine doses administered in India||The total number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country so far has crossed 45.55 crore, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. Nearly 47 lakh vaccine doses have been administered on Thursday, according to a provisional report at 7 pm. The ministry said 22,83,018 vaccine doses were administered as first jabs and 4,34,990 as second in the age group of 18-44 years on Thursday. Cumulatively, 14,66,22,393 people in the age group of 18-44 years across all states and Union Territories have received their first dose and 76,51,261 their second jab since the start of phase three of the vaccination drive.  Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh have administered more than one crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine in the age group 18-44 years. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have given to 10 lakh beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years the first dose of vaccine, the ministry said. As on day 195 of the vaccination drive, 46,52,914 vaccine doses were administered. The ministry said 30,83,757 beneficiaries were given the first dose and 15,69,157 the second dose according to the provisional report.  Final reports for the day would be completed by late in the night, the Health Ministry said. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, it stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-4555-crore-covid-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-1014417.html
29-07-2021||National||Govt looking for prospects about green hydrogen as potential transport fuel, says Nitin Gadkari||Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Thursday said the government is looking for prospects about green hydrogen as a potential transport fuel, and added that whatever concessions it is offering for electric vehicles can be offered to green hydrogen also. Addressing a conference on 'Hydrogen and Gas Based Mobility', Gadkari also said that with the large solar, wind, hydro, and waste potential in India, the country can lead the world in green hydrogen production. "We are also looking for prospects about green hydrogen as a potential transport fuel... Whatever concessions we are offering for electric vehicles, we can offer that concession for green hydrogen also," he said. The road transport and highways minister stressed that the government is committed for supporting green hydrogen and he will discuss the issue with the finance ministry and the Niti Aayog. Gadkari said green hydrogen could be an ideal power source for energy-intensive industries like refining, steel, cement, fertiliser, mining, and industrial heating. Stating that green hydrogen (H2) is made by splitting water (H2O) using renewable power, he said, "Over time, green hydrogen as an energy carrier can replace some of our energy imports." Gadkari noted that 70 per cent of green hydrogen production costs come from electricity costs, hence, surplus electricity from renewable energy sources can enhance green hydrogen production economics. "We are working to bring about an integrated road map and create opportunities for alternative clean and green transport fuels like electricity, bio-CNG, LNG, ethanol, methanol, and hydrogen fuel cell," he said. Gadkari added that India should focus on hydrogen fuel cell electric vehicle technology exclusively for heavy long-distance trucks, buses, marine and aviation applications. The hydrogen ecosystem can create a $20-billion green technology market in India and will enhance domestic job creation, he said,adding that India can be seen as a net exporter of hydrogen in the future to European, Southeast Asian countries, and Africa. He pointed out that piloting of H-CNG (hydrogen-blended with CNG) is also going on and it will help the transport sector learning to handle hydrogen. The minister also said with government supportive policies and initiatives, "we are confident that India will even surpass the target of renewable energy of 450 gigawatt by 2030". Currently, India stands at the 5th position for overall renewable energy installed capacity. He said India is one of the fastest-growing economy leading through sustainable and climate-neutral development. Gadkari reiterated India is committed to meeting the Paris Climate Agreement, where efforts are centered to reduce carbon emissions by 33 to 35 per cent by 2030. "We are also committed to achieving net zero carbon emissions by 2050," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-looking-for-prospects-about-green-hydrogen-as-potential-transport-fuel-says-nitin-gadkari-1014425.html
29-07-2021||National Politics||Centre not allowing opposition to discuss issues of national importance in Parliament: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday asked the government not to waste more time of Parliament and let the opposition raise issues of inflation, farmers and Pegasus in the House. He also said that the foundation of India's democracy is that Parliamentarians should be the voice of people and discuss issues of national importance, but the Modi government is not allowing this to happen. The opposition has been demanding a discussion on the Pegasus snooping issue and the repeal of the new farm laws in Parliament. "The foundation of our democracy is that Parliamentarians should be the voice of the people and should discuss issues of national importance. The Modi government is not allowing the opposition to do this work.Don't waste more time of the Parliament, let them talk about inflation, farmers and Pegasus," Gandhi said on Twitter. हमारे लोकतंत्र की बुनियाद है कि सांसद जनता की आवाज़ बनकर राष्ट्रीय महत्व के मुद्दों पर चर्चा करें। मोदी सरकार विपक्ष को ये काम नहीं करने दे रही। There continues to be a deadlock in Parliament over the Pegasus snooping issue with the opposition demanding a discussion and a Supreme Court monitored probe into it while the government is saying it has not done any snooping.  Opposition members have been giving adjournment notices in both houses of Parliament to allow the Pegasus issue to be discussed, which have been rejected by the chair.  Congress and other opposition leaders have given such notices on Thursday also. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on a list of potential targets for surveillance using Israeli firm NSO's Pegasus spyware.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-not-allowing-opposition-to-discuss-issues-of-national-importance-in-parliament-rahul-gandhi-1014116.html
29-07-2021||National Politics||Lok Sabha Speaker warns of action against unruly members||A day after a Congress member hurled papers and placards at the presiding officer, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Thursday cautioned members against unruly behaviour saying he would take action to uphold the dignity of the House. “I am pained at the incidents that unfolded in the House on July 28. Throwing papers at the Chair, insulting the Chair is not in line with the parliamentary traditions. If we do not uphold the dignity of the House, how can we strengthen parliamentary democracy,” Birla said. On Wednesday, a Congress member hurled papers and placards at BJP leader Rajendra Agarwal, who was on the Chair. The placard landed in the press gallery located above the Speaker's chair and narrowly missed the mediapersons present there. BJP members have been demanding action against the Congress and Trinamool members who were in the Well of the Lok Sabha raising slogans against the Modi government and demanding discussion on the Pegasus revelations and the repeal of the three farm laws.  “Some members are repeating the incidents that are against Parliament rules. I appeal to the members not to repeat the incidents that are not in accordance with Parliamentary norms. If such incidents are repeated, then I will need your cooperation in taking action against such members,” Birla said. Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, the leader of the Congress, stopped short of expressing regret for the behaviour of his party colleague and said every Opposition member was making effort to uphold the dignity of the House. “It is because of the adamant behaviour of the government that we are unable to put our views in Parliament,” Chowdhury said. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said the Congress leaders have no regret for their behaviour, leave alone tendering an apology. “Is this the way to behave. You don't even want to apologise to the Chair,” Joshi said, adding that the government was ready to discuss any issue in the House.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lok-sabha-speaker-warns-of-action-against-unruly-members-1014185.html
29-07-2021||National Politics||Priyanka Gandhi slams Uttar Pradesh govt over protests by ambulance workers||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday attacked the Yogi Adityanath dispensation in Uttar Pradesh, saying the government which talked about showering flowers on ambulance workers during the Covid period is now talking of raining sticks on them after they raised voices for their rights. The Congress general secretary alleged that the state government sacked 500 ambulance workers imposing the Essential Services Maintenance Act (ESMA). "During the Corona period in Uttar Pradesh, the government used to talk about showering flowers on ambulance workers and as soon as they raised their voice for their rights, it is talking about raining sticks on them," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. उप्र में कोरोना काल में सरकार एंबुलेंस कर्मियों पर फूल बरसाने की बात करती थी और उन्होंने जैसे ही अपने अधिकारों की आवाज उठाई, सरकार उन पर लट्ठ बरसाने की बात कर रही है। सरकार ने एस्मा लगाकर 500 से ऊपर कर्मी बर्खास्त कर दिए और जनता परेशान है। The government sacked more than 500 workers by imposing ESMA and the people are distressed, she said. "God save the state from such a government," Gandhi said and tagged a photograph of a husband taking his wife to a hospital in a rickshaw. Employees of the 102 and 108 ambulance services had started their protest across Uttar Pradesh on Monday after the tender to operate the advanced life support system (ALS) ambulances was given to another company.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-gandhi-slams-uttar-pradesh-govt-over-protests-by-ambulance-workers-1014207.html
29-07-2021||National Politics||Lok Sabha passes Inland Vessels Bill amid din without debate||A bill to bring uniformity in application of law relating to inland waterways and navigation within the country was passed in the Lok Sabha amid din without debate on Thursday. The Inland Vessels Bill, 2021, was moved for consideration and passage by Ports, Shipping and Waterways Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, and was passed without debate as Opposition continued their protest over Pegasus snooping and other issues. The minister said that the current Act has become obsolete and inadequate to address the increasing complexities of the sector and operational bottleneck. The bill will help "realise the potential of inland water transport and promote it as a supplementary and eco-friendly mode of transport to the congested road and rail network. It is important that movement along the waterways is absolutely seamless across state boundaries," he said. The bill will go a long way in boosting trade, commerce and economic activities across the country, Sonowal added.   It also seeks to bring in transparency and accountability of administration of inland water transportation, strengthen procedures governing inland vessels, their construction, survey, registration, manning and navigation. Currently, 4,000 kms of inland waterways are operational in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lok-sabha-passes-inland-vessels-bill-amid-din-without-debate-1014253.html
29-07-2021||National Politics||Fresh bid to resolve Parliament stalemate fails; Opposition says govt attempt just optics||Fresh attempts to resolve the stalemate in Parliament failed on Thursday with the government refusing to accede to the Opposition demand for a discussion on the Pegasus episode and getting three Bills passed without a debate in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. Another attempt will be made on Friday to resolve the logjam with sources saying that Defence Minister Rajnath Singh is likely to meet the Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge. Opposition leaders in Lok Sabha are also planning to meet Speaker Om Birla with a letter bearing signatures of MPs demanding a discussion on Pegasus. At a meeting of Congress' Joint Strategy Group in Parliament, sources said, it has been decided that there will be no going back on the demand for a discussion on Pegasus and Kharge will convey the Opposition position to the Defence Minister if any such meeting happens. The government made it clear in at least three meetings with the Opposition leaders -- Business Advisory Committee of Lok Sabha and two meetings with Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge -- during the day that it was not inclined to hold a discussion on Pegasus as a statement has been made in both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha and MPs could seek clarification from Information Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw. Opposition leaders, on their part, in both the Houses insisted on a discussion on Pegasus and told the government emissaries that their protest would continue if there is no positive move on their demand. "They gatecrashed, said nothing, had tea and left. This was just optics," Congress Rajya Sabha Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh told DH when asked about Leader of the House in Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi meeting Kharge twice during the day to break the deadlock. Sources said the government managers walked into Kharge's room in Parliament in the morning when Opposition leaders were holding a meeting. They also met Kharge later in the afternoon. At the Business Advisory Committee of Lok Sabha, sources said, both sides could not reach a consensus as the government side said the House could discuss the Covid-19 situation, while the Opposition did not budge from their demand and wanted the government to spell it out on the floor of the House whether it bought Pegasus or not. During the day, both Houses witnessed vociferous protests leading to multiple adjournments but the government went ahead with passing the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and the Inland Vessels Bill, 2021 in Lok Sabha without any discussion. In Rajya Sabha too, the Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2021 was passed amid din. With this, the government has passed nine bills -- six in Lok Sabha and three in Rajya Sabha -- this week without discussion amid din. CPI(M) Rajya Sabha floor leader Elamaram Kareem said there is no compromise on their part on the demand for a discussion on Pegasus. "The government is saying they could allow seeking clarifications on the statement made by Vaishnaw. We are saying that is not enough and we want a proper discussion in which the Prime Minister replies," he said. RSP MP N K Premachandran said, "The government is totally on the defensive. It cannot even answer whether it purchased the spyware or not. The Prime Minister and other ministers say they are ready for debate on any issue. But on the other hand, they are torpedoing debate. This is a double standard." Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/fresh-bid-to-resolve-parliament-stalemate-fails-opposition-says-govt-attempt-just-optics-1014275.html
29-07-2021||National Politics||From 'Bihari Gunda' to 'ping pong match': Pegasus row heats up||A day after Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information and Technology could not meet to question government officials on the Pegasus spyware owing to the refusal of BJP members to attend it, panel Chairman Shashi Tharoor on Thursday rued that "some elements" have chosen to reduce this committee to some sort of a "ping pong match". BJP MP Nishikant Dubey, who had on Wednesday accused TMC MP and panel member Mahua Moitra of calling him a "Bihari Gunda"  on Thursday raised the issue in the Lok Sabha. "I want to draw the attention of all members of this House. This is my 13th year as an MP and the way I was called... yesterday by a woman, by Trinamool Congress, I have not seen this in my life," Dubey said. The phrase Dubey claimed was used against him was later expunged by the Chair. Seeking to rake up the "insult" of North Indians by TMC MP at a time when its chief Mamata Banerjee is in the national capital meeting Opposition leaders and building an anti-Modi front, Dubey said in Lok Sabha, "What is our mistake? Our mistake is in developing this country. We have worked as labourers, as Hindi-speaking people whether from Uttar Pradesh or Madhya Pradesh... we have worked hard". However, Dubey did not name the TMC member in the House. Moitra denied the charge saying Dubey was not even present in the panel meeting. Am a bit amused by charges of name-calling.IT mtng did not happen because NO quorum - members did not attend. While Dubey had on Wednesday tagged TMC and Mamata Banerjee while making the allegation against Moitra, some BJP leaders had latched on to his tweet to paint the TMC as an anti-Hindi belt. Speaking outside Parliament, Tharoor said he was very "disappointed" that the panel meeting that was set to question government officials on Wednesday on the Pegasus spyware issue had to be postponed due to lack of quorum. BJP members of the panel who were present in the meeting room didn't sign the attendance register in protest leading to a lack of quorum. To a question  BJP MP Nishikant Dubey having moved a "privilege motion" against him, Tharoor said, "it has no validity as no constituted procedure was followed in introducing Privilege Motion, which requires Speaker to get the consent of the House consent and 25 members to stand and support it." Dubey rejected Tharoors' contentions saying the Congress MP is unaware of the rules and has gone into "frustration" because he is focussed more on becoming the leader of his party in Lok Sabha, replacing Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury. Dubey and Tharoor have in past also moved privilege motions against each other and the meetings in the Parliamentary panel on IT, which has dominance of the members of the BJP, has frequently seen clashes on political lines. Replying to questions about divisions among the panel's members along political lines, Tharoor seemed to suggest that this is something unusual that is happening this time. He said he was the former union minister noted that he was earlier also the chairman of the parliamentary committee on external affairs for five years where its members worked in an extremely amicable and cooperative spirit. "How can I tell you about a meeting which never happened? I am completely unaware if somebody allegedly said something at a meeting that never took place to somebody who was not there. How am I to be concerned about it?", Tharoor said when asked about Mahua Moitra allegedly calling Dubey a "Bihari gunda" when the panel members had assembled for the meeting. "BJP members come to the IT Committee and refuse to sign the attendance register to deny a quorum. Further, all the witnesses called from MiEIT and MHA wrote in excuses and didn't appear as called to testify. It's very clear that Pegasus is a no go area for this government," Congress member in the panel Karti Chidambaram had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/from-bihari-gunda-to-ping-pong-match-pegasus-row-heats-up-1014278.html
29-07-2021||National Politics||Navjot Singh Sidhu meets party workers, lists '5 priorities' again||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday flagged again the five ‘key issues’ faced by the state, days after being told by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh that his government is close to resolving them. Addressing party workers in Jalandhar, the new state unit chief said the Congress high command's 18-point programme will be implemented. He also called for the “rejection” by the Congress-ruled state of the three farm laws enacted at the Centre last year. At their first meeting Tuesday with the Amarinder Singh after his appointment as the state party president, Sidhu and the four working presidents had reminded the CM about the 18-point programme and the five priority areas. The 18 points were reportedly dictated to Singh when he met the party’s central leadership in Delhi amid the tussle between him and Sidhu. The delegation led by Sidhu had sought “immediate action” from the CM on the 2015 desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib and the police firing on protesters, arrest of the “big fish” in drug rackets, cancellation of power purchase agreements, rejection of the Centre's new farm laws and agreeing to the demands by government employees. In Jalandhar on Thursday, Sidhu also interacted with party workers from Phagwara, Bholath, Sultanpur Lodhi and Kapurthala. Sidhu said he had taken up with the CM the five priority areas out of the party leadership's 18-point agenda. Referring to the farm laws, Sidhu said, “These black laws are illegal, unconstitutional and an attack on the federal structure.” “As was done on the SYL issue, the Punjab government should reject these laws completely by announcing that they will not be implemented,” he said, recalling Punjab’s tough stance on river water sharing with Haryana. Sidhu indirectly backed Amarinder Singh on subsidised power for farmers. In an apparent attack at the Aam Aadmi Party government in the national capital, he said, “If you see the Delhi model, a subsidy of Rs 1,700 crore is being given in Delhi in comparison to Rs 10,000 crore of subsidy being given by Punjab.” He said there is hardly any state in the country which provides so much power subsidy. He said power for industry in Punjab is also "much cheaper" than that in Delhi. Last month, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had promised up to 300 units of free electricity every billing cycle for each household in Punjab if the AAP is voted to power. Sidhu said the power purchase agreements (PPAs) signed during the previous SAD-BJP government in the state are a stumbling block in providing cheap power to consumers. He said fixed charges of thousands of crores are being paid to private power companies and demanded the cancellation of “faulty” PPAs. The CM on Wednesday had ordered power utility PSPCL to cancel or revisit all “one-sided” PPAs signed with private companies which are not contractually obligated to supply sufficient power to meet the peak demand during the paddy sowing and summer seasons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/navjot-singh-sidhu-meets-party-workers-lists-5-priorities-again-1014328.html
29-07-2021||National Politics||Eyeing UP polls next year, BJP to start outreach programme with 7 new Union ministers||Ahead of next year's Assembly election in politically crucial Uttar Pradesh, the BJP will carry out an outreach programme through newly inducted seven Union ministers from the state in over 200 assembly segments, sources in the party said on Thursday. BJP chief J P Nadda has asked all the 40 newly inducted Union ministers, including those from Uttar Pradesh, to carry out a 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra' covering three to four parliamentary constituencies, including their own, and four to five districts in their states to "seek blessings from the people", a senior leader said. They have been asked to start these outreach programmes from August 16 following all Covid protocols. MPs from the state where each of the ministers belongs have been asked to help them in these activities, sources said. They said these 'yatras' will act as a launchpad for the party's campaign for the assembly elections in many states in the next few years. In Uttar Pradesh, where assembly elections are scheduled to be held next year, the public outreach programme will be wider and more comprehensive covering more than 200 of the over 400 assemblies in the state, sources in the BJP said. Earlier this month, seven MPs from Uttar Pradesh -- Pankaj Choudhary, S P Singh Baghel, Bhanu Pratap Singh Verma, B L Verma, Ajay Mishra, Kaushal Kishor, and BJP ally Apna Dal leader Anupriya Singh Patel -- were made union ministers. Out of these seven, three each are from OBC and SC categories, while one is Brahmin. So, this outreach exercise by all seven Union ministers in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh will help the party balance its caste equations before the assembly elections. The BJP has started gearing up for assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh with Nadda has been holding meetings with party MPs from the state in different groups to fine-tune its strategy for the hustings next year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/eyeing-up-polls-next-year-bjp-to-start-outreach-programme-with-7-new-union-ministers-1014400.html
29-07-2021||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir cloudburst: Search on for survivors||Rescue operations were underway on Thursday to trace 20 people missing after a cloudburst hit Honzar village in Kishtwar district of Jammu and Kashmir with authorities pressing more teams into action. Seven persons were found dead and 17 others were rescued in an injured condition after the remote village was struck by the cloudburst in the early hours of Wednesday, damaging 21 houses, cow sheds, a ration depot, a bridge and a mosque. The officials said the joint rescue operation by police, Army and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) is going on in full swing to locate the missing people, including nine women. Director General of Police-cum-Commandant General Home Guard, Civil Defence and SDRF, V K Singh said a team comprising SDRF and NDRF personnel left Jammu at 5:45 am by road for Kishtwar, while another joint team is leaving Srinagar shortly to join the rescue operation. Two more teams comprising SDRF and NDRF personnel are at the Jammu and Srinagar airports waiting for the weather to improve to get airlifted, he said. He said three teams of the SDRF have already joined the rescue effort and efforts are on to locate the missing persons. The Indian Air Force (IAF) made an attempt to airlift one of the teams on Wednesday but returned to the technical airport in Jammu due to inclement weather.   Additional Director General of Police, Jammu zone, Mukesh Singh rushed to Kishtwar by road on Wednesday night and visited the injured persons at district hospital, a police official said. Singh along with divisional commissioner Jammu Raghav Langer was also on board the IAF chopper which attempted to take the SDRF team to the affected village. The Jammu and Kashmir government had announced an ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh each for the next of kin of those who lost their lives in the incident and Rs 50,000 each and Rs 12,700 under SDRF to the grievously injured persons. “The J-K government would do everything possible to support and protect the affected families. In such trying times, it is our duty to care for those who have been unfortunately affected by these natural calamities," Lt Governor Manoj Sinha had said.  Director, Meteorological department, Sonum Lotus said no major rain occurred during the night across Jammu and Kashmir. “Right now weather is generally cloudy at most places and is likely to become partly cloudy towards afternoon. Occasional light rain possible at some places during the day,” he said. Most parts of Jammu region have been receiving incessant rains for the past few days and the Meteorological department has predicted widespread intermittent rain across Jammu and Kashmir till July 30. “Heavy to very heavy rain is possible at some places and may lead to flash floods, mudslide, landslide and water logging (in low lying areas). People are advised to remain alert as water level has risen in all rivers (owing to incessant rains),” a spokesperson of the MET had said. People have been advised to keep away from hilly, landslide and mudslide prone areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-cloudburst-search-on-for-survivors-1014128.html
29-07-2021||North and Central||Gangster Chhota Rajan admitted to AIIMS with stomachache||Jailed gangster Chhota Rajan was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here after he complained of a stomachache, officials said Thursday. A senior jail official said, "Rajan was having a stomachache and was admitted to AIIMS Tuesday. He is likely to be discharged today. However, no official communication has been received on his discharge." Rajan, 61, was admitted at the hospital in on April 24 also after he had tested positive for Covid-19 in Tihar Jail two days earlier. He was brought back to the jail after his recovery. Rajan is lodged at the high-security prison since his arrest upon his deportation from Bali in Indonesia in 2015.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gangster-chhota-rajan-admitted-to-aiims-with-stomachache-1014163.html
29-07-2021||North and Central||Water levels in Delhi's Yamuna rise after heavy rains in catchment areas||The water level in the Yamuna in Delhi on Thursday rose to 203.37 metres, close to the warning mark of 204.50 metres after heavy rains in the upper catchment areas of the river, officials said. The administration had sounded an alert in the low-lying areas close to the river floodplains on Tuesday and the situation is being monitored round the clock, they said. "The water level was recorded at 203.37 metres at the Old Railway Bridge at 10:30 am," an official of the Irrigation and Flood Control Department said. The Yamuna has swollen because of rains in Delhi and the upper catchment areas, he said, adding that more water is being released from the Hathnikund barrage into the river in Haryana's Yamunanagar district. "The flow rate peaked to 1.60 lakh cusecs in the last 24 hours, the highest so far this year," the official said. The water discharged from the barrage normally takes two-three days to reach the capital. Water was being released into the Yamuna at the rate of 85,879 cusecs at 10 am on Thursday. Normally, the flow rate at the Hathnikund barrage is 352 cusec, but the discharge is increased after heavy rainfall in the catchment areas. One cusec is equivalent to 28.32 litres per second. The water level may rise further as there is a prediction of rains in the catchment areas, the official said. In 2019, the flow rate had peaked at 8.28 lakh cusecs on August 18 and 19, and the water level in the Yamuna had touched 206.60 metres, breaching the danger mark of 205.33 metres. The Delhi government had to launch evacuation and relief operations after the overflowing river submerged many low-lying areas. In 2013, the river had swelled to 207.32 metres. In 1978, the water level in the Yamuna rose to a record 207.49 metres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/water-levels-in-delhis-yamuna-rise-after-heavy-rains-in-catchment-areas-1014166.html
29-07-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh vaccinates 3 crore people against Covid; CM hopeful of 100% inoculation soon||Over three crore doses of vaccines against Covid-19 have been administered to people in Madhya Pradesh so far as against the eligible population of 5.40 crore, and Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has expressed confidence that the state will soon achieve the target of 100 inoculation. As part of the vaccination drive against the pandemic, 3,00,98,663 doses have so far been administered to citizens in MP, including 2,51,95,270 people who have got the first dose while 49,03,393 have received both the doses, officials said on Thursday. According to a health official, 5.40 crore people are eligible for vaccination against Covid-19 in the state. The MP Public Relations Department claimed the state created a record on Wednesday by administering 10,34,384 doses to people in one day, which it said was the highest in the country. “Because of the people's awareness and willingness to defeat corona, the state will soon achieve the target of 100 per cent vaccination,” Chouhan said on Wednesday. He thanked people of the state for creating the record of maximum vaccinations in one day in the country. Among the total vaccinations done so far in MP, Indore district, which is the state's industrial hub, is on top with 30,18,551 inoculations, followed by state capital Bhopal-18,86,239 and Jabalpur -13,98,640 jabs, officials said. According to Indore's vaccination officer Dr Tarun Gupta, 3,10,611 people aged 60 and above have received the first dose so far in the district, against the target set in April of vaccinating 3,01,343 people from the category.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-vaccinates-3-crore-people-against-covid-cm-hopeful-of-100-inoculation-soon-1014169.html
29-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi vs Centre? Assembly passes resolution against Asthana's appointment as Delhi Police Commissioner||Signalling another round of confrontation, the Delhi Assembly on Thursday passed an unprecedented resolution against the appointment of senior IPS officer Rakesh Asthana claiming that he was forced upon them to destabilise Delhi.   The resolution, which expressed disapproval against the appointment of a "controversial Gujarat cadre officer being forced upon Delhi as Police Commissioner'', also demanded that the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) reverse the decision. AAP MLAs, including Delhi Home Minister Satyendar Jain, alleged that his appointment was in contravention with the Supreme Court order on the appointment of police chiefs while Leader of Opposition Ramvir Bhiduri defended the appointment, and claimed that he had one year to retire. Asthana, who was BSF Director General, was on Tuesday night appointed as Delhi Police Commissioner just four days ahead of his scheduled retirement by extending his services till July 31 next year. The 1984-batch IPS officer took charge on Wednesday. Referring to Bidhuri's remarks that he was a decorated police official, Jain said that the Leader of Opposition had actually highlighted that the police chiefs before Asthana were not good enough and it proved that the Centre had restricted good officers from becoming the Delhi police commissioner. Jain also asked if Asthana had one year more to retire, why he was not considered for the post of CBI Director in May this year. The names of Asthana and Y C Modi were not considered for CBI Director's post after Chief Justice N V Ramana highlighted the Supreme Court order that no officer with less than six months service should be considered for such top posts. Bidhuri said that Asthana was conferred Police Medal for Meritorious Service earlier and he had led the probe into the fodder scam. "Asthana's appointment is a jolt to crime and corruption. His appointment should be welcomed," he said. Moving the resolution, AAP MLA Sanjeev Jha said Asthana's appointment was "illegal". "Prime Minister Narendra Modi's blue-eyed boy was appointed four days before his retirement with a one year extension. The Prime Minister has brought a henchman on a special mission to destabilise Delhi. It is illegal and contempt of the Supreme Court," he said. AAP MLA Akhilesh Pati Tripathi alleged that Asthana was appointed to crush political opponents in Delhi as it was in Gujarat. Ghulab Singh, also an AAP MLA, questioned the "hurry" in the appointment and said, "his whole career is questionable -- corruption in CBI, Ishrat Jahan Encounter case etc., he has been instrumental in covering every dirty job of Modi-Shah. He has been brought to harass the AAP government."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-vs-centre-assembly-passes-resolution-against-asthanas-appointment-as-delhi-police-commissioner-1014179.html
29-07-2021||North and Central||14 engineering colleges to offer education in 5 languages: PM Modi||Fourteen engineering colleges across eight states will start studies in five regional languages – Tamil, Telugu, Marathi, Hindi and Bangla, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday. Addressing educationists, students, policy-makers to mark the first anniversary of the National Education Policy (NEP), the Prime Minister said his government has also developed a tool for translating engineering courses into 11 Indian languages. Modi also unveiled several education schemes including an academic bank of credits for deposit, withdrawal and storage of academic credentials, Vidya Pravesh – a three month play-based school preparation module for Grade 1 students, Indian Sign Language as a Subject at the secondary level. “Options like multiple entry and exit will free students from the restrictions of staying in one class and one course. Similarly, modern technology-based Academic Bank of Credit systems will bring revolutionary change. This will give confidence to the student in choosing streams and subjects,” the prime minister said. He said the 'Structured Assessment for Analyzing Learning levels' – SAFAL – will take away the fear of examination. The Prime Minister underlined the critical role of teachers from the formulation stage to implementation of the National Education Policy. “NISHTHA 2.0, an integrated programme of teacher training designed by NCERT, launched today will provide training to teachers as per their needs and they will be able to give their suggestions to the department,” he said. Modi said the Artificial Intelligence programme will make the student future-oriented and will pave the way for an AI-driven economy. “Similarly, National Digital Education Architecture (NDEAR) and National Education Technology Forum (NETF) will go a long way in providing a digital and technological framework to the entire country,” the prime minister said. Modi said that for the first time the Indian sign language has been accorded the status of language subject, enabling students to learn it as a language. “There are more than three lakh students who need sign language for their education. This will give a boost to Indian sign language and will help the divyang people,” said the prime minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/14-engineering-colleges-to-offer-education-in-5-languages-pm-modi-1014241.html
29-07-2021||North and Central||Hair loss complaints among Covid patients on rise at Delhi hospital||Delhi's Indraprastha Apollo Hospital has seen a 100 per cent rise in complaints of hair loss among coronavirus patients, doctors said on Thursday. Normally, according to a spokesperson, the private hospital in South Delhi would record four to five complaints of hair loss a week. However, hair loss cases "started increasing from mid-May and a consolidated report says we have been seeing double the number of cases since then", the spokesperson said. Usually, Covid-19 patients experience hair loss a month after recovering from the disease. In some cases, hair loss is observed during the infection period, too, doctors said. Deficiencies due to change in dietary habits, fever during the infection, stress, anxiety, sudden hormonal changes and persistent post-Covid inflammatory reactions are some of the reasons for the temporary hair loss, they said. Dr Shahin Nooreyezdan, senior consultant, cosmetic and plastic surgery, Indraprastha Apollo Hospital, said, "We have seen a two-fold rise in the number of patients complaining of problems related to hair loss. "Post-Covid inflammation has been a major contributor. Deficiencies due to a compromised nutritional intake, sudden changes in weight, hormonal disturbances and reduced vitamin D and B12 levels are some of the major reasons for the loss of large volumes of hair loss post-infection," he said. Dr Kuldeep Singh, senior consultant, cosmetology and plastic surgery, said, "Hair loss post-Covid is temporary in nature and is due to a condition called Telogen Effluvium. It is a result of the shock the body sustains after suffering from fever and other symptoms during Covid-19." Normally a person can lose up to 100 hair per day, but it can increase to 300-400 hair per day due to Telogen Effluvium, he said. The doctors suggested that after recovering from Covid-19, one should have a nutritious diet along with natural edible sources of vitamins and iron. Iron deficiency can accentuate hair loss, while a protein-rich, balanced diet reduces hair fall. People should approach a doctor only if excessive hair loss persists even after consuming a nutritious diet for five to six weeks. Some common hair care solutions that can be administered to prevent excessive hair loss are -- use of mild, paraben and sulphate-free shampoos, keeping a close check on the itchy and flaky scalp, refraining from oiling and massaging the scalp, using a wide-tooth comb and seeking immediate medical intervention in case of development of bald patches and huge volume of hair fall. One should avoid stress, meditate, eat healthy, take natural nutritional supplements, avoid heat and chemicals for hairstyling and refrain from following a sedentary lifestyle, the doctors said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hair-loss-complaints-among-covid-patients-on-rise-at-delhi-hospital-1014279.html
29-07-2021||North and Central||Met dept issues red, orange alerts for Rajasthan, forecasts heavy rainfall||The Meteorological department has issued red and orange alerts for heavy rains in several districts of Rajasthan on Friday. The active southwest monsoon will gain more intensity in the coming days due to which heavy to very heavy rain (115 to 204 mm) in Nagaur, Sikar and Ajmer districts is likely and a red alert has been issued for these places, the Met department said. Heavy rain is also expected in Jaipur, Jhunjhunu, Tonk, Kota, Bhilwara, Baran, Churu and Jhalawar districts for which the department has issued an orange alert. In last 24 hours, heavy rainfall was recorded in Bari, Rajkheda and Baseri of Dholpur district. Bari (Dholpur) recorded highest 85 mm rain followed by 70 mm in Karauli, 40 mm in Bharatpur tehsil and 30 mm in Kotkasim of Alwar. Jaipur recorded 3.3 mm during the period. A red alert indicates heavy to extremely heavy rains of over 20 cm in 24 hours, while an orange alert means very heavy rains from 6 cm to 20 cm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/met-dept-issues-red-orange-alerts-for-rajasthan-forecasts-heavy-rainfall-1014288.html
29-07-2021||North and Central||Two arrested in Dhanbad Judge death case; heavy autorickshaw recovered: Police||Two persons were arrested Thursday in connection with the hit-and-run case of Dhanbad Judge Uttam Anand who died after a heavy autorickshaw rammed into him, a top police official said. Both the arrests were made after recovery of the three-wheeler involved in the incident Wednesday morning. "We have arrested two persons Lakhan Verma and Rahul Verma involved in the incident early Thursday morning. Rahul Verma, a resident of Digwadih, Dhanbad has been arrested from Dhanbad Tempo stand while the other was arrested from Mangrudih police station area in Giridih," Senior Superintendent of Police, Dhanbad Sanjiv Kumar told PTI. Kumar said the three-wheeler was also recovered from Giridih and has been registered in the name of a woman. Investigation is on in the case from all possible angles including murder after an FIR filed by the wife of the 49-year-old deceased Judge with the Dhanbad police, Kumar added. Death of Anand had occurred during morning walk around 5 am on a deserted road near his house at Judge Colony in Hirapur. Initially, it was presumed that the judge died in a road accident but the CCTV footage which surfaced later in the evening, suggested a murder angle in the case. The district and sessions judge-8 Dhanbad carried a reputation of being a strict judge and according to court sources had recently declined bail pleas of some gangsters which is speculated could be linked to the sordid incident. He hailed from Hazaribag and his father and wife are lawyers. Jharkhand Bar Council member Hemant Sikarwa has condemned the incident terming it as an intentional murder of a sitting judge and has demanded a CBI probe. The Jharkhand High Court on Thursday ordered an SIT probe into the death of the Dhanbad judge. CCTV footage showed that Anand was jogging on one side of a fairly wide road at Randhir Verma Chowk early on Wednesday when a heavy auto-rickshaw veered towards him, hit him from behind and fled the scene. Some locals found him lying in a pool of blood and took him to a nearby hospital, where the doctors declared him dead on arrival. Taking cognizance of a letter filed before the court by the Dhanbad principal district judge in the case, Chief Justice Ravi Ranjan converted it into a writ petition, and ordered the formation of a Special Investigation Team (SIT), under the leadership of Additional Director General of Police Sanjay Latkar, to look into the matter. He further said that Chief Justice of India N V Ramana has spoken to him in the matter, and expressed confidence that a fair investigation will be carried out in the case. The court said it will monitor the probe and sought updates from the SIT from time to time. It also observed that the law and order situation in Jharkhand has worsened as earlier, too, an advocate had come under attack in the state. Jharkhand Health minister Banna Gupta, who is also minister in-charge of the Dhanbad district, said it was inappropriate to speak on the incident without evidence. "A probe would bring to light if it was a pre-planned murder or an accident," he said. Jharkhand Director General of Police, Neeraj Sinha, during the hearing of the case, assured the court that the investigation would be carried out in a professional manner and suggested the name of Sanjay Lautkar as the head of the SIT. The court expressed its displeasure over the delay in registration of FIR following the incident. If at any point in time it appears to the court that the investigation is not heading in the right direction, then the case will be handed over to the CBI, the chief justice said. He asked the police to ensure that culprits, if any, are punished in the case. Not just the auto driver, the person who hatched the conspiracy should also be unmasked, he said. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, who is also the president of Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA), mentioned the matter before the apex court during the day, and described the incident as a “brazen attack” on the independence of judiciary. Singh said investigation in the case must be entrusted to the CBI as the killing of a judicial officer, apparently for not granting bail to a gangster, is an assault on the judicial system. A Supreme Court bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justice Surya Kant, however, stated that the chief justice of Jharkhand High Court has already taken up the matter, and interference by the apex court at this stage may not be necessary. Singh also attended the proceedings in the high court and assured all help.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-arrested-in-dhanbad-judge-death-case-heavy-autorickshaw-recovered-police-1014340.html
29-07-2021||North and Central||IAF makes eight sorties to cloudburst-hit Kishtwar as rescue op intensifies; 20 still missing||Despite the prevailing bad weather, the Indian Air Force (IAF) on Thursday made eight helicopter sorties with rescuers and relief material to cloudburst-hit Kishtwar district of Jammu and Kashmir where a rescue operation gained momentum to trace 20 missing people, officials said. Seven people were found dead while 17 others were rescued in an injured condition after the remote Honzar village in Dacchan tehsil was struck by the cloudburst in the early hours of Wednesday, damaging 21 houses, 21 cow sheds, a ration depot, a bridge and a mosque. "Three IAF helicopters -- one each from Jammu, Udhampur and Srinagar -- were utilized for airlifting joint teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) to Kishtwar," Jammu-based Army PRO Lt Col Devender Anand told PTI. He said the helicopters flew a total of eight sorties, transferring relief load of 2,250 kg, 44 NDRF and SDRF personnel, four medical assistants and transported two patients who are in critical condition from Sondar to Kishtwar for specialised treatment. The IAF also made an attempt to airlift the joint team of NDRF and SDRF from the Jammu technical airport on Wednesday but bad weather forced the crew to return. Jammu Divisional Commissioner Raghav Langar and Additional Director General of Police, Jammu zone, Mukesh Singh were also on board the helicopter. With the induction of the specialists from the NDRF and SDRF personnel along with sophisticated equipment, the rescue operation has intensified and efforts are on to locate the missing people, including nine women, the officials said, adding the chances of their survival seem bleak as they are believed to have been washed away by the strong current or buried under debris. The officials said the success eluded the rescuers comprising police, Army, SDRF, NDRF and local volunteers from the village and adjoining areas throughout the day. DGP-cum-Commandant General Home Guard, Civil Defence and SDRF, V K Singh said five of his teams along with NDRF personnel joined the rescue operation on Thursday. "Two of our teams reached the scene on Wednesday itself and were joined by another team this morning. Two more teams comprising both SDRF and NDRF personnel left Jammu and Srinagar by road for Kishtwar, while another two teams were airlifted by the IAF," he said. The Jammu Divisional Commissioner and Additional DGP, Jammu zone, rushed to Kishtwar by road and supervised the rescue and relief operation along with Kishtwar District Development Commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma. The officials said the village, located on the banks of a stream and surrounded by mountains, can be reached by a three-hour trek from the last motorable road and is presenting a gloomy picture with wails of survivors filling the air. "Shortly after the deafening sound of the cloudburst woke us up, we found ourselves caught in the flash floods," Mohammad Jabbar, a local resident said. He said many of the structures along with the inhabitants were swept away by the gushing waters. Fayaz Ahmad, another resident, hailed police for reaching the scene soon after getting information. "A police party was the first to reach the village followed by Army and SDRF teams. We are thankful to them for a prompt response," he said, adding the Senior Superintendent of Police, Kishtwar, Shafqat Hussain Batt is camping in the village to personally lead the rescue operation. A police spokesman said camps have been set up at Dangadooru and Soundar for receipt and despatch of the relief and rescue materials for the flood-affected people. Special teams for this purpose have been formed and deputed from the District Police Lines Kishtwar, the official said. The Jammu and Kashmir government had announced an ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh each for the next of kin of those who lost their lives in the incident and Rs 50,000 each, and Rs 12,700 under the State Disaster Response Fund to the grievously injured. At a function in Kathua district on Thursday, Lt Governor Manoj Sinha expressed his heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families which suffered loss in the Kishtwar cloudburst and assured every possible support to the families affected by the natural calamity. "We cannot bring back the lives lost in the unfortunate incident. However, we will ensure the best possible assistance to the affected families. Our heartfelt sympathies are with the bereaved families," he said. Most parts of Jammu region have been receiving incessant rains for the past few days and the Meteorological department has predicted widespread intermittent rain across Jammu and Kashmir till July 30. "Heavy to very heavy rain is possible at some places and may lead to flash floods, mudslide, landslide and water logging (in low lying areas). People are advised to remain alert as water level has risen in all rivers (owing to incessant rains)," a MeT department spokesperson had said. People have been advised to keep away from hilly areas and those prone to landslide and mudslide.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/iaf-makes-eight-sorties-to-cloudburst-hit-kishtwar-as-rescue-op-intensifies-20-still-missing-1014396.html
29-07-2021||Oasis||Stay focussed||We are in the era of the pandemic, where there is the new "normal" and Work From Home. One must get accustomed to the new life. An important component of our altered lifestyle is the absence of a structured routine to manage time strategically without squandering and wasting it. Indeed, if one is not careful and cautious about clever time management, valuable time will be lost daydreaming, oversleeping and use of social media, TV and video games. So, while time management is an important topic for everyone, it is more so for those working from home during the pandemic. Also, the lines between home time and professional time should not be blurred. One must chalk out a routine, and even though there are no strict routine boundaries, one must see that one adheres to reserving some time to be spent with family and some strictly for professional work. Suppose one is expected to write a precis in an hour and email it to the office editor, how can one manage? First of all, one must keep the workstation devoid of any clutter with only the computer or pen and paper at hand. A clock or smartphone to say the time and an inspiring picture of a God or a saintly person, whom one believes in, for motivation. To manage one’s time during this one hour, one can imagine that one is superman or Mandrake the magician and has in hand a “time-saver”— this can be the computer mouse, a pen or pencil or even the ring on one’s finger. One should just start writing the precis. Every time the mind wanders or strays away, think that the time saver is there to help remember to finish the work on time, and if distracted or one starts daydreaming, think that the time-saver, i.e., the mouse (without which the computer will not function), the pen/pencil or ring will be taken away and not returned. This is a valuable incentive to stay focused and prevent the mind from vacuous thinking or daydreaming. This small hack is guaranteed to give results, and the precis will be ready in one hour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/stay-focussed-1014033.html
29-07-2021||Opinion||IOU is Mamata Banerjee's khela: Will it work?||Mamata Banerjee's proposed "no vote for BJP" in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls is a version of the anti-Congressism that socialist leader Ram Manohar Lohia pioneered in the 1960s. Psephologists later coined the term "Index of Opposition Unity", or IOU, to explain the electoral battles that characterized this anti-Congressism. However, Banerjee calls her strategy simply "khela hoga", or the game is on. The IOU phase lasted from the mid-1960s until the 1989 Lok Sabha polls. During that period, political parties of nearly all hues, from the communists to socialists, the Jana Sangh, its subsequent avatar of the BJP, splinters of the Congress and eventually some of the regional parties, played their parts in this IOU. However, the communists, socialists and those in the Jan Sangh did not carry the baggage of power. The rootedness of their leaders, their frugal transparent personal lives were in contrast to the perceptions that people by then had formed of most ruling Congress leaders. Unlike the current opposition, those who battled the Congress at its height had beaten the ruling party in the people's hearts and minds before they started defeating it in the electoral arena. It is a factor that the BJP, even at the height of its power in the last seven years, has found challenging. It has had few answers to opposition leaders perceived as rooted and credible - Nitish Kumar in 2015 in Bihar, Arvind Kejriwal in 2015 and 2020 in Delhi, Banerjee herself in 2021 in West Bengal, or even a Naveen Patnaik in Odisha. Therefore, is it Banerjee's plan to dissuade Congress leader Rahul Gandhi from making the 2024 Lok Sabha contest a one that is primarily between himself and Prime Minister Narendra Modi? Rahul Gandhi achieved that in 2019 but miserably failed in his ultimate objective of defeating the Modi-led BJP. Banerjee said that she does not want to be the leader of any such federal front against the BJP, and the parties would resolve the question of leadership later. She said public perception could change quickly and cited Indira Gandhi's defeat at the hands of the Janata Party in 1977 and Atal Bihari Vajpayee's loss in 2004. Few had indeed expected even weeks before those elections that Indira Gandhi or Vajpayee might lose.  But there is a subtext to what Banerjee said. In neither situation did the opposition have a declared prime ministerial face. In 1977, the Janata Party was a coalition of leaders who had come together weeks before the polls. Neither had the Congress projected a leader against Vajpayee in 2004.  A reason that could help Banerjee's strategy in 2024 is the continuing decline of the Congress party in several states. The changed scenario could allow strong regional parties one-on-one fights against the BJP. West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and Telangana are examples of this. But would Congress agree to such a strategy? After all, it wasn't the BJP that weakened Congress in several states since 1967. The socialists and Charan Singh's Lok Dal accomplished that in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The communists did it in Bengal and Kerala, and the regional parties in states like Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Assam chinked Congress citadels.  Also, Congress knows it has seldom recovered the space that it has ceded or lost to regional parties. It is now one of the smaller allies of regional parties in Tamil Nadu and Bihar, and a similar fate stares it in Maharashtra.  But it has also proved to be the weakest link in fighting the BJP since 2014. In 2019, the Congress won as many as 39 of its total 52-seats against the Left or regional parties. The BJP blanked out the Congress in nearly 200-seats where their candidates were either the winner or runner up. Thus, Congress will have to sacrifice its ego and cede space if IOU has to become a reality in 2024. The Congress has already resigned itself to be a minor player in West Bengal and Tamil Nadu. Can it do that in states like Odisha, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, and Maharashtra?  At the same time, can it prepare to put up a sterner fight in the 175-seats where it and the BJP will have one-on-one contests? These are seats in Jammu, Punjab and Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Goa, Karnataka, Jharkhand and the Northeast.  The test for Congress will come in the forthcoming Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh. The Samajwadi Party has ruled out any alliance with Congress. But there are suggestions that the Congress party should unilaterally announce that it will not contest more than 40 of the 403-seats to do its bit for the index of opposition unity. If that happens, the khela of the IOU would indeed be on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/iou-is-mamata-banerjees-khela-will-it-work-1014097.html
29-07-2021||Opinion||Modi's 'Bharat Jodo' distorts India's diversity||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's call to every Indian citizen to lead a 'Bharat Jodo' Andolan (Unite India Campaign) in his July 25 Mann Ki Baat radio talk show is duplicitous. He asserted, "It is our duty to ensure that our work helps closely knit, bind our India which is filled with diversity." It is outwardly an epitome of good intentions. In actuality, it aims to showcase himself as a leader committed to constantly harnessing the nationalist spirit. However, Modi did not clarify if he now accepts that contemporary India and its civilisation contain multitudes of people, communities, and faiths. Or that he no longer adheres to the long-held Hindutva definition that India is a nation based on Hindu culture. Without this elucidation, Modi's call is essentially a call to citizens to rally behind the narrow idea of India that his party and its ideological fountainhead, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, have espoused for almost a century. The prime minister's advocacy to "resolve that the country remains our primary faith, our topmost priority" comes in the year this regime has marked as Amrit Mahotsav in the run-up to next year's 75th anniversary of India's independence. However, it also comes amid the consistent disparagement and slander of India's religious minorities, Muslims and Christians chiefly. Modi has paradoxically given the call for 'Bharat Jodo' even while foot soldiers of his party and its ideological affiliates routinely ask minorities to subsume themselves in the nation's dominant cultural stream. If unwilling, they should be ready to face the possibility of Bharat Chhoro, or leave India, hollered at them. Additionally, during the Covid-19 pandemic, this government has further intensified its campaign to heighten prejudice against minorities by a series of actions. To name a few, the vicious accusations against Tablighi Jamaat in March 2020 to the latest moves of the Uttar Pradesh and Assam state governments targeting Muslims by introducing new legislations ranging from restricting the number of children per family to impeding inter-faith marriage and restricting trade and consumption of beef. Each of these actions is little but representative of dog-whistle politics. Even if, at face value, we accept Modi's call as a reach-out to all, after all, there's nothing wrong for citizens to work for socio-political unity, how do we read the almost simultaneous antagonistic assertion of RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat? At a function on Eid-ul-Zuha in Guwahati, the capital of a state that is one of the renewed Hindutva experimental centres to force religious polarisation, the sarsanghchalak declared, "planned efforts" were made since 1930 to increase the Muslim population in India. The RSS has long campaigned that "adherents of Indic religions (Hinduism, Sikhism, Jainism and Buddhism) will become a minority in India by the year 2061." After 1947 when the RSS began pushing its paranoid views on religious demography, it argued that illegal migration took place in India in border areas, especially into Assam, West Bengal and some north-eastern states. The RSS viewpoint was that the likely change in demography would render Hindus into a minority in several regions of these states, which would imperil national security. The RSS also waved a red flag at activities of Christian missionaries in the north-eastern states and argued that religious conversions were the root cause of separatist sentiment among some sections of the populace in these states. Some scholars associated with the RSS propounded, after purportedly analysing the 2001 Census, that the increase in Muslims and Christian populations was due to illegal migration and higher birth rates among them. KS Sudarshan, the sarsanghchalak preceding Bhagwat, claimed Hindus will be reduced to a minority in "their own land". The statement was driven by the RSS sentiment that Hindus had a greater claim on India and that adherents of Islam, Christianity and other non-Indic religions could not say this land was "theirs". In 2015, under Bhagwat, the RSS also adopted a resolution calling for "demographic balance". Modi has also said that a small family was an expression of patriotism. The RSS claim of a higher Muslim growth rate as conspiratorially driven is neither evident in the actual intent of the community nor by the population data. The slanderous campaign also disregards that Muslims (and Christians) are not a homogenous community and have as many divergences as Hindus (even Sikhs) on caste and community lines. What is the nature of India, that is Bharat, that Modi wishes to unite? Would it be a nation that is inclusive and recognises the diversity of this land, its people, their cultures and their faiths? Or would it be the nation that believes, as the Sangh Parivar has repeatedly advocated, that every citizen of this country is a Hindu, irrespective of their religion - that there can be a "Muslim Hindu" and "Christian Hindu". In the aftermath of the Babri Masjid's demolition, an RSS ideologue insidiously argued in the organisation's official organ, Organiser, for renaming India as "Hindudesh" as thereafter the nationality of everyone would be Hindu. In recent years, beginning with his three-day lecture series in New Delhi in 2018, Bhagwat has been considered to have signalled a significant comedown on the Sangh Parivar's Islamophobic campaign.  Bhagwat's assertions, like Modispeak, that the country's linguistic, social, cultural and religious diversity was inescapable, however, reverses the old notion of Unity in Diversity, paying more significant emphasis on unity and de-emphasises the country's plurality. For countless Indians, including this writer, there are multitudes of Indians, each with their way of expressing their sense of belonging to this nation. Despite this disparity, they remain loyal to the country. For Shashi Tharoor, this is a "thali" theory of nationalism. Like a thali, we are a collection of different items in different bowls. Since we are in different dishes we don't necessarily flow into each other, but we belong together on the same platter and combine on your palate to give you a satisfying repast. According to the Thiruvananthapuram MP, the Modi or Bhagwat idea of India is a "khichdi theory of nationalism: we are one dish, with many ingredients mixed up and cooked together. Yes, individual pieces might stand out in the mash, a carrot here, an aloo there, but they are nothing other than parts of the meal." History for Modi or others of his ilk serves little purpose if it does not agitate the majority community against the minorities. In Mann Ki Baat, he introduced the idea of every Indian taking the lead in 'Bharat Jodo' Andolan as if it was his original contribution to the national discourse. Consequently, he discounted the fact that social reformer and activist Baba Amte had in 1985 embarked on a 5000 km plus march from Kanyakumari to Kashmir to re-infuse the spirit of national integration at a time of growing cynicism and communal strife was beginning to rear its head in India. Three years later, he embarked on the second leg of his voyage, on this occasion, from Assam to Gujarat. For a leader who refers to tales of numerous others, why did Modi not mention either Amte or the iconic musical campaign played after then prime minister Rajiv Gandhi delivered the independence day speech in 1988 - Mile Sur Mera Tumhara? Simply because Modi, Bhagwat, or other Hindutva votaries do not emphasise the vibrant pluralism that went into making a unifying song. The Bharat that Modi wishes to unite or knit would be where all other identities, barring one, get encompassed into a gigantic indistinct entity. Modi disparages khichdi sarkar (coalition governments) to make a case for a strong leader like he at the helm. But in the process, he is pushing the case for divesting Indian of its vibrancy and diversity and make it one uniform broth. The 'Bharat Jodo' Abhiyan is yet another endeavour in this direction. (The writer is an NCR-based author and journalist. His books include The RSS: Icons of the Indian Right and Narendra Modi: The Man, The Times. He tweets at @NilanjanUdwin)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/modis-bharat-jodo-distorts-indias-diversity-1014099.html
29-07-2021||Opinion||Left or Right||The recent spate of state elections saw a bitter war of words, with each party trying to woo the masses with their ideological trinkets and dissing others'. The western world tried to neatly capture these ideologies or box them into "the Right" and "the Left". But this is a relatively recent phenomenon, perhaps less than 300 years old. The term Right and Left in the political sense originated in 1789, during the French revolution when those who desperately wanted change and were disenchanted with the aristocracy and wanted a new order based on equality and freedom sat on the left in the parliament. These were mostly revolutionists, the poor class and farmers – the have-nots. While those who wanted the status quo to carry on sat on the right - the aristocrats, the royalty and the haves. With monarchies and aristocracies slowly dissolving with time, the Left became the dominant political ideology. It became associated with communism and socialism, which arose in France, and mostly meant social welfare and business in the hands of the government. Religion was kept out of governance. In fact, the communist regimes banned it as an existential threat. When a new form of economic system in capitalism came into being, and a new political order arose in democracy, the spectrum of Left and Right started transitioning again and became more complex. When democracy firmly took centre stage across the world and communism started fading and failing, the Left and Right ideological battle crept into the economic and social sphere to differentiate one political party from another. Interestingly, socialism's brush with capitalism saw a new breed of socialists pejoratively referred to as gauche caviar (caviar eating leftists), socialists who liked good clothes and money and other perks of capitalism. In the 19th century, in Europe, the Right moved from supporting aristocrats to supporting the nouveau riche, freshly minted from the new capitalist system. On social/values-based issues, there were very few areas of distinction. In the 20th century, the new Right was popularized by Reaganism and Thatcherism, which politically stood for more authority, loyalty, and social conformity. Economically, they vied to break the governments' shackles and pushed for more free markets, privatization and minimum governments. The American Left then stood for the freedom to choose, equality and economically bounded capitalism, a party of the working class, with the state providing a robust social net. The Indian Left and Right ideas followed a similar path until the late last century. Initially, the Indian Left was essentially the communists, who advocated state control over the business and strong welfarism in the hands of the government. As a result, parties that opposed this ideology were on the Right, relatively speaking, even though they both advocated the government's vital role in business in the economic arena. In the social/ values-based sphere, they were mostly the same, appealing to specific sections of society in the minority or were backward or discriminated against. In the late 20th century, with the ascension of the Bharatiya Janata Party and its affiliates, a new Right was formed. This new Right believed in a more brawny approach to patriotism and nationalism. Economically, however, they were no different than the Congress and other centre-left parties. There were occasional attempts by the two main political outfits to adopt more right-wing economics in the western sense, but it has not been a prime offering of distinction for either, as increased welfarism is seen to reap great political dividends. On the other hand, the very Left, the communist party in China, have had more liberal policies and beliefs in free markets. This concept of Left and Right has been explained through the prism of a morality matrix by an intellectual powerhouse, Jonathan Haidt, in his book, The Righteous Mind. In the book, Haidt lays down the tenets of the Moral Foundation Theory – the broad basis on which human beings make decisions, carve out their preferences and form their value system. According to him, the moral matrix of humans beings consists of five key foundations: Care, Fairness, Authority, Loyalty, and Sanctity. Each of these five foundations sub-consciously or consciously determine our choices, including political ones. The Care foundation makes us aware of suffering and cruelty and makes us focus on humanity rather than sub-sections of it. The Fairness foundation appeals to our desire to collaborate and also to our altruistic instincts. The Authority foundation is about status and rank and how our behaviour should always keep that in mind when interacting with others. The Loyalty foundation is about team play, patriotism and nationalism, about us versus them. The Sanctity foundation focuses on religion, which was a vital element in binding people together about 10,000 years ago and still is. According to Haidt, since the mid to late 20th century, the Left, in a democratic setup, generally appealed to people's Care and Fairness moral foundations. While the Right appeal to a broader set of foundations, which further includes Loyalty, Sanctity and Authority. Haidt writes that the Right generally triggers every taste receptor of morality while the Left primarily appeals to only two and that perhaps, therefore, the Right/Conservatives are politically more skilled. In the US, since Richard Nixon, the Right absorbed the Loyalty foundation which stood for Patriotism; the Authority foundation, which involved respect for teachers, elders and the police; and in the Ronald Regan era, adopted the Sanctity foundation through its campaign for family values and Christianity. Every political party or candidate plays a role of a sales and marketing guru/agency which develops a strategy, a sales pitch to appeal to its customers - the public. They test and stand for different values and moral foundations and are willing to tweak their strategy to win over people. The Republican Party in the US, which was all for free markets and importing talent, took a slight turn towards anti-immigration and accepted small doses of welfarism after gauging the people's mood. The liberals have two ideologies within a party, one which is very liberal, which took to the burning of their own flag in the 1960s because the liberals opposed strong nationalism and were very socialist in its leanings and then there is a more centrist slice, which during the Barack Obama era was not opposed to using Authority and Sanctity as foundations to appeal to the end customer. If one applies Haidt's moral foundation spectrum in the Indian context, it holds water. The Right/conservatives vigorously attempt to appeal to the masses on every moral foundation, including Loyalty, Authority and Sanctity, while the Left only caters to the care and Fairness foundation and avoids emphasis on nationalism, authority and overt, muscular religious identity. It is a superior strategy and has paid rich dividends to gain popularity and vote share for the Right. (The writer is an international development specialist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/left-or-right-1014200.html
29-07-2021||Panorama||Challenges that teachers face||With the passion to build the next generation, we have enjoyed every moment of teaching till the pandemic struck. Lockdowns made classrooms out of bounds for both teachers and students. We had to shift to the virtual mode to keep the learning process going and there are many challenges. A recent survey by Learning Spiral found that over 80% of teachers have been finding it difficult to teach online. Access to an uninterrupted internet connection has become a big challenge, especially when the pandemic coincided with the downfall of nearly nine telecom players and financial losses faced by the big ones. Even if there were no issues with the internet, can all teachers afford devices like smartphones, desktops, tablets and laptops? If both are available, do they know how to teach in a digital medium? In this regard, Internet service providers could be encouraged to offer subsidised services to educational institutions— an ideal way to fulfil corporate social responsibility. Central educational bodies like UGC, NCERT, NCTE and NUEPA can provide training programmes for teachers through designated universities and schools in every district. The model of ‘training the trainers’ can be adopted. The state bodies can conduct similar capacity-building programmes. Gadgets could be provided to teachers at a subsidised price and the government could encourage corporates to sponsor gadgets under CSR funds. Connecting with students is one of the important attributes of a good teacher. But in a digital environment, it has become difficult to interact with them. Since every household with students has turned into a classroom, teachers have got passive students in the form of parents and kin. Parents are in fact the biggest assets in online teaching. Periodic meetings with parents can be considered to check progress and address challenges faced by students. Being at home 24/7 is unusual for students, who are jammed in small rooms with multiple occupants. Issues at homes quickly affect them. The pandemic has provided teachers with insights into the socio-economic condition of some students, who found it difficult to acquire a laptop and internet connection. This tended to limit their involvement in the classroom discussions. In some cases, it has even led to dropouts. Many students require emotional support in this unprecedented time. Teachers should reach out to them via online or voice calls on a regular basis and keep them motivated. While some students complain of “network issues”, some log in for attendance and get busy with things other than learning. Such distractions from the students’ side demotivate teachers. Two things can be tried: Random calling of students to explain certain aspects of the ongoing class and making the class more activity-oriented with roleplays and other group activities. It is important that we teachers show our faces to the classes too. Sharing class recordings would help students who miss out on classes due to various issues. It is important that teachers interact with students before and after the class; encourage them to reach out in case of any issues; meet class representatives every week to know the pulse of the students; interact with other subject teachers every month to hear about the challenges faced by them and give them tips to handle the class and open forums every month for students to express their views— all this goes a long way in improving the system. Though we are missing classroom teaching, not all is lost. This is the time students need teachers more than ever before. Teaching and learning continue uninterrupted because of the technological support systems, which is leading to a revolution in education. Probably there is a need for a rethink of the future of higher education. The ideal scenario is a hybrid model of education that allows both the student and the teacher to grow, with the continued use of technological aids. (The writers are professors at the Department of International Studies, Politics and History, Christ University, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/challenges-that-teachers-face-1014034.html
29-07-2021||Panorama||Why are India and the US sparring over a Mumbai mansion?||Earlier this year, when Secretary of State Antony J Blinken was up for confirmation in Washington, he was hit with a strange question about a piece of property 8,000 miles away on the Arabian Sea. Lincoln House, a former maharajah’s palace and US consulate in Mumbai, was supposed to have been sold six years ago for $110 million. Ever since, the United States has been trying to transfer the property to one of the richest families in India, now among the major makers of Covid-19 vaccines, but for unknown reasons the Indian government has been blocking it. The dispute is “an unnecessary irritant in bilateral ties,” Sen. James E Risch, R-Idaho, said in a written question to Blinken during the confirmation hearing. “Do you commit to making the resolution of the Lincoln House issue a priority with India, and to directing the US Ambassador to India to do the same?” “Yes,” Blinken said, and this week he will have a chance to prove his word. On Tuesday, Blinken arrived in India for his first trip to the country as secretary of state, and congressional and administration officials say he intends to bring up this mouldering mansion that is becoming something of a diplomatic black hole. Blinken has a full plate. He will be trying to quickly cover everything from cybersecurity, human rights and climate change to Covid assistance, the impending peril in Afghanistan and an elusive trade deal that could mean billions of dollars of new business for India and America, if it ever gets signed. But Lincoln House has become an unexpected obstacle. High-level diplomatic correspondence reveals how much attention this single property has consumed, laying bare some of the tortuous twists and turns of the US-India relationship, which many US officials hope will become their cornerstone in Asia. The intended buyer is the Poonawalla family, India’s vaccine tycoons, who have been in the spotlight this year for cranking out hundreds of millions of Covid-19 vaccine doses. Former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo vented his frustration last year in a letter to India’s foreign minister, writing that “the Government of India has never provided us any credible legal response or explanation of why it has blocked the transfer.” “Regrettably,” Pompeo added, “the Lincoln House saga does not live up to the standards of our relationship.” A year later, with maintenance bills running up, Lincoln House still sits unsold, its high walls crumbling, paint chipping off, rust streaks running down to the sidewalk, an American-owned eyesore. A rambling, haunted-looking, cream-coloured building, it lies in one of Mumbai’s most desirable enclaves — Breach Candy — just a stone’s throw from where soft waves tumble into the shore. Officials in the administration of Prime Minister Narendra Modi have met requests to discuss the matter with impenetrable silence. More than half a dozen officials, from the Foreign Ministry’s chief spokesman to the Mumbai collector (involved in registering property transfers) to the principal director general of the Press Information Bureau, which handles queries concerning Modi’s office, declined to comment. US officials are beyond annoyed. US officials interviewed by The New York Times seemed perplexed by the holdup. They suspect Modi’s government doesn’t like the idea of the United States making so much money off the deal, which would be one of the biggest house sales in Indian history. Or possibly the Modi government wants to prevent Lincoln House from going to the Poonawallas, who are not among the handful of Indian billionaires known to be Modi stalwarts. Or maybe it’s a matter of pride, and officials feel uncomfortable with a foreign government simply selling off an iconic piece of Indian history like any other property. The three-story mansion was built in the 1930s in Indian-Deco style (picture clean art deco lines, with rounded cupolas and ornate window meshes) by the Maharajah of Wankaner, one of the hundreds of princely states that existed under British rule. M K Ranjitsinh was the grandson of the maharajah who built it. “It was very modern for its time,” he said of the home, which had a swimming pool, a cannon out front and a wooden dance floor (“not like we used it much,” Ranjitsinh admitted). But after independence in 1947, the maharajahs lost their privileges. The upkeep for the house — called Wankaner House back then — became too much for a minor aristocrat. So in 1959, the Wankaner family sold the rights to the property (Lincoln House is actually on a 900-year-plus lease) to the American government for 1.65 million rupees, which would have been around $3,50,000 at the time. Though New Delhi is India’s capital, the United States needed something big and impressive for a consulate in Mumbai, then Bombay, India’s commercial powerhouse. Indians of a certain ilk have fond memories of grand soirees at Lincoln House. “There were beautiful terraces so you could see the garden below,” said Jeroo Mulla, a media professor who visited the mansion several times, starting in 1975. “It was so unusual. It’s not like the other ugly things around.” But in 2011, the United States opened a modern consulate in Mumbai. It was time to say goodbye to Lincoln House. A few years later, when it was put on the market, the Poonawallas snapped it up. The family runs the Serum Institute of India, the world’s largest manufacturer of vaccines, based in nearby Pune. At times the family has been at odds with the Indian government over export restrictions and other issues but both sides need each other and have downplayed their differences. With a penchant for Ferraris and racehorses, the Poonawallas are known for living large and said they planned to use the 50,000-square foot space as a weekend home. In October 2015, India’s Foreign Ministry gave the US government explicit permission for the deal in a letter saying, “This ministry would like to convey its approval for the sale.” But soon after, another branch of the Indian government, the Defense Estates Officer, objected, saying the Americans had failed to give notice of the sale and cessation of use of the property within a mandated 20-day period. US officials countered that they hadn’t finalised the transaction or stopped using the property and therefore hadn’t broken the rules. After the Indian government continued to frustrate the sale, many US officials, including two ambassadors and Pompeo, weighed in, arguing that the sale should go through and urging the Modi administration to help make it happen. US senators sent two letters to Modi. They never received a reply. If the deal is not finalised by the end of August, the Poonawallas have the right to back out, according to the contract. If they do, the US government then faces an expensive question: Now what? There aren’t too many other buyers who can drop $110 million on a home. And because Lincoln House is a heritage property, it would be difficult under current zoning rules to knock it down and redevelop. US officials are beginning to worry it could be a total loss. Through a spokesman, Adar Poonawalla, the scion of the family, declined to comment. However, last summer, when the subject was raised in an interview with The Times, he said that the family still wanted it and didn’t know why the government was blocking the sale. “I really hope to God that they decide one way or another,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/why-are-india-and-the-us-sparring-over-a-mumbai-mansion-1014036.html
29-07-2021||Panorama||Economic reforms: The widening gulf between hope and reality||Rivers of ink have been spilled over the past few weeks— in recollections and nostalgic anecdotes— marking three decades of India’s economic liberalisation story (1991). A pointless echoed and emphasised upon in the entire discourse (and economic debate) around the reforms of 1990s include: The ‘political’ and ‘political economy’ considerations seen during that period, particularly 1980s, which seem different and yet, like the ‘political’ and ‘political economy’ context(s) of current times. Noted political economist Atul Kohli, in his work on politics of economic growth in India (1980-2005 period), provides a detailed insight into the ‘political’ and ‘political economy’ landscapes shaping India’s growth trajectory during the 1980s, 1990s and 2000s. His work highlights the essence of seeing India’s entry to the global economic landscape as a product of incremental, gradualist reforms of the 80s based on attitudinal shifts observed in the ‘state-capital-private business’ relationship. What’s central to the pursuit of Kohli’s thesis is a theoretical (more abstract) question: Did India’s growth acceleration (during the 1990s, 2000s) resulted from the (nation) state’s embrace of neoliberal policies, or from some more complex but identifiable pattern of state intervention? To answer this, Kohli employs a theoretical distinction seeing India’s growth experience in a two-part interpretative category: the ‘pro-market’ vs. ‘pro-business’ growth experience. The 1991 and post-1991 period is understood as part of the ‘pro-market’ growth trajectory where pursued economic reforms-undertaken more on the capital market side-allowed our ‘markets’ to operate more freely, flexibly in certain sectors (telecom, automobiles, aviation, IT, construction, consumer goods etc.) with the aim to crowd in private investment opportunities. It is true that a push for market-led growth allowed economic possibilities and upward income mobility for higher-income classes across the nation, even though the distributive end of any such growth-accrued gains failed to allow greater income (and social mobility) amongst the more vulnerable, economically depressed classes. Welfare distribution or essential social expenditure wasn’t prioritised in fiscal policy for most of the 1990s and thereon. Nevertheless, this period saw a strengthening of the ‘state-capital-private business’ alliance like never before, but at the cost of preexisting social and economic protection available to India’s deeply fragmented labor force. This ‘pro-market’ experience couldn’t have been possible though without a gradualist nudge anchored by ‘pro-business’ measures of 1980s. In early 1980s, Indira Gandhi realized that her socialist politics of garibi-hatao was running out of steam. Land reforms were difficult to implement. Fiscal deficit was high. Anti-big business measures such as the MRTP act, FERA act and the nationalisation of banks had deeply eroded the state-capital-private business compact which hampered growth. Politically too, Indira Gandhi and her advisors might have calculated that a realignment with big capital may not be too costly, in part because the poor were already loyal to her, but also because state support of business may lead to higher growth, lower inflation- an outcome that India’s largely poor electorate may appreciate. New model And so, the three components of the ‘new model of development’ that Indira Gandhi adopted from 1980s were centered around: prioritsation of economic growth as a state goal; supporting big business to achieve this goal; and taming labour as a necessary aspect of this strategy. Powerful committees like the LK Jha Committee (to study overhaul of economic administration); the Abid Hussain Committee (to review trade), and the M Narasimham Committee (to consider financial reforms) were established to study how this major transformation was to be implemented. The economic reforms undertaken since 1991 may have influenced India’s industrial policy and external economic relations. But the variety of industrial policy reforms- delicensing, removal of MRTP constraints, tax concessions, opening of yet newer areas hitherto reserved for the public sector, and taming of labour— can be best viewed as continuation of reforms well underway during 1980s itself. Still, the roots of neoliberal economic activism observed from the reform cycle beginning in the 80s was stretched upon a collective belief on taming India’s labour activism. Weakening density of labour unions, lowering strikes, ‘work-to-rule’ movements were increasingly characterized by Indira Gandhi (once regarded as a leader of the left) as “anti-social demonstrations of irresponsibility by a few” in 80s. Collective bargaining for workers was further weakened, widening wage inequality amongst income classes. Of course, within the limits of India’s fragmented state power, this ‘labour disciplining’ strategy wasn’t possible to the same extent as seen in East Asia, where China, South Korea, Singapore etc. were more brutish in policing workers for a cohesive form of capitalism to drive growth. The Indian scenario could not be the same because of two operative (and constitutive) governance realities: a) its federal and fragmented polity insulated by a diverse, ethnolinguistically segregated social and economic class; and b) its democratic functioning with a maintained separation of powers between the legislative, executive and the judiciary. Let’s bring the picture back to the present reality now. A national signalling effort aimed at ‘disciplining labour’, renewing the ‘state-capital-private business’ compact for the aspirational goal of ‘higher growth’ wasn’t just the status quo effort undertaken during the 80s and 90s. It has also been tried since the Narendra Modi government took power in 2014. What’s intermittently worse now than what was seen during the Indira-Rajiv years (1980s) and the Rao-Manmohan years (1990s) is a ‘political’ attack seen on those two operative functioning of our governance ecosystem. Widening democratic deficit, a breakdown in federal relationship (between Union-states), and a deep erosion of social trust (between economic agents: farmers, workers, firms, households, government) is compounding the nation further into a chronic ‘crisis of confidence’ unlike before, which - no matter the policy- wouldn’t allow for growth to the means to an end (ensuring a higher order of well-being for all citizenry) as hoped for. The circling of India’s national economic reform story remains projected around an obsession on ‘growth at all cost’ without a focus on ‘deliberative redistribution’ or in applying the principles of a welfare state (what the Indian constitution envisages). (The writer is Director, Centre for New Economic Studies, O P Jindal Global University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/economic-reforms-the-widening-gulf-between-hope-and-reality-1014040.html
29-07-2021||Right in the Middle||Monkey numbers||There is a bombardment of data in news regarding the Covid pandemic. There have been claims and counter-claims about the data. This reminds me of an incident that had occurred in the pre-independence period and was narrated to me by a retired bureaucrat when I was undergoing training at the Administrative Training Institute, Mysore, in 1983. Monkeys destroying banana plantations in the Nanjanagud region of the Mysore district was a longstanding problem. Every farmer tried to drive them away but in vain. At last, the farmers requested the Dewan to find a solution and also asked him to compensate them for having lost the crop. The Dewan asked the Mysore district deputy commissioner to report, “the extent of banana plantation damaged by the monkeys and the number of monkeys in Nanjangud taluk” The deputy commissioner after going through the letter passed the buck to Nanjanagud tahsildar to furnish the information sought by the Dewan. Tahsildar was aghast because while he could furnish the extent of banana plantations affected by the monkeys, but could not the number of monkeys in the taluk. The tahsildar as usual summoned all shyanboghs and directed them to furnish the information sought by the deputy commissioner. The shyanboghs too were perplexed— they did not know the number of monkeys— and expressed their inability in this regard. But one wise shanbhogh informed that there are 3,553 monkeys in the taluk. The tahsildar, who was mystified by this, asked him how he could authentically tell the number of monkeys in the taluk and if the deputy commissioner finds the actual number to be more or less than 3,553, how would he defend it?  He said: "Sir, instead of finding a solution to the monkey menace, is there any sense in asking about the number of monkeys in the taluk and is it possible to furnish the same? If he finds more monkeys than the number that we have furnished, let us tell him that the monkeys have come from the neighbouring taluks. If he finds less, let us tell him that the monkeys have gone out of the taluk." The tahsildar reminisced the phrase: "There are three kinds of lies: lies, damned lies, and statistics"||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/monkey-numbers-1014037.html
29-07-2021||Second Edit||Monsoon and trail of destruction||Excessive monsoon rainfall has left a big trail of destruction across many states, with Maharashtra bearing the brunt of the impact. Karnataka’s northern parts have been badly affected by rains and floods and attendant problems. Other states like Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Bihar have seen high levels of monsoon activity. Every part of the country that has been covered by the monsoon has suffered loss and damage. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said that the southern peninsula has seen 29% more rainfall than normal till now. Some areas in Maharashtra experienced record rainfall. Normal life has been thrown out of gear in many places and roads, buildings, bridges and other constructions have been destroyed. Crops have been lost and factories damaged. There are reports of loss of lives and livelihood from everywhere. It is now accepted that extreme weather events, which have become common, are caused by climate change. India has seen abnormal rainfall and more cyclones in the last few years. The increased frequency of cyclonic activity is thought to be a reason for excessive rainfall. The extreme natural phenomena will increase as no substantial measures are being taken to control climate change. But it would be wrong to blame climate change for all the havoc. Even without the threat of climate change, our record of handling natural calamities has been poor. Administrations have often been found wanting in dealing with rains and floods. The country needs to be better equipped to face such eventualities both in the short term and in the long term. It is important to bring immediate relief to victims and to take quick measures to put the broken facilities back in operation. Disaster relief plans should be improved and updated to meet the new requirements. Some states like Odisha have done well to put in place such plans after learning from experience. Each state will have a different challenge and so plans should be made to deal with the specific situations that are likely to arise there. The formulation of long-term plans is equally important. It is time to reorient development projects, infrastructure building and other construction plans in such way as to tackle the impact of climate change. Just as plans are made to face earthquakes or tsunamis, special planning has to be made to meet the climate change threat. They will have to include changes in urban planning, architecture, designs of roads and sewers, crop plans and many other matters. Many of the present practices which have done harm to ecology will have to abandoned and new attitudes and practices have to be adopted. Such changes cannot wait, since the climate has already started changing. But our priorities do not reflect the new imperatives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/monsoon-and-trail-of-destruction-1014042.html
29-07-2021||South||Kerala to impose full Covid-19 lockdown on July 31, August 1 as cases rise||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya also said in a tweet that the Centre would send a 6-member team to Kerala headed by the Director of National Centre for Disease Control to aid the state's ongoing efforts in Covid-19 management. "Central Government is sending 6 member team to Kerala headed by NCDC Director. As large number of Covid cases are still being reported in Kerala, the team will aid state’s ongoing efforts in Covid-19 management," he said. India's daily cases have fallen after a devastating second wave that overwhelmed the healthcare system, and vaccination efforts are gaining steam. But experts have warned the authorities against swiftly reopening cities. Kerala, with an active caseload of around 154,000, accounts for 37.1 per cent of India's total active cases. Its case positivity rate indicating the pace of spread in infections is now the country's highest. "Special intensified stringent restrictions are being implemented in the areas where the test positivity rate is high," the state's department of disaster management said in a statement announcing a "complete lockdown" from Sunday. During the last four weeks, seven of Kerala's 14 districts reported an increasing trend in daily new infections, government data released earlier this week showed. The Centre has left decisions on lockdowns and reopenings to state authorities, leading to an uneven response that experts say has allowed new hotspots to develop even as infections fall in previous epicentres. India on Thursday reported 43,509 new coronavirus cases in the previous 24 hours, taking the overall tally to 31.53 million, though experts believe the actual figure could be much higher. (Inputs from Reuters)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-to-impose-full-covid-19-lockdown-on-july-31-august-1-as-cases-rise-1014098.html
29-07-2021||South||Covid-19: Chennai Airport to conduct Rapid PCR test for international flyers||As the second wave of Covid-19 recedes and international travel resumes gradually, Chennai airport will conduct rapid PCR tests to ensure safer international flights for passengers. This test assumes importance as most countries are putting up travel restrictions wary of Covid-19, whose more virulent Delta strain has alerted nations once again across the globe. Dubai, for instance, has a rule that travellers have to undergo a rapid RT-PCR test for Covid-19 four hours before their departure and they can only travel if the report is negative. HLL Life Care has set up a test facility at the Chennai Airport called ‘Hind Labs’ which has an 'Abbot ID Now' based system for the tests, which is ICMR-approved.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-chennai-airport-to-conduct-rapid-pcr-test-for-international-flyers-1014115.html
29-07-2021||South||Kerala's Covid-19 situation explained: Low sero-survey rates, high daily numbers||In what is a worrying development, the latest state-level sero-survey shows that only 44 per cent of Kerala's population — as opposed to two-thirds or 67 per cent across India — has been exposed to the coronavirus. Kerala has witnessed a rise in Covid-19 cases over the last few weeks and the low prevalence of the virus coupled with the high testing rate could be one of the factors driving this rise. While Kerala is yet to confirm the arrival of a third wave or the strain behind the rise in cases, the state has a better track record in detecting infections as well as curbs in place for longer than other states. According to earlier sero-surveys, Kerala was able to detect one in five infections, far better than the national of one in 26, which could explain why a large number now emerges and the lockdowns could be a factor why fewer than average (national average) have been exposed to Covid so far. The Northeast and Kerala have recently seen surges in daily infections, causing the Centre to shift its focus there. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Thursday said that the Centre would send a 6-member team to Kerala headed by Director, National Centre for Disease Control to help the aid the state in its Covid-19 management.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-covid-19-situation-explained-low-sero-survey-rates-high-daily-numbers-1014122.html
29-07-2021||South||Central team to visit Kerala as daily Covid-19 cases remain high||With Kerala continuing to report a high number of Covid-19 cases, the Centre on Thursday decided to rush a six-member team of experts to supplement the state government's efforts in dealing with the pandemic. National Centre for Disease Control Director Sujeet Kumar Singh will lead the six-member team that will visit some districts reporting high positivity rate. Six districts are reporting more than 10% weekly positivity, the Health Ministry stated. “As a large number of Covid cases are still being reported in Kerala, the team will aid state's ongoing efforts in Covid-19 management,” Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya tweeted. A Health Ministry statement added that the Central team will work closely with state health authorities, take a stock of the ground situation and recommend necessary public health interventions to contain the spread of the virus. Kerala has 1.54 lakh active cases of Covid-19, which account for 37.1% of the total active cases in the country. The average daily cases being reported in the state are above 17,443. The state has also reported a high case positivity of 12.93% cumulatively and 11.97%weekly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/central-team-to-visit-kerala-as-daily-covid-19-cases-remain-high-1014126.html
29-07-2021||South||Kerala bedlam case: Opposition boycotts Assembly, stage violent protests||The Congress-led Opposition in Kerala has stepped up the demand for Education Minister V Sivankutty's resignation in connection with the Kerala Assembly bedlam case. While the Opposition United Democratic Front boycotted the Assembly on Thursday, party workers staged violent protests in front of the Assembly complex. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan rejected the demand for Sivankutty's resignation maintaining that the Supreme Court order on Wednesday while dismissing the state's plea to withdraw the Assembly bedlam case did not make any critical remarks against Sivankutty or any others accused in the case. Vijayan also justified his government's decision to move the court seeking withdrawal of the case. He said that his government only tried to protect the privileges of the Assembly. Opposition leader V D Satheesan said that it was unfair to justify the move to withdraw the case even after Supreme Court dismissed the plea. He also said that while education ministers should be a model to students, Kerala is having an education minister who created a ruckus in the Assembly and is now facing trial. With Speaker M B Rajesh denying permission for an adjournment motion on the matter, the Opposition boycotted the House. Six Left Democratic Front leaders, including Sivankutty and former industries minister E P Jayarajan, are the accused in the case pertaining to a violent protest in the state Assembly in 2015. The LDF, which was then the Opposition party, staged the protest to prevent then Finance Minister K M Mani in the Oommen Chandy government from presenting the state Budget as he faced allegations of taking bribes from bar owners for diluting the state's excise policy. The LDF leaders are facing the case under the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act as properties worth Rs 2.2 lakh were damaged in the bedlam. The LDF government that subsequently came to power moved the court for withdrawing the case, citing that the incident happened inside the Assembly and the House took action against the MLAs. It also maintained that the Legislature Secretary gave a police complaint without the Speaker's nod.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-bedlam-case-opposition-boycotts-assembly-stage-violent-protests-1014158.html
29-07-2021||South||BJP, CPI(M) spar as Covid-19 cases remain high in Kerala||Kerala, which boasts of having India's best healthcare system, has reported more than half of the country's total Covid-19 case count in the past few days, kicking up a heated exchange between the BJP and state's ruling CPI(M). The southern state on Wednesday alone recorded 22,056 fresh Covid-19 cases -- more than half of India's total coronavirus tally of 43,654. While health experts and policymakers in the state cited Kerala's lowest seroprevalence for reason of spike in daily Covid cases, Union Minister Rajeev Chandrasekhar attacked the CPI(M)-ruled state, alleging that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's failures represents a big risk to all of India. Hitting back at the BJP and its minister, senior CPI(M) leader and former Finance Minister T M Thomas Isaac urged the centre to provide more vaccines to Kerala than free advice. According to Dr Suresh Kumar, Head of the Institute of Palliative Medicine, Kozhikode Medical College hospital, there are two modes in checking the spike of the virus. "One is through vaccination and the other naturally. As per a recent report of the ICMR, Kerala has the lowest seroprevalence at 44 per cent and hence the rest 56 per cent are still vulnerable to the virus whereas the rate is around 70 in most other states," Suresh Kumar told PTI. He said Kerala never experienced a peak in spikes and the hospitals in the state were not overburdened "as we were following the protocols almost meticulously preventing natural immunity." Suresh Kumar opined that the spike is likely to continue till people acquire resistance level. In a tweet, Isaac echoed the views of the experts and said Kerala has the lowest seroprevalence of 44 per cent, MP highest at 79 per cent. "It implies that Kerala has managed Covid better. Its multiple of seroprevalence to reported case load is also lowest. Therefore present spike in case load is due to failure of Centre in providing sufficient vaccine", he said. Urging the Centre to provide more vaccines to states that have lower seroprevalence rate, Isaac said they are more vulnerable to infection. "The present policy of vaccine distribution punishes states that have protected larger proportion of people from infection. Provide more vaccine to Kerala than free advices", he tweeted. His tweet came, a day after the BJP blamed "politics of appeasement" for the rise in Covid-19 cases in Kerala and criticised the state government for the relaxations in restrictions it had given for Eid-ul-Adha. Noting that Kerala's latest daily tally of over 22,000 cases is more than half of the country, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra on Wednesday said the Left government in the southern state went ahead with relaxations for the festival despite the Supreme Court expressing its displeasure over it. Taking on the Left government on the issue, Union Minister Chandrasekhar, a Keralite, warned that the failures of the Left government could lead to a third wave of Covid-19 in the country. According to Dr B G Ranganath, former head of the department of Community Medicine of the Malabar Medical College near here, "the more we restrict herd immunity, the more we are denying resistance level," arguing for lifting of restrictions imposed in virus affected areas in the state. Noting that Kerala was a leader in Covid-19 control initially as people were mostly cooperative and participated in Covid protocols, he said it was a different story in other states and it resulted in increasing the resistance. "I feel more relaxations including removal of lockdowns would bring natural immunity as that through vaccination would take more time", he said. N Basheer, a former Excise Inspector and a social worker in Karaparamba in Kozhikode, alleged that the unilateral decisions by the government without due consultation and discussions with representatives from all walks of life are playing spoilsport in Covid-19 scenario in the state. K V Anwar, president of the Malappuram Chamber of Commerce, wondered whether the prevailing regulations are practical and would help in containing the spread of virus. "We need to acquire more immunity and the state was denied a chance for a natural course to take place," he said. Anwar said the authorities should concentrate more on vaccinations and let businessmen open shops and establishments but on strict Covid protocols. "Authorities should promote vaccination tags for shops to encourage jabs for employees," he said. Dr T SAnish, who specialises in community medicine, quoted the latest serological studies and claimed that the rate of infection is comparatively lower in Kerala. "The present high number indicates that Kerala was able to detect the infection better than other states. The under-reporting cases are also comparatively less here," Dr Anish told PTI. He said Kerala is one of the states which has implemented the inoculation drive in the most effective manner. "If 30 per cent of people in the country have taken the first dose of the vaccine, it is 50 per cent in Kerala," he said. Stating that the only way to contain the deadly virus infection is "rampant vaccination', he said people should continue to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and try maximum to keep themselves safe at home to avoid getting infected. "We need more vaccine doses than other states. We can protect the susceptible people in Kerala only by pumping more vaccines to the state," he said. Kerala on Tuesday had recorded 22,129 Covid-19 cases with the Test Positivity Rate (TPR)going back to more than 12 per cent. Some of the worst affected districts in the state are Malappuram (3,931), Thrissur (3,005), Kozhikode (2,400), Ernakulam (2,397), Palakkad (1,649), Kollam (1,462), Alappuzha (1,461), Kannur (1,179), Thiruvananthapuram (1,101) and Kottayam (1,067).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-cpim-spar-as-covid-19-cases-remain-high-in-kerala-1014172.html
29-07-2021||South||Kerala CM rejects demand for Education Minister's resignation, UDF boycotts Assembly||The opposition Congress-led UDF boycotted Kerala Assembly proceedings on Thursday as the LDF government rejected their demand for the resignation of the General Education Minister V Sivankutty over a case related to the ruckus inside the House in 2015. The opposition, during the zero hour, moved a notice for an adjournment motion pressing for his resignation as theSupreme Court had dismissed a governmentplea seeking withdrawal of a criminal case against LDF MLAs, including Sivankutty, in the case. Moving the notice, Congress legislator P T Thomas said the incident had brought disgrace to the state Assembly. Referring to the involvement of Sivankutty in the years-old incident, he said how can a minister, who had destroyed public property, give protection to the life and property of people. However, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan rejected the opposition demand for the minister's resignation. He also justified the government action approaching the apex court with a plea seeking withdrawalof the case involving the Left front MLAs. Protesting against the Chief Minister's reply, the opposition walked out of the House and announced a boycott of Thursday's House proceedings. The decision of the Supreme Court on the ruckus in the Kerala Assembly in 2015 has come as a jolt to the two-month- old second Pinarayi Vijayan-led government in the State. The court on Wednesday dismissed the appeals, including the one filed by the Kerala government against the High Court order dismissing its plea seeking withdrawal of a criminal case lodged against LDF MLAs in connection with the ruckus. The court said allowing the prosecution to be withdrawn would amount to interference in normal course of justice for illegitimate reasons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-rejects-demand-for-education-ministers-resignation-udf-boycotts-assembly-1014194.html
29-07-2021||South||Kerala logs 22,064 new Covid-19 cases, 128 deaths||Kerala on Thursday logged 22,064 new Covid-19 cases and 128 deaths, taking the caseload to 33,49,365 and the death toll to 16,585. State Health minister Veena George said 1,63,098 samples were tested in the last 24 hours and the test positivity rate was 13.53 per cent. The state has till now tested 2,68,96,792 samples. Among the districts, Malappuram recorded the highest number of fresh cases today-- 3,679, followed by Thrissur with 2,752 and Kozhikode with 2,619 cases. Ernakulam and Palakkad reported 2,359 and 2,034 new cases, respectively. "Of those found infected today, 161 reached the state from outside, while 20,891 contracted the disease from their contact.The source of infection of 910 is yet to be traced and 102 health workers are also among the infected," the minister said in a release. George said 16,649 people recuperated from the disease on Thursday, taking the number of those cured to 31,77,453. Currently, there are 1,54,820 people under treatment and 4,54,080 under observation of which 27,480 are in isolation wards of various hospitals. There are 323 local self government bodies in the state with a TPR above 15 per cent, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-logs-22064-new-covid-19-cases-128-deaths-1014305.html
29-07-2021||South||Why Kerala is witnessing another surge in Covid-19 cases||The lowest sero prevalence, targeted testing of symptomatic people, and unscientific relaxations of lockdown are considered to be the key reasons behind Kerala battling the pandemic while other states are seeing lower Covid-19 numbers. However, these are also seen in a positive light by some experts. With 22,064 more fresh cases with a total positivity rate (TPR) of 13.53 per cent reported on Thursday, the number of active cases in the state stands at 1.54 lakh, forming 37 per cent of the active cases in the country.  A total of 4.54 lakh people are in isolation in the state now, of which 4.26 are under home or institutional quarantine. As many as 27,480 are in hospitals. While 1,936 are in ICUs, 704 are on ventilator support. There were comparatively more tests done during the last three days, which reached 1.96 lakh on Wednesday. But the TPR continues to fluctuate between 10-13.6 per cent. The Centre deputed a six-member team led by National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) Director Sujeet Kumar Singh to Kerala to review the situation. Indian Council of Medical Research’s recent seroprevalence analysis found that Kerala had the lowest seroprevalence of 44 per cent. The lack of antibodies among the majority of the state’s population is cited as the reason behind people still getting infected. Moreover, the state has been practicing a targeted testing strategy, aiming for optimum use of test kits. Only the symptomatic are being tested and as a result, the state’s TPR is high. Experts are finding both positive and negative sides to the low seroprevalence of 44 per cent. If lockdown norms were not followed strictly, the seroprevalence in Kerala could have been higher, and the current figures would have come down. However, such a strategy could have resulted in a high number of Covid deaths, say experts.  Many states that saw a surge in Covid are now witnessing very few fresh cases. They also had higher seroprevalence. However, such states also saw more deaths than Kerala. Dr T S Anish, the Kerala government’s Covid expert committee member, told DH that the low seroprevalence in Kerala proves that the state managed to curb the spread of the infection. This helped in keeping the death rate low and the health infrastructure was not burdened. Kerala did not see Covid patients struggling for hospital beds or oxygen. Achieving herd immunity through vaccination is the state’s approach in curbing Covid, he said. However, some experts do not agree with the state’s strategy. Public health expert Dr V Ramankutty said there was a lack of clarity in the lockdown measures in Kerala. Despite criticism, the government is yet to give a convincing explanation on the need for the weekend lockdown, he said. Meanwhile, traders are seeking the lifting of curbs as the Onam festival is approaching. So far 37 per cent of Kerala’s population has been vaccinated. Experts recommend enhancing vaccination coverage and strict enforcement of social distancing norms, even amid the relaxed norms. The comparatively low Covid death rate of 0.49 per cent is the lone reason for Kerala to smile.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/why-kerala-is-witnessing-another-surge-in-covid-19-cases-1014320.html
29-07-2021||South||Vythiri in Wayanad becomes first fully-vaccinated tourism destination in Kerala||Vythiri in Wayanad district has become the first fully vaccinated tourism destination in Kerala as part of the State's Covid-19 vaccination campaign to turn all tourism destinations completely risk-free for visitors, the government said on Thursday. It became the first holiday hub to cover the entire population including tourism sector stakeholders under the initiative, according to a release. "In the post-pandemic phase visitors will be looking for safe and hospitable places to spend time.The Government considers it as vitally important to administer Covid-19 vaccine to the entire stakeholders in all the destinations across the state," Tourism Minister P A Mohamed Riyas said in the release. Rolled out on mission-mode to keep the whole of Kerala ready to receive visitors when the pandemic recedes, the inoculation drive has picked up momentum in all destinations including hill stations, backwater hubs, seaside holiday spots and heritage and cultural tourism centres across the state. The Tourism minister had earlier this month announced the initiative. An eco-tourism hotspot located 700 metres above sea level and 60 km from Kozhikode, Vythiri had its entire population, including tourism service providers, vaccinated during an intensive inoculation drive held from July 13-17. Wayanad, sharing borders with Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, is a major tourist haven in South India, known for its stunning scenic appeal and congenial ambience. "Blessed with unsurpassed natural beauty, Wayanad has immense tourism potential. We have major plans to develop the area as a hub for a rich mix of holiday and leisure activities including adventure tourism," the minister said. V Venu IAS, Additional Chief Secretary, Tourism department, said the vaccination campaign was picking up well as it is being conducted on a mission mode. "Along with the Tourism department, the industry bodies and employee forums and local communities are actively involved for its success," Venu said. The campaign is being rolled out to the entire service providers connected with the travel and hospitality industry including employees of hotels, resorts and home-stays, tour guides, taxi and autorickshaw drivers and traders in tourism centres. Major centres to be covered by the initiative include Alappuzha, Munnar, Fort Kochi, Kovalam, Kumarakom, and Varkala. In the tourism segment alone, 5,395 people were administered the first dose of the vaccine during the campaign organised by the Tourism Department in Vythiri with the support of the Health department, district administration and the industry bodies. The inoculation drive was conducted by the doctors and paramedical staff of Vythiri Taluk Headquarters Hospital and Sugandhagiri Primary Health Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vythiri-in-wayanad-becomes-first-fully-vaccinated-tourism-destination-in-kerala-1014324.html
29-07-2021||South||Remove Centre’s capping on PMFBY premium subsidy: Stalin to PM||Contending that bearing the huge state share of premium subsidy under Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) is “unaffordable”, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Thursday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking him to remove the Centre’s capping and revert to 49:49:2 ratio premium share.  In his letter, Stalin said Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY), one of the flagship schemes that provide a “handholding support” to the farmers at the time of any unforeseen eventualities, is successfully implemented by Tamil Nadu.  Tamil Nadu has witnessed a huge growth in terms of area insured and farmers’ enrolment due to the sincere efforts and best practices adopted by the State under the scheme, he said, adding that the state’s share of the premium subsidy has increased at a Compound Annual Growth Rate of 28.07 per cent in the last 5 years.  “This has stymied the very purpose of the scheme as the Government of Tamil Nadu is finding it difficult to sustain the continuance of the scheme due to increasing financial liability, that too during this pandemic period,” he said.  The scheme has become a “heavy liability” to the states over the years and The intention of capping the subsidy to bring down the APR has not happened in reality as the insurance companies are continuing to quote exorbitant APR citing reasons like high loss ratio, inadequate financial capacity and lack of support from reinsurers.  “The States are coerced to tweak the existing guidelines and adopt new co-insurance models increasing the risks to the States. Otherwise, the Insurance Companies refrain from bidding. As the State is already reeling under severe financial crunch due to Covid Pandemic, the onus of bearing a huge State Share of Premium Subsidy under PMFBY is unaffordable,” Stalin wrote. He also said there is no doubt that the capping of the Central share of the premium subsidy has been a major detrimental factor for the implementation of Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana which has been introduced to ensure social security for farmers.  “I, therefore, request you to take necessary action urgently to remove the capping of Central share of premium subsidy under PMFBY and revert to 49:49:2 ratio premium share for the welfare of the Farming Community in the State,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/remove-centre-s-capping-on-pmfby-premium-subsidy-stalin-to-pm-1014327.html
29-07-2021||South||Self-styled godman held for molesting 17-year-old girl in Kerala's Thrissur||Police have arrested a 39-year-old self-styled godman here on charges of molesting a minor girl on the pretext of practising black magic. Thrissur native Madathilan Rajeev was taken into custody yesterday on the complaint of the 17-year-old girl who said he attempted to molest her, police said. "He is a self-proclaimed godman. He had established a temple and was used to engage in black magic. We had received information that he used to do rituals involving women and girls but none had complained yet. Yesterday, this girl approached us with the complaint and we arrested him under the POCSO Act," police told PTI. Police said Rajeev was a daily wager but recentlyhad accumulated huge wealththrough conducting black magic rituals. Police suspect that he had molested more women on the pretext of rituals and are expecting more complaints to come up in the coming days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/self-styled-godman-held-for-molesting-17-year-old-girl-in-keralas-thrissur-1014367.html
29-07-2021||South||TN withdraws 90 cases filed against journalists and media organisations||Tamil Nadu government on Thursday announced it will withdraw 90 cases, including those relating to defamation, against journalists and media organisations by the previous AIADMK government from 2012 to 2021.  In a statement, Chief Minister M K Stalin said the cases are being withdrawn in line with a promise made in the DMK’s election manifesto. The AIADMK government from 2011 to 2021 had filed several defamation cases against media organisations and editors which journalists saw as a tool to stifle the media.  Among the English language newspapers, Times of India had 5 cases, The Hindu (4), and The Economic Times (1). Vikatan group had 20 cases against it, while the government filed 23 cases against Nakheeran founded by R R Gopal. DMK’s mouthpiece Murasoli faced 17 cases, while Dhinakaran from the Sun Group had 4 cases against it. Among the television channels, Puthiya Thalaimurai, News 7 Tamil, Sathiyam TV, Captain TV, Kalaignar News, NDTV and Times Now had one case each pending against them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-withdraws-90-cases-filed-against-journalists-and-media-organisations-1014385.html
29-07-2021||South||Delta variant of Covid-19 dominating in Kerala||Among various variants of coronavirus prevalent in Kerala, the Delta variant has been dominating in Kerala infections. Alpha, Kappa, Beta and Gamma are the other variants spotted in the state during the second wave of Covid-19. Kerala Covid expert committee member Dr. T S Anish said that besides Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) analysis, the Kerala health department was also continuously monitoring new variants of the virus in association with the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology. The Kozhikode Medical College is also carrying out genome sequencing. So far, no fresh variants of the virus were spotted in the state. A report of INSACOG found that out of the 2,390 Variant of Concerns analysed from Kerala, 1,482 were Delta, 642 Alpha, 197 Kappa, 65 Beta and one Gamma. Three Delta-plus variants were also reported in Kerala. State health department sources said that the Delta variant was found to be having a sweeping effect over the other variants. In areas where Delta is dominating, other variants were not much found. As of now, there were no concerns for Kerala over any fresh variants of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/delta-variant-of-covid-19-dominating-in-kerala-1014412.html
29-07-2021||South||25 injured as fire breaks out at factory in Kerala||At least 25 persons suffered burns after a fire broke out at a factory in Palakkad district in Kerala. On Thursday evening, the fire broke out at the feed factory at Mannarkkad in the suburbs of Palakkad. A minor explosion took place inside the factory while Fire and Rescue Service Personnel and the factory workers were trying to put out the fire. Among the injured included some Fire and Rescue Service Personnel. Condition of all was reported to be safe. The fire was brought under control by night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/25-injured-as-fire-breaks-out-at-factory-in-kerala-1014415.html
29-07-2021||State||Entries invited for Mangalam Swaminathan excellence award||The Dr Mangalam Swaminathan Foundation has invited entries for five prestigious national awards in the field of journalism, reporting on medical malpractices and science, excellence in art & culture and social services. The foundation will be awarding the people for the years 2020 and 2021 as the previous year ceremony could not be held due to the Covid pandemic. The entries shall reach the foundation by Sept 20, 2021, and the award ceremony will be held in the last week of October 2021. For details, visit www.msfoundation.in||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/entries-invited-for-mangalam-swaminathan-excellence-award-1013989.html
29-07-2021||State||Shivamogga man's efforts pay off as Centre approves stamp on Verghese Kurien||The efforts of retired dairy engineer from Shimul (Shivamogga, Davangere and Chitradurga Co-operative Milk Union Ltd) D V Mallikarjun have finally paid off. The Centre has decided to issue a postal stamp on Verghese Kurien, popularly known as ‘Milk Man of India,’ who transformed India from a milk-deficient nation to the world’s largest milk producer, surpassing the United States in 1998. In order to express gratitude to Kurien on behalf of farmers of the country who benefited from dairy farming, the Shivamogga man had submitted a proposal to the Centre in 2018, appealing to the authorities concerned to release a postal stamp on Kurien. After a gap of over three years, the Centre has approved his proposal and it has been communicated to Nirmala Kurien, daughter of the late Kurien, who is in Chennai now. Mallikarjun told DH that he had written to the prime minister’s office seeking status of his proposal, sent in 2018, in March this year. After a month, he received a letter from the ministry of communications, department of posts, stating that the proposal was under consideration. “Today, I came to know from Nirmala that the department of posts had approved the proposal and it would release the postal stamp on November 26 this year to mark the centenary birth anniversary celebrations of Kurien.”  He said that it is an honour for 16.5 million farmer families of India and the dairy sector. “I am glad that my three years of efforts have been rewarded finally. Kurien deserves Bharat Ratna, for transforming India to be the number one milk producer in the world.” He said the concept of milk co-operative societies was the brainchild of Kurien and it helped farmers get regular income throughout the year. Mallikarjun had donated a bronze bust of Kurien to Michigan State University in the US in 2017, to be installed there, as he was an alumnus of the institute.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/shivamogga-mans-efforts-pay-off-as-centre-approves-stamp-on-verghese-kurien-1013995.html
29-07-2021||State||Health workers brave rain to reach Dakshina Kannada remote villages for Covid testing||Despite heavy rain, four female health staff of the Kollamogru primary health centre (PHC) of Sullia taluk in Dakshina Kannada district undertook a treacherous journey to reach an interior village of Kalmakar with the help of a temporarily constructed bamboo bridge over a swollen river to test four primary contacts of Covid patients. Despite the challenges that the monsoon brought with it, Sullia taluk's six PHCs have collected 4,203 swabs, averaging 74 swabs per day, in the months of June and July, in contrast to 1,450 swabs, averaging 16 swabs per day, over the summer months of March, April and May. Sullia taluk health officer Dr Nandakumar B told DH, "This happened last month where our lady health visitor (LHV), auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM), lab technician, and accredited social health activist (ASHA) walked on a 'hanging bridge' over a river. Because of heavy rainfall, the river levels have risen significantly. "When roads are cut-off, we undertake such outreach programmes where we use bypass roads to reach villages. With a transport system lacking, we have to go by walk as our vehicles can't reach there." 50-year-old Hemalatha J A has been working as a LHV in the health department for 23 years. She told DH, "Pre-monsoon, the river water levels were only ankle deep and we could just wade through the water barefoot and go to the other side. But in the past few days, due to heavy rain, there's no other way than to use the makeshift structure." 31-year-old Navya Koppadka, a lab technician donning a PPE suit head to toe with three of her colleagues behind her, crossed the bridge on June 15. It had been seven days since four primary contacts had been exposed to three Covid patients in Idyadka area of the taluk. "It's protocol to test primary contacts on day 0 and day 7. Since they could be Covid positive, we could not call them to the PHC for swab collection. On day 7, we had to go and test them, even though this bridge was quite shaky," she said.  Apart from the difficult terrain, she says their main problem is lack of a strong mobile network. "It's an interior area that can be accessed only by walk. We have to stop the jeep by the roadside and continue on foot from there. Last year, during the first Covid wave, we didn't have to do this as there were no cases in interior areas," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/health-workers-brave-rain-to-reach-dakshina-kannada-remote-villages-for-covid-testing-1014298.html
29-07-2021||State||BJP rakes up Siddaramaiah's late son, draws ire of Twitterati||A tweet by the official BJP Karnataka handle garnered criticism for its comments on Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah's son Rakesh, who died five years ago in Belgium. Several social media users chided the saffron party for the 'insensitive' tweet made as a retort to Siddaramaiah's comment that Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai may or may not inherit his father's qualities. Siddaramaiah, responding to media queries in Mysuru on Wednesday, had cited the example of how Mahatma Gandhi's son became a drunkard, despite the former being a staunch advocate against alcohol consumption. The Congress leader said this when asked about the current chief minister inhering the leadership qualities of his father S R Bommai, who also served as CM. "There are media reports that your elder son Rakesh was a heavy drinker. There were also reports of him assaulting the elderly in an inebriated state. Can we generalise to say this was a quality he inherited from his father?," BJP Karnataka said, tagging Siddaramaiah in the tweet. Noting that the tweet was in bad taste, several social media users urged BJP Karnataka to take it down. Congress MLA Priyank Kharge asked whether BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel approved of the tweet. "As Karnataka BJP have nothing to showcase even after two years of "Governance," they are resorting to sensationalism of yellow journalism of a deceased. How low will you stoop BJP? ....The difference between Hinduism & Hindutva is evident here," he said. Several other Twitterati also criticised the statement. "Tweet is in bad taste! Very bad taste!" wrote one Vinay Kashyap. "Every BJP fan should be ashamed of being a supporter looking at such ridiculous lowest level tweet by their party: Making value judgements about a person who isn't alive anymore, only to taunt the dead person's father. The new low in Karnataka & Indian politics!!," said Amarnath Shivashankar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bjp-rakes-up-siddaramaiahs-late-son-draws-ire-of-twitterati-1014377.html
29-07-2021||State||Daily flights from Hubballi to Bengaluru, Mumbai, Chennai from August 1||The Indigo Airlines will commence its daily flights to Chennai, Bengaluru, Goa, Cochin, Mumbai and Kannur from Hubballi from August 1. According to a tweet on the official page of Hubballi Airport, flight (6E 7986) will depart from Chennai at 6.05 am and reach Hubballi at 8:10 am. The same flight will take off for (6E 7964) Cochin at 08:35 am and reach Kerala city at 10:20 am. The return flight (6E 7965) will take off at Cochin at 10:50 am and reach Hubballi at 12:40 pm. The flight will further take off to Mumbai at 1:00 pm and reach its destination at 2:45 pm. Flight (6E 7292) from Mumbai will depart at 3:15 pm and reach Hubballi at 4:40 pm and the same flight (6E 7981) will start for Kannur at 5:20 pm and reach its destination at 6:40 pm. The return flight (6E 7979) will take off at Kannur at 7:00 pm and reach here by 8:20 pm. The same flight will take off to Bengaluru at 8:35 am and reach its destination at 9:55 pm. Flight (6E 7227) will depart from Kempegowda International Airport, Bengaluru at 7:15 am and reach here at 8:40 am. The same flight will then take off to Gao (6E 7995) at 9:00 am and reach Goa at 9:50 am. Flight (6E 7996) will start its return journey at 10:20 am and reach Hubballi at 11:10 am. The flight (6E 7233) will take off for Bengaluru at 11:40 am and reach the capital at 1:00 pm. Flight (6E 7162) from Bengaluru to Chennai via Hubballi will commence its journey from Bengaluru at 3:30 pm and reach here at 5:00 pm and the journey towards Chennai will start at 5:20 and reach its final destination at 7:10 pm. Hubballi Airport Director Pramod Kumar Thakre stated that a flight to Ahmedabad from Hubballi is expected to start in September.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/daily-flights-from-hubballi-to-bengaluru-mumbai-chennai-from-august-1-1014379.html
29-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||200 second-year PUC students reject exam results||It has been a week since the results of the second PUC were announced and around 200 students have rejected the results and registered to write the examinations to be conducted in the month of August. This year, the state government cancelled the second PUC examination and declared all students pass. The results were announced on July 20 and the students, who were not happy with the results, were given the option to reject and write the exams. The data available with the department as on Wednesday shows that around 200 students have registered so far to write the exams. Of this, a majority of them are freshers and some are repeater candidates. As the last date to reject the results and register for examinations is open till July 30, the officials of the department of pre-university education are expecting this number to reach 300. “Even if it is a single student, we have to conduct the examination following all the necessary process and safety protocols,” said an official.  This year, the department has declared the results by considering 45% each from SSLC and first PUC and 10% internal assessment from the academic activities conducted in second PUC. Along with it, 5% grace marks was awarded for all the students. Sources said that students have to write all the papers and the department was finalising the question papers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/200-second-year-puc-students-reject-exam-results-1013991.html
29-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Single-point disaster response centre to come up in Karnataka||A centralised operation control centre will soon come up at the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) here to facilitate quick decision-making in the face of disasters like floods and landslides. The centre will act as a single-point response centre by bridging communication between multiple agencies on the ground, district centre authorities and the decision-making authorities in Bengaluru. Karnataka Disaster Management Authority Commissioner Manoj Rajan, who heads KSNDMC, said the centre would be equipped with advanced communication systems. “We will install the infrastructure necessary to reduce the time taken to make decisions. A meeting hall will have a video wall displaying current status, and progress of work will be part of the set up,” he said. The centre will be linked to the KSNDMC’s Varuna Mitra and the early warning system (EWS) networks which will send scientific data. The integration of different systems will enable analysis of information in real time. The centre will also provide inputs on agriculture and horticulture as well as to fishermen by using the advanced sensors monitoring natural hazards. After the flood disasters in 2018 and 2019, experts had suggested to the government to invest on setting up infrastructure as well as the expertise by training officials, especially with regard to emergency response and mitigation measures for both short and long terms. The project is set to be completed in the next six months. The physical infrastructure planned by officials includes work stations to accommodate more than 15 technical persons along with a manager. A conference hall for discussing the developments and holding video interactions with ministers as well as district-level officials will also be part of the set up. Sources said training human resource in disaster management, especially at the district level, was one of the recommendations that is yet to be considered seriously. “Often, the officials at the district level are burdened with other works. Considering the challenges lying ahead, it was suggested to the government to build expertise,” the source said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/single-point-disaster-response-centre-to-come-up-in-karnataka-1013994.html
29-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid hospital claims: Karnataka HC asks state to set up grievance redressal mechanism||The high court on Wednesday asked the state government to submit whether any timeline has been fixed for ensuring vaccination to the entire population in the state. A special division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, was hearing a batch of petitions on Covid-19 related issues. The bench perused the written submissions by the state government on the figures relating to the vaccination drive. The bench observed that the number of doses of vaccines expected in the state for the month of August indicates that it will be sufficient to cover those beneficiaries whose second dose is due in July and August. As regards regular immunisation to the children who missed their doses, the bench directed the government to ensure whether the drive is restored. “It is stated that routine immunisation is in progress at schools and Anganwadi. The state government will have to clarify whether such immunisation is going on at schools and Anganwadis,” the bench said. The court directed the state government to place on record as to whether any special drive is being conducted to ensure that the college students are vaccinated since the colleges have been allowed to open. Direction to govt The court directed the state government to set up a grievance redressal mechanism at the earliest for deciding the claims made by Covid-19 patients seeking reimbursements from private hospitals.  This direction was issued after it was submitted across the bar that some of the private hospitals have charged patients admitted on the beds reserved for the state quota. “It will be appropriate if the state government sets up a grievance redressal mechanism. The state government shall set up such a grievance mechanism at the earliest,” the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-hospital-claims-karnataka-hc-asks-state-to-set-up-grievance-redressal-mechanism-1013997.html
29-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Show courage for Karnataka, Siddaramaiah tells Basavaraj Bommai||Congratulating Basavaraj Bommai for being sworn-in as the chief minister of the state, Opposition leader Siddaramaiah said on Wednesday that he hoped Bommai "will show courage to fight for Karnataka." The Central government has done injustice to Karnataka over the last two years, he said. "Yediyurappa never spoke against this injustice either due to his lust for power or lack of awareness or fear," he said. Karnataka's concerns with respect to GST devolution, relief for floods, Covid relief funds and others are yet to be addressed. "I hope Bommai will bring these issues to the notice of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and ensure justice to Karnataka," he said. "Transparency is an element of democracy and I hope Bommai will provide data and clarity of information whenever asked," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/show-courage-for-karnataka-siddaramaiah-tells-basavaraj-bommai-1014000.html
29-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Faced with fiscal challenge amid floods, Covid, Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai orders spend cut||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday directed officials to cut unnecessary expenditure, one of the many challenges he will face while dealing with the state’s finances that are crippled due to the pandemic.  “All department heads have been asked to reduce unnecessary expenditure by at least 5% before March 31. If they are able to cut it down further, it’s even better. Officials have been asked to do this without affecting development programmes,” Bommai said, adding that his administration will aim at financial discipline.  Karnataka is still in the middle of an unprecedented financial crisis. While the private sector has shown some recovery signs, Bommai has much to do in the government, experts say. The government will closely examine planned and committed expenditure to identify areas where expenses can be cut, Bommai said, noting that his priority right now was floods and Covid management.  The policy of cutting expenses was implemented by the previous CM B S Yediyurappa as government revenue sources dried up due to Covid-19 pandemic. “The new CM will likely continue with the same fiscal policy of Yediyurappa for the first few months before making any major changes,” economist R S Deshpande said. Making up for the revenue losses built up in various sectors due to the pandemic, building confidence in the MSME sector to create employment and tightening unnecessary expenditure will be the key, Deshpande said. Bommai is known for his grip over financial matters, which is why Yediyurappa nominated him to represent Karnataka in the GST Council. Having been vocal about GST dues to the state, Bommai will be under pressure to get the Centre to pay up. Significant difference in the release of GST devolution funds by the Centre compared to its budget estimates over the past three years has also stretched the state’s finances. Over Rs 11,300 crore of GST compensation is due to the state. However, Deshpande advised caution against additional borrowing despite the Centre’s nod to take loans. “Bommai will have to address the GST compensation dues. Karnataka’s contribution to the national GST pool is also quite high,” he said. That apart, Bommai takes charge at a time when floods have caused much damage along Krishna river and its tributaries in North Karnataka, a challenge even his predecessor had.  Bommai will have to mobilise funds for mounting expenditure on flood relief and Covid-19 management.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/faced-with-fiscal-challenge-amid-floods-covid-karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-orders-spend-cut-1014001.html
29-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 2,052 fresh Covid-19 cases, 34% rise from July 28||Karnataka has reported 2,052 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 35 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 29,01,247 and the toll to 36,491, the health department said on Thursday. The day also saw 1,332 discharges, continuing to outnumber the fresh cases, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 28,41,479. Out of 2,052 new cases reported on Thursday, 506 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 257 discharges and only 9 deaths. Total number of active cases in the state is at 23,253. Out of 35 deaths reported on Thursday 9 are from Bengaluru Urban, Dakshina Kannada 8, Chamarajanagara, Kolara, Mysuru, Uttara Kannada 2, followed by others. Among the districts where new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 506, Dakshina Kannada 396, Udupi 174, Mysuru 157, Hassan 136, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,26,463, followed by Mysuru 1,72,637 and Tumakuru 1,17,667. Cumulatively a total of 3.83 crore samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,48,861 were tested on Thursday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-2052-fresh-covid-19-cases-34-rise-from-july-28-1014331.html
29-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||With 2,052 infections, Karnataka sees 34% jump in daily Covid-19 cases||Karnataka on Thursday saw a 34 per cent rise in daily Covid-19 cases as the state reported 2,052 fresh cases, up from yesterday's 1,531 cases. Today's spike took the total number of infections to 29,01,247 and the toll rose to 36,491 with 35 more deaths, the health department said on Thursday.  Meanwhile, Bengaluru reported 505 new cases, up from yesterday's 376, which was also a 34 per cent rise. The city saw 257 discharges and nine deaths. Total number of active cases in the state now stands at 23,253. Among other districts Dakshina Kannada reported 396 new cases, Udupi 174, Mysuru 157, Hassan 136. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,26,463, followed by Mysuru 1,72,637 and Tumakuru 1,17,667. Cumulatively a total of 3.83 crore samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,48,861 were tested on Thursday alone.  (With inputs fro PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/with-2052-infections-karnataka-sees-34-jump-in-daily-covid-19-cases-1014338.html
29-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Mysuru may get SVEEP Museum||It will be another feather in the cap of Mysuru, an important tourist as well as the academic hub of the region. The Election Commission has a proposal to set up Systematic Voters Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP) Museum and Capacity Building Centre in the city. If the proposal becomes reality, it will probably be the first of its kind museum on democracy and elections. State Chief Electoral Officer Sanjeev Kumar chaired a stakeholder consultation workshop in this regard at Zilla Panchayat Auditorium on Thursday. He directed the officials of the Grassroots Research and Advocacy Movement (GRAAM) to submit the final proposal by August 15. However, the executive director of GRAAM Basavaraju R Shreshta sought time till the end of August. Mysuru advantage Since Mysuru is a heritage city with a number of attractions, both domestic and international tourists visit in large numbers. Sanjeev Kumar said, no tourist will visit a city just to see one museum. “Setting up SVEEP Museum in Mysuru looks logical, as it can attract the tourists visiting Mysuru for other attractions. Hope the SVEEP Museum will create awareness and educate people, especially voters in democracies, about democracy, elections and the significance of exercising one’s vote without fail,” he said. “Museums are better than classrooms and textbooks. A museum provides informal education, more effectively, as it provides a surreal experience. The establishment of a museum is easy, as a capital fund would not be a problem. But sustaining and maintaining it would be difficult. Thus, the museum should be self-sustaining, with operational autonomy, to get operational funds,” he said. First voting system Besides, Chamarajendra Wadiyar X, the 23rd Maharaja of the erstwhile Mysore state, instituted the Representative Assembly in 1881. This is the first democratic legislative institution in modern India. He came up with the idea of recruiting the officer directly to the municipality, to be elected by the elite. The same thought gave birth to the voting system. In 1892, the Mysuru city was divided into seven mohallas — Lashkar, Mandi, Devaraja, Chamaraja, Krishnaraja, Fort and Nazarabad — after the municipal administrations, and the election took place in early September, the same year. Thus, a system of people’s representatives was formed. In 1906, the municipality got legislative authority. For the first time, the ballot became eligible. There were 30 patrons in the three-year municipality. Twenty of them were eligible for selection. The city’s taxpayers, lawyers, government employees, Patel and graduates were the voters. The remaining 10 people were nominated by Reservation Policy (quota). Only source of indelible ink It is significant that Mysuru-based Mysore Paints and Varnish Limited (MPVL) is the only manufacturer of indelible ink, used to mark the fingers of voters during elections. MPVL, established in 1937 by Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar, the 24th Maharaja of the erstwhile Mysore state, provides indelible ink to the Election Commission of India to be used across India. It also supplies the indelible ink for elections in several other countries. Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham, Superintendent of Police R Chetan, ZP CEO A M Yogeesh, Mysuru City Corporation Commissioner Lakshmikanth Reddy, Additional DC B S Manjunatha Swamy and representatives from museums, Tourism department, civil society organisations, industry, academia, youth and women participated in the workshop.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mysuru-may-get-sveep-museum-1014364.html
29-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's nature tourism bounces back in monsoon, fills JLR coffers||Nature tourism in the state has picked up like never before as Jungle Lodges and Resorts (JLR) has registered an all-time high revenue for the month of July in its history with Rs 6.46 crore, thanks to the strategic move to reduce tariffs in all but one of 25 JLR facilities. The government-owned initiatives’ revenue comes from 25 properties, including the famous Kabini River Lodge, spread across different parts of the state. JLR’s highest ever revenue for July was Rs 3.46 crore recorded before Covid in 2019. This month, the full unlock measures came into effect on July 5 and JLR has registered Rs 6.43 crore by July 26 and hopes that Friday and Saturday will bring additional guests and with that the more revenue. Kumar Pushkar, the Managing Director of JLR, said that last year, though unlock came into effect in June, business at JLR didn’t pick up till September. “The revenue for July 2020 was Rs 50 lakh. This year, the restrictions were in place till July 5 and Kodagu didn’t open up till July 6. It is good to see JLR seeing such a huge response,” he said. He said one of the positive outcomes of the story was people appreciating all the 25 properties of JLR. “Normally, it is the Kabini (River) Lodge that gets a huge response. We launched a monsoon offer and cut down the tariff by 30% to 50%, which has boosted the occupancy in the remaining 24 properties,” the officer added. In the last one month, tourists widened their gaze to look for more than the sought-after lodges Nagarahole, Bandipur, Kali, K Gudi and Dubare. As a result, from the Old Magazine House in the thick forests of Uttara Kannada to the relatively less known nature camps, have drawn tourists in the last three weeks. Officials, however, are keeping their fingers crossed in view of the predictions over the third wave. The lockdown in April, May and June has hit the revenues hard. The notional revenue loss is estimated at about Rs 26 crore. The actual loss is about Rs 8 crore, most of which is expenditure on salaries, utility charges and taxes. Pushkar, however, said that despite all the challenges in the pandemic year of 2020, JLR had earned about Rs 55 crore, just Rs 10 crore less than the average annual revenue. “If there was no Covid, we would have definitely set a record last year by crossing the Rs 68 crore-mark of 2019,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-nature-tourism-bounces-back-in-monsoon-fills-jlr-coffers-1014369.html
29-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Violence against doctors: Karnataka HC issues notices state||The Karnataka High Court has directed the state government to file a statement explaining steps taken for the protection of the medical practitioners. The PIL is filed by Dr Vinod G Kulkarni, a consulting neuro psychiatrist and social activist from Hubballi. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka directed the respondents to file steps taken for the protection of the medical practitioners along with the statement of objections within 3 weeks. The petitioner contended that all healthcare workers have been victims of violence by the relatives of the patients. He said doctors are considered as ‘Next to God’ as an adage says ‘Vaidyo Narayana Hari.’ He said violence on doctors violates Article 21 of the Constitution.”The protection of doctors and all healthcare workers against any kind of violence and attack or damage to the hospital property is the prime duty of the state and the Indian Union,” the petitioner stated. The petition has prayed the court to issue directions for making provisions in law for levying hefty fine amount up to Rs 5 lakh and imprisonment up to 10 years to those who attack doctors, hospital staff and also damage hospital property.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/violence-against-doctors-karnataka-hc-issues-notices-state-1014373.html
29-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CM Bommai has full freedom to pick his team: BSY||Former Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said that he would not intervene in the selection of ministers to the Cabinet. However, he said he would advise Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on inducting 'migrant' legislators into the Cabinet as they were responsible for the formation of the government. Speaking to reporters after meeting RSS leaders at Keshava Krupa in the city, Yediyurappa said that Bommai would take a call on the Cabinet upon his return from Delhi. "I will not interfere in anything. I have told all party workers today to take their demands (on ministerial berths) to Basavaraj Bommai. I have told them to see the CM and not ask me to exert any pressure," he said. The CM has the complete freedom to include anyone in his Cabinet, Yediyurappa said. To a question on migrant legislators being inducted to the Cabinet, he said that he would speak to the CM on what positions can be offered to those responsible for the formation of the government. "Bommai will consider it, and I will advise him," he said. Yediyurappa said that he would visit every district of the state after Ganesh Chaturthi to organise the party with an aim to secure 135-150 seats in the coming elections. Apart from meetings with party workers, Yediyurappa said that he would start the process of identifying candidates in constituencies where BJP did not have a good leader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-bommai-has-full-freedom-to-pick-his-team-bsy-1014374.html
29-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Ashwath Narayan declares 'zero' files pending in departments he handled||Former minister for Higher Education, IT/BT, Science and Technology and Skill Development Dr C N Ashwath Narayan has declared pending file status as 'zero' in all the departments he handled. In a statement issued to the media, Dr Ashwath Narayan said, "In the Higher Education department, thousands of files were cleared through the e-office and the entire department is paperless now." In total, from all the departments he handled, the minister said, he had cleared 3,760 files since the day he took charge of the different departments. "The Higher Education department had received 1,746 manual files during my tenure and all of them were cleared. In addition to this, 1,441 e-files were received and cleared on the same day," he stated. In the IT/BT and Science and Technology, 62 manual files and 86 files were cleared through the e-office. In the Skill Development Ministry there were over 84 manual and 96 e-files cleared. While handling the Medical Education portfolio he had cleared around 245 files, he said. "I never keep files pending. Whenever a file came, I used to discuss with the officials concerned and clear them immediately. Very rarely, clearing of files was delayed by two to three days and that too when I was on tour. I had initiated e-office in all the departments I handled and even the new Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, has mentioned about quick clearing of files which enhances transparency in the system and administration," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ashwath-narayan-declares-zero-files-pending-in-departments-he-handled-1014391.html
29-07-2021||West||Maharashtra floods: US NGO to deploy medical teams in state||An American non-profit organisation will deploy medical teams to treat survivors in Maharashtra after heavy monsoon rains pummelled the region, triggering devastating landslides and flooding that have killed over 200 people and displaced thousands of others. Three medical teams departed for Sangli, Satara and Ratnagiri on Wednesday, the non-profit body Americares said in a statement. The teams, organised by Americares India staff in Mumbai and operated in partnership with local healthcare groups, will provide urgently needed medical care and Covid-19 education to survivors for 10 days. According to the statement, two additional teams will depart for Kolhapur and Raigad later this week to deliver essential health services for families affected by the recent floods. “The flooding in Maharashtra has devastated communities and has put the health of thousands at risk,” said Americares vice president of Emergency Response Kate Dischino. “We expect to see an increase in water-borne diseases as well as Covid-19 infections as families are forced to evacuate and stay at temporary relief shelters. Our medical teams will focus on providing survivors with critically needed primary care services to protect their health in a time of crisis,” Dischino said. As many as 4,35,879 people were shifted to safer places, including 2,11,808 in Sangli district alone, it said in a statement. There are 349 relief camps set up for evacuated people -- 216 in Kolhapur, 74 in Sangli, 29 in Satara, 16 in Ratnagiri and 14 in Raigad, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-floods-us-ngo-to-deploy-medical-teams-in-state-1014065.html
29-07-2021||West||Goa CM faces flak for asking parents of rape victims why were their daughters out so late||Under pressure from the opposition over the gang rape of two minor girls on a beach, Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant is facing flak for remarking in the state Assembly that parents need to introspect on why their children were on the beach late at night. “When 14-year-olds stay on the beach the whole night, the parents need to introspect. Just because children don’t listen, we cannot put the responsibility on the government and police,” Sawant had said on Wednesday, during a debate on a calling attention notice in the House. Sawant, who also holds the home portfolio, had said parents have a responsibility to ensure the safety of their children and hinted that they should not let their children, particularly minors, out at night. Goa Congress spokesperson Altone D'Costa on Thursday said the law and order situation in the coastal state has deteriorated. “Why should we fear while moving around at night? Criminals should be in jail and law abiding citizens should be out freely moving around,” he said. Goa Forward Party MLA Vijai Sardesai said it is disgusting that the chief minister is making such statements. “The safety of citizens is the responsibility of police and state government. If they can't provide it to us, the CM has no right to sit in the post,” he added. “It is shocking that @goacm is blaming parents for allowing their children to venture out in the night claiming that it is not safe. if State govt can't assure us our security, who can give it? Goa has a history of being safe state for women, that tag is being lost in @BJP4Goa rule,” tweeted Independent MLA Rohan Khaunte. “We directly blame police, but I want to point out that of the 10 youth who went to the beach for a party, four stayed on the beach the whole night and the remaining six went home,” Sawant had said in the House. “They were on the beach the whole night, two boys and two girls,” said Sawant. Teens, particularly minors, should not be spending the nights on beaches," he added. Four men, one of them a government employee (a driver with the agriculture department), posed as policemen and raped the two girls after beating up the boys who were with the girls on Benaulim beach, around 30 km south of Goa's capital, on Sunday. All the four accused have been arrested, Sawant told the Assembly. During the discussion in the House yesterday, an MLA had claimed that an “influential person” was trying to protect the accused, while another opposition member had alleged that a minister was calling the police and trying to influence the investigation. Speaker Rajesh Patnekar had expunged the remarks from the proceedings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-cm-faces-flak-for-asking-parents-of-rape-victims-why-were-their-daughters-out-so-late-1014135.html
29-07-2021||West||Maharashtra historian Babasaheb Purandare turns 100||Eminent historian, author and theatre personality Babasaheb Purandare turned 99 on Thursday. Babasaheb Purandare’s works are mostly based on the events related to the life of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj,  the 17th-century Maratha warrior, who laid the foundation of Hindavi Swarajya.  He is mostly known for his popular play on Shivaji Maharaj -‘Jaanata Raja’ - which was popular not only in Maharashtra but also in other states.  This drama is performed by over 200-plus artists, and elephants, camels and horses are also seen on the grand stage. Generally, the performance of this drama begins around Diwali each year. Popularly known as Shiv-Shahir (Shivaji's bard), the Pune-based Babasaheb Purandare is a recipient of several awards including Padma Vibhushan, the second-highest civilian honour of India and Maharashtra Bhushan, the highest honour of the state. A 2008 TV show titled 'Raja Shivchatrapati', which depicted the life of Shivaji Maharaj was based on Raja Shivchatrapati, a historical account of the king written by Babasaheb Purandare. A host of leaders starting from Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena President Raj Thackeray, Union Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari, state BJP President Chandrakant Patil, Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, and top leaders of various political parties, litterateurs and others warmly greeted Purandare.  Raj Thackeray drove down to Babasaheb Purandare's home, kneeled on the floor and touched his feet. The Thackeray family enjoys very good relations with Babasaheb Purandare as he was among the personal friends of the late Shiv Sena founder Balasaheb Thackeray.  At a felicitation function later organised by Maharashtra Education Society and Itihaas Premi Mandal, Babasaheb Purandare recalled some anecdotes of his childhood years and expressed a desire to live a few more years to serve the society.  Born on July 29, 1922 at Saswad near Poona (now, Pune), Purandare was fascinated by Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj from an early age and wrote essays and stories which were later published in a book form, ‘Thinagya’ (Sparks).  Over eight decades of his writing and theatre career, Purandare delivered more than 12,000 lectures on Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and studied all the forts and history of the Maratha Empire, making him an authority on the subject.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-historian-babasaheb-purandare-turns-100-1014215.html
29-07-2021||West||Karnataka ban has led to shortage of cattle at Goa's only abattoir: CM||The state's only legal abattoir, the Goa Meat Complex, is facing a shortage of cattle for slaughter in view of the lockdown and a ban on cattle transportation for slaughter in Karnataka, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant told the state legislative assembly on Thursday. Responding to a question from the BJP MLA Fracisco Silveira, Sawant, who also holds the Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services portfolio, said that the government was looking to outsource abattoir operations to a private firm, but the plan has not met enthusiastic response. "The traders have informed that they are experiencing difficulty in bring animals from neighbouring state of Karnataka due to lockdown conditions and ban imposed by the State," Sawant said in a written response to a question by Silveira. The abattoir has the capacity to slaughter 150 animals over an eight-hour shift, Sawant said. The recent passing of the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill (2020) by the Karnataka assembly has caused a beef shortage in Goa. After a similar law was passed in Maharashtra earlier, Karnataka was the sole major supplier of fresh beef and livestock to Goa, which consumes nearly 25 ton of beef every day. Goa's beef-eating minority communities account for more than 30 per cent of the state's population. Sawant also said that the state government was keen on outsourcing abattoir operations, but the tender floated by the state government has not evoked a response. "It was decided to outsource Goa Meat Complex Ltd, Usgao to be operated by private persons.  Accordingly, advertisements were placed on global, national and local newspapers for undertaking e-tendering. However, there was no response," Sawant said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/karnataka-ban-has-led-to-shortage-of-cattle-at-goas-only-abattoir-cm-1014238.html
29-07-2021||West||Decision on allowing people in suburban trains soon: Rajesh Tope||Amid severe resentment among the people, the Maharashtra government would soon take a call on allowing fully-vaccinated people to travel in suburban trains of the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR).  In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, only people engaged in emergency services, healthcare givers, frontline workers and some others are allowed to travel in local trains.  The Disaster Management department of the Maharashtra government is in favour of allowing people, who have taken two doses of Covid-19 vaccine, to travel in local trains. However, the final decision would be taken by Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray.  “To keep the wheels of the economy moving in Mumbai, the state disaster management has expressed its opinion in favour of allowing people who have taken both doses of vaccine to board local trains. Some experts have also suggested increasing the timings of shops and other services beyond 4 pm,” state Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope said.  However, he said that is a bit difficult to verify whether people travelling in local trains have actually received both the doses or not - however, the state government can work out with railway authorities.  It may be mentioned that several top politicians, NGOs, business and traders associations and commuters’ groups are requesting the government to allow people to travel in local trains. In Mumbai-MMR, the suburban trains of the Central Railway (CR) and Western Railway (WR) were opened for the general public from 1 February – though with restricted timings – resulting in overcrowding. Currently, around 20 lakh people are using the trains on a daily basis – as against the pre-pandemic figures of 70 to 80 lakh. The CR-WR suburban train services are considered the lifeline of Mumbai, the financial capital of India – and the network collectively runs over 3,200 services daily under normal circumstances.  Commuter organisations had been requesting the Maharashtra government, Railway ministry and CR-WR managements on the issue. “We started a social media campaign so that more people could support the need to resume train services for more categories of commuters. Travelling by road is not always feasible and it doesn’t cater to many people,” said Madhu Kotian, president, Mumbai Rail Pravasi Sangh. Commuter bodies have suggested hourly slots for rail travel, efficient use of QR Code-based Universal Travel Card and permission for those with two doses of vaccination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/decision-on-allowing-people-in-suburban-trains-soon-rajesh-tope-1014282.html
29-07-2021||West||Actor Shilpa Shetty files defamation suit against journalists, media houses in porn films case||Actor Shilpa Shetty has filed a defamation suit in the Bombay High Court against 29 media personnel and media houses for 'false reporting and maligning her image' in a pornography case in which her husband Raj Kundra has been arrested. The hearing in the case has been scheduled for tomorrow, according to ANI.   More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/actor-shilpa-shetty-files-defamation-suit-against-journalists-media-houses-in-porn-films-case-1014289.html
29-07-2021||West||Kundra arrested as he was not cooperating with probe: Police to HC||Mumbai Police on Thursday told the Bombay High Court that businessman Raj Kundra was arrested in an alleged case of production and streaming of pornographic films as he was not cooperating with the investigation. In an affidavit filed in response to Kundra's petition challenging the arrest, the police also argued that section 67(A) of the Information Technology Act, which is about "publishing/creating pornographic content", was rightly invoked in the case. Kundra was arrested by the Mumbai crime branch on July 19, and is presently in judicial custody. His bail application was rejected by a lower court on Wednesday. In his petition, he claimed that the material which he allegedly disseminated through apps was not pornographic, and at the most it could be described as "lascivious". Kundra (45), who is married to actor Shilpa Shetty, also alleged that the police had not issued any notice under section 41A of the Code of Criminal Procedure before arrest, which is mandatory. As per section 41A, the police may, in cases where arrest is not warranted, issue summons to the accused and record his or her statement. The police said in their reply that a notice was issued prior to the arrest, but Kundra refused to accept it. “The fact that the petitioner refused to accept the notice implies that the petitioner refused to cooperate with the investigation,” said the affidavit filed by inspector Kiran Bidve. During the hearing before Justice A S Gadkari on Thursday, Kundra's lawyer Aabad Ponda argued that when such a notice is issued, a period of two weeks is given to the person to appear for questioning. “Kundra was not even given two days or two hours. His office premises were searched by the police on the afternoon of July 19. This went on for about three to four hours during which Kundra was present and cooperating. Later in the evening he was asked to accompany the police to the police station where he was arrested,” Ponda said. The police in their affidavit, however, alleged that when the search was underway, Kundra and his "IT technician" Ryan Thorpe started deleting messages from a WhatsApp group, thus destroying evidence. To prevent them from further tampering with evidence, Kundra was taken to police station and arrested, the police claimed. Justice Gadkari will continue the hearing on July 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kundra-arrested-as-he-was-not-cooperating-with-probe-police-to-hc-1014337.html
29-07-2021||West||One more extortion complaint filed against IPS officer Param Bir Singh in Maharashtra||A complaint of extortion was filed against IPS officer and former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh here on Thursday, police sources said. The process of registering a First Information Report (FIR) was underway at the Thane Nagar police station, said an official. The complaint, filed by alleged cricket bookie Sonu Jalan and businessman Ketan Tanna, also names former `encounter specialist' police officer Pradeep Sharma, he said, without giving more details. The state Criminal Investigation Department (CID) is already probing another complaint of alleged extortion filed by Jalan against Singh, who was earlier the police commissioner of Thane. Singh was shunted out from the post of Mumbai police chief in March this year in the aftermath of the discovery of an SUV with explosives near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence in south Mumbai, and the subsequent death of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran who had claimed that the SUV had been stolen from his possession. Singh later accused then home minister Anil Deshmukh of corruption. Two other extortion cases were filed against the IPS officer earlier this month, based on a complaint filed by a builder. Singh is also facing inquiry by the Maharashtra Anti-Corruption Bureau.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/one-more-extortion-complaint-filed-against-ips-officer-param-bir-singh-in-maharashtra-1014419.html
