30-07-2021||First Edit||Assam-Mizoram border conflict: Centre should take initiative||The flare-up of violence on the Assam-Mizoram border is a matter of serious concern, especially because the region has many fault lines that can create social and political turmoil. Violence is more problematic because it involves governments, which have hardened their positions after the conflict. Five Assam policemen and one civilian were killed in the firing from the Mizoram side on Monday in clashes between the police forces of both states. Civilian groups were also involved. There have been skirmishes between the two sides arising from a border dispute and they have been more frequent in the past few months. The boundaries of most states in the North-East are disputed and the disputes have come out in the open in many ways. Assam has such disputes with not only Mizoram but with Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and Meghalaya. The negotiations for a resolution of the Nagaland insurgency are stuck partially because of the territorial dispute between Nagaland and other states.  Ironically, the clashes took place two days after Union Home Minister Amit Shah held a meeting with the chief ministers of all North-Eastern states to discuss the border disputes and other issues. It was resolved at the meeting that all the disputes will be resolved peacefully. Both Assam and Mizoram seem to have mishandled the situation on their border and allowed it to be guided by emotions. The responses of the governments are also immature. Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and Mizoram Chief Minister Zoramthanga have engaged in a Twitter battle after the incident, trading charges and videos which could be considered provocative by the other side. Sarma says he has also ordered deployment of about 4,000 commandos on the border. Assam is ruled by the BJP and Mizoram by its ally, the Mizo National Front (MNF), and both are members of the North-East Democratic Alliance, of which Sarma is the convenor. The border disputes and tensions in the North-East can even be considered a colonial legacy. All the states were carved out of Assam in the last 50 years with their borders arbitrarily decided without much consideration about overlapping interests. Divisions have continued in the region where tribal identities are important and politics has not done much to subsume them. This does not augur well for a region which is strategically important and is economically backward. Assam is taking the matter to the Supreme Court. The immediate task is the bring the situation on the border under control and ensure that there is no further escalation. But the ideal solution to the dispute, and other disputes in the region, is a political settlement involving all the states. The Central government should take the initiative for that.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/assam-mizoram-border-conflict-centre-should-take-initiative-1014446.html
30-07-2021||In Perspective||FDI in retail: Clear the maze||In the backdrop of complaints by the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) regarding violation of the Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) policy by global e-commerce players, Amazon and Walmart-owned-Flipkart etc, the Ministry of Consumer Affairs has proposed a set of new rules called Consumer Protection (e-commerce) Rules, 2020 which the government proposes to implement after factoring in the views of all stakeholders. The rules require all e-commerce entities that are not established in India, but intending to operate here: (i) register with the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) in the Commerce Ministry; (ii) bar affiliated entities from selling on e-commerce platform and restricting ‘flash sales’; (iii) disallow seller from using the name or brand associated with that of marketplace e-commerce entity for promotion or offer for sale of goods. These caveats are in addition to (a) bar on firms controlled by the e-commerce major from selling on its platform and (b) prohibition on the latter having ‘exclusive arrangement’ with preferred sellers which are already in place. Juxtapose the above conditions with the situation on ground zero. A few seller firms owned and controlled by e-commerce major account for an overwhelming share of the total sales made on latter’s platform. For instance, just about three dozen firms out of a total of 4,00,000 sellers on Amazon platform account for two-thirds of the sales made on it. Needless to say, Amazon has exclusive arrangement with these firms (preferred sellers). They also participate in ‘flash sales’ - an acronym for online sales for a very short period of time that offers substantial discounts or promotions. The use of the name or brand associated with that of the marketplace is so deeply entrenched that Amazon, Flipkart etc have become household names. In this backdrop, some of riders already there (read: (a) and (b)) and yet compliance missing, to expect that this will happen after the new  rules are put in place pushes one into a sense of disbelief. Is the government serious now? To get to the bottom of this, let us take a look at the extant FDI policy under which Amazon and Flipkart have come to India. As per the guidelines issued in early 2016 (Press Note 3), 100% FDI is allowed under the so-called marketplace model. The marketplace is a platform where vendors sell their products to consumers even as its owner merely acts as a facilitator. The marketplace owner provides services such as booking orders, raising invoices, arranging delivery, accepting payments, handling rejections, warehousing and so on. She can’t hold inventory and undertake direct selling. Policy intent But this policy intent is not reflected in the fine print. The PN 3 prescribed two conditions (i) “the entity cannot permit more than 25% of total sales on the marketplace from one vendor or its group companies; (ii) it can’t directly or indirectly influence the sale price. Sans any mention as to “who the vendor is”, a firm linked to marketplace either its subsidiary or a Joint Venture (JV) with an Indian company is eligible. As for (ii), it is not easy to establish that marketplace owner has manipulated the sale price. Clearly, these norms permitted e-commerce majors as direct sellers albeit by their subsidiary/JV. A clarification issued on December 26, 2018, said: “The owner of the marketplace or its subsidiary or its JV with an Indian company can’t have ownership of the seller.” Further, “a seller on the platform can’t source more than 25% of its inventory from a firm connected with the latter.” The owner can get around both; first, by having less than 50% shareholding in the seller firm and argue, s/he has no control (albeit majority) over the latter and second, by its wholesale arm restricting supplies to the seller within 25% threshold. As long as, the core of PN 3 which gives legitimacy to the presence of e-commerce majors as direct sellers stays, their predominance over Indian retail will continue. If, the Narendra Modi government is really serious about establishing a ‘disconnect’ between the seller and the marketplace, it will have to drastically alter PN 3 to say that “the owner of the marketplace or its subsidiary or its JV with the Indian company can’t have even 1% shareholding of the seller on the platform.” Further, “a seller/firm on the platform can’t source any supplies (not even one unit) from a firm connected with the latter.” But, it won’t make this change. It should not as it will tantamount to asking the foreign majors to pack up and send a wrong signal. Instead, the government should legitimise direct selling by foreign companies in Indian retail in all forms without any riders. This will enable all retailers, small or big; online or offline have access to FDI and compete with each other on equal terms. It will be a win-win for all stakeholders including millions of small traders and consumers.      (The writer is a New Delhi-based policy analyst)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/fdi-in-retail-clear-the-maze-1014450.html
30-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Deaths of monkeys near Belur sends shock waves||Carcasses of 38 monkeys and 15 other monkeys which were struggling to remain alive were found in a bag thrown on the roadside in Belur taluk of Hassan district on Wednesday night. Officials suspected that poisoning may have caused the death of these simians. Rakshith C N, a teenager from Chowdanahalli under Kushavara Gram Panchayat limits, said he along his friends noticed a large bag on the side of the road at around 10.15 pm and alerted the police. “The bag was tied on top, but we noticed some movement inside and two monkeys were lying outside. We opened the bag and about 10 monkeys came out,” he said. While villagers gave food and water to the monkeys, forest officials, who came to the spot at around 1 am, took one simian in critical condition to hospital for treatment. Officials planned to shift the carcasses, but the villagers blocked their way. “We had alerted the leaders of Bajrang Dal and they had told us to wait till morning. We wanted to perform the last rites,” a villager said. Belur range forest officer Yeshma Machamma said, “One monkey that was seriously injured has been provided treatment and is under observation. The carcasses of 38 monkeys have been buried at Tagere forest area. Post mortem has been conducted and the viscera sent to the lab in Mysuru for examination.” She said the miscreants may have come from within a distance of 50 km. “They may have caught the monkeys by late evening and fed with some poisonous food before dumping them here in gunny bags. We have registered a case and are investigating,” the officer said. Ravi, president of Belur Raitha Sangha, told DH that there were no reports of monkey menace in Belur taluk. “This could have been done by miscreants from another place and the carcasses dumped here. Residents attended to the traumatised monkeys by offering them water and fruits. Later, they all ran away,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/deaths-of-monkeys-near-belur-sends-shock-waves-1014489.html
30-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||JD(S) leader Madhu Bangarappa joins Congress||Former MLA and JD(S) leader Madhu Bangarappa joined the Congress in Hubballi today. "A New Beginning, A New Start…. Yet the same old legacy continues… Our tall leader, Late Sh. S. Bangarappa……TO Our young & dynamic, Madhu Bangarappa !@INCKarnataka is proud to have you! Welcome to the Family!!," Randeep Surjewala tweeted.  A New Beginning, A New Start….Yet the same old legacy continues… Madhu is the son of former chief minister the late S Bangarappa and he was elected as legislator from Sorab once. He worked for the development of Sorab during his tenure as MLA. His presence in Congress will prove beneficial for the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/jds-leader-madhu-bangarappa-joins-congress-1014528.html
30-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||One dead, 27 rescued as Shivamogga-bound bus falls into lake in Sagar taluk||One passenger died and 27 were rescued after a KSRTC bus fell into a lake near Kaaspadi in Sagar taluk on Friday. According to police, the incident took place when the bus driver tried to avoid a collision with a bike coming from the opposite direction. The bus was heading towards Shivamogga from Sagar. The passengers were rescued by locals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/one-dead-27-rescued-as-shivamogga-bound-bus-falls-into-lake-in-sagar-taluk-1014553.html
30-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Sandalwood star Sudeep to develop government school in hometown Shivamogga through his charitable trust||the Sudeep Charitable Trust owned by Sandalwood star 'Kichha' Sudeep has shown interest in developing a 133-year-old government higher primary school on B H Road in the city. The trust has submitted a proposal to the Public Instruction Department expressing its willingness to adopt the school and upgrade it to an international standard. Confirming this, Shivamogga Block Education Officer Nagaraj told DH that the trust took the initiative to adopt the school. While the department has accepted it in principle, but trust is yet to sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU). He exuded confidence that the trust would change the destiny of the school.  It may be mentioned here that the trust had previously adopted a village and four government schools in Sagar taluk of the district. In fact, Sudeep hails from Shivamogga and did his schooling here before relocating to Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sandalwood-star-sudeep-to-develop-government-school-in-hometown-shivamogga-through-his-charitable-trust-1014640.html
30-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada administration to strengthen enforcement of Covid-19 guidelines||Dakshina Kannada district administration will strengthen Covid-19 guidelines to stem the spread of Covid-19, said Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V. People should strictly adhere to Covid appropriate behaviour while taking part in religious programmes and other activities where there is a large gathering, he told mediapersons after reviewing the check post at Talapady, bordering Kerala. As Covid-19 cases are on the rise in Kasargod district, Dakshina Kannada, too, has seen a rise in positivity rate over the last three to four days. The positivity rate was 5.7 per cent on July 29. On average, the positivity rate in the district over the last week was around 3.5 per cent to 4 per cent. A district disaster management authority meeting and a meeting of the elected representatives will be convened on Saturday to discuss the measures to check the spread of Covid-19, Dr Rajendra said. Kasargod and Dakshina Kannada are linked to each other in many ways. Those from Kerala with RT-PCR negative certificates and those who have been vaccinated are allowed to enter Dakshina Kannada. Vaccines, however only protect individuals from Covid-19, they do not necessarily prevent an individual from being a carrier of the virus. Hence, people should wear their mask properly and adhere to covid appropriate behaviour, he said. The check posts are functioning round the clock with officials from revenue, police and health checking the vehicles entering the district. Even those arriving in trains are also monitored at the railway stations. But with the commencement of bus services between Kasargod and Dakshina Kannada, it has become a challenge to check every traveller. To a query on whether the increase in Covid-19 cases in Kerala is responsible for the rise in cases in DK, the DC said it could be one of the reasons. The positivity rate in Kasargod is between 13 per cent to 14 per cent. Dakshina Kannada district is conducting an average of 7,500 to 8,000 Covid-19 tests daily. It will be increased to 10,000 daily tests in the coming days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-administration-to-strengthen-enforcement-of-covid-19-guidelines-1014648.html
30-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Kerala man arrested for converting ISD calls into local in Mysuru||The Mysuru City police arrested a Kerala-based man for allegedly converting international calls into local calls using SIM box and Voice over internet protocol (VOIP) technique. The police raided a house in Old Kesare on Kamanakere Hundi Road and arrested Shamim for operating unauthorised telephone exchange and converting ISD calls into local which caused huge losses to the exchequer and mobile service providers. On a tip-off, the Police raided the house and seized a WiFi router with SIM slot, four boxes of SIM, five basic mobile phones, three computers, digital timers, modems among the other devices used for illegal activity. The accused is booked under Sections 419 and 420 of IPC, Section 66 (D) of Information Technology Act, 2000 and Section 20 of Indian Telegraph Act, 1885. According to the Police, the accused used more than 500 SIM cards for converting international calls into local calls. The CCB is investigating the case and looking whether the man has any links with the five persons who were arrested in Bengaluru last month over the telephone exchange racket.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kerala-man-arrested-for-converting-isd-calls-into-local-in-mysuru-1014713.html
30-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||TAC for closure of bars, pubs in districts with more than 2% TPR||In a meeting held on Friday by the state’s Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), in the backdrop of rising Covid-19 cases in the border districts of Karnataka, the members recommended the state to close crowded public places like bars and pubs in districts with test positivity rate (TPR) higher than 2%. In Bengaluru, despite having a TPR less than 2%, the closure of pubs and bars has been recommended since the population density is high. “We’ve recommended rollback of relaxations in cinema halls, restaurants, public transport, gyms and yoga centres. In districts with more than 2% TPR, including Bengaluru as an exception, we’ve recommended a cap of 40 people in cinema halls and 50% occupancy in restaurants and public transport. We’ve recommended closure of gyms and yoga centres,” a TAC member said. The members resolved that the state should be on high alert as experience from the first and second wave showed that three to four weeks after a rise in cases in neighbouring Maharashtra and Kerala, was followed by a wave in Karnataka. “In the border districts with Maharashtra, like Belagavi, Bidar and Vijayapura, as well as, in districts sharing borders with Kerala, we need to be on a high alert. Even in the second wave, the same pattern was seen, so we have recommended strict restrictions in the border districts of the state. The state also needs to keep a close watch on test positivity rate. We’ve recommended closure of crowded places like pubs and bars in districts with high TPR. The state will also witness a series of festivals in the coming months. It is up to the government to allow seating in cinema theatres,” another TAC member said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tac-for-closure-of-bars-pubs-in-districts-with-more-than-2-tpr-1014761.html
30-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Shah has asked to ensure good governance: Karnataka CM||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday met all state MPs over lunch in the national capital and requested them to raise the state's pending issues inside and outside Parliament. Bommai, who is on his first visit to Delhi after becoming the chief minister, hosted a lunch for MPs at a private hotel here. Both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha members attended the meeting. This was Bommai's first meeting with state MPs after becoming the state CM. Those who were not present at the meeting include Congress leaders Mallikarjuna Kharge, G C Chandrashekhar, Syed Nasir Hussain and D K Suresh, JD(S) members HD Deve Gowda and Prajwal Revanna and BJP members V Srinivasa Prasad and Pratap Simha. Kannada actress and independent MP Sumalatha Ambareesh was present at the luncheon meeting. Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat joined MPs for the lunch after the meeting. Earlier during the day, Bommai met Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi and Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. Speaking to the media after meeting Shah, Bommai said Shah has asked him to give "good governance" in the state. "He (Shah) asked me to give a good governance in the state. I assured him that whatever faith you have reposed in me, I will do," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/shah-has-asked-to-ensure-good-governance-karnataka-cm-1014593.html
30-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah terms Bommai a 'rubber stamp' CM||Leader of Opposition in Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah on Friday said Basavaraj Bommai is nothing but a "rubber stamp chief minister". "We did not call him a rubber stamp, but Bommai himself is saying that he is not a rubber stamp. This clearly shows that he is a rubber-stamp chief minister," Siddaramaiah said. When people are in trouble due to the flood situation, BJP leaders are engaged in lobbying for ministerial berths. They are betraying the people. This government is without ministers to supervise flood relief works. Bommai visited rain-hit areas in Uttara Kannada districts just for namesake, he noted. Though the chief minister is changed, corruption in the BJP government would continue. As the government has gone bankrupt, Bommai should get funds from the Union Government, which the State should get rightfully, Siddaramaiah added. Meanwhile, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar charged that the BJP government has failed to provide compensation for flood-affected people since 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-terms-bommai-a-rubber-stamp-cm-1014641.html
30-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||New Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai meets PM Modi||New Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi Friday and held talks for nearly an hour. Bommai, who is on his first visit to Delhi after becoming the chief minister, met Modi at his residence. Earlier during the day, Bommai called on Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi and Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. He also hosted a lunch for MPs from the state at Hotel Ashoka. Bommai, who was elected as the new leader of the BJP legislature party on Tuesday, following B S Yediyurappa's resignation, took oath as the chief minister on Wednesday. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/new-karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-meets-pm-modi-1014664.html
30-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Kollegal MLA N Mahesh to join BJP soon||Kollegal MLA N Mahesh, on Friday, confirmed that he would be joining BJP soon. Mahesh, who held discussions with former chief minister B S Yediyurappa in Gundlupet on Friday, said that he had not put forth any condition to join BJP. Speaking to DH, Mahesh said, "I held talks with Yediyurappa. He has directed me to join the party soon. Yediyurappa has also interacted with the BJP district unit president and also called state president Nalin Kumar Kateel and informed him about the developments. Kateel has assured to fix a date for inducting me into the party," Mahesh said. It is learnt that Mahesh has been exerting pressure on the BJP to accommodate him in Basavaraj Bommai's Cabinet. However, his close confidantes feel that the delay in joining BJP may hinder the possibility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/kollegal-mla-n-mahesh-to-join-bjp-soon-1014733.html
30-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Yatnal terms Bommai 'shadow chief minister'||City MLA Basangouda Patil Yatnal said that former chief minister B S Yediyurappa is not the voice of BJP central leadership and the BJP would not dance to his tunes anymore. Speaking to media persons here on Friday, he said that the BJP made Basavaraj Bommai the chief minister as suggested by Yediyurappa. He opined that the BJP should have taken into account the experience and seniority of leaders before nodding to the selfish suggestion of Yediyurappa to make Bommai the chief minister.  Describing Bommai as a ‘shadow chief minister’ he predicted that the day of shrewd Bommai showing Yediyurappa his place was not far away. He stated that loyalists and honest leaders be identified for ministerial berths. Yatnal sought to know why lack of representation for Vijayapura district in the council of ministers. Claiming himself as the senior-most in the party after Yediyurappa, Ananthkumar and K S Eshwarappa, he said that he would never stoop the level of lobbying for a ministerial berth||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/yatnal-terms-bommai-shadow-chief-minister-1014734.html
30-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||With eyes on 2023 polls, Congress plans major rejig||The DK Shivakumar-led Congress is planning to make key changes in its organisation with the party looking to make the most of the BJP’s situation ahead of the 2023 Assembly elections. According to party sources, former minister M B Patil will be elevated with a key organisational responsibility. “There are talks that Patil will be made chairperson of the party’s campaign committee, a coveted post ahead of the elections,” a source said.  Patil is seen as the Congress’ emerging Lingayat face in north Karnataka. He even came out in support of former chief minister B S Yediyurappa, also a Lingayat, which was seen as a strategy to score brownie points with the community that is seen as the BJP’s support base.  The party is also likely to bring in new faces in its frontal organisations. Apparently, senior leader K H Muniyappa’s daughter and KGF MLA Roopakala M is being considered to become the president of the Mahila Congress.  Former MLA Madhu Bangarappa, who formally joined the Congress from the JD(S) on Friday, may be considered to head the party’s OBCwing.  “Fresh appointments are expected across all wings - SC, ST, minorities and so on,” the source said.  Recently, the party-appointed Kirthi Ganesh N G as the Karnataka president of the National Students’ Union of India (NSUI).   The organisational rejig is expected to happen alongside the appointment of new office-bearers in August, sources said.  According to a senior party leader, the appointment of a new BJP chief minister would benefit Congress in several ways. “The way BS Yediyurappa made his exit may not be unceremonious, but it did create enough noise with Lingayat seers hitting the streets. Also, the BJP will be a divided house once the Cabinet is expanded as there are too many aspirants. It’ll be a tightrope walk that will benefit Congress one way or another,” the leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/with-eyes-on-2023-polls-congress-plans-major-rejig-1014736.html
30-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Madhu Bangarappa joins Congress, vows to strengthen party||Former MLA and former JD(S) youth wing president Madhu Bangarappa, who officially joined the Congress Party in Hubballi on Friday, said that he would make efforts to bring former chief minister S Bangarappa’s supporters in other parties back to the Congress. “I decided to join the Congress as it’s the only party that can help the poor. I will enthusiastically work to efficiently shoulder the responsibility given by the Congress, and to continue the grand legacy of my father S Bangarappa,” he said. Expressing confidence that the Congress would come back to power in the next assembly elections, he said that he was keen to contest the Assembly elections from Sorab constituency in Shivamogga district. Politics should be above one’s caste, and I would serve the people on the lines of my father, he added. KPCC president D K Shivakumar recalled how his political guru S Bangarappa guided him, and his efforts to bring Madhu to Congress fold in the last 10 years. Bangarappa’s legacy Leader of Opposition in Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah asked Madhu to continue the legacy of S Bangarappa, and to undo the damage the Congress had suffered with the exit of Bangarappa. The BJP could win more seats in 2004 elections because of S Bangarappa, but it did not respect him. He was a mass leader not restricted to any caste and region. Now, Madhu has joined the Congress when Yediyurappa’s political career is ending, which is an important development in Shivamogga politics, Siddaramaiah said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/madhu-bangarappa-joins-congress-vows-to-strengthen-party-1014737.html
30-07-2021||Main Article||Child porn: An emerging threat||Devika (name changed) is like any other sprightly 13-year-old in a tribal village, attending school and playing with friends. The Covid-19 pandemic completely changed her life - her parents lost their means of livelihood, family income shrunk and her classes too stopped, forcing her to look after her younger siblings. During this hardship, a person approached Devika’s father with the promise of quick money. The proposal was simple, that the child would have to undress in front of a camera within closed doors and earn money instantly and no one would even get a wind of it. The family with neither a ration card nor an Aadhaar card was deprived of benefits of subsidised food grains and were finding it difficult to even have two square meals a day. Driven by desperation, Devika’s father reluctantly agreed and made his daughter obey his instructions. The child, mentally shattered and visibly distraught, was left with little option but to do as her father said. Virtually clueless about the power and reach of the internet, the girl began recording for the camera whenever she was asked to do so. Devika and her father were completely oblivious of the fact that her videos were seen worldwide by millions looking for child pornography online that not only disclosed her identity by showing her innocent face but also her body on which only she has the right. This case is a classic example of online pornography where sexually explicit video of a child is made and streamed on online platforms. This act gets covered under Sections 13, 14 and 15 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012 and under Section 67 B of the Information Technology (Amendment) Act, 2008.  But is this also a case of trafficking? Well, according to the current law, which is Section 370 of Indian Penal Code (IPC), it is not. The new anti-trafficking bill, likely to be introduced by the government in Parliament, covers this kind of online sexual exploitation under the offence of trafficking and thus plugs one of the gaps in the present legal regime dealing with trafficking in our country. Both the definition of the term ‘sexual exploitation’ and the ‘offence of trafficking’ explicitly include pornography. Let us now understand as to how effectively acts as described in the story above are covered in the Bill. For the crime of trafficking to be complete, three elements are required. First is the act itself which means recruiting or transporting or transferring a potential victim. Second is the means used by trafficker to carry out the act, which could be use of power, threat, coercion, deception, inducement or abduction. The third element is the exploitation, which is the main objective behindthe act.  Exploitation can be physical, sexual or even removal of organs of the victim. In this case, all the three elements are present— the trafficker recruited the victim for doing a certain work, establishing presence of first element, he then used the means of inducement wherein payments were given to the family thereby establishing presence of second element, and the third element of exploitation was clearly present as her sexually explicit pictures were shown online. Pornography or any kind of child sexual abuse material  is covered under the definition of sexual exploitation in the Bill. Consent of the victim is immaterial in case of trafficking irrespective of the fact whether the victim is a child or an adult. A significant provision in the Bill makes even the ‘means’ used by traffickers immaterial when the victim is a child, this stringent provision reflects determination of the state to protect children from all kinds of abuse.  Further, if the child victim is below 12 years of age, then the punishment can go up to imprisonment for life and on subsequent conviction, it can be death penalty. If, in this case, the trafficker had taken the girl to a different house then under the Bill such house or property can be attached and forfeited. The proceeds of crime are also not spared under the Bill. The proceeds of crime in terms of property irrespective of whether the trafficker owns it or possesses it or otherwise acquires it, is also liable to be attached or forfeited. The Bill also provides for rigorous punishment for intermediaries if they publish pornographic material online or do not report the hosting of such material to the police as soon as it comes to their notice. The intermediaries include those entities that store or transmit data on behalf of other persons such as internet or telecom service providers, online marketplaces and social media platforms. And finally, as under the Pocso Act, the burden of proof is reversed in case of children, women and physically or mentally disabled persons, implying offender is presumed to be guilty until proven innocent. Online trafficking is an emerging threat and is on the rise due to people moving towards digital technology owing to the pandemic. According to the latest Trafficking in Persons Report, 2021 (USA), there is 95% rise in online searches for child sexual abuse material in India. India ranks very high for search of such material with a total of 11.6% of global online searches being done from India. The Trafficking in Persons (Prevention, Care and Rehabilitation) Bill, 2021, reiterates the commitment of the government to protect its citizens especially children from the organised crime of human trafficking. Once passed by Parliament, the new law is expected to act as a strong deterrent for the traffickers. Over 12 lakh people had marched across 22 states and 12,000 km demanding the anti-trafficking bill along with Nobel awardee Kailash Satyarthi in 2017. (The writer is Executive Director, Kailash Satyarthi Children’s Foundation)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/child-porn-an-emerging-threat-1014448.html
30-07-2021||National||Lok Sabha scheduled to hold discussion on Covid on Friday||A discussion on the Covid-19 pandemic has been listed in the business schedule of Lok Sabha for Friday. According to the revised order paper for Friday, N K Premchandran and Vinayak Raut will "raise a discussion on the situation arising out of Covid-19 pandemic in the country and various aspects related to it." Rajya Sabha held a discussion on the pandemic in the beginning of the Monsoon session. The government put up a staunch defence of its handling of the coronavirus pandemic in the Upper House of Parliament. Lok Sabha has witnessed daily disruptions by opposition members over the Pegasus row and farmers' issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-scheduled-to-hold-discussion-on-covid-on-friday-1014427.html
30-07-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Avoid news that makes you self-loathe!'||Addressing educationists, students, policy-makers to mark the first anniversary of the National Education Policy (NEP), the Prime Minister said his government has developed a tool for translating engineering courses into 11 Indian languages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-avoid-news-that-makes-you-self-loathe-1014444.html
30-07-2021||National||India reports 44,230 new Covid-19 cases, 555 deaths||With a single-day rise of 44,230 cases, India's Covid-19 tally climbed to 3,15,72,344 on Friday, while the death toll due to the viral disease shot up to 4,23,217 with 555 more people succumbing to it, the Union health ministry said. The number of active coronavirus cases in the country registered an increase for the third consecutive day, according to the ministry's data updated at 8 am. The number of active cases has gone up to 4,05,155, accounting for 1.28 per cent of the total caseload, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.38 per cent, the data showed. An increase of 1,315 cases was recorded in the active Covid-19 tally in a span of 24 hours. Also, 18,16,277 tests to detect the infection were carried out on Thursday, taking the total number of such tests conducted so far in the country to 46,46,50,723, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.44 per cent. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.43 per cent, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has gone up to 3,07,43,972, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data showed. The cumulative number of Covid vaccine doses administered in the country so far has reached 45.60 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30-lakh mark on August 23, 40-lakh mark on September 5 and 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28 last year, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore Covid-19 cases on May 4 this year and the three-crore mark on June 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-44230-new-covid-19-cases-555-deaths-1014507.html
30-07-2021||National||CBSE to announce Class 12 result today at 2 pm||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will announce results for class 12 on Friday, according to officials. "The result will be announced at 2 PM today," a senior board official said. The board exams were cancelled this year in view of the aggressive second wave of Covid-19, and the result will be announced on basis of an alternate assessment policy by the board. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-to-announce-class-12-result-today-at-2-pm-1014517.html
30-07-2021||National||Supreme Court takes suo motu cognisance of alleged killing of Dhanbad judge||The Supreme Court on Friday decided to examine a larger issue of safety and security of judges in district courts across the country following an incident of alleged mowing down of an Additional District Judge in Jharkhand's Dhanbad on July 28. The court took suo motu cognisance of the alleged killing of Additional District Judge, Dhanbad Uttam Anand and sought a report from Jharkhand Chief Secretary and DGP within a week. "We have come across several instances of attack on judicial officers and lawyers inside and outside the court premises and want to address the larger issue of safety and security of judicial officers in the country," a bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana said. The court registered the suo motu case as "Safeguarding Courts and Protecting Judges (death of Additional Sessions Judge, Dhanbad)" on Friday. The bench, also comprising Justice Surya Kant, said, "It is the duty of the states to protect the judicial officers and lawyers to make them function independently and fearlessly while endeavouring to dispense justice." The court said it would consider seeking a response from all states in the matter on the next date of hearing. The court asked the Jharkhand government to apprise it of the status of the investigation. It also said the Jharkhand High Court would continue to monitor the investigation in the case. SC Bar Association president and senior advocate Vikas Singh on Thursday asked the top court to take suo motu cognisance of the incident.    "If someone is killed like this after rejecting a gangster's bail, it is a dangerous situation for the judiciary," he said. ADJ Anand was hit by an auto-rickshaw on his morning walk on Wednesday. He was taken to a hospital where he succumbed to the injuries. CCTV footage showed that he was deliberately hit by the auto-rickshaw which was stolen the previous night. The wife of the deceased judge has reportedly lodged a murder case against unknown people. The judge was said to be handling cases related to gangsters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-takes-suo-motu-cognisance-of-alleged-killing-of-dhanbad-judge-1014542.html
30-07-2021||National||Rajya Sabha proceedings adjourned for 2nd time till 2.30 pm amid opposition uproar||The Rajya Sabha proceedings were adjourned till 2.30 pm on Friday, as Opposition members created an uproar over the Pegasus snooping row and other issues. When the House re-assembled at 12 noon after the first adjournment for the Question Hour, several Opposition members trooped into the Well, some of them carrying placards, and started raising slogans against the government. In the meantime, the House took up a few of the listed questions and the ministers concerned replied to the members' queries. However, as the sloganeering by the Opposition members continued, Deputy Chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh adjourned the proceedings till 2.30 pm. Earlier, Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu had adjourned the proceedings till 12.00 hours just as the members of the Congress, TMC and other opposition parties stood up to raise the issues they have been pressing for since the start of the Monsoon Session of Parliament on July 19. Before adjourning the House, Naidu expressed concern over parliamentary dignity and prestige being compromised by MPs by conducts such as whistling and placing placards in front of the ministers speaking during their protests in the last few days. He appealed to the members to see that the decency and dignity of the House are maintained. Thereafter, the listed official papers were laid on the table of the House. Naidu then called for the Zero Hour, where MPs raise issues of public importance. But just like the previous days, the Opposition MPs were up on their feet raising the snooping controversy, farm laws, fuel prices and other issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-proceedings-adjourned-for-2nd-time-till-230-pm-amid-opposition-uproar-1014551.html
30-07-2021||National||Google removes 71,132 content pieces in May, 83,613 in June in India: Compliance reports||Google removed 71,132 pieces of content in May and took 83,613 removal actions in June following user complaints, the company said in its monthly transparency reports released on Friday. In addition to reports from users, Google also removed 6,34,357 pieces of content in May and 5,26,866 in June as a result of automated detection. The US-based company has made these disclosures as part of compliance with India's IT rules that came into force on May 26. In its maiden report, Google said it had received over 27,700 complaints in April this year from individual users in India over alleged violation of local laws or personal rights, which resulted in the removal of 59,350 pieces of content. In its report for May, Google said it had received 34,883 complaints from individual users located in India via designated mechanisms, and the number of removal actions as a result of user complaints was 71,132. These complaints relate to third-party content that is believed to violate local laws or personal rights on Google's SSMI (significant social media intermediary) platforms, it added. The content removal was done under several categories, including copyright (70,365), defamation (753), counterfeit (5), other legal (4), circumvention (3) and graphic sexual content (2). Google explained that a single complaint may specify multiple items that potentially relate to the same or different pieces of content, and each unique URL in a specific complaint is considered an individual "item" that is removed. In June, Google received 36,265 complaints - the highest till now - from individual users located in India via designated mechanisms. It removed 83,613 pieces of content as a result of user complaints in the said month. Content removed during June was done under similar categories as in May. Copyright segment accounted for the largest number of content removed (83,054), trademark (532), counterfeit (14), circumvention (4), other legal (2), graphic sexual content (1) and defamation (1). Three content pieces were removed under the impersonation category and two under court order. Under the new IT rules, large digital platforms - with over 5 million users - will have to publish periodic compliance reports every month, mentioning the details of complaints received and action taken thereon. The report is to also include the number of specific communication links or parts of the information that the intermediary has removed or disabled access to in pursuance of any proactive monitoring conducted by using automated tools. Google removed 6,34,357 pieces of content in May and 5,26,866 in June as a result of automated detection. This data is a new addition to the compliance reports. Talking about automated detection, Google said it invests heavily in fighting harmful content online and uses technology to detect and remove it from its platforms (including YouTube). “This includes using automated detection processes for some of our products to prevent the dissemination of harmful content such as child sexual abuse material and violent extremist content. Automated detection enables us to act more quickly and accurately to enforce our guidelines and policies,” the company noted. These removal actions may result in removing the content or terminating a bad actor's access to the Google service. The volume of automated detection is close to 10x that of user complaints, the company said. Google has been publishing its Transparency Report since 2010 that provides details on government requests for content removals on a biannual basis. The company also reports on YouTube content removals quarterly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/google-removes-71132-content-pieces-in-may-83613-in-june-in-india-compliance-reports-1014554.html
30-07-2021||National||Covid-19: Ban on international flights extended till August 31||The coronavirus-induced suspension of scheduled international passenger flights has been extended till August 31, aviation regulator DGCA said on Friday. "However, international scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on a case-to-case basis," the Directorate General of Civil Aviation added. Scheduled international passenger services have been suspended in India since March 23, 2020, due to the coronavirus pandemic. But special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May 2020 and under bilateral "air bubble" arrangements with selected countries since July 2020. India has formed air bubble pacts with around 24 countries including the US, the UK, the UAE, Kenya, Bhutan and France. Under an air bubble pact between two countries, special international flights can be operated by their airlines between their territories. The DGCA circular also said that the suspension does not affect the operation of international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-ban-on-international-flights-extended-till-august-31-1014558.html
30-07-2021||National||CBSE class 12 result 2021: How to check your marks||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will announce results for class 12 on Friday, according to officials. "The result will be announced at 2 PM today," a senior board official said. The board exams were cancelled this year in view of the aggressive second wave of Covid-19, and the result will be announced on basis of an alternate assessment policy by the board. CBSE Class 12 Result 2021: Here's how you can check the result online Step 1: Visit cbseresults.nic.in, or cbse.gov.in.  Step 2: On the homepage of the website, click on the link related to the CBSE Class 12 Result 2021. You will be directed to a new window. Step 3: Enter your roll number and other details. Step 4: Hit the submit tab once done. Step 5: Your CBSE Class 12 Result 2021 will open in a new window. Step 6: Download and take a print of your CBSE Class 12 Result 2021.  CBSE Class 12 Result 2021: How to find your roll number Step 1: In a browser, search for cbseit.in/cbse/2021/rfinder/RollDetails.aspx. Step 2: Fill in details including name, mother’s name, father’s name, and school code. Step 3: Click on the 'search' option. Step 4: Your roll number will be displayed on the screen. You can carefully note down your roll number and keep it safely.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-class-12-result-2021-how-to-check-your-marks-1014561.html
30-07-2021||National||CBSE announces class 12 results: Girls outshine boys||An astounding 99.37 per cent students cleared the CBSE Class 12 exams this year, marking a 10.59 per cent increase in the pass percentage from the previous year. Girls continued to outshine boys in the exams as 99.67 per cent girl students cleared the examinations, while the pass percentage among boys was 99.13 per cent. The CBSE could not conduct the Class 12 examinations due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the results were declared on the basis of an alternate assessment policy taking into account the performance of the students in Class 10, Class 11 and the unit tests, mid-term and pre-board exams in Class 12. Of the total 13,69,745 regular candidates, results were announced for 13,04,561 candidates. Results of the 65,184 candidates were held back as the 1,060 schools had not mentioned any reference year. These results will be declared by August 5. According to the CBSE, the number of candidates scoring above 95 per cent has increased from 38,686 last year to 70,004 this year. However, the number of candidates scoring between 90-95 per cent has declined from 1,57,934 last year to 1,50,152 this year. The number of Children with Special Needs scoring above 95 per cent was 129, while 400 students in this category have scored above 90 per cent. All students from Kendriya Vidalayas and the schools under the Central Tibetan Schools Administration have cleared the Class 12 exams, while Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas have improved their pass percentage from 98.70 per cent last year to 99.94 per cent this year. The pass percentage of government and government-aided schools have increased by 4.78 per cent and 7.92 per cent respectively, while private schools have bettered their results by over 11 per cent from the previous year. Only 6,149 students have been placed under compartment as against 87,650 students last year. “The compartment examination will be conducted between August 16 and September 15. The exact dates will be announced in some time,” said Sanyam Bhardwaj, Controller of Examinations, CBSE. Step 1: Visit cbseresults.nic.in, or cbse.gov.in.  Step 2: On the homepage of the website, click on the link related to the CBSE Class 12 Result 2021. You will be directed to a new window. Step 3: Enter your roll number and other details. Step 4: Hit the submit tab once done. Step 5: Your CBSE Class 12 Result 2021 will open in a new window. Step 6: Download and take a print of your CBSE Class 12 Result 2021.  CBSE Class 12 Result 2021: How to find your roll number Step 1: In a browser, search for cbseit.in/cbse/2021/rfinder/RollDetails.aspx. Step 2: Fill in details including name, mother’s name, father’s name, and school code. Step 3: Click on the 'search' option. Step 4: Your roll number will be displayed on the screen. You can carefully note down your roll number and keep it safely.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-announces-class-12-results-girls-outshine-boys-1014564.html
30-07-2021||National||Unitech Group money laundering case: ED attaches London hotel Bed and Breakfast worth Rs 59 crore||A hotel in London worth around Rs. 58.61 crore has been attached by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with a money laundering probe against realty firm Unitech Group and its promoters Sanjay Chandra and Ajay Chandra. The ED on Friday said the hotel 'Bed and Breakfast', which has been attached under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), is owned by Ibournshorne Limited, a UK-based associate firm of the Carnoustie group. So far, assets worth Rs 595.61 crore have been attached in this case. The agency has filed a case of money laundering based on an FIR registered by the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of Delhi Police on a complaint from homebuyers against the Unitech Group. According to the ED, "tainted" funds of Rs 325 crore belonging to homebuyers were "diverted to" Carnoustie group and out of this, Rs 41.3 crore was diverted to UK after substantial layering through Carnoustie Group, India and through Indesign Enterprises Pvt Ltd, Cyprus. The ED also claimed that these funds were used for purchasing the shares of Ibounshorne Limited, UK in the name of Carnoustie Management India Pvt Ltd, an entity belonging to Carnoustie group. The ED had filed the case early this year against the Unitech Group and its promoters following allegations of illegally diverting over Rs 2,000 crore to Cyprus and the Cayman Islands. "Total proceeds of crime in this case is Rs 5,063.05 crore as determined till now," the ED had said. In March this year, the ED had conducted raids at 35 locations in Mumbai and Delhi and its outskirts||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unitech-group-money-laundering-case-ed-attaches-london-hotel-bed-and-breakfast-worth-rs-59-crore-1014568.html
30-07-2021||National||Country erupts in joy after Lovlina Borgohain assures India second Olympic medal||India rejoiced after Lovlina Borgohain on Friday assured the country of its second medal at the Tokyo Olympics with Sports Minister Anurag Thakur and shooting ace Abhinav Bindra joining others in sending the young boxer congratulatory messages. Debutant Borgohain (69kg) assured India of their first boxing medal at the ongoing Games when she upstaged former world champion, Nien-Chin Chen of Chinese Taipei, to enter the semifinals. "Lovlina has entered the Semi Finals ! Well done @LovlinaBorgohai , what an amazing news for India to wake up to today! We've been glued to the tv screen watching you in action!," Thakur wrote on his Twitter handle. Lovlina has entered the Semi Finals ! India's only individual gold medallist Bindra tweeted, "Super super show by @LovlinaBorgohai ! Two more to go ! goforgold." Assam Chief Minister Himanta Bisaw Sarma was one of the first to congratulate the boxer, who comes from the northeastern state's Golaghat district. "This is a BIG punch. You continue to make us proud LovlinaBorgohain and keep India's flag high & shining at TokyoOlympics2020. Well done," Sarma said. Former sports minister Kiren Rijiju too sent her his congratulations. "India is confirmed of 2nd Olympics medal. What a lovely Boxing from Lovlina. LovlinaBorgohai has reached semi-finals and looking for Gold medal in Tokyo2020 Olympics!" Rijiju wrote. The 23-year-old Assam boxer won 4-1 to make the last-four where she will square off against reigning world champion Busenaz Surmeneli of Turkey, who hammered Ukraine's Anna Lysenko in her quarterfinal bout. Olympic bronze medallist Yogeshwar Dutt said, "What a day!! One more Medal confirmation win by Indian Women proud." Former world champion shooter Heena Sidhu said, "medal confirmed for Lovlina!!!! Great show!!! Amazing amazing amazing." Former India hockey team captain Viren Rasquinha wrote, "This means everything!! Keep going. Don't be satisfied with this." Borgohain, a two-time world championship bronze-medallist, displayed tremendous calm in the face of a plucky opponent, who had beaten her in the past. From the cricket fraternity, BCCI secretary Jay Shah wrote, "Congratulations @LovlinaBorgohai on beating former World Champion Chen Nien-Chin and entering the semis of the women's welterweight category. First place medal Let's go for Gold, Lovlina!" Shooter Joydeep Karmakar said, "Still hold my congratulatory message! But what courage and deliberation @LovlinaBorgohai."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/country-erupts-in-joy-after-lovlina-borgohain-assures-india-second-olympic-medal-1014569.html
30-07-2021||National||Yamuna river breaches 'danger mark'; alert issued||The Delhi administration on Friday sounded a flood alert and expedited efforts to evacuate people living in the Yamuna flood plains, as the river in the capital breached the danger mark of 205.33 metres amid heavy rains in the upper catchment areas, officials said. The water level was recorded at 205.34 metres at the Old Railway Bridge at 11 am. It was 205.22 metres at 8:30 am, 205.10 metres at 6 am and 205.17 at 7 am, an official said, adding it is likely to rise further. All the departments concerned have been alerted. The irrigation and flood control department has deployed 13 boats in different areas and put 21 others on standby, the official from the irrigation and flood control department said. With Haryana discharging more water into the river from the Hathnikund Barrage, the Delhi Police and the East Delhi district administration have started evacuating people living on the floodplains of the Yamuna in the capital. These people are being shifted to shelter homes of the city government in the Yamuna Pushta area, the official said. A flood alert is declared when the Yamuna crosses the "warning mark" of 204.50 metres. The situation is being monitored round-the-clock, a district administration official said. The river is in spate because of rains in Delhi and the upper catchment areas, a MeT department official said, adding it may swell further as more rains are predicted in northwest India. The weather department has also issued an "orange alert" for moderate rains in Delhi-NCR for the third day on the trot on Friday.  According to the Delhi flood control room, the discharge rate at the Hathnikund Barrage peaked to 1.60 lakh cusecs on Tuesday afternoon, the highest this year so far. The water discharged from the barrage normally takes two-three days to reach the capital. Haryana had been releasing water from the Yumananagr-located barrage at the rate of 19,056 cusecs at 8 am. The flow rate was 25,839 cusecs at 8 pm on Thursday. Normally, the flow rate at the Hathnikund barrage is 352 cusec, but the discharge is increased after heavy rainfall in catchment areas. One cusec is equivalent to 28.32 litres per second. In 2019, the flow rate had peaked to 8.28 lakh cusec on August 18-19, and the water level of the Yamuna had hit the 206.60 metre-mark, breaching the danger mark of 205.33 metres. The Delhi government had to launch evacuation and relief operations after the overflowing river submerged many low-lying areas. In 1978, the river had swelled to the all-time record water level of 207.49 metres.In 2013, it had risen to 207.32 metres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yamuna-river-breaches-danger-mark-alert-issued-1014570.html
30-07-2021||National||Centre says no death reported due to manual scavenging, activists decry govt response||No death has been reported due to manual scavenging, the Union Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry has told Parliament, drawing sharp reaction from activists who said that those people were being robbed of dignity even in their deaths. Manual scavenging is banned under the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act, 2013. In response to a question in the Rajya Sabha, Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Ramdas Athawale has said 66,692 manual scavengers were identified. However, on how many deaths of manual scavengers have been recorded, he replied, "No such deaths have been reported due to manual scavenging." The government does not identify deaths due to manual scavenging and instead calls them deaths due to hazardous cleaning of septic tanks and sewers. During the last session of Parliament, on March 10, Athawale had said, "No deaths due to manual scavenging has been reported. However, there have been reports of death of persons while cleaning sewers or septic tanks." Activists have described the government's response as a complete lack of apathy. Bezwada Wilson, the national convener of Safai Karmachari Andolan, an organisation working to eradicate manual scavenging, said the minister had himself admitted that 340 people died while cleaning sewers. "Now, he is making a statement technically and thinking manual scavenging as dry latrines. So, he must mention in his statement very clearly that in dry latrines people may not die but here in septic tanks people die. The government is denying everything and in the same manner, he is denying deaths due to manual scavenging," he told PTI. "It is not fair on the part of the government. When we kill these people we must have the courage to say that it is due to some kind of mistake that we are going to prevent. The government is denying the fundamental right of dignity to these people and is not even counting the deaths. It is a modern form of untouchability -- ignoring the life of a Dalit," Wilson added. Sanjeev Kumar, the secretary of Dalit Adivasi Shakti Adhikar Manch, told PTI that the number of deaths is anyway underreported and the government denying it completely is highly condemnable. "In Delhi alone, there have been so many such deaths. It is very sad that the government is not acknowledging their deaths. Those who lost their lives are being robbed of dignity even in their deaths," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-says-no-death-reported-due-to-manual-scavenging-activists-decry-govt-response-1014576.html
30-07-2021||National||Govt ready to discuss issues directly related to people, Oppn behaviour unfortunate: Pralhad Joshi||Amid continuous Opposition uproar in the Lok Sabha, Union Minister Pralhad Joshi on Friday said such behaviour is unfortunate and the government is ready for discussion on issues "directly related" to the people. Referring to protests over the Pegasus spyware row that has led to a logjam in Parliament, he said Information Technology Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw has already made a detailed statement on the issue in both the Houses. The protests are over a "non-issue, non-serious issue", said Joshi, the parliamentary affairs minister, and urged the opposition members to allow the Lok Sabha to function. "There are so many issues directly related to the people of India... government is ready for discussions," he said amid din in the Lok Sabha, adding Parliament is not being allowed to function and such behaviour is "unfortunate". This week, the Lower House has passed some bills without much discussion as it has been rocked by protests since the Monsoon Session commenced on July 19. "We don't want to pass bills without discussions," Joshi asserted. As soon as the House met for the day on Friday, Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury sought to raise certain issues but was not allowed. During the Question Hour, Opposition members raised slogans and displayed placards as they protested on Pegasus spyware controversy and other issues. Some Opposition members were heard shouting "we want justice". In the wake of the protests, Lok Sabha proceedings on Friday were adjourned till noon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-ready-to-discuss-issues-directly-related-to-people-oppn-behaviour-unfortunate-pralhad-joshi-1014577.html
30-07-2021||National||SC rejects plea to reduce Rs 5 lakh cost on petitioner for challenging former CJI's appointment||The Supreme Court on Friday rejected a plea by a man for reducing of Rs 5 lakh cost imposed on him for filing a petition challenging the elevation of Justice Dipak Misra as the Chief Justice in 2017. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah directed that the award of costs should be recovered from the petitioner, Mukesh Jain as arrears of land revenue by the competent authority.  The court also ordered that no PIL in future would be entertained by the Supreme Court unless the petitioner showed proof of deposit of the costs.  As soon as the matter came up, the bench asked advocate A P Singh, representing applicant Jain, “When are you going to pay the amount?” Singh asked the court to give some time to his client, as he has been in judicial custody for one and three months.  Jain is accused in three cases. Recently, he was granted bail in a matter. However, he continues to remain in judicial custody in other matters, Singh said. Referring to the application filed by Jain on June 4 this year, the bench said the applicant made "unfounded allegations" against the judges of the top court.  Additional solicitor general Aishwarya Bhati, on her part, submitted that his property may be attached, if necessary and let the order of cost work on its own. “Don’t give any indulgence to this man," she submitted.  On July 9, the top court had directed Jain, who had challenged the elevation of Justice Dipak Misra as the Chief Justice in 2017, to deposit costs of Rs 5 lakh despite the death of co-petitioner Swami Om ji.  The top court had noted that some people have become professional public interest litigants, and this business must stop.  Jain’s counsel had informed the bench that his client was in Balasore jail for nearly a year. Swami Om ji had passed away in February 2021.  In August 2017, the top court had imposed costs of Rs 10 lakh on Jain and self-proclaimed godman Om ji for challenging the elevation of Justice Misra. Swami Om ji had subsequently moved the court seeking waiver of costs citing the Covid-19 pandemic. The court then reduced it from Rs 10 lakh to Rs 5 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-rejects-plea-to-reduce-rs-5-lakh-cost-on-petitioner-for-challenging-former-cjis-appointment-1014580.html
30-07-2021||National||Tharoor urges Birla to take action over officials' 'last-minute refusal' to attend IT panel meet||Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, who heads the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology, has urged Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to take action over ministry officials' "last-minute refusal" to attend a panel meet, which he said constituted "contempt of the House". The panel was to hold a meeting on Wednesday to discuss several issues including the Pegasus snooping allegations. It had summoned officials from the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of Communications (Department of Telecommunications) on the subject 'Citizens data security and privacy'. However, the meeting could not take place as the BJP members of the panel did not sign the attendance register, even though they were present in the meeting room, leading to a lack of quorum. In his letter to Birla, Congress MP Tharoor said just before the sitting, he was informed by the committee branch of the secretariat that e-mail communications have been received on July 28 afternoon from the three ministries/department that their representatives would not be able to appear before the committee. Tharoor said the Ministry of Home Affairs forwarded their mail at 2:33 pm, MeitY at 2:44 pm and the Department of Telecommunications at 2:52 pm. Detailing the sequence of events, the parliamentary panel chief said in his letter that MeitY had sought exemption from appearance stating the chairperson of the joint committee on Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019, has desired to have an urgent meeting with the secretary and other senior officers of MeitY for discussion/clarification on Bill at 3:45 pm in the chairman's chamber. The Ministry of Home Affairs sought exemption on account of urgent and pressing commitments related to the ensuing Parliament Session, Tharoor's letter read. Similar communication was received from the Department of Telecommunications that it will not be possible for the secretary to appear before the committee due to an urgent Parliament-related matter. Tharoor said that as chairperson of the panel he did not excuse these witnesses from attendance. The notice informing the members of the committee for the sitting was issued on July 20 and the ministries/department concerned were also informed on that day, he said, adding all the three ministries/department had confirmed their participation. "The last-minute refusal of the ministries/department to appear before the committee has been unprecedented and clearly constitutes breach of parliamentary privilege and contempt of the House. Besides, this has undermined the authority of a parliamentary committee," Tharoor said. He urged the Lok Sabha Speaker to take serious cognizance of this matter and undertake action as deemed appropriate under the rules. Tharoor has reportedly circulated the letter dated July 29 to the members of the panel. On Thursday, Tharoor had taken a swipe at the BJP members of the parliamentary panel, saying "some elements" have chosen to reduce it to a "ping pong match" that is not in the spirit of Parliament. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on a list of potential targets for surveillance using Israeli firm NSO's Pegasus spyware. Opposition leaders including Rahul Gandhi, two union ministers -- Prahlad Singh Patel and Railways and IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw, businessman Anil Ambani, a former CBI chief, and at least 40 journalists are on the list on the leaked database of NSO. It is, however, not established that all the phones were hacked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tharoor-urges-birla-to-take-action-over-officials-last-minute-refusal-to-attend-it-panel-meet-1014581.html
30-07-2021||National||HC to hear pleas of FB, WhatsApp challenging new IT Rules on August 27||The Delhi High Court Friday said it will hear on August 27 the pleas by Facebook and WhatsApp challenging the new IT rules for social media intermediaries, requiring the messaging app to “trace” chats and make provisions to identify the first originator of information, on the ground that they violate the right to privacy and are unconstitutional. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh listed the matter for August 27 after Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, said he was in some difficulty and urged the court to adjourn the hearing. The request was not opposed by senior advocates Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for WhatsApp and Facebook respectively. The new Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 were announced by the government on February 25 and requires large social media platforms like Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp to comply with the norms by May 25. The Facebook-owned WhatsApp in its plea said the requirement of intermediaries enabling the identification of the first originator of information in India upon government or court order puts end-to-end encryption and its benefits "at risk". WhatsApp LLC has urged the high court to declare Rule 4(2) of the Intermediary Rules as unconstitutional, ultra vires to the IT Act and illegal and sought that no criminal liability be imposed on it for any alleged non-compliance with Rule 4(2) which requires to enable the identification of the first originator of information. WhatsApp, which has arrayed the Centre through the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology as a party to the petition, said the traceability provision is unconstitutional and against the fundamental right to privacy. The plea said the traceability requirement forces the company to break end-to-end encryption on its messaging service, as well as the privacy principles underlying it, and infringes upon the fundamental rights to privacy and free speech of the hundreds of millions of citizens using WhatsApp to communicate privately and securely. It said WhatsApp enables government officials, law enforcement, journalists, members of ethnic or religious groups, scholars, teachers, students, and the like to exercise their right to freedom of speech and expression without fear of retaliation. “WhatsApp also allows doctors and patients to discuss confidential health information with total privacy, enables clients to confide in their lawyers with the assurance that their communications are protected, and allows financial and government institutions to trust that they can communicate securely without anyone listening to their conversations,” it said. “There is no way to predict which message will be the subject of such a tracing order. Therefore, the petitioner would be forced to build the ability to identify the first originator for every message sent in India on its platform upon request by the government forever. This breaks end-to-end encryption and the privacy principles underlying it, and impermissibly infringes upon users’ fundamental rights to privacy and freedom of speech,” the petition said. It claimed that Rule 4(2) infringes upon the fundamental right to privacy without satisfying the three-part test set forth by the Supreme Court in K S Puttaswamy judgement, that is, legality, necessity and proportionality. It also said that the rule violates the fundamental right to freedom of speech and expression as it chills even lawful speech and citizens will not speak freely for fear that their private communications will be traced and used against them, which is antithetical to the very purpose of end-to-end encryption. Rule 4(2) states that a significant social media intermediary which provides services primarily in the nature of messaging shall enable the identification of the first originator of the information on its computer resource as may be required by a judicial or government order. As per data cited by the government, India has 53 crore WhatsApp users, 44.8 crore YouTube users, 41 crore Facebook subscribers, 21 crore Instagram users, while 1.75 crore account holders are on microblogging platform Twitter. The new rules were introduced to make social media platforms like Facebook, WhatsApp, Twitter and Instagram -- which have seen a phenomenal surge in usage over the past few years in India -- more accountable and responsible for the content hosted on their platform. Social media companies will have to take down posts depicting nudity or morphed photos within 24 hours of receiving a complaint. Notably, the rules require significant social media intermediaries -- providing services primarily in the nature of messaging -- to enable identification of the "first originator" of the information that undermines sovereignty of India, security of the state, or public order. This could have major ramifications for players like Twitter and WhatsApp.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-to-hear-pleas-of-fb-whatsapp-challenging-new-it-rules-on-august-27-1014584.html
30-07-2021||National||Bill to amend general insurance law introduced in Lok Sabha||A bill to amend the general insurance law to allow the government to pare its stake in state-owned insurers was introduced in the Lok Sabha on Friday, but Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman insisted that it will not lead to privatisation. Introducing the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021, Sitharaman said its passage will help generate required resources from the Indian markets so that public sector general insurers can design innovative products. Several opposition members had opposed the introduction of the bill, saying it will bring in foreign investors and entail total privatisation of PSU general insurance companies. Sitharaman said, “The apprehensions mentioned by the members are not well-founded at all. What we are trying to do in this is not to privatise. We are bringing some enabling provision so that the Government can bring in public, Indian citizens, and common people's participation in the general insurance companies”. As per the statement of objects and reasons of The General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021, it seeks to remove the requirement that the central government holds not less than 51 per cent of the equity capital in a specified insurer. “With a view to provide for greater private participation in the public sector insurance companies and to enhance insurance penetration and social protection and better secure the interests of policyholders and contribute to faster growth of the economy, it has become necessary to amend certain provisions of the Act,” as per the bill, which was introduced amid the din. Sitharaman said public-private participation in the general insurance industry will help get more resources. “Why do we need to raise the resources from the market? Our market can give the money from the retail participants who are Indian citizens. Through that, we can have greater money, bring in better technology infusion and also enable faster growth of such general insurance companies. We need money to run them,” she said in the Lok Sabha. The minister said general insurance companies in the private sector have greater penetration, they raise more money from the market and therefore give a better premium for insuring the public and also have innovative packages. “Whereas public general insurance companies are not able to perform because they are always short of resources,” Sitharaman said. Sitharaman in the Budget 2021-22 had announced a big-ticket privatisation agenda, including privatisation of two public sector banks and one general insurance company. “We propose to take up the privatisation of two Public Sector Banks and one General Insurance company in the year 2021-22. This would require legislative amendments…,” she had said. As of date, there are four general insurance companies in the public sector - National Insurance Company Limited, New India Assurance Company Limited, Oriental Insurance Company Limited and the United India Insurance Company Limited. Now, one of these will be privatised for which the government is yet to finalise the name.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bill-to-amend-general-insurance-law-introduced-in-lok-sabha-1014588.html
30-07-2021||National||Government will set up centres for women in crisis internationally: Irani||To tackle the human-trafficking nexus operating globally, the Union government has decided to set up centres where women and children who are in crisis internationally can get protection, said Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani on Friday. With the passage of the Trafficking in Persons (Prevention, Care and Rehabilitation) Bill, 2021, the government will enhance cooperation internationally to address cross-border trafficking, she said at the inaugural session of the national consultation on the elimination of human trafficking. The event has been organised by the Kailash Satyarthi Children's Foundation and its sister group Bachpan Bachao Andolan. "On international nexus with regard to trafficking, in partnership with the External Affairs ministry, we have decided to set up centres for women who are in challenge or in crisis internationally so the women and children get protection. "I am sure that with the passage of the bill we will enhance that cooperation internationally as well so that cross-border trafficking, which is a major concern with regard to trafficking of women and children, can also be addressed," Irani said. About the bill, Irani said it is for the first time that "we are looking at trafficking in its entirety as an organised crime which means that the bill will now propose a comprehensive list of different forms of trafficking which are aggravated in nature and accordingly enhance punishment for the same". The Union Minister said that in many conversations it was highlighted how the Indian Penal Code (IPC) does not live up to the expectation of the populace with regard to the stringent punishment when it comes to human trafficking. "In our conversation with the Home Ministry we are assured that appropriate amendments to IPC will be made to complement the seriousness with which the government proposes the trafficking bill," she added. "The important one aspect I would like to flag is the issue of mandatory reporting and punishment for those who neglect to report a case of trafficking when it comes before them. "We have provided provision for closure of premises and eviction of offenders from properties who indulge in purchase from trafficking. In the bill, we have provided for an institutional arrangement to combat trafficking, apart from rescue, recovery, rehabilitation, repatriation and reintegration of victims," she said. Irani also highlighted that the bill has been drafted with a victim-centric approach to provide for the safety and protection of witnesses and entitle them to basic benefits and services and prescribe measures for their further care, relief and compensation. "Special courts designated in districts for speedy trials and justice is delivered within a limited time frame that has also been proposed within the exacts of the bill," she said. Out of the Nirbhaya Fund, the government has monetarily provided support to every state government to ensure that every district has an anti-human trafficking unit specially dedicated to this cause, Irani said. "Additionally, we have ensured that we enhance helpdesks across the country in so far as those police stations that are still uncovered. Women helpdesks are now mandatorily and monetarily supported under the Nirbhaya fund," she added. Nobel Laureate Kailash Satyarthi said human trafficking is not only one of the most heinous crimes against humanity but is also one of the most lucrative illicit trades in the world where there is a price tag on human beings. "We have to build awareness about this bill because we feel this is going to be one of the best pieces of legislation in the world. There will always be room for improvisation that we will keep on working on but today is the time we have to put an end to this menace and build awareness about issues and law," he said. "We have to build that sense of collective responsibility... moral accountability is the key to ensure freedom and dignity of every child, every human and every citizen," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-will-set-up-centres-for-women-in-crisis-internationally-irani-1014599.html
30-07-2021||National||Covid-19 linked with long-term cognitive impairment, researchers say||Covid-19 is associated with persistent cognitive deficits, including the acceleration of Alzheimer's disease symptoms, researchers have found. In addition to the respiratory and gastrointestinal symptoms that accompany Covid-19, many people with the virus experience short- and long-term neuropsychiatric symptoms, including loss of smell and taste, and cognitive and attention deficits, known as "brain fog." Initial findings from Greece and Argentina by an international, multidisciplinary consortium suggest that older adults frequently suffer cognitive impairment, including persistent lack of smell, after recovery from SARS-CoV-2 infection. The consortium includes scientific leaders, including the Alzheimer's Association and representatives from nearly 40 countries -- with technical guidance from WHO -- to evaluate the long-term consequences of Covid-19 on the central nervous system. The findings were presented at The Alzheimer's Association International Conference 2021, held between July 26-30 in Denver, US. Other key findings by the consortium suggest that biological markers of brain injury, neuroinflammation and Alzheimer's correlate strongly with the presence of neurological symptoms in Covid-19 patients. Individuals experiencing cognitive decline post-Covid-19 infection were more likely to have low blood oxygen following brief physical exertion as well as poor overall physical condition, the researchers said. "These new data point to disturbing trends showing Covid-19 infections leading to lasting cognitive impairment and even Alzheimer's symptoms," said Heather M Snyder, Alzheimer's Association vice president of medical and scientific relations. Gabriel de Erausquin of the University of Texas Health Science Center along with colleagues from the Alzheimer's Association-led global SARS-CoV-2 consortium, studied cognition and olfactory senses in a cohort of nearly 300 older adults from Argentina who had Covid-19. Participants were studied between three and six months after Covid-19 infection. More than half showed persistent problems with forgetfulness, and roughly one in four had additional problems with cognition including language and executive dysfunction, the researchers said. These difficulties were associated with persistent problems in smell function, but not with the severity of the original Covid-19 disease, they said. "We're starting to see clear connections between Covid-19 and problems with cognition months after infection," Erausquin said. Certain biological markers in blood are indicators of injury in the brain, neuroinflammation and Alzheimer's disease. To study the presence of these blood biomarkers, neurodegeneration and neuroinflammation in older patients who were hospitalised with Covid-19, Thomas Wisniewski, a professor at New York University, and colleagues took plasma samples from 310 patients with Covid-19. Of the patients, 158 were positive for SARS-CoV-2 with neurological symptoms and 152 were positive for SARS-CoV-2 without neurologic symptoms. The most common neurological symptom was confusion due to toxic-metabolic encephalopathy (TME). In patients who were initially cognitively normal with and without TME related to Covid-19 infection, the researchers found higher levels of blood biomarkers in Covid-19 patients with TME compared to Covid-19 patients without TME. "These findings suggest that patients who had Covid-19 may have an acceleration of Alzheimer's-related symptoms and pathology," Wisniewski said. "However, more longitudinal research is needed to study how these biomarkers impact cognition in individuals who had Covid-19 in the long term," he said. George Vavougios, postdoctoral researcher for the University of Thessaly (UTH), and colleagues studied cognitive impairment and related health measures in 32 previously hospitalised mild to moderate Covid-19 patients two months after discharge from the hospital. Among them, 56.2 per cent presented with cognitive decline. Short-term memory impairments and multi-domain impairment without short-term memory deficits were the predominant patterns of cognitive impairment, they noted. Worse cognitive test scores correlated with higher age, waist circumference and waist-to-hip ratio. After adjusting for age and sex, worse memory and thinking scores were independently associated with lower levels of oxygen saturation during the 6-minute walk test, which is commonly used to assess the functional capacity of people with cardiopulmonary disease. "A brain deprived of oxygen is not healthy, and persistent deprivation may very well contribute to cognitive difficulties," Vavougios added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-linked-with-long-term-cognitive-impairment-researchers-say-1014604.html
30-07-2021||National||Ban on Kawad Yatra: Devotees buy Gangajal from post offices in western Uttar Pradesh||With the traditional "Kawad Yatra" being banned in the wake of the Covid crisis, many devotees are going to post offices in western Uttar Pradesh to buy bottles of Gangajal. In Bareilly city, 350 bottles have been sold in the past six days, an official said. Post Master General Sanjay Singh, who is the incharge for western UP, said over 300 post offices have been made sales centres in the region. Due to the ban on "Kawad Yatra," people will not be able to go to Uttarakhand but Gangajal collected from Gangotri is available at select post offices in all major cities, he added. The postal department has kept the price for a 250 ml bottle at Rs 30, he said, adding that the sale is expected to increase on Mondays. While 190 bottles of Gangajal were sold from the head post office, 160 were sold from other post offices in the city, Bareilly’s Senior Postmaster P K Singh said. The annual "Kawad Yatra" was banned amid fears of the third coronavirus wave.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ban-on-kawad-yatra-devotees-buy-gangajal-from-post-offices-in-western-uttar-pradesh-1014610.html
30-07-2021||National||Vedanta moves SC for extension to operate oxygen plant at Thoothukudi||Vedanta Ltd has approached the Supreme Court asking it to extend beyond July 31 the permission to operate oxygen production unit on a standalone basis at Thoothukudi Copper plant. Tamil Nadu government, represented by senior advocate Kapil Sibal, however, opposed the plea, saying the state had a sufficient quantity of liquid oxygen. Senior advocate Harish Salve mentioned the matter before a bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud, seeking an urgent hearing. The court said it would hear the matter next week. On April 27, the court allowed Vedanta to operate its oxygen production unit on a standalone basis at Thoothukudi Copper plant till July 31, as the corporate behemoth contended that it wanted to help the national cause amid a massive upsurge in Covid-19 cases. The court passed the order, saying this was done only in view of the national need for oxygen and it would not create any equity in favour of Vedanta.  "We are in a crisis. There cannot be political bickering in this court. We have to support the nation as a court. It is a national calamity," the bench had said. A plea by Vedanta against the closure of the copper plant in May 2018 is pending adjudication separately.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vedanta-moves-sc-for-extension-to-operate-oxygen-plant-at-thoothukudi-1014618.html
30-07-2021||National||Covid-19 Vaccine Matters: Focus shifts to mixing of jabs||In the US, President Joe Biden declared the US to be close to independence from the virus. Britons hit the dance floor to celebrate “Freedom Day.” Back home, people flocked to hill stations as states eased Covid-19 restrictions.  Even as nations were ready to be done with Covid, Covid wasn’t done with them. “The virus is going to do what it wants to do,” said Michael Osterholm, director of the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota, “and not what we want to do.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-matters-focus-shifts-to-mixing-of-jabs-1014620.html
30-07-2021||National||Volunteers reach Maharashtra's flood-affected areas with relief kits||A group of mountaineering volunteers from Pune landed in western Maharashtra and Konkan regions carrying relief materials, as the area continued to reel under the impact of mega-floods.  SBI’s Deputy General Manager M N Prasad along with AMGM president Umesh Zirpe flagged off the team of 12-15 mountaineer volunteers to Sangli, Kolhapur, Chiplun, Mahad and Poladpur. Akhil Maharashtra Giryarohan Mahsangh (AMGM) is carrying out the mission in association with the State Bank of India. The team is carrying 7,000 kgs of material in three tempos. Bedsheets and blankets were distributed to each house through AMGM’s Sangli team led by Aphale and More in Dhavali village, where 850 houses were submerged. AMGM’s Satara division is supporting the cause led by Ashish Mane. The Kolhapur rural areas are in dire need of essential medicines and a team led by Dr Amar Adke, Kolhapur Giryarohan Santha, AMGM Kolhapur division is making the arrangements for the same. For Chiplun and Mahad residents, sanitary napkins, household clothing and general medicines have been sent.  Ratnadurga Mountaineers, Jiddhi Mountaineers, Samruddhi Bhutkar-Kartavya Sanstha Poladpur, Ajay Jadhav Pratapgad, Nisargamitra Panvel, Yashvanti Hikers Khopili, are also helping on the field. TrekKshitij, Discovery Society Borivali, Maharashtra Seva Sangha Mulund have taken tremendous efforts to support flood-affected sections of society. Through MMRCC (Maharashtra Mountaineers Rescue Coordination Center), various mountaineer volunteers are working with Sunil Bhatia from Mahabaleshwar Trekkers, and Shivendra Raje Rescue Team Satara.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/volunteers-reach-maharashtras-flood-affected-areas-with-relief-kits-1014621.html
30-07-2021||National||Health Minister Mandaviya stresses on need to create awareness about zoonotic diseases||The Covid-19 pandemic has highlighted the need of creating vigilance and awareness on zoonotic diseases, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday said. He made the remarks while virtually inaugurating the Whole Genome Sequencing National Reference Laboratory for Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR) and BSL 3 Laboratory on the 112th Annual Day of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). Congratulating NCDC for its contributions, Mandaviya said that India has performed better than many other countries in fighting the pandemic, a Health ministry statement stated. He said new dimensions have been added today in the legacy of 112 years of achievements of NCDC and encouraged it to strive for further innovations so that not only India but the whole world can benefit from its work. Scientists, doctors, officers and staff of NCDC should collectively chart out goals they want to achieve in the coming years, he said. "The recent Covid-19 pandemic has highlighted the need of creating vigilance and awareness on zoonotic diseases," he said, adding that division of Zoonotic Disease Programme at NCDC under the "National One health Programme for prevention and Control of Zoonoses" has created IEC materials on seven priority zoonotic diseases namely Rabies, Scrub Typhus, Brucellosis, Anthrax, CCHF, Nipah and Kyasanur Forest Disease in India. Zoonotic diseases pass from animal or insect to humans. The minister also launched the National Health Adaptation Plan on Air Pollution and National Health Adaptation Plan on Heat along with infographics and the first newsletter under the "National Programme on Climate Change and Human Health" developed by Centre of Environmental and Occupational Health, Climate Change and Health at NCDC. Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar said NCDC provides a gamut of services to the people through its laboratories, and strengths in epidemiology, public health capacity building, entomology, etc, the statement said. NCDC's role in steering the AMR containment programme in the country is commendable. “NCDC can act as a focal point with greater authority and resources for disease surveillance, monitoring of health status, educating the public, providing evidence for public health action and enforcing public health regulations,” Pawar said.  She also stressed the importance of public awareness and people's participation in keeping lifestyle diseases at bay.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-minister-mandaviya-stresses-on-need-to-create-awareness-about-zoonotic-diseases-1014626.html
30-07-2021||National||Pegasus row: Jury still out on political snooping allegations in West Bengal||Amid the raging countrywide debate over the Pegasus scandal, ex-top bureaucrats here have underlined that authorised phone-tapping is permissible in the country and West Bengal is no exception, but no allegation of snooping on politicians, mostly aimed at deriving mileage for a party, has been proved in this state thus far. Former DGPs, chief secretaries and home secretaries agreed that charges of political snooping have flown thick and fast from time to time in the state, with Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee among others having claimed on occasions that their phones were being tapped. None of the cases, however, reached a logical conclusion, they pointed out. The latest snooping scandal involving Israeli spyware Pegasus, nevertheless, has left politicians, officials and journalists shaken in the country. With TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and party's poll strategist Prashant Kishor reportedly figuring in the Pegasus target list, the controversy has hit the state anew. The chief minister has formed a two-member inquiry panel to probe into the snooping allegations. Earlier, after coming to power in 2011, the CM had ordered a similar probe into allegations of phone-tapping during the tenure of the erstwhile Left Front government. However, the inquiry report was never made public. Former West Bengal DGP Bhupinder Singh, who headed the police force when Maoist insurgency was at its peak in 2009-2010, said phone-tapping is a common phenomenon to track down criminals and terror suspects, but snooping on politicians is a complicated matter and no evidence has ever surfaced to prove such allegations. "During my tenure, we generally tapped landlines or mobiles phones of criminals, Maoist leaders and terror suspects. There are laid-down guidelines for the process... permission has to be sought and phones can be tapped only for a fixed period. At the state level, phone-tapping is done after getting a written consent from the home secretary," Singh told PTI. He claimed that tapping the phone of Maoist leader Koteshwar Rao alias Kishenji had led to several breakthroughs and helped the security agencies put up a stronger fight against the Maoist menace. "But allegations of phone-tapping of politicians always ended up being described as rumours. No one could ever prove anything, and unless you have evidence, there is no point speaking about it," he said. Asked if phones of politicians can be tapped without official brief or nod, Singh said, "You can't blame the force or the government if a rogue element within a system is doing something illegal for personal reasons. We always used to be doubly sure before recommending a number for tapping." Echoing him, former chief secretary Ardhendu Sen said police officers in charge of criminal investigation could request for access to phone conversations if they believe it could help them in their investigations. These requests have to be approved by the home secretary of the state or the central government who assesses the importance of carrying out such vigilance before giving its consent, he said. When prodded about the allegations of phone-tapping of politicians, Sen said it is possible only if a "home secretary is negligent in his duty". "It is true that Mamata Banerjee often alleged that her phone was tapped during the Left front rule. It is also true that she could not produce any evidence in the matter over the last ten years," Sen said. Ironically, during the TMC government's first two tenures, political opponents and journalists have also levelled allegations of surveillance against the ruling dispensation. Listing out the categories under which a phone is tapped, senior police officials said the person can be put under surveillance if he or she is a threat to national security, has a criminal background or Maoist links or cases under the UAPA law. Once an officer comes up with an application for a specific phone number which supposedly needs to be tapped, he has to list valid reasons for his request. It is then passed on to senior officers. After clearance from the higher-ups, it is sent to the home secretary for final approval. "It takes around a month to get the nod for tapping a specific number. Every month, there is an audit to determine if the snooping should continue. If there are no proper leads, then the tapping is stopped immediately," a former state home secretary, who was later elevated to the post of chief secretary, said. The retired official, however, agreed that there might have been instances of illegal tapping by some officials, "but that is unlawful, and if proved is a punishable offence ". Former Kolkata police commissioner Gautam Mohan Chakraborty said no one would be able to throw light on allegations of political snooping as "tapping phones of politicians" is illegal. "I can comment on something legal, not something that is illegal," he said. The ruling TMC claimed that there have been allegations galore about phone-tapping over the years but none other than BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari has gone on record to say he has access to call records of political opponents. Adhikari, during a recent party meeting in Purba Medinipur, had said that he is aware of the phone conversations that TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee had been having with police officers in the district. "It is true that during the Left Front regime, allegations of snooping were made. Never, however, has any politician openly admitted that he has access to phone conversations, barring Adhikari. The matter should be investigated," TMC's state general secretary Kunal Ghosh said. In a counter-attack, Bengal BJP unit's chief spokesperson Shamik Bhattacharya asked the state government to come clean on whether "any police commissioner visited Israel in the last ten years" to buy a snooping device. "Mukul Roy, after joining the BJP in 2017, had alleged that his phones were being tapped. The state government should first come clean on whether any police commissioner ever visited Israel to buy a snooping device," he said. CPI (M) central committee member Sujan Chakraborty, on his part, said the allegations of phone tapping during the Left Front regime were "completely baseless", and no proof to substantiate the charges has been found so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pegasus-row-jury-still-out-on-political-snooping-allegations-in-west-bengal-1014628.html
30-07-2021||National||Pune woman DCP's 'free biryani' order lands her in soup||A purported audio clip of a female Deputy Commissioner of Police in Pune has gone viral on social media platforms, in which she was heard demanding mutton biryani, chicken biryani, prawns and bombil for free. Taking serious cognizance of the incident, Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse-Patil has asked Pune Police commissioner Amitabh Gupta to probe into the incident and submit a report.  “I have heard the audio clip. It is a serious issue and I have asked the police commissioner to conduct a probe. Once he submits the report, the state government will take action against the officer depending on the report,” he said. The lady officer, however, has denied the allegations. “Its a morphed audio with a purpose to malign my image,” she said.  In the purported audio-clip, the officer is heard ordering chicken biryani for herself, mutton biryani for her husband "who loves it", besides prawn masala and some fried fish, through her orderly.  On the issue of payment, she allegedly said: “Do we have to pay for these things in our jurisdiction? You manage it or ask the Beat cop to handle it… Do you want me to speak with him…?”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pune-woman-dcps-free-biryani-order-lands-her-in-soup-1014629.html
30-07-2021||National||Some ministers willing to step down in Rajasthan, Maken says ahead of reshuffle||In a clear indication that some members of the Rajasthan Cabinet may be dropped, Congress general secretary Ajay Maken on Friday said a few ministers have expressed willingness to quit the government to work for the organisation. The remark by Maken, who is the Rajasthan in-charge at the All India Congress Committee (AICC), followed his one-on-one meetings here with party MLAs and other leaders in the Congress-ruled state ahead of a likely Cabinet reshuffle. Maken said everyone told him that they will accept whatever the party high command decides for them. Asked if there will be a change in Rajasthan after he submits his report to Delhi, the Congress leader smiled, “Mein hee Delhi hoon (I am Delhi).” A Cabinet expansion and appointments to district Congress posts is expected soon, following demands by supporters of former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot for a bigger share of power in the state led by Ashok Gehlot. "There are people eager to leave government positions and work for the organisation. We are proud of such people,” Maken said, his remarks indicating that some ministers in the Gehlot Cabinet may now make way for fresh faces. “The Congress will form the government again in 2023 with our members, who are ready to leave everything and work together with the organisation," he told reporters. The leader said the ministers cited his own example when he quit a ministerial post in 2013 to work for the organisation. After the one-on-one meetings on Wednesday and Thursday with 115 MLAs – from the ruling party and those supporting it – Maken held discussions Friday with the state executive at the Congress headquarters here. “We mainly discussed how we can bring back a Congress government in 2023. In the state executive meeting also, we discussed that there should be better coordination between the government and the organisation so that together we can bring the Congress back to power," he said. Maken appreciated the performance of the Gehlot government. "I was told by every MLA how amazing development work has been carried out in their constituency -- be it education, health, roads, hospitals. All MLAs are satisfied and all are moving ahead on the path of development,” he said. Apart from the MLAs, Maken spoke separately with Gehlot, Pilot, state unit president Govind Singh Dotasra and Speaker C P Joshi. Asked about the possible role for Pilot, who was sacked as deputy CM and the state unit president after he rebelled last year against Gehlot, he said, "Everyone has faith in the high command. Everyone has said that whatever role the high command decides will be acceptable to all.” On Thursday night, Gehlot also held an informal meeting of party MLAs at his home. “Forget, forgive and unite,” he was quoted later as telling them. “There is no dearth of development work in the state. The work will continue like this... have faith. All of you will win and the Congress will form the government in 2023," the chief minister said. Including Gehlot, there are 21 members now in the Rajasthan ministry and up to nine more can be accommodated. Similarly, there are vacancies in party units at the district level. The Congress high command had brought about a truce in the Rajasthan unit after rebel MLAs led by Pilot appeared to bring the Gehlot government on the brink of collapse last year. A three-member AICC committee was formed to look into the grievances of Pilot supporters. But they claim that this has not happened even months later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/some-ministers-willing-to-step-down-in-rajasthan-maken-says-ahead-of-reshuffle-1014635.html
30-07-2021||National||Vaccinate destitute, beggars, vagabonds against Covid-19: Centre tells states||The Centre has urged states and union territories to conduct special vaccination sessions for the destitute, beggars and vagabonds who may not have access to self-registration and lack resources for vaccination. In a letter to the chief secretaries of states and the administrators of UTs, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the state government may take the help of NGOs, civil society organisations and public spirited citizens/volunteers in this endeavour. Bhushan said more than 45 crore vaccine doses have been administered till date. The vaccination drive is people-centric and provisions have been made to make it accessible to all eligible priority groups irrespective of their socioeconomic status, he said in his letter dated July 29.  There is a need to keep the focus of Covid vaccination on the most vulnerable groups to ensure vaccination is equitable and accessible to all, the letter said. "The vaccination of destitute and vagabonds who may not have access to self-registration and lack resources for vaccination, needs to be facilitated. States and UTs may adopt a targeted approach to cover this group," said the letter addressed. The ministry has already advised all states and UTs, through a letter on May 6, for providing Covid vaccination to such group of people like beggars, nomads, people residing in rehabilitation camps etc while sharing the SOPs regarding vaccination of persons who do not possess prescribed identity card, he said. "You are, therefore, requested to direct the concerned Departments of Social Justice and Empowerment and Health in your State/UT to work together to facilitate vaccination of the destitute, beggars and vagabonds. "Concerned Departments of the State Government may take the help of NGOs/CSOs and public spirited citizens/volunteers in this endeavour. Special session may be planned for conducting the vaccination for this group of persons," the letter stated.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaccinate-destitute-beggars-vagabonds-against-covid-19-centre-tells-states-1014652.html
30-07-2021||National||Video shows ants crawling on face of paralysed Covid-19 patient in Gujarat hospital||A video showing ants crawling on the face of a paralysed Covid-19 patient at a well-known Gujarat government-run hospital has surfaced on social media platforms, prompting the medical facility's administration to order an inquiry on Friday. The video was shot a few days ago by a kin of the woman Covid-19 patient, who is also suffering from paralysis and currently receiving treatment in the ICU of Sir Sayajirao General (SSG) Hospital at Vadodara. The administration of the state government-run hospital assured of action if any lapse is established on part of staffers. In the 5-minute viral clip, the woman in her 50s can be seen lying on an ICU bed and being fed through a tube and responding only by shaking head when the relative asks her if she wants something. Upon seeing ants coming out from the corner of her swollen mouth, the person shooting the video can be heard complaining to a nurse, who tells him that due care was taken by the on-duty staff and the patient's mouth was also cleaned during the previous night. Upon learning about the incident, Medical Superintendent of the hospital, Dr Ranjan Aiyer, ordered an inquiry and assured of action if any negligence comes to light. "All the staff have been given strict instructions to maintain high standards of hygiene and also remain alert in attending patients. The spillage of food from the pipe might have attracted the ants. "I have also ordered an inquiry into the incident and action will be taken if any lapses are found" said Dr. Aiyer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/video-shows-ants-crawling-on-face-of-paralysed-covid-19-patient-in-gujarat-hospital-1014665.html
30-07-2021||National||India, China military commanders to meet on Saturday||The senior military commanders of India and China will meet again on Saturday, amid indications that the two sides may have reached closer to a deal to end the standoff at Gogra and Hot Springs along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), but continue to have differences about Depsang Plains. The meeting between the senior commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) will be held at Moldo on China’s side of its LAC with India at 10:30 am on Saturday, sources in New Delhi said. It is going to be the 12th round of talks between the military commanders of the two sides since the standoff started in April-May 2020 after the Chinese PLA sought to unilaterally alter the status quo along the LAC – the de facto boundary between the two nations – and the counter-deployment by the Indian Army to resist the move. If the meeting between the senior military commanders of India and China results in a deal between the two sides for mutual withdrawal of frontline troops from Gogra and Hot Springs along the LAC, it will be the second major breakthrough in the protracted negotiation between the two sides to resolve the 15-month-long standoff. What will, however, still remain unresolved is the face-off in Depsang Plains. The Indian Army and the Chinese PLA had earlier mutually withdrawn frontline troops from the face-off points on the northern and southern banks of Pangong Tso between February 10 and 21. After External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had a meeting with his counterpart in the Chinese Government, Wang Yi, in Dushanbe on July 14, New Delhi claimed that India and China had agreed that when the military commanders of the two nations would hold the next round of talks, they should discuss about all remaining face-off points, including Gogra, Hot Springs and Depsang Plains. The Chinese PLA had earlier refused to include disengagement of troops along the LAC on Depsang Plains in the agenda for talks between its senior commander and his counterpart in the Indian Army. A source in New Delhi said that while negotiations between the two sides had resulted in progress in resolving the standoff in Gogra and Hot Springs, it might take more time to reach a deal on the face-off point in Depsang Plain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-military-commanders-to-meet-on-saturday-1014686.html
30-07-2021||National||ISRO-NASA joint satellite project NISER proposed to be launched early 2023, says Jitendra Singh||The ISRO-NASA joint mission NISER (NASA-ISRO Synthetic Aperture Radar) satellite, aimed at making global measurement of land surface changes using advanced radar imaging, is proposed to be launched in early 2023, Earth Sciences Minister Jitendra Singh said on Friday. In a written response to a question in the Lok Sabha, he said NISAR is a joint Earth-Observation mission between ISRO and US space agency NASA for global observations over all land masses including the Polar cryosphere and the Indian Ocean region. "NASA-ISRO Synthetic Aperture Radar (NISER) has not been launched yet. NISER is proposed to be launched in early 2023," said Singh, who also is the minister for the Department of Space. It is a dual-band (L-band and S-band) radar imaging mission with the capability of full polarimetric and interferometric modes of operation to observe minor changes in land, vegetation and cryosphere. NASA is developing L-band SAR and associated systems while ISRO is developing S-band SAR, spacecraft bus, the launch vehicle and associated launch services, Singh said. The major scientific objectives of the mission are to improve understanding of the impact of climate change on Earth's changing ecosystems, land and coastal processes, land deformations and cryosphere, he said. NISER is one of the crucial collaborations of the ISRO and NASA. India and the US had agreed upon this mission during then President Barack Obama's visit to India in 2015.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isro-nasa-joint-satellite-project-niser-proposed-to-be-launched-early-2023-says-jitendra-singh-1014689.html
30-07-2021||National||IIT-M, Cancer Institute to develop device for early diagnosis of ovarian cancer||The prestigious Indian Institute of Technology-Madras (IIT-M) will collaborate with the Adyar Cancer Institute (WIA) to develop a point-of-care device for the early diagnosis of ovarian cancer. IIT-M and WIA have entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to develop a kit for the early diagnosis of ovarian cancer.  The technology developed from this collaboration with be transferred to a suitable industrial partner who will manufacture and market the testing kit to the general public, the IIT-M said.  Ovarian cancer is the seventh most common cancer and the eighth leading cause of cancer-associated death in women. As many as 3.14 lakh persons were diagnosed with ovarian cancer in 2020 of which 44,000 are from India. And of those 2.7 lakh deaths in 2020 globally, 32,077 are from India. Ovarian cancer is considered a silent killer since most patients do not have any symptoms in the early stage or have non-specific symptoms which are usually ignored, resulting in most patients presenting in advanced stages of the disease.  Under funding from the Department of Science and Technology, Govt. of India, the Department of Molecular Oncology at the Cancer Institute [WIA] had undertaken research to identify proteins that can be detected in the blood which can help in the diagnosis of epithelial ovarian cancers, which accounts for over 90% of the ovarian cancers. “The study used high end proteomics Tandem Mass Tag (TMT) based quantitative analysis by high resolution mass spectrometry] for initial identification of proteins which were differentially expressed in epithelial ovarian cancers,” Dr T. Rajkumar, Professor and Head, Department of Molecular Oncology, Cancer Institute, said. There were over 507 blood proteins that were expressed differently between healthy subjects and epithelial ovarian cancer patients. A two-stage validation was then undertaken. 21 of the 507 proteins in blood that were found to be expressed at different levels were taken up for validation using an advanced technique called Quantibody array, the institute said. Dr V V Raghavendra Sai, Associate Professor (Biomedical Engineering), Department of Applied Mechanics, IIT-M said, the MoU gives the institute an excellent opportunity to work closely with the clinicians towards a deeper understanding of the bottlenecks on the clinical diagnosis and gain from the rich experience to develop robust systems.  “The clinicians also will have an avenue to see the potential of the latest technological developments and guide us to effectively tailor them to meet the needs. The state-of-the-art high throughput systems, available only in the centralised diagnostic laboratories for screening for disease markers, are limited by the infrastructure, cost, access and sometimes sensitivity,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iit-m-cancer-institute-to-develop-device-for-early-diagnosis-of-ovarian-cancer-1014693.html
30-07-2021||National||SC declines to consider plea against FIRs for criticising Covid-19 vaccine policy||The Supreme Court on Friday declined to consider a PIL, for quashing of the FIRs registered against 24 persons for putting up advertisements, posters and brochures for criticising the central government's Covid-19 vaccination policy. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrahud and M R Shah told petitioner-cum-lawyer, Pradeep Kumar Yadav, not to file such kind of PILs, saying the court could not quash the FIR at the instance of a third party. "In the criminal jurisprudence, we can’t quash an FIR at the behest of a third party. They (the affected persons) must come," the bench said.  Yadav asked the court to direct the Commissioners of Police, and DGPs not to register FIR against the persons for advertisements or brochures, banners and posters, criticising the central government's Covid-19 vaccination policy. He claimed that a 19-year-old school dropout, a 30-year-old e-rickshaw driver, a 61-year-old maker of wooden frames were among 24 people arrested by Delhi Police, in the middle of a raging pandemic, for allegedly pasting posters. The string of arrests in the capital started late on May 12 after the Special Branch informed Delhi Police Commissioner (former) S N Shrivastava about the posters that read, “Modi ji hamare bachon ki vaccine videsh kyon bhej diya" (Why did you send our children’s vaccines abroad?)," the petition stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-declines-to-consider-plea-against-firs-for-criticising-covid-19-vaccine-policy-1014695.html
30-07-2021||National||SC to hear Anil Deshmukh's plea in ED case on August 3||The Supreme Court on Friday refrained from granting any immediate protection from arrest to former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, in the money laundering case registered against him by the Enforcement Directorate.   A bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar put the matter for consideration on August 3.  "List this plea on August 3 along with connected cases," the bench said.  ED had issued summons to the NCP leader and his son Hrishikesh seeking their appearance. Deshmukh had skipped the previous summonses by the agency.  Deshmukh, in the plea to the top court, challenged the summons and sought protection for both himself and his son, Hrishikesh.  He has been accused of money laundering for the alleged extortion from a bunch of orchestra bars in the city. It has been alleged that Rs 4.7 crore was collected as "extortion" from the orchestra bars by dismissed Mumbai police officer Sachin Waze allegedly on Deshmukh's instructions. This amount was subsequently transferred to Deshmukh’s Nagpur-based educational trust by his son, Hrishikesh. According to the allegation, the transaction was routed via two hawala operators and was showed as a 'donation'. The 71-year-old NCP leader is the president of the trust and his two sons, Salil and Hrishikesh, are trustees.  On May 11, a case was registered against the former home minister and on June 25, the ED raided Deshmukh's residences in Nagpur, Mumbai, and three other places.  Param Bir Singh, former commissioner of Mumbai police in his letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, alleged that Deshmukh had indulged in "malpractices" and asked suspended Mumbai police officer Sachin Waze to collect Rs 100 crore every month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-hear-anil-deshmukhs-plea-in-ed-case-on-august-3-1014708.html
30-07-2021||National||Ayurveda recognised as system of medicine in 16 countries: Govt||Ayurveda is recognised as a system of medicine in 16 countries including Hungary, Switzerland, Cuba and Brazil, the government said on Friday. The other countries are Nepal, Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Bangladesh, UAE, Oman, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Malaysia, Mauritius, Serbia and Tanzania. Romania, Hungary, Latvia, Serbia and Slovenia are five countries of the European Union (EU) where ayurvedic practices are regulated, the government said. In a written response to a question in Lok Sabha, Minister of State for Ayush Sarbananda Sonowal said Unani system is recognised in Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Malaysia, Pakistan, Bahrain, UAE and Tanzania while Siddha system is recognised in Sri Lanka and Malaysia. Sowa Rigpa system is recognised in Bhutan and Mongolia and homoeopathy system in Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Oman, UAE, Russia and Tanzania. It is well regulated in Ghana, Chile, Colombia, Romania, Turkey, Ontario (Canada) and is integrated into National Health Policy in UK. Ayush products are being exported to more than 100 foreign countries either as medicine or food supplement, Sonowal said. "Ayurveda is recognised as system of medicine in Nepal, Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Bangladesh, UAE, Oman, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Malaysia, Mauritius, Hungary, Serbia, Tanzania, Switzerland, Cuba and Brazil," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ayurveda-recognised-as-system-of-medicine-in-16-countries-govt-1014718.html
30-07-2021||National||Rajya Sabha passes Coconut Development Board (Amendment) Bill||The Rajya Saha on Friday passed the Coconut Development Board (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which seeks to create the post of 'non-executive chairman'. The Upper House passed the Bill after a brief discussion amid protest and sloganeering by the Opposition. Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh, who was presiding over the proceedings, asked Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar to move a motion for consideration of the passage of the Bill, amid the Opposition's protest. The Bill seeks to amend Section 4 of the Coconut Development Board Act, 1979, and provides for the appointment of a non-executive chairman, a chief executive officer and an ex-officio joint secretary to the Government of India, in-charge of the Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture, as member of the board. The Coconut Development Board (Amendment) Bill, 2021, provides for the appointment of six members instead of the existing four members. While participating in the debate, Muzibulla Khan of Biju Janata Dal, who was the only member to speak on the issue, said the coastal states such as Odisha should be given priority and have a member into it. "Odisha has a coastal line of around 480 km and is backward and frequently faces cyclones," he said adding that "the state should have a representation into the board". After that, the deputy chairman said that as no member has given their names, he was calling the minister for his reply on the Bill. While replying to the debate, Tomar said the aim of the amendment is to develop the coconut area, extend facilities and increase the income of the farmers. Some protesting members objected, but the deputy chairman said they have not submitted their names for debate. "You have not submitted your name. If you want to speak, please immediately go back to your seat. I am interested, I will give it," he said adding that if they want a division, even then he is agreed for that but for that, they would have to return to their seats. The opposition party members were protesting inside the well of the House over the Pegasus snooping controversy, farm laws and price rise. The Bill was passed by a voice vote amid the protest and sloganeering by the Opposition after Tomar's short reply. Immediately after that, Rajya Sabha was adjourned till Monday 11 am.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-passes-coconut-development-board-amendment-bill-1014725.html
30-07-2021||National||Delhi has over 36 lakh vehicles older than 20 years, Karnataka 39 lakh||Delhi has more than 36 lakh vehicles older than 20 years, the second highest in the country after Karnataka, which has over 39 lakh such vehicles, the Centre said on Friday. Responding to a query in the Lok Sabha, Minister of State for Environment Ashwini Choubey said there are 2,14,25,295 vehicles older than 20 years in the country. He said these figures exclude vehicles in Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana and Lakshadweep as they are "not in centralised Vahan 4 portal". While Karnataka has 39,48,120 vehicles older than 20 years, Delhi has 36,14,671, followed by Uttar Pradesh with 26,20.946 such vehicles, as per the data shared by the minister in a written response. Kerala recorded 20.67 lakh 20-year-old vehicles, Tamil Nadu has 15.99 lakh such vehicles and Punjab 15.32 lakh vehicles, he said. On being asked about pollution caused by these vehicles, Choubey said no assessment has been made regarding the pollution caused by these vehicles in the country. The number of 20-year-old vehicles in Delhi assume significance as the Supreme Court had ruled in 2018 that any registered diesel vehicle more than 10 years old, and any petrol vehicle over 15 years old cannot operate in NCR. These rules have been laid down in various orders issued by the NGT (2015) and the Supreme Court (2018). However, earlier this year, the Centre had proposed a new draft vehicle-scrapping policy, which will allow owners to use their old vehicles after a fitness test and on payment of a higher fee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-has-over-36-lakh-vehicles-older-than-20-years-karnataka-39-lakh-1014729.html
30-07-2021||National||3 rape cases, insensitive comments by ministers put Goa govt on backfoot||Three rape cases within a week and insensitive comments made by the state's Ministers have put the BJP-led government on the backfoot during the ongoing monsoon session of the state legislative Assembly. After Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, on Wednesday, blamed parents of two minor girls who were raped on a South Goa beach and urged parents, in general, to introspect as to why their minor wards were hanging out on beaches after dark, Goa's Art and Culture Minister Govind Gaude's comments on Friday supporting the Chief Minister attracted further ire from the Opposition and civil society. "The problem is if one has to post a policeman for every person, every girl, how many police will we require? This is what it is. The government is not running away from responsibility. Government is protecting everyone. Government is there with the people," Gaude told media persons at the state assembly complex. "Being a parent himself, he (CM) has said that parents, especially in minor cases, have to look where children are going, have children taken permission whether they are staying at somebody's place. It is the responsibility of the parents and governments also," Gaude said. Apart from the rape of two minor girls at Colva beach in South Goa, two other rapes were reported in the state within the week. One involving the rape of a 19-year-old girl by truck drivers in Ponda sub-district, while in another incident, a 25-year-old Assamese woman claimed that she was raped for three days by two persons who had called her to Goa on the pretext of a job. The three incidents have put the treasury benches on the back foot, with the Opposition accusing the Sawant-led government of allowing the law and order mechanism in the state to crumble. "This is a matter of shame. The police machinery appears to be virtually non-existent in Goa," Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3-rape-cases-insensitive-comments-by-ministers-put-goa-govt-on-backfoot-1014751.html
30-07-2021||National||Resolve all Covid-19 grievances maximum within 3 days, Centre tells all departments||The Centre has asked all departments to give high priority to Covid-19 public grievances and resolve them within a maximum of three days, according to an official order. It also reduced to 45 days the maximum time limit to resolve grievances received through the Centralized Public Grievance Redress and Monitoring System (CPGRAMS), which is an online system for people to lodge their grievances from anywhere and anytime on issued related to central ministries, state governments and Union Territories. An analysis of grievance disposals in CPGRAMS reveals that about 87 per cent ministries or departments have disposed of grievances in less than 45 days, the order said issued by the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG). “CPGRAMS grievances shall be resolved promptly as soon as they are received and maximum within 45 days,” it said. In case redressal is not possible within the prescribed time-frame due to circumstances beyond the control of the government such as sub-judice matters and policy issues, an interim reply will be given to the citizen, it said. “The grievances under Covid-19 category shall continue to be taken up on high priority and resolved maximum within three days,” said the order issued recently to secretaries of all central government departments. The decision to reduce the time limit to resolve public grievances came following a recommendation by a parliamentary panel. Following the recommendation of the Department related Parliamentary Standing Committee on Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions which had suggested reducing the maximum time limit for disposal of grievances from existing 60 days to 45 days, the DARPG decided to revise the grievance disposal protocol in CPGRAMS, the order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/resolve-all-covid-19-grievances-maximum-within-3-days-centre-tells-all-departments-1014756.html
30-07-2021||National||No Covid-19 patient died in Goa due to oxygen shortage: Health Minister flip flops||Months after Health Minister Vishwajit Rane claimed that patients were dying at Goa's top hospital, the Goa Medical College, due to oxygen shortage, Rane told the state legislative assembly on Friday, that not a single person died at the apex health facility due to oxygen shortage. "At no point in time, the oxygen supplies at GMC ran out of stock and thus, no death has been reported to have caused due to non-supply of Oxygen," Rane has said in his written reply, in response to a legislative assembly question by Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat. Oxygen shortage had emerged as a cause for concern in Goa, especially in May, when cases during the second wave of the pandemic witnessed a peak. On May 11, Rane himself had addressed a press conference and claimed that 26 Covid patients had died within five hours on the same day due to shortage of oxygen. Rane, at the time, had also urged the Bombay High Court to take over Covid management systems at the apex hospital and initiate an enquiry into the oxygen shortage. More than 90 persons have died in the state due to shortage of oxygen.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-covid-19-patient-died-in-goa-due-to-oxygen-shortage-health-minister-flip-flops-1014758.html
30-07-2021||National Politics||'Embarrassing day for country': Congress on Assam advisory against travel to Mizoram||The Congress on Thursday said it was an embarrassing day for the country as one state had to issue an advisory to its people against travelling to another state amid border tensions between Assam and Mizoram. "Most embarrassing day in the history of the country. When countrymen are unable to move from one state to another, do the chief minister and home minister have the right to stay in their posts," he said in a tweet in Hindi. The Assam government on Thursday issued a travel advisory asking people not to travel to Mizoram and advised people from the state working or staying there to “exercise utmost caution.” The two states also traded accusations over deployment of security forces along the interstate border on Thursday, three days after both sides were locked in a fierce gun battle near the boundary that left six policemen and a civilian dead.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/embarrassing-day-for-country-congress-on-assam-advisory-against-travel-to-mizoram-1014428.html
30-07-2021||National Politics||PM Modi asks people to share their inputs for his Independence Day speech||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday urged citizens to share their inputs for his Independence Day speech on August 15, saying their thoughts will reverberate from the ramparts of the Red Fort.  In a tweet, he asked people to provide their inputs on MyGov, a citizen engagement platform.  Your thoughts will reverberate from the ramparts of the Red Fort. The portal noted that the prime minister in his Independence Day speech lays out the government's programmes and policies, and Modi over the last few years has directly invited ideas and suggestions from citizens.  It added, "Similarly, this year too the Prime Minister invites citizens to contribute their inputs for New India. So, now you have the opportunity to tell your ideas, give word to your suggestions and crystallize your vision. PM Narendra Modi will pick up some of the ideas in his speech on 15th August."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-asks-people-to-share-their-inputs-for-his-independence-day-speech-1014534.html
30-07-2021||National Politics||Lok Sabha adjourns till noon amid din||Lok Sabha proceedings on Friday were adjourned till noon as Opposition members continued to protest over the Pegasus spyware controversy and other issues. The House, which went on till 11:30 AM, took up various questions and supplementaries. However, as the protests continued, Speaker Om Birla adjourned the proceedings till noon. During the Question Hour, Opposition members raised slogans and displayed placards as they protested on Pegasus spyware controversy and other issues. Some Opposition members were heard raising slogans like 'we want justice'. Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha have been rocked by Opposition protests since the Monsoon session commenced on July 19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lok-sabha-adjourns-till-noon-amid-din-1014548.html
30-07-2021||National Politics||OBC quota in medical colleges late step aimed at electoral benefits: Mayawati||BSP president Mayawati on Friday said the reservation for OBCs in the medical and dental courses of government colleges came late and it is now being perceived as aimed at reaping electoral benefits. The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief also said her party has been demanding filling up the backlog in the reserved category seats in government jobs, but the Centre and the government in Uttar Pradesh and other states have been indifferent to it. In a tweet in Hindi, the BSP chief said, "Declaration of OBC quota in all-India UG and PG seats of government medical colleges in the country is a very late step. Had the Centre taken the decision earlier, they would have benefitted a lot by now, but now people see this decision as having been taken to serve electoral interests." "Although the BSP has been continuously demanding filling up of the backlog posts of the SC, ST and OBC quota in government jobs for a long time, the governments of different states, including that of UP, and the Centre have remained indifferent towards the real interest and welfare of these sections. This is very unfortunate," the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said. The Centre on Thursday announced a 27-per cent quota for OBCs and 10 per cent reservation for the economically weaker sections in the All India Quota scheme for the undergraduate and postgraduate medical and dental courses from the current academic year, 2021-2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/obc-quota-in-medical-colleges-late-step-aimed-at-electoral-benefits-mayawati-1014555.html
30-07-2021||National Politics||Don't test patience of Parliament: Venkaiah Naidu warns MPs||Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Friday said the conduct of some MPs during their protest over the Pegasus episode was lowering the dignity of the Parliament while cautioning them not to test the patience of the House. Naidu made the remarks at the beginning of the proceedings of the day, saying he was made aware of some MPs whistling in the House, some others putting their hands on the shoulders of marshals and a couple of others standing in front of ministers holding placards. "With all these things, we are taking the House to a new low. I am very much concerned about this. There are two ways. First, ignore this and allow this to become a bazaar (market). Allow every member to blow whistles. The second is to take action. I feel really sorry to say this from this podium. I never expected my Members to go to that level," he said. "I only request to all the members to see that the decency and dignity of the House is maintained. That is my earnest appeal. There is a limit to patience and we should not exhaust the patience of the House," he said. Protesting over issues is fine but the dignity and the prestige of the House should not be compromised, he said. He also said that he was examining a breach-of-privilege notice submitted by Congress MP K C Venugopal on the written reply of Minister of State for Health Bharati Pawar that no death of Covid patients due to a lack of oxygen has been reported. Venugopal said he has given a notice under Rule 187 for moving a breach-of-privilege motion against Pawar on charges of misleading the House. "My question was direct -- Is it a fact that a large number of Covid-19 patients died on road and in hospitals due to an acute shortage of oxygen in the second wave? (of the coronavirus pandemic). This was my question. The minister answered that no death occurred due to an oxygen shortage," Venugopal said. Naidu said he has received the notice and "it is being examined". Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha Chief Whip Sukhendu Sekhar Ray said that no notice under Rule 267 to suspend business and discuss issues of importance has been accepted by the Chair since November 2016. "On no occasion has rule 267 been allowed in the last five years. I strongly believe that the rule still exists in the rule book and kindly allow us to discuss (under) rule 267," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dont-test-patience-of-parliament-venkaiah-naidu-warns-mps-1014562.html
30-07-2021||National Politics||Opposition parties demand JPC probe to ascertain details of farmer deaths during agitation||Eight non-Congress Opposition parties, including Akali Dal, Shiv Sena, NCP and CPI(M), have written to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla seeking a probe by a Joint Parliamentary Committee on deaths of farmers during the ongoing protests at Delhi borders against the contentious farm laws. Leaders of Akali Dal, Shiv Sena, BSP, NCP, CPI(M), CPI, RLP and National Conference, are also likely to meet President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday demanding repeal of the three farm laws. The parties' move came after Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said in Parliament that the Centre has no knowledge of farmers' deaths during the protests. In their letter, the leaders of these parties have said that the Minister's statement has hurt the sentiments of farmers across the country and sought his apology. "It is shocking that the 'annadaata' was subjected to this insult, despite clear-cut recorded proof of hundreds of farmers being martyred during the Kisan Andolan. It is even more appalling that the Agriculture Minister has gone on record to say that neither a study has been conducted to verify the numbers of these farmer deaths nor a study to understand the apprehensions in the minds of farmers regarding the three farm laws," they said. Calling it a "very serious lapse" on the part of the minister, they said he has "misled the nation" and should "apologise to the farming community for his intemperate remarks that have hurt their self-respect". "We urge you (Speaker) to form a JPC led by an Opposition member to probe the entire issue and ascertain details of the total number of lives lost in the ongoing Kisan Andolan and suggest ways and means to rehabilitate the victim families," the leaders said in the letter. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-parties-demand-jpc-probe-to-ascertain-details-of-farmer-deaths-during-agitation-1014592.html
30-07-2021||National Politics||Oxygen deaths: Venugopal's privilege notice being examined, says Rajya Sabha chairman||Congress MP K C Venugopal's breach-of-privilege notice over a statement by the junior health minister that no death of Covid patients due to a lack of oxygen has been reported is under examination by the chair, Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu said on Friday. At the start of the day's proceedings in the Upper House of Parliament, Venugopal said he has given a notice under rule 187 for moving a breach-of-privilege motion against Union Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare Bharati Pravin Pawar for misleading the House. The Congress member said this pertained to a question he had raised in the House. "My question was direct -- whether it is a fact that a large number of Covid-19 patients died on road and in hospitals due to an acute shortage of oxygen in the second wave (of the coronavirus pandemic)," Venugopal said. "This was my question. The minister answered that no death occurred due to an oxygen shortage." Naidu said he has received the notice and "it is being examined". "I have to seek the response of the concerned minister once I forward it (the notice) to (the minister). The process is on. Rest assured. There is a system," he said. In his notice, Venugopal cited six media reports that spoke of an oxygen shortage in Delhi, Goa, Haryana and Karnataka, and argued that Pawar's reply "was a deliberate distortion of facts by the minister as...reports in the public domain would testify the truth otherwise". Sukhendu Sekhar Ray of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) stated that no notice under rule 267 has been accepted by the chair since November 2016. "On no occasion has rule 267 been allowed in the last five years," he said. "I strongly believe that the rule still exists in the rule book and kindly allow us to discuss (under) rule 267." A notice under rule 267 seeks setting aside of the listed business of the day to take up a discussion on an issue that is being raised in the House. "We have to discuss it also...because rule 267 was rarely used (in the past)," Naidu said. "Now I am receiving 10-15 notices every day and on different issues. If the House has to be adjourned on those, adjourned.... I want the House to function and discuss the issues. That is why there is a difference of opinion, we will see to it."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/oxygen-deaths-venugopals-privilege-notice-being-examined-says-rajya-sabha-chairman-1014602.html
30-07-2021||National Politics||Commission for Air Quality Management in NCR and Adjoining Areas Bill introduced in Lok Sabha||A Bill which seeks to set up a statutory authority with appropriate powers to tackle air pollution in the National Capital Region (NCR) and adjoining areas was introduced in the Lok Sabha on Friday. It was introduced amid din created by opposition members over the Pegasus spying row and farmers' issue. Once passed, 'The Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Bill, 2021' will replace an ordinance issued in the recent past. The Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Bill, piloted by Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav, states that it was noticed there is lack of a permanent, dedicated and participative mechanism adopting a collaborative and participatory approach involving relevant central ministries, state governments, local bodies and other stakeholders to tackle air pollution, in the NCR and adjoining areas. "It is observed that sources of air pollution, particularly in the National Capital Region, consist of a variety of factors which are beyond the local limits of the National Capital Region. "Special focus is required on all sources of air pollution which are associated with different economic sectors, including power, agriculture, transport, industry, residential and construction," it read. Since air pollution is not a localised phenomenon, the effect is felt in areas even far away from the source, creating the need for regional-level initiatives through inter-state and inter-city coordination in addition to multi-sectorial synchronisation, the statement of objects said. For a permanent solution and to establish a self-regulated, democratically-monitored mechanism for tackling air pollution in NCR, it was deemed necessary to take up immediate legislative measures to set up a Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas, that would replace old panels to streamline public participation, inter-state cooperation, expert involvement and persistent research and innovation, it noted. As Parliament was not in session and there was an immediate need for legislation in this regard, the Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Ordinance, 2020, was promulgated on October 28, 2020. But a bill to replace the ordinance could not be introduced in Parliament. Consequently, the Ordinance lapsed on March 12, 2021. Thereafter, the Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Ordinance, 2021 was promulgated on April 13, 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/commission-for-air-quality-management-in-ncr-and-adjoining-areas-bill-introduced-in-lok-sabha-1014613.html
30-07-2021||National Politics||P Chidambaram attacks Centre over Pegasus, asks whether it will give up 'ostrich-like attitude'||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Friday attacked the government over the Pegasus snooping allegations, asking whether it will give up its "ostrich-like attitude" and agree to the Opposition's demand for a full discussion in Parliament on the issue. The Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha have been adjourned repeatedly over Opposition protests demanding a discussion on the Pegasus snooping allegations since the Monsoon Session commenced on July 19. Attacking the government, Chidambaram said another case of misuse of Pegasus spyware has been revealed now with France's national cybersecurity agency confirming that Pegasus spyware was infiltrated into phones belonging to two journalists of Mediapart, an investigative journal in France. "Mediapart is the media organization that broke the story that the Rafale aircraft deal was being probed in France," the former home minister said. "Will the government give up its ostrich-like attitude and agree to the Opposition's demand for a full discussion in Parliament on misuse of Pegasus spyware in India? How long can the government duck and hide and scoot when all that the Opposition wants is a full debate?" Chidambaram said in a series of tweets. Mediapart is the media organization that broke the story that the Rafale aircraft deal was being probed in France Will the govt. give up its ostrich-like attitude and agree to the Opposition’s demand for a full discussion in Parliament on misuse of Pegasus spyware in India? An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on a list of potential targets for surveillance using Israeli firm NSO's Pegasus spyware. Opposition leaders including Rahul Gandhi, two union ministers -- Prahlad Singh Patel and Railways and IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw -- businessman Anil Ambani, a former CBI chief, and at least 40 journalists are on the list on the leaked database of NSO. It is, however, not established that all the phones were hacked. The government has been denying all Opposition allegations in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/p-chidambaram-attacks-centre-over-pegasus-asks-whether-it-will-give-up-ostrich-like-attitude-1014709.html
30-07-2021||National Politics||Mamata coins 'Save Democracy, Save Nation' slogan for anti-BJP front before leaving Delhi||All should work together to save democracy, West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee said, as she concluded her five-day visit to New Delhi, reiterating her call for the opposition parties to unite and take on the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Banerjee coined the slogan “Save Democracy, Save Nation” for the united opposition before returning to Kolkata on Friday. “I am thinking I should come (to New Delhi) once every two months, after managing my work (in Kolkata),” she said, signalling her intent to continue her pursuit for a greater role for herself and her party in national politics. “Democracy must go on,” said the Trinamool Congress supremo, adding: “If democracy comes under threat, the nation also comes under threat”. She said that the Trinamool Congress and the other opposition parties would continue to stand by the farmers protesting against the new agricultural laws. Banerjee arrived in New Delhi on Monday for a five-day visit – her first after leading her party to a landslide victory in the Assembly elections in West Bengal in March-April this year. The visit was apparently aimed at building on her success in stalling the BJP’s juggernaut in West Bengal and positioning her for a lead role in efforts to unite the opposition parties against the government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. She had a “chai-pe-charcha” with the Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. She also had separate meetings with Anand Sharma and Kamal Nath of the Congress, Kanimozhi of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and Arvind Kejriwal of the Aam Aadmi Party. She, however, had no meeting with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, who has been playing a key role in coordinating among the opposition parties. He recently had a meeting with political strategist Prashant Kishor, who advised the Trinamool Congress for the Assembly polls in West Bengal. He and his daughter Supriya Sule, a member of the Lok Sabha, was at the Constitution Club in New Delhi on July 21 last to listen to the Trinamool Congress supremo’s speech during a virtual event held nationwide to mark her party’s annual Martyrs’ Day. But Pawar recently also had a meeting with Modi and speculation was rife about the NCP chief’s plan to project himself as a potential candidate to be the next President, after incumbent Ram Nath Kovind’s term in the Rashtrapati Bhavan ends in July 2022.   As no meeting with Pawar was on the schedule of Banerjee during her visit to New Delhi, it raised some eyebrows in political circles. The Trinamool Congress supremo, however, sought to set at rest all rumours before leaving for Kolkata on Friday. “I talked (over phone) to Sharad Ji also. He went to Mumbai. So, next time we will meet also,” she told journalists. Mamata also met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and demanded more anti-Covid-19 vaccines for her state. She also met Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamata-coins-save-democracy-save-nation-slogan-for-anti-bjp-front-before-leaving-delhi-1014714.html
30-07-2021||National Politics||PM Modi gives pep talk to Karnataka CM, asks him to go for BJP's image makeover||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday gave a pep talk to Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and six Union Ministers from Karnataka, saying he and the BJP expected transparent governance without any scope for corruption and nepotism. Modi, who met Bommai and the Union ministers for over 40 minutes, is learnt to have told them to go for an “image makeover” of the Karnataka government which was mired in allegations of corruption and nepotism. “Prime Minister told me to give a clean government and also said the BJP expected the same,” Bommai told reporters after meeting Modi and day-long meetings with Union ministers. “I have also assured them to work hard to provide clean and pro-people administration and efficient government,” said Bommai, who was on his first visit to the capital after becoming chief minister. Modi conveyed his best wishes to Bommai as he began a new journey for Karnataka’s progress and assured full support for the development of the state. The Prime Minister's meeting with Bommai and other Union ministers was seen as a bid to encourage them to pull up their socks to work for an image makeover of the state government. Earlier, several BJP MLAs openly complained to the party top brass about interference of former chief minister B S Yediyurappa and his family members. He reminded the chief minister and the Union ministers that the state goes to the polls in two years and they will have to work hard to earn the trust of the people. “You are welcome to call me any time for whatever help required,” Modi is learnt to have told the CM. He also asked them to popularise the centrally-sponsored schemes and focus on improving the infrastructure with emphasis on the IT capital Bengaluru. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi, Minister of State for IT Rajeev Chandrasekhar, Minister of State for Fertiliser Bhagawanth Khuba, Minister of State for Agriculture Shobha Karandlaje, Minister of State for Social Welfare A Narayanaswamy were present at the meeting between Bommai and Modi. Earlier, Bommai called on Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, besides Joshi. Later speaking to reporters, the chief minister said that Modi sought information about the flood and Covid-19 situation in the state. The Prime Minister also asked Bommai to increase Covid-19 testing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-gives-pep-talk-to-karnataka-cm-asks-him-to-go-for-bjps-image-makeover-1014723.html
30-07-2021||National Politics||Disruptions over Pegasus continue half-way through Monsoon Session||Stalemate in Parliament over Pegasus revelations continued for the second consecutive week as the Opposition disrupted proceedings demanding a discussion on the snooping allegations, which the government dubbed as a “non-issue”. “The IT Minister has given a detailed statement. This is totally a non-issue and also a non-serious issue,” Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said responding to repeated disruptions in both Houses of Parliament demanding a discussion on the Pegasus revelations. The Pegasus revelations have rocked Parliament since the Monsoon Session began on July 19, despite a statement by IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw. The protests by the Opposition continued, and the government pushed its legislative agenda without discussion. Joshi said the opposition parties should raise important issues “directly related to the poor people of India.”. “The Government is ready for a discussion but most unfortunately, they are not allowing the Parliament to run,” the minister said. At least eight bills, including supplementary demands for grants, were passed as the opposition protests led to disruptions that virtually washed away Parliament proceedings for the second consecutive week. Senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge termed the Pegasus revelations as a “major issue of national security” and accused the Modi government of encroaching on the freedom enjoyed by the citizens. He also said the Modi government had not reached out to the Opposition to break the logjam in Parliament. Opposition leaders held deliberations in Kharge's office in Parliament and decided to insist on a debate on the Pegasus revelations in the presence of Home Minister Amit Shah. “We are aware that fuel price hike is an issue, corruption in Rafale is an issue and there are many other issues. But all parties have agreed that since we have raised the Pegasus issue, it needs to be discussed first. The opposition is united on this,” Kharge said. On Friday, government introduced two bills, each in the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha. The Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (Amendment) Bill that seeks to enable depositors to access their savings through deposit insurance in a time-bound manner in case of restrictions on banks such as a moratorium was introduced in the Rajya Sabha. The General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill that seeks to provide for reducing the government’s shareholding in general insurance companies to below 51 per cent was introduced in the Lok Sabha. The LLP (Amendment) Bill, 2021 which seeks to decriminalise certain compoundable offences and the Commission for Air Quality Management in NCR and Adjoining Areas Bill were introduced in the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/disruptions-over-pegasus-continue-half-way-through-monsoon-session-1014753.html
30-07-2021||National Politics||BJP MP writes to Om Birla, demands Shashi Tharoor's removal as chairperson of IT Panel||BJP MP Nishikant Dubey on Friday urged the Lok Sabha speaker to "initiate urgent action and dismiss" Congress leader Shashi Tharoor from the parliamentary standing committee on information technology's chairmanship, saying otherwise he will continue to raise "irrelevant issues". Dubey is a member of the panel. The demand for Tharoor's removal comes days after the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information and Technology was set to question government officials on the Pegasus spyware issue. However, the meeting which was scheduled for Wednesday could not take place as the panel's BJP members panel did not sign the attendance register, even though they were present in the meeting room along with members from the opposition, leading to a lack of quorum. In a letter to Speaker Om Birla, Dubey said that a majority of members have exhibited their 'No Confidence' on the continuance of Tharoor as chairperson of the committee. Demanding Congress leader's removal from the chairmanship of the parliamentary panel, he alleged that Tharoor is involved in questionable activities, inside the House as well as in the committee to tarnish the image of the democracy. "I once again request your good self to initiate urgent action against Dr Shashi Tharoor and dismiss him from the chairmanship of the Parliamentary Committee on Information Technology as otherwise he would continue raising irrelevant issues before you and the media...," the BJP MP said in his letter. Terming Tharoor's demand for action against government officials for not attending the last meeting of the panel, Dubey said it is against the conventions followed by the parliamentary committees. "It is also a matter of record that till date, no Parliamentary Committee - either serviced by Lok Sabha or Rajya Sabha - has ever initiated any privilege proceedings against the officials of the Government of India who expressed their inability to appear before any Committee due to administrative exigencies," Dubey said. "But, Dr. Tharoor, who is known for his 'eccentric nature' as well as 'acute psychological disorder and disorientation' has not honoured this tacit 'concept of mutual respect' between the two organs of the governance i.e., the 'Executive' and the 'Legislature', purely due to his parochial objective of loosening the noose of his 'sacking' from the chairmanship of the committee on information technology," he alleged in his letter. Without naming anyone, Tharoor tweeted a quote from Irish playwright George Bernard Shaw. "To the journalists asking for my response to certain uncouth & obnoxious comments, this is why I have no intention of replying!" he said on Twitter with Shaw's quote -- "I learned long ago, never to wrestle with a pig. You get dirty, and besides, the pig likes it." The Congress MP in a letter to Birla has demanded action against ministry officials for their "last-minute refusal" to attend a panel meeting on Wednesday, saying that it is "contempt of the House". The committee was expected to discuss the Pegasus snooping case in its last meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-mp-writes-to-om-birla-demands-shashi-tharoors-removal-as-chairperson-of-it-panel-1014754.html
30-07-2021||North and Central||Suspected Pakistan drones noticed at 3 locations in Jammu and Kashmir's Samba||Suspected Pakistani drones were spotted hovering over three different locations in Samba district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said on Thursday. The flying objects were sighted simultaneously over Bari-Brahmana, Chiladya and Gagwal areas around 8.30 pm on Thursday, the officials said. The latest sightings were recorded nearly a week after police shot down a Pakistani drone carrying five-kg Improvised Explosive Device (IED) material in the border belt of Kanachak near here.      The officials said Border Security Force (BSF) personnel fired a couple of rounds towards one of the drones in Chiladya before it returned to the Pakistani side. The other two drones disappeared from the sky shortly after hovering over sensitive security installations at Bari Brahmana and along Jammu-Pathankot highway in Gagwal, the officials said. Police along with other security forces have rushed to the sites for thorough search, the officials said, adding further details are awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/suspected-pakistan-drones-noticed-at-3-locations-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-samba-1014458.html
30-07-2021||North and Central||After 12 years of wait, 27 JKPS officers inducted into IPS||After more than a decade, a high-level panel headed by a Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) member, approved the induction of 27 Jammu and Kashmir Police Service (JKPC) officers into the elite Indian Police Services (IPS). Among the officers inducted into the IPS, 14 have already retired while 13 are serving. Officials said the inductions were approved at a meeting in Srinagar chaired by TCA Anant, member UPSC and attended by J&K Chief Secretary Arun Kumar Mehta, Principal Secretary Home Shaleen Kabra, Director General of Police (DGP) Dilbag Singh and two representatives of Union Ministry of Home Affairs. For the last 12 years, no JKPS officer had been inducted into IPS which had led to stagnation and resentment among the local officers as a number of them were working as SSPs even after 22 years of service or more. The last induction of JKPS officers into IPS was conducted in 2014 and the seats were filled up to 2009. Significantly, out of 66 IPS officers in J&K, including those who are on Central deputation presently, all are direct recruits of IPS and there is not even a single JKPS officer inducted into the IPS due to delay in inductions because of variety of reasons -- the litigations arising out of seniority disputes being one of them.  Earlier, out of a total of 147 IPS posts in J&K, 80 were reserved for direct IPS officers and 67 for JKPS, who are inducted into IPS. This was part of UPA government’s special formula for J&K under which 50 per cent posts each were reserved for direct recruits and JKPS officers. However, after the abrogation of special status of J&K under Article 370 in August 2019, Narendra Modi government reversed the order and restored the previous formula of 67:33 bringing J&K at par with other states and union territories. The induction of JKPS officers into IPS will lead to their promotion as DIGs, especially those who have completed mandatory service for the post, and taking into account available posts which will overcome the shortage in the rank of DIGs. Sources said the JKPS officers, who have been inducted into the IPS, will get AGMUT (Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram UTs) cadre and can be posted outside J&K as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-12-years-of-wait-27-jkps-officers-inducted-into-ips-1014523.html
30-07-2021||North and Central||Pegasus row: Supreme Court to hear plea seeking probe next week||The Supreme Court on Friday agreed to hear a plea by veteran journalists N Ram and Sashi Kumar seeking a direction for an independent probe by its sitting or retired judge into the alleged Pegasus snooping scandal. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal mentioned the matter before a bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justice Surya Kant for urgent hearing.  He claimed civil liberties of citizens, politicians, belonging to Opposition parties, journalists, and court staff have been put under surveillance. "It is an issue, which is making waves in India and the world over and this issue requires an urgent hearing," he said. Senior advocate A M Singhvi claimed the court registry staff were not putting the matter for mentioning (request for urgent hearing). Taking note of submissions, the bench said it may hear the matter next week. Earlier, advocate M L Sharma and Rajya Sabha CPI-M MP John Brittas had also moved the apex court seeking a probe into the snooping scandal. In their plea, the journalists claimed that the act of snooping amounted to "cyber-terrorism", having an obvious chilling effect on freedom of speech and expression by threatening invasion into the most core and private aspects of a person's life. The plea sought a direction to the Centre to disclose if the government or any of its agencies obtained license for Pegasus spyware and used it, either directly or indirectly, to conduct surveillance in any manner. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on a list of potential targets for surveillance using Israeli firm NSO's Pegasus spyware.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pegasus-row-supreme-court-to-hear-plea-seeking-probe-next-week-1014525.html
30-07-2021||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir sees steady rise in Covid-19 cases||Jammu and Kashmir is witnessing a steady rise in coronavirus cases with the union territory (UT) reporting 181 cases on Thursday – the highest in the last 12 days. On July 17, the UT reported 179 Covid-19 cases which declined to 63 on July 23. However, since then there has again been a steady increase in the number of cases. Officials said there were 35 confirmed cases of mucormycosis or 'black fungus' in the UT. On July 1, the UT had reported 298 Covid cases. In the first 29 days of this month, the UT reported 5545 Covid positive cases which on an average is 191.20 cases per day. In May 3640 daily average positive cases were reported in J&K  which came down to 856 in June. In 29 days of July, the UT also recorded 54 Covid-19 related deaths. In June, J&K reported 416 fatalities while in May 1,624 deaths were reported in the UT.  While on average over 52 deaths were recorded daily in May, it came down to 14.34 in June and less than two in July. Overall the UT has reported 3,21,207 cases since the pandemic began last March. The total active cases in J&K have dropped to 1,144 on July 29 from a peak of over 50,000 in mid-May. The J&K government has already eased restrictions and allowed the resumption of businesses with only educational institutions remaining closed. In the last two months, people have started thronging picnic spots where there is no adherence to Covid guidelines. Lavish weddings are back where hundreds of people gather together. Dr Muhammad Salim Khan, the head of department of Community Medicine at Government Medical College (GMC) Srinagar said the people should follow the guidelines fixed previously in order to minimise the impact of the third wave of the pandemic. “The third wave of Covid will be highly dangerous, fatal and can take a heavy toll of lives,” he warned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-sees-steady-rise-in-covid-19-cases-1014573.html
30-07-2021||North and Central||Grenade attack in J&K, three security personnel injured||Three security force personnel sustained minor injuries in a grenade attack by militants in Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir on Friday, officials said. The ultras lobbed the grenade on security forces near Khanpora bridge in Baramulla town this afternoon, they said.  The injured personnel have been taken to a hospital while the area has been cordoned off to track down the militants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/grenade-attack-in-jk-three-security-personnel-injured-1014575.html
30-07-2021||North and Central||Rescue operation resume in cloudburst-hit Kishtwar after suspension due to rain||The rescue operation to locate 20 people missing after a cloudburst in a village in Jammu and Kashmir's Kishtwar resumed Friday after remaining suspended for hours together owing to inclement weather, officials said. Seven persons were found dead and 17 others were rescued in an injured condition after the remote Honzar village in Dacchan tehsil was hit by flash floods triggered by the cloudburst in the early hours of Wednesday, damaging 21 houses, 21 cow sheds, a ration depot, a bridge and a mosque. The rescue operation was interrupted by heavy rains late Thursday night and resumed around noon after slight improvement in the weather conditions, the officials said.  The search and rescue operation gained momentum on Thursday after the Indian Air Force (IAF) pressed three helicopters from Jammu, Srinagar and Udhampur and made eight sorties, transferring relief load of 2250 kgs, 44 NDRF and SRDF personnel and four medical assistants besides evacuating two critically injured persons from Soundar to Kishtwar for specialised treatment. An official of the disaster management said no helicopter sorties from Kishtwar to Soundar could mature since 6 am on Friday due to inclement weather. The IAF had stationed an MI-17 helicopter in stand-by mode at Kishtwar since Thursday, he said. Six teams of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) with sophisticated equipment are involved in the operation along with other rescuers from police, Army and local volunteers, the officials said.  A Meteorological department official said the weather remained overcast with light rain at most places across Jammu and Kashmir.  "Same conditions are most likely to continue throughout the day. A brief spell of heavy showers may occur at some places which may trigger flash flood, mudslide and landslide," the official said, advising people to remain alert and move away from vulnerable places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rescue-operation-resume-in-cloudburst-hit-kishtwar-after-suspension-due-to-rain-1014605.html
30-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi assembly passes GST Amendment Bill amid opposition from BJP||The Delhi assembly on Friday passed the 'Delhi Goods and Services Tax (Amendment) Bill, 2021' on the second day of the Monsoon Session amid opposition from the BJP over its introduction and passage on the same day. The Bill is about 15 new amendments to the Delhi GST Act. These changes will help smoothen the working of traders, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said while introducing it. “GST is a new law; it has come to our notice that some people have been evading tax. So, some amendments are aimed at plugging tax evasion,” he said. Sisodia said one of the amendments does away with the need for a mandatory audit of registered traders with a turnover of 1.5 crore and above. As the Bill was being introduced, BJP MLA Vijender Gupta objected to the government bringing the Bill, discussing it and passing it the same day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-assembly-passes-gst-amendment-bill-amid-opposition-from-bjp-1014643.html
30-07-2021||North and Central||Urge Centre to give Padma Awards to all doctors who served during Covid, says Arvind Kejriwal||The Delhi Assembly on Friday passed a resolution recommending that Bharat Ratna be conferred on doctors of the country collectively. The resolution also recommended doctors and paramedical staff in Delhi who have served during the Covid-19 pandemic be selected for the Padma Awards. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Saurabh Bhardwaj introduced the resolution on the second day of the Monsoon Session. Speaking on it, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that doctors served patients when their own families did not want to touch them. "The Delhi government has decided we will recommend names of only doctors and paramedic staff for Padma Awards. We have to recommend these names by September 15," he said. The city government made an announcement in this regard on July 27 and it has already received 2,100 nominations so far, Kejriwal said. "We urge the Centre to give Padma Awards to all such doctors across the country and we also demand that Bharat Ratna be given collectively to India doctors," the chief minister said. "When Covid started, we made lodging arrangements for doctors in five-star hotels. We had also decided that all coronavirus-related orders will be passed in consultation with doctors. We received complete support from all hospitals and the medical fraternity," he said. The Delhi government had announced to provide Rs 1 cr to families of doctors who lost their life on duty due to the coronavirus and this boosted their morale, the chief minister said. "We have given Rs 1 crore ex-gratia in many cases. I personally went to give this money to these families," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/urge-centre-to-give-padma-awards-to-all-doctors-who-served-during-covid-says-arvind-kejriwal-1014715.html
30-07-2021||Oasis||A fine balance between wisdom and courage||It is often assumed that wisdom and courage go together when one is facing a difficult situation. The pandemic has shown us otherwise. It has thrown up stories of wise and intelligent people losing their nerve while uncalled for bravado has resulted in avoidable transmission. The Mahabharata captures this kind of situation. On the battlefield, Arjun’s despondency and the bravado of Duryodhana and Karna capture the essence of this issue with poignancy. No one, not even Krishna, questions Arjuna’s wisdom. It is derived from the commitment to learn, long experience and the humility that comes from knowledge and discipline. A warrior par excellence, Arjuna was the backbone of the Pandava army. Yet, even as the forces were aligning for battle, compassion overwhelms him and the thought of committing fratricide and patricide becomes repulsive. He makes rational and touching arguments against the war and even offers to give up the desire for the kingdom. Krishna is dismissive and points out that once hostilities have been declared, these thoughts are not wise options but cowardice. Such wisdom at the given point of time only prevents the right action, which is to fight. Courage is the need of the hour. Karna and Duryodhana, on the other hand, have no such issues. Their preoccupation with power makes these heroes immune to the wisdom of avoiding conflict and saving the Kuru race. In fact, the very courage that Arjuna is hesitant to use made them arrogant. The fact that their army was numerically larger made them insensitive to the consequences of the battle, even for themselves. Self-interest motivates but when it dominates, judgements fail and there is self-destruction. While wisdom prompts one to look at the larger good and remain unaffected by personal gains and losses, courage without wisdom may push a situation to the brink from where there is no return. While the wise need the courage to take the right action, the brave need the wisdom of restraint. The wise, when forced into a situation, must have the courage to do what is demanded. Bravado must stop, to consider the common good. The pandemic has reinforced this truth. There are those whose bravado encourages them not to wear masks, even as experts pursue their wisdom without much emphasis on the need for the poor to earn a livelihood. What is needed is the wisdom to take adequate precautions alongside the courage to face a setback or adversity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/a-fine-balance-between-wisdom-and-courage-1014438.html
30-07-2021||Opinion||Nationalising Vodafone Idea may be its only means of survival in India||By Andy Mukherjee The world’s cheapest data costs have done wonders for India by helping spread the benefits of the internet beyond a tiny, urban, affluent class. But there’s a problem: Successive governments have hounded telecom operators with outlandish financial demands. Now things have gone too far. Vodafone Idea Ltd., one of the three private-sector competitors left standing in what used to be a field of a dozen players, is very close to crumbling under the weight of its $30 billion (over Rs 2.2 lakh crore) debt. That will effectively turn the wireless market in the nation of 140 crore people into a duopoly. Maybe not immediately, but the gains to consumers could be reversed because of lack of competition. (An international survey shows Indian data plans to still be highly affordable, though they’re no longer as inexpensive as the world-beating 9 cents per gigabyte last year.) The pace of digitisation of the economy could slow. Avoiding this scenario calls for some creative thinking. Nationalisation should rank high among the few viable options worthy of consideration, even though the state getting into the driver’s seat of private enterprise has in the past created zombies on perpetual taxpayer support, such as Air India Ltd.  In a research note this week, Deutsche Bank AG’s telecom analyst Peter Milliken and associate Bei Cao laid out the stark choice facing what they describe as “the most painful market we have come across to operate a telecom.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government, they say, “needs to make a call — duopoly or state control of Vodafone Idea.” It has come to this because of a two-decade-old dispute over how revenue is to be defined for license fee and spectrum usage charges. Operators thought only receipts from core telecom services had to be shared; the government wanted a piece of everything from rent, dividend and interest income to profit on sales of fixed assets. India’s Supreme Court upheld the government’s demand in 2019, putting UK-based Vodafone’s joint venture with Indian billionaire Kumar Mangalam Birla on the hook for Rs 58,400 crore . The telco avoided bankruptcy when the court last year allowed the payments to be made over 10 years. But the relief was short-lived. With the judiciary recently rejecting Vodafone and its larger rival Bharti Airtel Ltd.’s plea to rectify what they say are errors in the government’s calculations, the viability of the British operator’s joint venture is again in doubt. Debt Spiral Finances are tight even for tycoon Sunil Mittal’s Bharti, which this week raised the minimum price for a prepaid subscription by 60 per cent. But then Mittal isn’t bleeding customers like Vodafone Idea, which has lost a third of its formerly 40-crore-plus subscribers in three years. At the same time, aggressive pricing strategies adopted by Mukesh Ambani, India’s richest man, for his five-year-old 4G service has kept revenue per user depressed. Vodafone Idea is unable to garner the operating profit it needs to pay interest on bloated debt. Its two partners had merged their separate wireless carriers in 2018 to withstand Ambani’s onslaught, which also bankrupted his younger brother Anil Ambani’s telco. But now, they’re probably done throwing good money after bad. “We try to give them very practical support in what is a very challenging situation, but that does not extend to additional equity from group,” Vodafone Group Plc Chief Executive Officer Nick Read said recently about the India venture. According to local media reports, both Vodafone and metals tycoon Birla are ready to cede control if a strategic investor comes in.  There has been much speculation, but no white knight has actually emerged. As long as Ambani’s Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd. continues to keep a lid on data prices to win market share — it has amassed 44 crore subscribers in five years — the economics are unlikely to improve. As a new entrant, Reliance Jio has dodged the bullet of outsize back-payments to the government. Armed with equity from Facebook Inc. and Alphabet Inc., Ambani is building a digital commerce enterprise to supplement mobile carriage. Reliance will soon start selling a new Android-based smartphone, developed in partnership with Alphabet’s Google. If attractive pricing of JioPhone Next makes it a popular entry-level choice, Vodafone’s struggle to retain customers may finally collapse. Even if it can keep the lights on for a while longer, how will it pay for 5G spectrum? “Private investors are extremely unlikely to save the company, given successive governments seeing telecom capital as something to target,” the Deutsche analysts write. The only viable solution for India to keep Vodafone Idea as a going concern “is for the government to convert its debt into equity.” The carrier’s stock market value of $3.3 billion (over Rs 24,500 crore) comes to just over a 10th of the debt. So even with some borrowings written off, existing shareholders will get diluted heavily. But then, they may not get a better deal elsewhere.  The government has so far shown no inclination to get involved, though it has a couple of unprofitable, overstaffed, state-run telcos in a worse spot. Merging them with a nationalised Vodafone Idea could save jobs and precious capital. Managed professionally, it could be a credible third player that can be privatised once the debt has become sustainable. For better or worse, China’s crackdown on its tech sector is seeking to recalibrate the power balance between the state and the private sector. A two-horse telecom race in India will be bereft of any such grand design. If the third-largest service shuts, and customers scurry off to Jio and Bharti, it’s hard to see how India will recoup its payments — or live down the reputation of being the world’s most treacherous telecom market.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/nationalising-vodafone-idea-may-be-its-only-means-of-survival-in-india-1014492.html
30-07-2021||Opinion||Opposition unity: Mamata needs to tread with caution||Resurgent after her re-election, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is on a short reconnaissance to explore Opposition unity for the 2024 general election. If the regional parties start working together now, she says, no one can stop a "political toofan (storm)" when the time comes. Her election strategist Prashant Kishor may have planted the seed of ambition in her mind to lead the Opposition to victory. However, she claims ignorance about who would lead the Opposition saying she was no "political astrologer". By meeting Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, leaders of the only national, even if somewhat ramshackle, party, Banerjee is testing the waters. Leaders of regional parties like Sharad Pawar of the Nationalist Congress Party and Uddhav Thackeray of the Shiv Sena in Maharashtra, and YS Jaganmohan Reddy of the YSR Congress in Andhra Pradesh also seem convinced that an effective Opposition-formation must include the Congress. However, Banerjee's announcement of a two-judge commission of enquiry into the Pegasus surveillance scandal before coming to Delhi looks like one-upmanship vis-à-vis the rest of the Opposition, demanding either a parliamentary probe or a judicial inquiry. Inexplicably after ordering an inquiry, Banerjee now wants a Supreme Court supervised investigation. She should have known that Section 3 of the Commissions of Inquiry Act 1952 clearly states that if a state government has already ordered an inquiry into a subject of public importance, "the Centre shall not appoint another Commission to inquire into the same matter" - unless it wants to expand the scope of the inquiry to two or more states. Banerjee says that she was prompted to act by the Centre's inaction. However, she has not explained why she did not consult other opposition parties. Their leaders have also been ostensible targets of Pegasus surveillance. In her exuberance to take on the Modi government, Banerjee seems to have lost sight of the need to work together with the parliamentary Opposition. To bring the enquiry within the jurisdiction of West Bengal, her government has cited the impact the spying scandal has had on public order and the police – both matters which lie in the State List. However, the Centre could ask the Supreme Court to dismiss the West Bengal Inquiry, arguing that the transgressions, if any, fall within the competencies assigned to it in the Union List (i.e. posts and telegraphs, telephones, wireless, broadcasting and other like forms of communication). If Banerjee wants to lead a national Opposition front against the BJP, she will also have to temper her ambition with some realism. Her party, the Trinamool Congress (TMC), returned to power by decimating not the BJP but the parties of the Opposition in Bengal, the Congress and the Left. While the BJP failed to get the 200 plus seats central to its election hype, its seat tally went up from 3 in 2016 to 77 in 2021 and its vote share from 10 per cent to 38.13 per cent. That the Congress lost constituencies considered its home turf like Malda and Murshidabad suggests that Muslim voters chose to abandon it and the Left parties to strategically vote for the TMC. In the extreme polarisation of the election by the BJP, they probably saw the TMC as the only party capable of forming a government and preventing a communal tsunami. However, different factors could determine their voting behaviour in 2024. Also, after bottoming out, the electoral prospects of the Congress and BJP can only improve in West Bengal. So can Banerjee win all 42 Lok Sabha seats from her state in 2024? In 2019 TMC won 22, BJP 18 and the Congress 2. If the Congress wins more than 42 seats from the rest of India, can Banerjee justifiably claim to be the national leader of the Opposition post-2024? Will the DMK, for example, then go with her or with the Congress? If the Congress with its all-India reach emerges as the largest anti-BJP party (although it is incompetent enough to lose that position), then would it support a government led by Banerjee as it did in 1996 with the HD Devegowda government and then the one led by IK Gujral, which it knew could be brought down easily? Its experiment with the Maharastra Vikas Aghadi alliance suggests that the Congress is now more interested in sharing power than bolstering someone else's power ambitions. There could, therefore, be many imponderables in Banerjee's way. It is also possible that Banerjee is being encouraged to test the waters by Sharad Pawar. He nurtures national ambitions and may reveal his cards at a more appropriate stage. Banerjee has done well to initiate early efforts for Opposition unity. However, a more collegial approach without one-upmanship is likely to be more productive not only for her but also for the Opposition. (The writer is a journalist based in Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/opposition-unity-mamata-needs-to-tread-with-caution-1014540.html
30-07-2021||Panorama||Curb corruption in real estate||Contrary to popular belief, even after fifty-six months since demonetisation, real estate continues to thrive on black money. The only exception appears to be the relatively expensive primary real estate market led by Tier-1 builders. Reports indicate that 30-50% of the sale value in secondary (Tier2/Tier3 developers) or resale properties happen in cash. A reason often cited is savings on stamp duty by quoting transaction value to be close to the guidance value instead of the market value. What prevents the government from keeping the guidance value at the market price? Cash and corruption Of late, apartments constructed by Tier 2/3 builders in residential sites are becoming common in Bengaluru and provide an easy opportunity for cash transactions. While almost all construction suppliers accept digital transactions from builders, it is a mystery as to why the builders still insist on cash from the apartment buyers. There are gross violations of building byelaws with apartments constructed on residential sites. While BBMP’s building byelaws clearly states that a maximum 3 floors excluding parking can be constructed, the builders openly flout rules and construct 5 or 6 floors. Although BBMP allows a maximum of three kitchens in a residential site . most apartments will have 10 or 12. Over the past 10-15 years a very “corporate“ term called “joint venture” or JV has gained popularity. A case where the site owner and the builder share the constructed apartments. Both the parties try to maximise their gains and is the main reason for spurt in high rise buildings within residential localities. What about the quality of construction of these apartments? Who is accountable if such buildings collapse? The authorities appear to turn a blind eye towards the overall issue. In general, all it takes is just one apartment with 10 houses to set the precedence for others to follow suit. Sample this: A regular residential house would have about 5-10 people, while a high rise apartment in the same site would house 40-50 people. Are our roads and civic infrastructure designed to take on such a load?  The nice neighbours in residential areas with our typical “namage yaake beku” (why bother) attitude helps the builder-authorities nexus. Neighbours often do not complain, fearing repercussion as our system does not offer any protection to them. Also, why should anyone complain? The violations are so obvious to the authorities. It would boil down to the government and civic authorities’ willingness to act. The nexus between the legislators and civic authorities are too obvious to ignore. How do we get over the ‘wolf guarding the sheep’ phenomena?  Can the state government audit and publish details about illegally constructed apartments in residential localities? How do Banks provide loans for illegal constructions? Can utility providers like BESCOM and BWSSB refuse connections to these complexes? The whole purpose of residential locality is to allow people to stay in independent houses. Unlike other cities where apartment and flats are popular, Bengaluru is still known for its residential localities. It is rather sad to see this identity go away. Clearly GST, RERA and other measures have failed to curb black money and corruption in the real estate sector. It is time the government, civic authorities, and urban planners bring about structural changes that will lead to transparency. If rules need to be relaxed, so be it, but the system must discourage and penalise wrong doers, at the same time support effective grievance redressal mechanism. Government should empower local residents/neighbourhood associations to stop construction of any building that exceed FAR (Floor Area Ratio) threshold. For transactions in the secondary market, can the stamp duty be reduced significantly if the transaction is at market value? This could encourage buyers to go for 100% legal transaction. Until we see some strong system-led actions, the tax paying middle-class will continue to be in a dilemma if they need to compromise on their aspirations or on their principles. In this digital age, isn’t it intriguing that the government remains silent despite the rampant corruption in real estate? It is time the vicious link between black money/corruption and the real estate sector is broken. Can Karnataka’s new chief minister address this on priority and show the way to the rest of the country? (The writer is an ICT Professional and columnist based in Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/curb-corruption-in-real-estate-1014440.html
30-07-2021||Panorama||FRCA changes hindering NGOs’ Covid relief works||Voluntary agencies or Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs), which supplement government welfare efforts in normal times, play a crucial role during disasters and catastrophes. In the present context, NGOs are reaching out to the needy and vulnerable sections affected by Covid-19. The recent amendments to the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) have, however, hampered the flow of funds and consequently the delivery of timely service in the second outbreak of the pandemic. Before going into the impediments created by FCRA amendments, let us have a glimpse of the nature of NGOs and their funding pattern. Voluntary agencies in India, having a history of over a hundred years, have come to play a dominant role in the fields of relief, socio-economic development and social action. Hundreds and even thousands of NGOs are involved in a wide variety of activities and are spread all over the country. NGOs are characterised by: a) non-profit orientation, b) initiative from the civil society and governed by its own members, c) autonomy from state and its direct control, d) an apolitical organisation, and e) working for public good on the basis of mutual aid. The basic Act governing the registered societies was enacted in 1860, and since then, many groups were formed for social, cultural and economic reforms, and included charitable societies and educational movements. The British also patronised these voluntary initiatives. After Independence, many groups were formed inspired by Gandhian principles. The 1970s and 1980s saw mushrooming of NGOs which was attributed, among other things, to the failure of the ‘system’ and the state being unable to deliver the goods. Funds are the fuel for running the organisation and, therefore, fundraising is an important activity in the development sector. NGOs mobilise financial resources for smooth functioning of their projects and programmes. It is a process of seeking voluntary financial contributions from individuals, businesses and charitable foundations. The process of fundraising includes not only raising money but also relationship building with philanthropists, corporates and international donor agencies. Most of the NGOs in India suffer from a perpetual hunger for funds. Sources of funds for NGOs are from local, national and international agencies and foundations as well as government bodies. In recent years, CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) funding is an alternative source. As per the Companies Act, it is mandatory for companies with a net worth of Rs 500 crore, or turnover of Rs 1,000 crore or a net profit of Rs 5 crore or more to provide a contribution of 2% of the average net profits for CSR activities. With regard to international funding, an FCRA registration is mandatory to receive foreign funds which can be utilised for social, educational, economic, cultural and religious purposes. The Act was implemented in 1976 during the Emergency and was essentially meant to keep a check on foreign influence in social, political, economic and religious discussions. The 1976 Act allowed non-profits to freely receive foreign donations, although they were required to report the amount received and spent each year. In 2010, the 1976 Act was repealed and replaced by an even stricter law— Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010 along with the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Rules, 2011. On September 20, 2020, the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Amendment Bill, 2020 introduced in the Lok Sabha broadly redefined terms related to acceptance, transfer and utilisation of foreign contributions. According to the amended FCRA Act after 1 April 2021, NGOs can only receive foreign contributions after opening an account in New Delhi’s Parliament Street Branch of State Bank of India. As per the new Act, it is mandatory to register the Aadhaar details of the chief functionaries, trustees and office-bearers. It has capped the administrative expenses at 20% — earlier the upper limit being 50%. Besides, the amendment has also barred sub-granting by NGOs to smaller NGOS who work at the grassroots. Problems galore The Amendments, as expected and feared, are curtailing relief efforts. Many NGOs are knocking on several doors, trying to convince the authorities of the urgent need to relax the regulations that are hindering Covid relief work. There is also the difficulty in putting together and submitting personal documents of the Governing Board members who are located in different parts of the country and facing challenges of travel restrictions on account of lockdowns. Several NGOs are yet to activate their bank accounts and despite applying before March 31, their papers are not processed. While commenting on the damaging effect on foreign-funded NGOs engaged in Covid relief, the New York Times recently stated that “international donors are raising millions, but the Modi administration has erected hurdles for overseas organisations...” The NGOs continue to face problems even as the National Disaster Management Authority wrote to all states to involve NGOs, faith-based organisations, religious and social trusts at local level to handle the unprecedented Covid crisis. RTI activists’ requests seeking reasons for the amendments were dismissed on the pretext of “national interest” by the Ministry of Home Affairs. The government, following multiple petitions by NGOs in various courts, has extended the deadline for conforming to the new rules to June 30. In another order, the government extended the deadline for the renewal of FCRA registration certificates of NGOs whose certificates expired between September 2020 and May 31, 2021 to September 2021. Despite the enormous resource crunch, the voluntary sector is working committedly and effectively to provide relief and rehabilitation as well as healthcare support to those affected by the pandemic and subsequent lockdowns. Let us ensure the smooth functioning of their noble deeds. (The writer is retired Dean, School of Social Work, Roshni Nilaya, Mangaluru; he is also on the Board of several NGOs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/frca-changes-hindering-ngos-covid-relief-works-1014443.html
30-07-2021||Panorama||Chinese sports machine’s single goal: Most golds, at any cost||Six days a week since she was 12 years old, with only a few days of time away each year, Hou Zhihui has been driven by one mission: Heaving more than double her body weight into the air. On Saturday, at the Tokyo Olympics, Hou’s dedication — sequestered from her family, dogged by near-constant pain — paid off. She won gold in the 49-kilogram division and shattered three Olympic records, part of a fearsome Chinese women’s weightlifting squad that aimed to sweep every weight class it was contesting. “The Chinese weightlifting team is very cohesive, and the support from the entire team is very good,” Hou, 24, said after winning gold. “The only thing we athletes think about is focusing on training.” China’s sports assembly line is designed for one purpose: Churning out gold medals for the glory of the nation. Silver and bronze barely count. By fielding 413 athletes in Tokyo, its largest-ever delegation, China aims to land at the top of the gold medal count — even if the Chinese public is increasingly wary of the sacrifices made by individual athletes. “We must resolutely ensure we are first in gold medals,” Gou Zhongwen, the head of the Chinese Olympic Committee, said on the eve of the Tokyo Olympics. Rooted in the Soviet model, the Chinese system relies on the state to scout tens of thousands of children for full-time training at more than 2,000 government-run sports schools. To maximize its golden harvest, Beijing has focused on less prominent sports that are underfunded in the West or sports that offer multiple Olympic gold medals. It is no coincidence that nearly 75% of the Olympic golds China has won since 1984 are in just six sports: Table tennis, shooting, diving, badminton, gymnastics and weightlifting. More than two-thirds of China’s golds have come courtesy of female champions and nearly 70% of its Tokyo delegation are women. Women’s weightlifting, which became a medal sport at the 2000 Sydney Games, was an ideal target for Beijing’s gold medal strategy. The sport is a niche pursuit for most athletic powerhouses, meaning that female lifters in the West must scramble for funding. And with multiple weight classes, weightlifting offers up four potential golds. For Beijing’s sports czars, it did not matter that weightlifting has no mass appeal in China or that the preteen girls funnelled into the system had no idea that such a sport even existed. At the weightlifting national team’s training centre in Beijing, a giant Chinese flag covers an entire wall, reminding lifters that their duty is to the nation, not to self. “The system is highly efficient,” said Li Hao, the head of the weightlifting squad at the 2016 Games in Rio de Janeiro and the current director of the anti-doping department at the Center for Weightlifting, Wrestling and Judo at the General Administration of Sport of China. “It’s probably why our weightlifting is more advanced than other countries and regions.” Most countries are eager for Olympic glory. The United States and the Soviet Union used the Games as a proxy Cold War battleground. But Beijing’s obsession with gold is tied up in the very founding in 1949 of the People’s Republic of China, which was seen as a revolutionary force that would reverse centuries of decay and defeat by foreign powers. The first essay that Chairman Mao Zedong, the leader of the Communist revolution, wrote was about the need for a country dismissed as “the sick man of Asia” to develop its muscle. For decades, though, politics got in the way of Olympic achievement. Because its rival Taiwan competed in the Games as the Republic of China, Beijing boycotted the Summer Games until 1984, when Taiwan was renamed Chinese Taipei for the Olympic competition. In 1988, China won five Olympic golds. Two decades later, when Beijing hosted the Games, it surpassed the United States to top the gold count. London 2012, though, was a letdown and Rio 2016 a bigger disappointment, as China came in third behind the United States and Britain. Back at home, sports officials redoubled their efforts, even if a growing number of middle-class parents were unwilling to hand their children to the state for grooming as athletes. China was no longer a desperately poor country where the promise of filled rice bowls made government sports schools alluring. Beijing acknowledged that sports should not be reserved for elite athletes, that every child deserved to run, play and kick a ball. And there was growing recognition that for every Olympic champion, tens of thousands of other children would not make it. For these castoff athletes, life is often difficult: Little education, damaged bodies, few career prospects outside the sports system. Still, Beijing continued with its plans, manufacturing programs in taekwondo, canoeing, sailing and more. Children who could stack bullets on the palms of their hands were dispatched to archery. Country girls with impressive wingspans were directed to weightlifting. “Children from rural areas or from families that are not so good economically, they adapt well to the hardships,” Li, the Beijing sports official, said of the ideal candidate for weightlifting. Beijing’s focus has been on sports that can be perfected with rote routines, rather than those that involve an unpredictable interplay of multiple athletes. Aside from women’s volleyball, China has never won Olympic gold in a large team sport. In Tokyo, Beijing’s strategy had delivered, through midday Thursday, 14 gold medals, edging out the United States and Japan for the lead. China captured the first gold of the Games, in the women’s 10-meter air rifle, and scored its first fencing victory. (The sports in which China is dominant are clustered in the first week of the Games, while the United States’ strengths are spread out.) But in some of China’s traditional strongholds, like table tennis, diving and weightlifting, hopes of golden sweeps did not materialise. There were other disappointments before the Games began. A top swimmer was banned because of doping. The men’s soccer, volleyball and basketball teams failed to qualify. For the Chinese sports machine, all those punishing years of effort can still be foiled in the heat of Olympic competition. On Monday in Tokyo, Liao, the lifter in the 55-kilogram division, began the event as the reigning world champion. Two days before, in a lighter weight class, Hou had taken the gold. Liao marched onto the stage on Monday with an expression that hovered between resolve and resignation. In the last moments of competition, a Philippine rival surpassed her to claim gold. Afterward, Liao, 26, stood crying, her breath jagged. Her coach wrapped her arm around Liao and sobbed, too. Eventually, Liao, red-eyed, took questions from Chinese reporters. A silver was a great achievement, one journalist said. Liao looked at the floor. “Today, I did my best,” she said. The tears flowed again. The trauma of all those years fighting the unforgiving force of mass and gravity weighed on Liao’s body. “They’ve been there for years,” she said of her injuries. “Over and over again.” But unlike Simone Biles or Naomi Osaka, high-profile Olympians who have spoken of the emotional strain of so much pressure, Liao did not address the mental toll of what she has done, day after day, since she was a little girl. Liao sighed. She wiped her eyes with the sleeve of her uniform. The National Games were coming up, she said, and she would be representing her home province of Hunan. Sports funding for China’s provinces depends in part on how each does in the National Games. The Olympics were over for her. She had a new job to do.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/chinese-sports-machine-s-single-goal-most-golds-at-any-cost-1014445.html
30-07-2021||Right in the Middle||Usain, a 'Bolt' from the past||The strut was unmistakable, his long legs shimmied down the track as if cued in on a tune. The smirk dripping with the cockiness of a winner. The swagger was complete, in your face. Usain Bolt is singular. World champion, flying machine, nonconformist, philanthropist, the epithets are many to describe the ace sprinter. With a haul of 18 golds in Olympics and World Championships combined, the world record breaker has been a habitual offender since he blazed on to the scene big time in the 2008 Summer Games. His personal best of 9.58 seconds in the 100-metre dash at the Berlin World Championships where he stretched the limits and fired up the imagination of the humankind, “Just how quick can lightning Bolt strike?” He could have clocked better, many have speculated. He is one of the slowest off the blocks, his gangly 6’5” frame takes longer to unfold. He doesn’t own the first 50 metres, but by then his long legs and large wingspan propel him into a whirlwind that sees him finish the race in scant 40 to 41 prodigious strides. All this when he seems to shut down his engine some 20 metres from the line, his arms flailing to his sides even as he glances around to check if somebody’s catching up with him (as if it’s even necessary) and thumps his chest. All this, remember, before he hits the finish line, it, surely, must be slowing him down, perhaps. “People have said I could have run 9.60. I have not seen the replays yet, so I can’t really say,” he said at a presser in Beijing 2008 while munching a power bar “That’s just me. I like to have fun,” Bolt, his Jamaican cap askew, said of his shenanigans during the race. Now that defines the man, the free-spirited soul he is.   And this spirit resonates through his charities as well. The Usain Bolt Foundation works to nurture talented Jamaicans excel in their chosen disciplines, his sponsors, Puma contractually sends sporting equipment to his alma mater, William Knibb Memorial High School for others to follow in their hero’s footsteps. His ad campaigns are shot in his homeland to boost local enterprise. His wildlife conservation efforts in Kenya are laudable, the human “cheetah” has adopted an abandoned cheetah cub and pays for its upkeep. He sure knows how to give back to the community. The dasher with the Midas touch and a golden heart has finally hung up his golden spikes. The signature Lightning Bolt pose that lit up all his outings, his aeroplane impression, the showman had all the histrionics in his kitty to match the theatre of a world-class sporting extravaganza. People around the world would definitely take a collective gasp as it would find him missing in action on the tracks at Tokyo, 2021. The 100m pantomime, the blue riband event that it is, might never be the same again.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/usain-a-bolt-from-the-past-1014439.html
30-07-2021||Second Edit||Pegasus: Security in exchange for freedom||The defence offered by the Israeli cyber security company NSO Group for the use of its spyware Pegasus for surveillance by governance may be among the most Orwellian of the justifications for Big Brother watch over citizens’ lives. The company is at the centre of a controversy over the alleged use of Pegasus to spy on journalists, human rights activists, politicians and others by governments to which it sold the software. The names of a large number of persons were recently revealed by an international consortium as potential targets for snooping. Some of them have claimed, after laboratory examination of their phones, that the charges could be correct, as traces of the software were found in the phones. Some countries have launched investigations into the charges, and the Israeli government has ordered a probe into the charges against the firm. The company has said that 'millions of people around the world sleep well at night and walk in the streets safely due to such technologies available with intelligence and law enforcement agencies.' This assumes that the software has been put to use only to track the activities of criminals, terrorists and others who pose a threat to the security of nations. But the information that has come into the public domain shows that most of the people who were probably targeted for surveillance were not the kind that posed a threat to national security or violated laws. Many of them are critics of the government, others are activists for various causes and yet others officers of the government. Some are even supporters of the government. Surveillance of such a broad range of people could hardly be justified on the grounds cited by the company, and it could not have been legal.  No technology is good or bad in itself and it is its application that makes it one or the other. The claim that the spyware makes the world safe and peaceful is a reminder of the authoritarian bargain that offers safety and security in exchange for freedom. The peace that is enforced in the world after robbing people of their freedom is an unreal peace. The world is actually rendered unsafe by those who deploy such technologies against citizens. Those who create it and pass it on to governments that do not respect the rights and freedoms of their own people cannot also escape the blame. Most countries that bought the spyware have authoritarian regimes. When the company had no control over the use of the technology, how could it say that it made the world safe? A world where fundamental and human rights are not safe is not a safe world, and there should be no trade-off between freedom and safety.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/pegasus-security-in-exchange-for-freedom-1014447.html
30-07-2021||South||5 more infected with Zika virus in Kerala, tally goes up to 61||Five more people in Kerala were on Thursday found to have been infected with Zika virus. With this, the total number down with the virus has gone up to 61 across the state. Health Minister of the state Veena George, in a statement, said the five were residents of Thiruvananthapuram. "Tests conducted here and at Alappuzha, 147 km away, indicated that the five have contracted the virus," she said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/5-more-infected-with-zika-virus-in-kerala-tally-goes-up-to-61-1014426.html
30-07-2021||South||20 injured as oil leak causes blast at poultry feed plant in Kerala's Pallakad||Twenty people, including fire fighters, were injured on Thursday when an oil leak triggered a blast at a poultry feed plant in Kerala's Pallakad district, police said. The incident took place around 5 pm at an isolated hilltop in Thiruvizamkunnu, they said. Three people, including a fire department personnel, were seriously injured and admitted to a nearby hospital, they said. "The plant, owned by an NRI, was conducting a trial run today but a fire broke out due to oil leak. They sought help from the fire force department. As the fire fighters were trying to douse the fire, the temperature of the oil tank increased and resulted in a blast," a police official told PTI. Police said the oil tank contained a liquid similar to furnace oil and exploded due to high temperature. "According to the preliminary assessment, 20 people got injured and they have been admitted to various hospitals nearby. The fire has been doused," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/20-injured-as-oil-leak-causes-blast-at-poultry-feed-plant-in-keralas-pallakad-1014451.html
30-07-2021||South||Rahul Gandhi urges people in Kerala to follow Covid norms||Amid rising cases of coronavirus in Kerala, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday appealed to people in the state to follow all safety measures and guidelines. Kerala reported over 22,000 coronavirus cases for the third day in a row on Thursday. The Central government is sending a six-member team to Kerala to aid the state's ongoing efforts in Covid-19 management. "Rising cases of Coronavirus infections in Kerala are worrying," Gandhi said.  "I appeal to our brothers and sisters in the state to follow all safety measures & guidelines. Please take care," the MP from Kerala's Wayanad said in a tweet. Rising cases of Coronavirus infections in Kerala are worrying. I appeal to our brothers and sisters in the state to follow all safety measures & guidelines. Please take care.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rahul-gandhi-urges-people-in-kerala-to-follow-covid-norms-1014512.html
30-07-2021||South||Ruckus in Kerala Assembly over bedlam scam; Opposition boycotts proceedings||Opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front disrupted the Kerala Assembly for the second consecutive day on Friday demanding Education Minister V Sivankutty's resignation. The state also witnessed violent protests by opposition parties. As the question hour began, the opposition raised the demand for Sivankutty's resignation in the wake of the Supreme Court dismissing the state government's plea for withdrawing the case against six left front leaders including Sivankutty for the bedlam in the Assembly in 2015. But Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan reiterated that there was no reason for Sivankutty to resign as there was no specific remark against him in the SC order. Subsequently, the opposition boycotted the proceedings. Opposition leader V D Satheesan said that the demand for Sivankutty's resignation would be intensified in the coming days. He said that many ministers in the state had resigned after cases were registered against them. He also said that the Chief Minister's stand that there was no precedent of police action on incidents inside Assembly was misleading.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ruckus-in-kerala-assembly-over-bedlam-scam-opposition-boycotts-proceedings-1014535.html
30-07-2021||South||After Kerala, Covid-19 cases rise in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka||Triggering fears of the possible onset of a third wave, Karnataka saw a rise in cases after 19 days from 1,531 on Wednesday to 2,052 on Thursday. Meanwhile, Tamil Nadu saw its daily Covid-19 cases rise from 1,56 to 1,859, registering a spike after 69 days. Daily Covid-19 death toll in Karnataka fell below 20 for the first time in three months. Correspondingly, single-day Covid-19 cases across India also saw an uptick — with Kerala accounting for over half the cases — on Thursday and Friday. The number of cases on Thursday (43,509) was the highest since July 7. On Friday, the cases further rose to 44,230. Unlike Kerala, however, where only 44 per cent of the population was exposed to the coronavirus, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu's population had a seroprevalance of 69.2 and 69.8 per cent respectively — higher than the national average of 67.6 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/after-kerala-covid-19-cases-rise-in-tamil-nadu-karnataka-1014565.html
30-07-2021||South||Kerala announces Rs 5,000 crore package to assist small-scale traders, farmers||The Kerala government has announced a series of support schemes to the tune of Rs 5,650 crore for traders hit by Covid-19. Interest subsidies, tax exemptions and rent waiver are the highlights of the schemes announced. The announcements came close on the heels of traders stepping up demand for relaxing lockdown restrictions as the Onam festival is approaching. A prominent traders' outfit already made a call to defy the lockdown restrictions from August 9. Acute financial problems being faced by traders owing to lockdown was cited as the reason by traders for making an open call for defying the restrictions like an alternate working day for many categories of shops. As per the schemes announced by Finance Minister K N Balagopal on Friday, the state government will bear up to four per cent interest on loans up to Rs 2 lakh for six months from August. Rent for shops functioning in government buildings will be waived for five months. The exemption will be given in building tax for micro, small and medium units for five months. The Kerala State Financial Enterprises will be waiving penal interest on defaults in loan repayment from January to September. A loan scheme of up to Rs 1 lakh for Covid hit families at a rate of interest of five per cent will be extended up to September. The Kerala Financial Corporation will be also offering schemes for industrial units to revive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-announces-rs-5000-crore-package-to-assist-small-scale-traders-farmers-1014566.html
30-07-2021||South||Covid-19 hits demand for Sabarimala priest post||Sabarimala Ayyappa temple 'melsanthi' (head priest) post, which has been much sought after, does not have much demand this time around as well, most likely due to the Covid-19 scenario. Only 49 applications were received this year and the screening process is currently going on. Last year, the number of applicants was 55. Usually, 75 to 100 priests used to apply for the Sabarimala melsanthi post which is appointed for one year from the beginning of the annual pilgrimage season. Travancore Devaswom Board president N Vasu told DH that low pilgrim turnout due to Covid-19 could be the reason for the lesser applicants for the Sabarimala melsanthi post. The applicants for melsanthi post of the adjacent Malikappuram Devi Temple, which is also held along with Sabarimala melsanthi selection, is also low. While there used to be 50-75 applications in the previous years, last year and this year only 34 and 39 have been received respectively. The Sabarimala and Malikappuram melsanthi posts are considered to be quite prestigious. Many devotees who turn up at the temple meet the melshanthi seeking blessings and offer 'dakshina'. Moreover, ex-melsanthis of Sabarimala and Malikappuram temples are also highly sought after for conducting poojas. The state is witnessing a row over the selection of Sabarimala melsanthi, with several non-Brahmin priests moving the High Court challenging the norm that only Malayali Brahmins can apply for the post. The court has posted the matter to August 12 for a detailed hearing.  Devaswom board sources said that lack of demand was evident not only for the melsanthi post but even for carrying out Sabarimala duties by employees. Usually, employees of various government agencies used to push for getting Sabarimala duty. But since last year there was not much interest among employees also in carrying out Sabarimala duty. There has been a steep fall in the number of devotees at Sabarimala. While 50,000 to 1 lakh devotees used to visit the temple daily during the pilgrimage, last year it was only around 4,000 daily even as up to 5,000 people were allowed by complying with social distancing. Average revenue from the temple during the two-month-long pilgrimage also fell drastically from an average of Rs 200 crore to Rs 15 core. Owing to the financial crisis, the Devaswom Board is also planning a hike in the rates of offerings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-hits-demand-for-sabarimala-priest-post-1014661.html
30-07-2021||State||Centre brought OBC quota in medical education in fear of action by court: Surjewala||All-India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala on Friday observed that the NDA government at the Centre announced 27% reservation for OBC students in medical education in the fear of action for contempt of court and not due to any concern about backward classes. "A law in this regard was brought during the UPA regime, but Prime Minister Narendra Modi did not implement that. Madras High Court's direction to implement it was also not obeyed. The government's announcement came only after the court warned action for contempt of court," he said. Congress chief Sonia Gandhi had also written a letter to Modi, seeking the implementation of this quota, but he did not respond. BJP is anti-backwards classes and anti-poor. Modi claims that he has come from a backward community, but he did not implement this quota for seven years after becoming the prime minister, Surjewala criticised. Charging that the BJP came to power in the State with the help of corruption, defection and Pegasus spyware, he lamented that BJP leaders are busy lobbying for ministerial berths when people are in trouble due to flood and Covid-19 situations. "Assam-Mizoram border violence is due to the failure of Union Home Minister Amit Shah, and chief ministers of both the states. Why the BJP leaders do not act against them?" Surjewala asked. AICC president's elections were postponed due to the Covid-19 situation, and the new president would be elected when the elections would be held. Millions of Congressmen want Rahul Gandhi to become the president, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/centre-brought-obc-quota-in-medical-education-in-fear-of-action-by-court-surjewala-1014622.html
30-07-2021||State||Karnataka uses extra doses in vials, gives 3.1 lakh more jabs than official allotment||Karnataka saved more than 3.1 lakh vaccine doses by administering the one or two extra doses provided by the manufacturer in vials to allow for wastage. The state is the seventh highest in the country in extracting extra doses from vaccine vials. Across the country, 41.12 lakh doses were thus saved, according to a reply by the Union Health Ministry in the Lok Sabha on July 23. Tamil Nadu topped by extracting an extra 5,88,243 vaccine doses in this manner from May 1 to July 13. In Karnataka, while Dharwad saved 26,484 doses, Belagavi saved 1,18,731. Yashwanth Madinkar, Dharwad district health officer (DHO), told DH, the district has administered 7,18,914 doses from January 16 when the vaccination drive started till date though they were supplied with only 6,92,430 doses. "We have a negative wastage percentage of -3.8%. We trained our health workers not to waste even a single dose. Before we open a vial, we make sure there are 10 people waiting to be vaccinated." "Even if we have five or six beneficiaries ready, we don't take any chances by anticipating four or five more people as we have only four hours, after which the vial has to be discarded irrespective of the usage. We would rather make people wait till at least 10 or 11 of them come," he added. Belagavi district monitoring and evaluation manager Sidram HM said the district has given 16,44,221 doses over their received supply of 15,25,490 thereby saving more than a lakh doses. Till July 27, for a population of 36,32,200, the district has received vaccine doses sufficient for 41.99%. District immunisation officer Dr Ishwar Gadad said, "We have a negative wastage percentage of -3%." Dr Bharath Kumar, district immunisation officer, Chikkamagaluru, also one of the districts to have extracted extra doses, said, "Previously in a 10-dose Covishield vial, we used to get 12 doses, but now we are getting an extra dose of 1.5 or 1. Yet, we are saving those doses. In all, 38,112 extra doses have been extracted: 37,670 Covishield doses and 442 Covaxin doses." Udupi district immunisation officer Dr M G Rama said the district saved 43,300 doses by using the one or two extra doses in a vial, right from the beginning of the vaccination drive till July 28. Mysuru district health officer Dr KH Prasad said, "We have administered more doses than the ones officially supplied to us." States which have saved more vaccine doses than Karnataka has are: West Bengal (4,87,147), Gujarat (4,62,819), Kerala (3,92,409), Maharashtra (3,59,493), and Madhya Pradesh (3,55,259).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-uses-extra-doses-in-vials-gives-31-lakh-more-jabs-than-official-allotment-1014663.html
30-07-2021||State||7 lakh vaccine doses available with Karnataka: Health department||After the Union health ministry, in a reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha on July 27, said that more than 2.98 crore vaccine doses were supplied to Karnataka as of July 25, and the CoWIN dashboard showed more than 2.95 crore doses already having been utilised, the state health department maintained that as of date, 4.12 lakh doses are available in state. Additionally, the received 2.9 lakh doses of Covishield on July 28, said a senior health department official in a note to DH's queries on the state's vaccine availability. "The state will not run short of vaccines," she said. The official explained that under the government quota, as of July 28, the state has received more than 2.56 crore doses to vaccinate people at government Covid vaccination centres (CVCs). "Total vaccines allocated till August 4 is more than 42 lakh, in which, the state is yet to receive 4.94 lakh doses under Government quota," the official said. The next tranche of supply is expected on August 4 for Covaxin. "For the month of August till September 2, the state will  receive 42.6 lakh doses of Covishield and 6.12 lakh doses of Covaxin." The Union health ministry sent a letter on July 14 to states/UTs expressing serious worry over slow pace of procurement and administration by private Covid vaccination centres in some states. A top government bureaucrat told DH, "Out of 6.5 lakh doses paid for, it is yet to receive supplies of four lakh odd doses." When the health department held a series of meetings with FICCI, and IT/BT association (since they are in a position to pay for vaccinations), the associations said there was a slump in demand as 80% of their IT employees had already been vaccinated or have moved out of Bengaluru because of work from home norms. "Last month, we had administered 18.5 lakh doses in the private quota and there is a dip this month, no doubt. The associations say there will be a demand for private quota vaccines again in August as IT employees will be due for the second shot," he added. He also attributed the dip in private vaccination to the government's 'free vaccination drive'. MSMEs want the government to foot their vaccination bill as they can't afford the prices in the private quota. "A family of four cannot afford Rs 4,000-Rs 5,000 just to get the first doses," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/7-lakh-vaccine-doses-available-with-karnataka-health-department-1014667.html
30-07-2021||State||Karnataka HC takes up suo motu PIL over monkey deaths||The Karnataka High Court on Friday initiated a suo motu PIL over the "massacre of monkeys" in Hassan district. Taking cognisance of media reports, including the one published in DH, a division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka termed the incident as disturbing. "It was reported that a large number of monkeys were found dead on the roadside in Belur taluk of Hassan district. Along with the dead monkeys, 15, which were alive, were put in a bag. It is necessary for the writ court to take cognisance of this issue in the light of the law laid down by the apex court. The said decision recognises a limited right to life conferred on the animals," the bench said. The carcasses of 38 monkeys were found in a bag on Wednesday night. Officials suspect poisoning to be the cause of death. The court directed the registrar general of the high court to implead principal secretary of the forest department, deputy conservator of forests of Hassan district, deputy commissioner of Hassan district, superintendent of police of Hassan district and the Animal Welfare Board as party respondents in the PIL. The court said that apart from the right to life to animals, the incident may be a case of gross violation of the provisions of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act 1960. "We, therefore, direct the registrar general to file a writ petition seeking action against all those who are responsible for the massacre of monkeys. It is also necessary to lay down guidelines to ensure that such inhuman and shocking incidents are hereafter prevented," the bench said. The court asked the additional government advocate to communicate to the deputy commissioner to submit a report on the incident and the action taken so far. The report has to be placed by the government advocate on August 4.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-hc-takes-up-suo-motu-pil-over-monkey-deaths-1014730.html
30-07-2021||State||Austerity: Legal Metrology dept downsizes 50 posts||The Legal Metrology Department has decided to do away with at least 50 posts to cut costs, a move that comes at time when the state government is mulling to shed weight as part of a bigger effort to rationalize expenditure. According to a government order, the Legal Metrology Department has reduced at least 50 posts, eliminating several Group ‘D’ positions including peons, attenders and drivers. While until now, there were 503 posts in the department, it has now been downsized to 450. Requesting anonymity, an official in the department said: “The reduction was earlier recommended by the Haranahalli Administrative Reforms Commission, way back in 2000. This is part of the larger effort to do away with redundant posts.” The official added that all the 53 posts belong to Group ‘D’ employees, which will now be replaced with contract employment. While rationalising the number of employees, the department has tried to balance it out by adding a few additional senior positions, according to the official. “We have been sanctioned, additional deputy controllers and joint controllers. We had asked for additional inspectors too, but owing to Covid-19, it was not sanctioned.” Additional Chief Secretary (Food and Civil Supplies) B H Anil Kumar said the move was part of restructuring the department. “Some posts which were vacant for a long time, were surrendered. It’s an organic evolution of the department,” he said.  The Karnataka Administrative Reforms Commission-II, headed by former chief secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar, has recommended doing away with some posts in its recent report to the government. One of the recommendations was to abolish the four regional commissioners’ posts, which former Revenue minister R Ashoka was keen on doing. Earlier this month, Ashoka (he will still be in office) said the offices of regional commissioners had become “white elephants” and were “waste of resources”. In 2020, a Cabinet sub-committee headed by Ashoka was also constituted to look into merger, removal or redeployment of posts to rationalize expenditure. While the Cabinet sub-committee recommendations are awaited, there is no larger “drive” at this juncture to downsize departments, Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar specified. Cutting costs seems inevitable for the government. In the 2020-21 financial year, the government’s committed expenditure (salaries, pensions, subsidies, etc) touched 102% of the revenue receipts. Simply put, the government had to spend more than it earned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/austerity-legal-metrology-dept-downsizes-50-posts-1014731.html
30-07-2021||State||Covid-19 aid: HC asks state to modify BPL rider||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday said the state government may consider modifying the condition that mandates producing below poverty line (BPL) card to avail Rs 2,000 Covid-19 assistance. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka made this observation while hearing an Interlocutory Application (IA) in the PIL relating to issues concerning domestic workers. The government advocate told the court that in terms of Government Order dated May 28, 2021, the benefit is restricted to unorganised workers from BPL families. The applicant contended that there may be several domestic workers who may not have BPL cards. The bench said that the domestic workers perhaps suffered the most because of the first and second wave of the pandemic. The court said though some workers do not come under the BPL, they may have been thrown into the category of BPL. The court pointed out the principles laid out by the apex court in the case of Reepak Kansal on June 30, 2021. "It will be appropriate if the state government considers modification of condition number 8 in the aforesaid Government Order dated 28 May 2021," the court said and posted the matter to August 6. The court is hearing the IA filed by petitioners - Domestic Workers Rights Union.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-aid-hc-asks-state-to-modify-bpl-rider-1014732.html
30-07-2021||State||Drop the corrupt, ex-top cop Bidari tells BJP||Former DGP and BJP leader Shankar Bidari has urged the BJP high command to drop ministers allegedly involved in corruption. In a tweet, he tagged Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and RSS, thanking them for appointing Basavaraj Bommai as new CM. "Dear Sir, thank you. Something good has been done," he said, asking them to check from their own sources about corruption in the state. "At least don’t make again ministers who ask 45 to 50% of project cost as cut and/or partnership share in the projects. This will be a favour to Karnataka," he said.  Bidari earlier had voiced his criticism on the alleged corruption in the previous B S Yediyurappa administration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/drop-the-corrupt-ex-top-cop-bidari-tells-bjp-1014735.html
30-07-2021||State||State staring at another break in monsoon after heavy spell||Following heavy showers over the last two weeks of July, Karnataka is now staring at another break in monsoon showers in the first two weeks of August when rainfall is expected to be below normal. In the first two months of the southwest monsoon season, Karnataka recorded above normal rainfall. North and south interior Karnataka regions recorded excess rainfall during the period. Heavy rainfall in the second half of July has also bridged the deficits in Malnad and coastal regions, which received only half the normal rainfall for the season at the end of the first half of the month. According to Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC), the state received 480 mm rainfall, against an average of 454 mm - an excess of 6%. Overall rainfall during the period was deficient in Malnad and coastal regions. While rainfall was 11% below normal in coastal districts - 1,699 mm against a normal of 1,905 mm - it was 10% below normal in Malnad region - 830 mm against a normal of 918 mm. South and north Karnataka regions received 55% excess and 35% excess rainfall respectively. South Karnataka districts received 216 mm rainfall against an average of 139 mm, while north Karnataka districts received 287 mm rainfall against an average of 212 mm. Extended range model guidance by India Meteorological Department (IMD) shows that rainfall is likely to be deficient by up to 10% till August 12 for Karnataka, after which monsoon activity is expected to pick pace. Above normal rainfall is forecast for the two weeks post-August 12. Speaking to DH, SSM Gavaskar, junior scientific officer, KSNDMC said that monsoon activity had weakened across the state, save for coastal region. “There is a break in monsoon,” he said. According to IMD forecast, rainfall is expected to reduce even in the coastal districts from Saturday. Scattered rainfall is forecast for north and south interior Karnataka districts for the next five days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/state-staring-at-another-break-in-monsoon-after-heavy-spell-1014749.html
30-07-2021||State||KIA is now water positive, replenishes more than it consumes||The Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) campus has become 100% water positive, replenishing more water than it consumes. The airport had developed 315 rainwater recharge pits on its campus to collect and harness the water. The roadmap to achieving water positivity was based on surveys, research and expert opinions. “This led to reduced dependency on municipal water, enabling the conservation of thousands of litres of water, achieving a water positivity index of 1.37,” informed a spokesperson of the Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL). With a large number of passengers arriving and departing each day, KIA requires millions of litres of water for the maintenance of infrastructure and operations. To meet the daily water requirement, BIAL initiated projects on ground recharge, lake recharge and an integrated management of liquid and solid waste, therefore avoiding the contamination of groundwater, the spokesperson said. A 2.5 million litres per day (MLD)-capacity sewage treatment plant was developed to recycle water, which is now used for landscape irrigation, ventilation and air conditioning and fire-fighting requirements. BIAL installed rooftop rainwater harvesting units in five villages to provide safe drinking water for the community, benefiting more than 300 families. To avoid water wastage, drains were built to direct excess water flow to Bettakote lake, a sprawling water body adjacent to the airport. “We accomplished water positivity by consuming water responsibly, reusing, recycling and replenishing waterbodies,” said Hari Marar, Chief Executive Officer, BIAL.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kia-is-now-water-positive-replenishes-more-than-it-consumes-1014765.html
30-07-2021||State||RTC Workers' Federation seeks CM's intervention||KSRTC Staff and Workers' Federation has written to the newly appointed chief minister seeking his intervention in the ongoing crisis in the four state Road Transport Corporations (RTC). The Federation said massive corruption in the Corporation and anti-labour rules were the source of several problems. Condemning the disciplinary actions initiated against 5,000 employees of the KSRTC, BMTC, KKRTC and NWKRTC for taking part in the 15-day strike in April, it said the managements should be squarely blamed for the mess. It said the managements' refusal to follow the industrial tribunal order on salary hike was the crux of the problem, pushing employees to take extreme measures. It requested the chief minister to order revocation of all the disciplinary actions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rtc-workers-federation-seeks-cms-intervention-1014768.html
30-07-2021||State||RTO officials seize defective silencers||Regional Transport Office (RTO) officials on Friday raided an automobile store in Vijayanagar, West Bengaluru, for selling defective silencers for two-wheelers, especially for Royal Enfield motorbikes.  The raid was conducted on the basis of complaints made to RTO officials by the Vijayanagar traffic police. A team of RTO and traffic police officers raided the Paramount Automobile store and found 10 defective silencers.  The officials seized all the defective silencers and warned the shopkeepers not to resell them as that's illegal. Customers who came to the store to buy the silencers were also warned by the traffic police||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rto-officials-seize-defective-silencers-1014773.html
30-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai in Delhi to meet PM Modi, Union Ministers||New Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai is scheduled to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi here on Friday.         This is his first visit to the national capital after taking over as chief minister of the state.  Bommai is also planning to meet Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh as well as BJP national president J P Nadda. Bommai, who was elected as the new leader of the BJP legislature party on Tuesday, following B S Yediyurappa's resignation, took oath as chief minister on Wednesday. On Thursday, Bommai had told reporters in Karnataka that he will discuss the issue of cabinet expansion in the state with the central leadership. "When I go to Delhi to meet the party leadership, I will also try to meet our Members of Parliament and central Ministers from Karnataka on the pending projects and issues concerning the state," he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-in-delhi-to-meet-pm-modi-union-ministers-1014490.html
30-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka private schools stop online classes condemning attack on office bearer||Hundreds of private unaided schools across Karnataka have stopped online classes on Friday condemning the attack on D Shashi Kumar, General Secretary of Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka (KAMS).  Many schools have reportedly sent out messages to parents and a few of them have even issued an open statement announcing a day-long ‘Bandh’ and stopping of online classes on Friday. Dr Supreeth, secretary and principal, Oxford Independent PU college and a member of KAMS said, "We have given a bandh call and requested all institutions, regardless of affiliation to boards, to stop online classes."  On Thursday night at around 9 pm, a gang of three unknown miscreants attacked Shashi Kumar with lethal weapons in front of his house in Mutyalanagar in Jalahalli limits of North Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-private-schools-stop-online-classes-condemning-attack-on-office-bearer-1014518.html
30-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 test of passengers at railway stations mandatory, says Karnataka CM||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday said that instructions have been given to officials to conduct compulsory Covid-19 test on all passengers at railways stations, mainly those coming from outside the state. The Chief Minister was speaking to media persons on his arrival at the national capital. This is his first visit to Delhi after becoming the chief minister. He said full powers have been given to deputy commissioners of the district to take required steps to control Covid-19. Instructions were also given to the Superintendent of Police to extend full co-operation to control the pandemic, he said.  Soon, border districts officials will hold a meeting to keep a strict vigil on people coming from outside the states and there will be mandatory Covid-19 screening at state entry points as a precautionary measure to prevent the third wave, he said. He also said he would hold a meeting with officials regarding the distribution of compensation to families who lost their properties due to the flood. He said he will expand the Cabinet soon after holding a discussion with the national president and other leaders. Bommai also met Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. The Chief Minister is scheduled to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday. On Saturday, he will meet Water Resources Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and will request him to give early approval to pending irrigation projects in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-test-of-passengers-at-railway-stations-mandatory-says-karnataka-cm-1014571.html
30-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 spike: Karnataka govt allows BBMP to impose containment measures||Alarmed over the spike in Covid-19 cases, Karnataka on Friday authorised the Bengaluru civic body’s chief commissioner and deputy commissioners of the districts to impose “additional containment measures” based on local assessment of the situation.  “It has been observed that there has been spike in number of new cases in the bordering states as well as in few places in the state, which entails close monitoring and stringent micro-containment measures with time test strategy of test-isolate-treat as well as focused vaccination to contain the spread of Covid-19 locally,” Principal Secretary (Revenue) N Manjunath Prasad said in his order.  Besides directing the BBMP chief commissioner and deputy commissioners to impose containment measures, the order asked for “strict surveillance measures to be implemented at the border posts as per the prevailing guidelines”.  Karnataka saw a steep 34 per cent rise in new daily Covid-19 cases reported on Thursday, when compared to Wednesday. The state reported 2,052 new cases on Thursday, more than Wednesday’s tally of 1,531. Bengaluru also reported 505 cases, more than Wednesday’s count of 376. Cases in triple digits were reported only in the districts which are closer to the neighbouring Kerala, like Dakshina Kannada (396), Udupi (174), Mysuru (157) and Hassan (136).  Kerala is currently going through a significant surge in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-spike-karnataka-govt-allows-bbmp-to-impose-containment-measures-1014600.html
30-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees 1,890 new Covid-19 cases, 34 deaths||After reporting over 2,000 cases on Thursday, the state, in a welcome relief, reported 1,890 new Covid-19 cases on Friday. It is a reduction of 162 cases compared to Thursday's figure. However, the number of tests dropped by 3,664 as it tested 1.45 lakh samples on Friday over Thursday's 1.48 lakh. There were 34 deaths, taking the total toll to 36,525 and the total number of infection cases to 29,03,137. The day also saw 1,631 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 28,43,110. Bengaluru Urban accounted for the most number of cases with 426 infection cases and nine deaths. The total number of active cases now stands at 23,478. While the positivity rate for the day was 1.30%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 1.79 %. Out of 34 deaths reported, Dakshina Kannada had seven, Bengaluru Rural, Chikkamagaluru, Kolar, Mysuru and Uttara Kannada (two each), followed by others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Dakshina Kannada accounted for 345, Udupi 155, Mysuru 142, Hassan 135, and Belagavi 103. Cumulatively, a total of 3,85,10,966 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,45,197 were done on Friday alone.  3 crore vax milestone crossed After administering 2,86,467 vaccine doses on Friday, the state crossed the 3 crore milestone in vaccinations having administered 3,00,12,137 doses so far.  Only five other states in India have achieved these numbers --- Uttar Pradesh (4,75,15,307), Maharashtra (4,37,51,060), Gujarat (3,29,77,185), Rajasthan (3,20,27,281), and Madhya Pradesh (3,09,67,372).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-1890-new-covid-19-cases-34-deaths-1014699.html
30-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Cabinet expansion may take place within next week, says new Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai Friday said the Cabinet expansion could take place within next week as he sought early approval from the party top brass. The CM who was in Delhi on his first visit to the capital after assuming charge as the CM, met Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP National president J P Nadda. "Explained the necessity of early Cabinet expansion in a meeting with BJP president J P Nadda," the CM told reporters adding that, "We will get the nod within next week. I have not discussed the list of probables in today's meeting.” Bommai said he may visit Delhi again on this issue and sought time from the BJP high command. Stating that he has spoken to senior BJP leader and former Chief Minister Jagadish Shettar, who has decided not to be part of the new cabinet, Bommai said he will meet him personally and discuss about it with the party leadership. "I have told him (Shettar) that I will come and speak to him personally.We have close bonding as we have grown together.We were friends even before we came to politics, so I have good regard, love and affection towards him and he too has similar feelings for me.We had a good relationship even when we were in different parties," he said. Shettar said, as he is a senior leader and a former Chief Minister, he has decided to opt out, and has got good response for his stand from various quarters, across the State. "Despite being a former Chief Minister, I was part of Yediyurappa's cabinet because Yediyurappa is our senior and tallest leader of the party and I was Minister under him earlier too, there was no uneasiness there. But in today's situation, I'm a senior leader, so I'm not joining," Shettar said. If anyone else had become CM also, his decision would have been the same, Shettar added. The CM also held a detailed meeting with Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi and sought his help to get early approval for the expansion of the Cabinet to attend tasks related to flood and Covid-19 pandemic. Sources sid that the party top leaders asked him to discuss with state leaders and prepare a list and come to Delhi for final approval.  Bommai also made it clear that his government will not be a "rubber stamp". The CM said during his meeting with the PM he discussed vaccination shortage in the state. "The Prime Minister has assured full support," he added. “Amit Shah told me that it is testing time. He also told me to work hard,” Bommai said, adding that Nadda also asked him to take steps to strengthen the party.    Meanwhile, Bommai announced setting up of a small working group to fast-track clearances of central projects and make Karnataka commissionerate in Delhi proactive and accountable. Bommai also called on Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. In the meeting, the CM sought PM's approval for AIIMS in Hubballi-Dharwad and AIIMS-like institute for Raichur. He also appealed to the PM to upgrade ESIC Medical College & Hospital in Kalaburagi to a regional AIIMS-like Institute. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cabinet-expansion-may-take-place-within-next-week-says-new-karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-1014710.html
30-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||NGT asks Karnataka to execute restoration of Kaikondrahalli lake in one year||The National Green Tribunal on Friday asked the Karnataka government to prepare a restoration plan for the Kaikondrahalli lake at Kasavanahalli, Varthur Hobli in Bengaluru in two months and execute the work within one year. The NGT which quashed the environmental clearance (EC) granted to a high-rise luxury project by Godrej Properties Limited and Wonder Projects Development Private Limited and ordered for demolition of the construction, directed that restoration plan shall be executed by State Wetland Authority and BBMP which may also be overseen by Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) and Central Pollution Control Board(CPCB).   The Principal Bench of the NGT headed by its chairperson Adarsha Kumar Goel imposed a penalty of Rs 31 crore on the project developers. It also said the penalty shall be utilised by preparing a restoration plan by the said authority with the assistance of the BBMP, KSPCB and Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). If the amount is found to be deficient, the deficiency will be made up by BBMP. If any question remains unresolved, the National Wetland Authority is directed to resolve the same, the bench said. The tribunal said the confidence of the project proponent in proceeding ahead at different levels without caring for Statutory Provisions, Procedures and Environmental Laws, supported by some of the statutory authorities is evident by the conduct of senior officers of various departments who were appointed members of the Committee by Tribunal and Environment Ministry, yet they defied the same. It appears that in a concerted way, some officials have acted to somehow justify patent illegality and bold defiance of law on the part of the project proponent, the bench said. "Clearly, there is an evident lack of bonafide on the part of the officials and this conduct deserves to be strongly condemned. We will request the Secretary, MoEF (Ministry of Environment and Forest) to look into the matter and take appropriate action against such erring officials," the bench said. The tribunal said the committee which made three inspections and submitted reports is not the one which was constituted by it and the Environment Ministry. It said the officials, who were actually appointed members, chose on their own to send their sub-ordinates or officers lower in rank and they are signatories to the report. The green panel had ruled that the construction would fall within the buffer zone of the Kaikondrahalli lake and, therefore, is violative of the zoning laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ngt-asks-karnataka-to-execute-restoration-of-kaikondrahalli-lake-in-one-year-1014757.html
30-07-2021||West||Facing flak, Goa CM says his remarks on rape victims 'taken out of context'||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, who has drawn criticism over his remark about to the gang-rape of two girls, on Friday said his statement was taken out of context, and added that the safety of minors has to be a “shared responsibility”. He also said that he was deeply pained by the incident and would ensure that the accused in the case get the “most stringent punishment under the law”. Four men, one of them a driver with the agriculture department, allegedly posed as policemen and raped two girls after beating up the boys who were with them on Benaulim beach on Sunday. All the accused have been arrested. On Wednesday, Sawant had said in the state Assembly that parents need to introspect on why their children were on the beach late at night. The chief minister, who also holds the home portfolio, had said parents have a responsibility to ensure the safety of their children and hinted that they should not let their children, particularly minors, out at night. But his remarks drew angry reactions. In a statement issued on Friday, Sawant said, “My statement about the unfortunate incident was taken out of context.” “Both - as the head of a responsible government and as a father of a 14 year old daughter, I was deeply pained and disturbed. The pain of this incident is inexplicable,” he added. The chief Minister said that at no point he had tried to deny the right to security provided by the law. “Goa police has been a truly professional force especially when it comes to security of women and children. They have already acted swiftly and arrested the accused, and let me assure you that I shall ensure that the culprits get the most stringent punishment under the law,” he added. The safety of our citizens is always my government's top priority, he said. “Safety of children especially the minor ones has to be a shared responsibility. Our right to security has to be strengthened further with more cautiousness. Children, especially minors, need guidance of their elders,” he said. The chief minister said that there is a curfew imposed in the state, and people are restricted at public places. “So, when I spoke about a shared responsibility for minor children, it was out of concern, care and love for my fellow citizens and our children,” he added. “We all love our kids. Being the chief minister, my feeling of concern is extended to all the children of Goa,” Sawant said. He added that both as an individual and as the chief minister, he can never ever directly, indirectly or remotely hurt the sentiments of the fellow citizens of Goa. “I put this on record today,” he said. Sawant reiterated that there would be no compromise in matters concerning the safety and security of children. “Let there be no place for misunderstanding. Let us stand united. Let us trust each other. Let us stand united as one Goa so that all such evils can be defeated with all our might,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/facing-flak-goa-cm-says-his-remarks-on-rape-victims-taken-out-of-context-1014552.html
30-07-2021||West||CII to work with SII to expand vaccination in small towns and rural areas||The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has entered into an agreement with the Pune-headquartered Serum Institute of India (SII) to accelerate vaccination in partnership with industry, including healthcare providers.  The CII and its foundation, which has administered over 34 lakh single doses as of July 23, will target communities in India’s small towns and rural areas to ensure wide coverage. The industry body undertook a survey with responses from over 3,000 companies in 196 cities to ascertain requirement which showed that over 7 million single-dose vaccines are required. CII is now mapping the vaccination need requirement state-wise and setting up vaccination camps along with its members focusing on reaching Tier 2/3 cities and rural areas.  “India’s post-pandemic growth critically rests on how soon the eligible population is vaccinated and economic activities can return to normal. CII aims to connect the community, hospitals and corporates to fast-track vaccination, and the partnership with Serum Institute will help catalyze industry participation to reach out to communities at large,” said  CII President TV Narendran. “The SII is pleased to partner with CII to work with industry members in reaching out the vaccine to communities in the hinterland. While SII has manufactured the vaccine at scale within a short period of time, it is essential that all stakeholders work together towards carrying out the inoculations. Our partnership with CII will be a good way to close the gaps, as there is plenty of supply of Covishield available for distribution”, said SII CEO Adar Poonawalla. “Overall, the industry has been playing a responsible part in ensuring vaccination of workers and their families, but clearly given the scale and urgency of the vaccination program, we can complement and supplement the efforts of the government in this pivotal mission for the nation,” added Narendran. “CII has undertaken a mission under its flagship program Project Vaccine Nation through which we have collated the vaccine requirements of CII members. In collaboration with Serum Institute and industry, CII would take the learnings to the next level and help in inoculation of the people at the grassroots,” stressed Dr Naresh Trehan, Chairman, CII National Healthcare Council and Chairman & Managing Director of Medanta. The vaccination program is accompanied by an intensive communication campaign. The initial communication campaign on the importance of masking with the tagline “aap insaan hai, bhagwan nahi” ran successfully on several television channels and media. CII is now launching another campaign on vaccine hesitancy to be widely disseminated to target communities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cii-to-work-with-sii-to-expand-vaccination-in-small-towns-and-rural-areas-1014567.html
30-07-2021||West||Ruckus in Goa Assembly over query on coal block allocation; House adjourned for two hours||The Goa Legislative Assembly witnessed chaotic scenes on Friday after the opposition MLAs strongly objected to the BJP government’s move of seeking postponement of its reply to a question over the status of a coal block allotted to the coastal state by the Centre. The opposition legislators rushed to the Well of the House and created ruckus, following which its proceedings were adjourned for two hours at around 11 am. State Industries Minister Vishwajit Rane sought to postpone the government’s reply to the question tabled by MLAs Rohan Khaunte, Vijai Sardesai, Jayesh Salgaonkar and Vinod Palyekar over the present status of the coal block in Madhya Pradesh that was allotted to Goa. The opposition benches objected to the postponement of the reply to the question, saying that it was done by the government earlier as well. Rane sought postponement of the reply citing Rule 49 (2) of the Assembly. Sardesai said that the question on the status of coal block allocation could not be postponed as per the rule. He alleged that the government was shying away from answering it. The Goa Forward Party (GFP) legislator also threatened to move a breach of privilege motion over the matter and also approach the court against the government’s move (of postponing its reply). Khaunte said that the state government was trying to hide the Rs 1,000 crore coal block scam and save its face by evading the query. He alleged that the consultant appointed for the coal block has already been blacklisted after an inquiry against him by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The legislators later rushed to the Well of the House, which led to noisy scenes Following this, Speaker Rajesh Patnekar adjourned the House for two hours. The issue had also rocked the budget session of the Assembly earlier this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ruckus-in-goa-assembly-over-query-on-coal-block-allocation-house-adjourned-for-two-hours-1014606.html
30-07-2021||West||CM Thackeray, Fadnavis cross paths in flood-hit Kolhapur||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis -- friends-turned-arch-rivals of Maharashtra politics -- crossed paths when they were separately touring the flood-hit Kolhapur district.  They were seen having a talk and they agreed to work together for the people in the flood-hit districts of Konkan and Western Maharashtra. They also decided to meet again in Mumbai and work out long-term drought-prevention measures.  While Thackeray was accompanied by rural development minister Hasan Mushrif, minister of state for home and information technology Satej Patil, who is the guardian minister of Kolhapur, minister of state for health Rajendra Patil-Yadravarkar and chief secretary Sitaram Kunte, Fadnavis was accompanied by the leader of opposition in council Pravin Darekar and state BJP president Chandrakant Patil. Fadnavis once enjoyed good relations with Thackeray, the Shiv Sena president, however, after the latter joined hands with Congress-NCP and kept BJP out of power, their relations turned sour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cm-thackeray-fadnavis-cross-paths-in-flood-hit-kolhapur-1014660.html
30-07-2021||West||ED summons ex-Maharashtra HM Anil Deshmukh, son again in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate has issued fresh summons to former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and his son to appear before it on Monday here in connection with a money laundering case probe, official sources said on Friday. The 72-year-old NCP politician and his son, Hrishikesh, have been asked to depose before the investigating officer of the case on August 2, according to provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), they said. Deshmukh has skipped at least three summonses of the federal probe agency in the past for questioning in the case. His son and wife too were summoned and they also did not appear. The summonses were issued in connection with the criminal case registered under the PMLA related to an alleged Rs 100 crore bribery-cum-extortion racket in the Maharashtra police establishment that led to Deshmukh's resignation in April. The agency had last month raided Deshmukh's premises in Mumbai and Nagpur apart from that of his aides and some others. It subsequently arrested two of his aides in this case, personal secretary Sanjeev Palande (51) and personal assistant Kundan Shinde (45). The Enforcement Directorate's case against Deshmukh and others was made out after the CBI booked him in a corruption case related to allegations of at least Rs 100 crore bribery made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ed-summons-ex-maharashtra-hm-anil-deshmukh-son-again-in-money-laundering-case-1014688.html
