31-07-2021||First Edit||Kerala’s Covid-19 surge, a concern||The surge in Covid cases in Kerala, which is now leading the country in the number of daily infections and total cases, has caused concern while the pandemic situation is easing in other parts of the country. The state witnessed over 22,000 fresh cases every day in the last few days with a total positivity rate of 13.53%. The number of active cases is more than 35% of the national case load. A central team has visited the state to assess the situation. During the first wave of the pandemic, Kerala had managed to keep it in check and the state’s Covid management under the then heath minister K K Shailaja had attracted international attention. But now questions are being raised about the success of the Kerala model. The questions have centred around the low sero prevalence in the state and the debatable testing and lockdown strategies followed by the government. The latest national sero survey showed that the state has the lowest zero prevalence rate of 44% in the country. This means that 66% of the population is still vulnerable. The state does targeted testing of people in the circle of contact of infected persons, and the authorities claim that this would naturally lead to a higher positivity rate. It also has a high rate of tests per million. Its lockdown strategy of total shutdowns on weekends and fewer days and hours of relaxation has been criticised as it causes crowding of people. The lockdown relaxations for Bakrid and darshan at Sabarimala were seen as a surrender to pressures of various kinds and invited censure from the Supreme Court. Though the lockdown relaxations may be a factor, the high infection rate in the state is ironically the price it is paying for its success in controlling the pandemic during the first wave. It kept infections within limits then and did not allow them to go beyond the point where the healthcare system could not manage it. All patients who needed treatment got it and there was no shortage of ICUs or oxygen. The death rate was and still is the lowest in the country. The state has said that its strategy was to keep the numbers from rising and so a large segment of the population remains vulnerable. The vaccination rate is among the highest in the country. The high population density makes for quick spread of the disease. But the state government and many experts are of the view that its strategy is right and the state is still in the late stage of the second wave which started late. The situation is not good, but it may be too early to decide whether the strategy is a success or failure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/kerala-s-covid-19-surge-a-concern-1014807.html
31-07-2021||In Perspective||Perils of digitisation in agriculture||The ubiquitous digital revolution is impacting every sector of economy and social structure. It is said to be a game-changer in agriculture too. According to the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO), digital technologies have a great potential in this field. It advocates responsible application to empower rural households and inspire youth entrepreneurship to adopt farming as a profession towards sustainable livelihoods. The FAO has helped countries develop national e-agriculture strategies to rationalise financial and human resources to generate new revenue streams and improve the livelihood of rural communities. Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Big Data will play a dominant role in agriculture, changing the way crops are produced and marketed, with a dramatic impact on the farming community. It looks like an utopian dream in which AI solutions will be put to use for identifying pest attacks, predicting the best time to sow and gauging the best price for agro products. The use of drones, hydroponics and AI-powered cameras to prevent crop destruction by wild animals is already being tried by farmers. The Niti Aayog has recognised AI in agriculture as one of the priority sectors aimed at realising the potential economic and social benefits so as to increase farmers' income by 15% in 2035. With small landholdings and diverse ecological zones, are Indian farmers ready to embrace smart technology? Will this provide an opportunity to farmers to get better incomes and help overcome the hardship of access to capital, labour and market? The strategies to implement digital tools in agriculture raise serious concerns about the prominent role assigned to technical giants. Microsoft is building the digital infrastructure and Amazon is creating a 'startup ecosystem'. India's Patanjali is creating farm management systems based on precision agriculture technologies like Internet of Things towards automated farming. The central government has already signed MoUs with these companies without any consultation with the stakeholders, especially the farming community. Who will own and control the data is a billion dollar question. Lack of clarity on this fundamental aspect of digital technology poses moral and ethical questions, where the personal data of the farm and the farmer becomes raw material for mining information.  The experience of using digital tools in agriculture in many regions reveals the intricate relationship between farmers and agribusiness. Indian corporate giant ITC-supported e-Choupal is an e-commerce venture hailed as a model to link farmers to markets based on digital technology. Recently, they collaborated with Bayer, a pesticide multinational, to sell its produce to farmers. Obviously, the model is used towards getting farmers hooked to their products with increased use of chemicals, leading to the poisoning of soil and water. Though farmers might gain in the short term with increased production, the adverse long-term impact on soil and farmers' health leads to irreversible damage, destroying the regenerative capacity of resources that support life systems. In 2014, the prime minister promised farmers to assist them in a comprehensive crop insurance scheme that would use modern technology like drones to assess damage to deliver adequate and timely relief to farmers.  The hype vanished into thin air as the entire top-down process helped big private insurance companies to reap windfall profits, with meagre compensation paid to farmers who had insured their crops. In Latin America, digitalisation has resulted in corporate land-grabbing, depriving indigenous communities of common property resources like forests and grazing land. Will these be replicated in India? Contrary to this, there are also positive stories where farmers are using social media like WhatsApp to establish direct links with consumers, eliminating middlemen. It helps them to get remunerative prices for their produce. However, the percentage of farmers using these digital tools is negligible. Technology, especially digital technology in agriculture, will be shaped by a few multinational corporations that have total control over data, communications and food systems. Vandana Shiva questions the basic motive of corporates like Monsanto, “Data gathering and owning is just like another commodity to make farmers more dependent on external chemical inputs, telling farmers to outsource their minds to Monsanto. This is the next step in a dead-end future that ignores the intelligence of seeds, plants, soil organisms, our gut bacteria, our farmers, our grandmothers." It will be too naive to expect these entities to work towards ameliorating problems faced by the farmer; rather they would use it to reinforce their power and profits, which is their main motive. Is our government prepared to address this challenge? The authoritarian push with draconian laws despite farmers' protests indicates that it is willing to jettison the interests of farmers and give a free hand to corporate players to use digital tools to further exploit the sector under the guise of making India the 'food basket of the world'. (The writer is a well-known environmental activist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/perils-of-digitisation-in-agriculture-1014802.html
31-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Traffic snarls on Charmadi Ghat Road||Motorists travelling on Charmadi Ghat Road are facing a harrowing time due to frequent traffic congestion caused by two-fold increase in the density of vehicles. On Friday too, the traffic snarls on Charmadi Ghat Road lasted for nearly four hours. A truck, which got struck in the slush at seventh curve of Ghat, threw traffic out of gear and caused traffic congestion. The increase in movement of trucks and air-conditioned and sleeper buses to Mangaluru and Ujire is creating frequent traffic congestions on the stretch. The vehicles queued up on both sides of Charmadi Ghat up to a distance of five kilometers. Belthangady Circle Inspector Shivakumar, Sub-Inspector Krishnakanth and team, and social worker Charmadi Hasanabba assisted in ensuring free flow of traffic. Due to poor network connectivity, those travelling to hospitals faced a lot of inconvenience due to the traffic congestion. Circle Inspector Shivakumar said, “Heavy vehicles are not allowed from Charmadi Ghat to Kottigehara. However, a few heavy vehicles are travelling from Kottigehara to Ujire. We will discuss the issue with Mudigere station police officers and will chalk out plans to ensure easy movement of vehicles.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/traffic-snarls-on-charmadi-ghat-road-1014833.html
31-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Surjewala holds Congress party workers' meeting in Mysuru||Karnataka Congress in-charge Randeep Singh Surjewala reached Mysuru to chair a party workers' meeting on Saturday. The party workers and the leaders welcomed Surjewala. He will address the workers and the leaders of five districts — Mysuru, Kodagu, Chamarajanagar, Mandya and Hassan. He was accompanied by Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D K Shivakumar, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/surjewala-holds-congress-party-workers-meeting-in-mysuru-1014896.html
31-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||High-level team should assess need for wholesale market at Baikampady APMC, says Mangaluru MLA||Mangaluru MLA U T Khader said that Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai should send a high-level team to APMC yard in Baikampady to assess whether a wholesale fruits and vegetable market at the yard was required. The foundation for the wholesale market was laid recently and the estimated cost of the project is Rs 12 crore. Already, out of 668 godowns/stalls at APMC yard in Baikampady, 357 have remained unoccupied. Even 50 per cent of those that are occupied, are devoid of business activity."In such a scenario what was the need to develop a market by utilising the cess collected from farmers and traders at the APMC yard. The cess collected by the APMC should be utilised for the welfare of the farmers. I will write a letter to the CM to stop the work till a high-level officials team assesses the need for the market at the APMC yard,” Khader said. Loans denied Stating that banks are denying educational loans for the students pursuing professional courses, the MLA said parents and students are made to run from pillar to post to get the loans sanctioned. The government too has neglected the student community by failing to release the scholarship amount, he alleged. The MLA urged the district administration to convene a meeting of the bankers and sort out the issues related to educational loans. If any student is denied of the educational loan by the banks, then they can approach the Congress, he said. “We will fight for the cause of the students and ensure that they get justice,” he said. "The MLAs and MPs from ruling BJP government should have sorted out the issue. When the demand for government schools are increasing, the government has failed to provide necessary basic infrastructure to government schools. There is shortage of teachers in schools and the government should take steps to recruit teachers immediately," Khader added. Further, the MLA urged both centre and state government to give priority to supply of vaccines to carry out uninterrupted vaccination camps in the district. There is a need to take up the vaccination drive at the micro-level to ensure all the citizens are vaccinated against Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/high-level-team-should-assess-need-for-wholesale-market-at-baikampady-apmc-says-mangaluru-mla-1014899.html
31-07-2021||Karnataka Districts||Fishing season in Karnataka coastal districts set to resume from August 1||With the 61-day fishing ban ending on Saturday, the fishing activity will begin across coastal districts from Sunday (August 1).  As monsoon is the breeding season for fishes, the government had banned fishing between June 1 and July 31 under the Karnataka Coastal Fishing (Regulation) Act, 1986. The ban is to facilitate breeding of fishes in the sea. The fisheries harbour at Old Port in Mangaluru was buzzing with activities, as fishermen and labourers went around preparing nets and fishing boats. Though the fishing season will begin from Sunday, not all the boats will venture into deep-sea fishing, fishing leaders informed. “The Covid-19 pandemic, uncertanity in markets, fishermen failing to get their diesel passbook to avail subsidised diesel for boats and other factors will prevent full-scale fishing,” they informed. There are 80 purse seine boats and 1,200 trawler boats in Dakshina Kannada district. Labourers from Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Jharkhand work in these boats that engage in deep sea fishing. "Many boat owners had not received their passbooks in order to avail subsidised diesel. Without the passbook, we can not avail diesel by paying the market price,” Mohan Bengre, a fisherman leader said. A fishing boat requires 6,500 litres of diesel while going on deep sea expeditions. The fishermen get about 9,000 litres of subsidised diesel per month. A few trawl boats will venture into the sea after offering prayers at Urwa Mariyamma Temple on August 6. Fishermen leaders, on the other hand, said they would go for deep sea fishing "after offering Samudra pooja on August 8.” The inclement weather with cyclones and rise in price of diesel had affected fishing activities during the last fishing season. The fish catch during 2020-21 was 1,39,714.04 tonne worth Rs 1,924 crore, while in 2019-20, it was 1,79,944 tonne worth Rs 2,031 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fishing-season-in-karnataka-coastal-districts-set-to-resume-from-august-1-1014966.html
31-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||RSS leader Prabhakar Bhat calls on Eshwarappa in Bengaluru||RSS leader Kalladka Prabhakar Bhat called on the former minister and Shivamogga Urban MLA K S Eshwarapppa at the latter's official residence in Bengaluru on Saturday. The RSS leader held discussions with Eshwarappa on political developments in Karnataka, party affairs, and cabinet formation. Eshwarapppa, former deputy chief minister, reportedly expressed his disappointment that those who are giving preference for personal gains had been given importance in the state government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/rss-leader-prabhakar-bhat-calls-on-eshwarappa-in-bengaluru-1014902.html
31-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Somanna, Ashoka fight it out for a place in CM Bommai's cabinet||Ties between senior Karnataka BJP leaders V Somanna and R Ashoka have turned sour in the middle of hectic lobbying by ministerial aspirants who want to find a place in Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s Cabinet.  Apparently, Somanna and Ashoka quarrelled over the phone. Both leaders, who are legislators from Bengaluru, were ministers in the previous B S Yediyurappa government.  According to sources, Somanna called up Ashoka and gave him a piece of his mind. Somanna’s grouse was that Ashoka bad-mouthed him to Yediyurappa and Bommai. This conversation reportedly happened on Friday when Ashoka was in Delhi with Bommai. Speaking to reporters, Somanna confirmed the quarrel without revealing details. “This happened before anybody knew that Bommai was going to become the CM. It’s true I spoke in a harsh manner. I said whatever I had to say. I'm an outspoken man. I don't regret it,” he said. Somanna and Ashoka are seen as prominent BJP leaders from Bengaluru. While Somanna is a Lingayat, Ashoka is a Vokkaliga - the two politically-dominant communities.  Although Somanna downplayed the fight, he could not hold back expressing his grouse against Ashoka. “He's like my brother. He’s 10-12 years younger. I’ve seen him since 1996. I expected him to be the same Ashoka I knew,” he said. “Before D V Sadananda Gowda became the CM, I went to Ashoka’s house and asked him to become the CM by convincing Yediyurappa. Sometimes, I feel I went overboard with my love for him.”  Somanna suggested that Ashoka should have spoken to him directly. “It’s wrong to talk to someone else. If there’s something, let’s fight directly,” he said.  The Somanna-Ashoka fight could be symbolic of the intense competition within the BJP to get ministerial positions, an exercise that will be a tightrope walk for Bommai with way too many aspirants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/somanna-ashoka-fight-it-out-for-a-place-in-cm-bommais-cabinet-1014947.html
31-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||BJP dumping party elders, alleges Randeep Surjewala||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Amit Shah are "habitual offenders" when it comes to insulting their own leaders, AICC general secretary in charge of Karnataka, Randeep Singh Surjewala has said. Referring to the resignation of B S Yediyurappa as Karnataka chief minister, Surjewala said that the BJP had dumped and duped various sections of the people and communities. “Use-and-throw is the BJP’s brand now. We will never do it to any community or individual. AICC leaders Rahul Gandhi and Sonia Gandhi have repeatedly said that every senior is a leader and we respect every community and religion. We seek their blessings," he said. However, he alleged that Yediyurappa was running a corrupt government with complete maladministration. He was addressing a press meet in Mysuru on Saturday. Surjewala said that Modi had neglected Murli Manohar Joshi and Keshubhai Patel, who nursed and groomed him and not it was the turn of Yediyurappa. He said that L K Advani, also Modi’s guru had also been dumped. "It is a reflection of the culture and character of the BJP. The BJP leaders do not like elders, they don’t like wisdom. Does anybody throw parents out of their house?" he sought to know.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-dumping-party-elders-alleges-randeep-surjewala-1015014.html
31-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Change of guard in Karnataka: Dividend or danger?||The storm has passed for the BJP with Basavaraj Bommai becoming the chief minister, a safe move the BJP played as it tried not to rattle the Lingayat community with the exit of B S Yediyurappa.  But, it’s still the thin end of the wedge for the BJP that has its eyes set on the 2023 Assembly elections. In the short-term, the party needs to gear up for two bypolls -- Hangal and Sindagi, apart from taluk and zilla panchayat elections later this year. BJP leaders have their fingers crossed as they admit that the going may not be rosy for Bommai.  BJP leaders say Bommai’s appointment as the CM could help the bypolls. As he is from Haveri, the party stands a good chance in Hangal, BJP’s Haveri president Siddaraj Kalakoti says. “Late MLA C M Udasi’s credentials alone are enough for the party. With Bommai as the CM, it’s a double advantage,” he says. Udasi, whose death will necessitate the Hangal bypoll, was also Bommai’s mentor. BJP’s Vijayapura president R S Patil added that Bommai, when he was the water resources minister, implemented several irrigation projects in the district, which would stand in good stead for the party in Sindagi.  Bommai also has the immediate task of managing the flood crisis and preparing for the imminent third wave of Covid-19, all amid a huge financial shortfall. Meanwhile, internal rifts in BJP continue with many aspirants waiting to be inducted into the new Cabinet. “The Council of Ministers will be an acid test,” political analyst Sandeep Shashtri says. “However, the ultimate test for Bommai will be reconciliation of differences within the party. The BJP has leaders from diverse political backgrounds who have joined the party over the last decade. Bommai will have to take all the leaders along, while taking forward the agenda of governance and keeping the party ready for next elections,” he explains. Further, Bommai’s appointment has failed to appease the demand for a chief minister from the Panchamasali Lingayat community. Bommai himself belongs to the Sadar-Lingayat community, a minority within. The Panchamasalis have already renewed their agitation for Category 2A reservation for the community. A senior BJP functionary tells DH, “The 2A reservation demand will not materialise as it’s not legally feasible. This and other internal conflicts in the party will make smooth administration a challenge for Bommai.” The functionary adds that Bommai must prove that the BJP is a development-oriented party and create a favourable atmosphere for the upcoming elections. “There’s much to do with little time.” The general perception is also that the party does not enjoy the same amount of popularity it had in 2018. “Last time, we had the Modi wave in our favour and Yediyurappa was the party’s face. Even with this, we did not get a clear majority. Elections are always about a hero figure. We don’t have one for the next elections. This could work in favour of the Congress party,” the BJP functionary added. The Congress has already planned to reorganise its forces to prepare for the Assembly polls. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) working president Saleem Ahmed says it does not matter for the party whether it was Yediyurappa or Bommai at the helm of affairs. “We had raised the issue of corruption in Covid management during Yediyurappa’s regime. The CM has changed. But the issue of corruption remains. Will Bommai be able to give a corrupt-free administration,” Ahmed asks.  In Bommai’s own words, there are huge challenges ahead, a candid admission during his interaction with his constituents the very day he was sworn-in.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/change-of-guard-in-karnataka-dividend-or-danger-1015028.html
31-07-2021||Karnataka Politics||Team Bommai: CM, top brass to jointly shortlist candidates||The BJP central leaders and Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai have decided to jointly finalise the names of legislators to be inducted into the council of ministers. "The party leaders asked the CM to prepare a list after consulting state leaders, taking into account ministerial candidates' caste and regional equations, clean image and their contribution to the party. The national leaders will also prepare their own list. The CM and party leaders in Delhi will sit together and prepare the final list of ministers," sources in the BJP said. "Once the Central leaders prepare their list, they will ask the CM to come to Delhi for finalisation of the list. The Central leaders will also give choice to the CM to pick his own men for his Cabinet," sources said. The CM is likely to visit Delhi by Monday night or Tuesday to meet the central leaders, sources said. During his maiden visit as CM to Delhi on Friday, Bommai had informally discussed the Cabinet expansion issue with BJP national president J P Nadda and Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi. "Most likely they (party top leaders) will send a message to me in two days and I'll have to go to Delhi once again. We will finalise the Cabinet," Bommai said in Bengaluru on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/team-bommai-cm-top-brass-to-jointly-shortlist-candidates-1015044.html
31-07-2021||Main Article||Politics and policy||Ever since the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, health sector reform has attracted a great deal of attention. However, what has been missing in the debate on policy making for health care is the core political component. We often use the word ‘politics’ in a negative sense where self-interest predominates and one uses a situation to one’s own advantage. Another term one frequently comes across in political discourse is ‘political will’ or more commonly ‘lack of political will’, implying lack of action. I am referring to the political skills required to bring about policy change. Political will alone is not sufficient, it must be backed up by the skills necessary to translate the will into policy and policy into action. In 2001, the FAO published a report on Fostering the Political Will to Fight Hunger and concluded that the problem was ‘political determination’. It further observed: “To the extent that the means exist to eradicate hunger… its continued existence on a vast scale is a consequence of either deliberate choice… or incompetence in applying possible solutions”. Political will consists in the willingness to make a choice and political skill in the competence to find the solution and the means to apply it. In the pre-pandemic period, it may be argued that sufficient political will was not forthcoming to accord the necessary priority to public health; on the other hand, after the outbreak of the pandemic, it became the topmost priority. A crisis can of course radically alter priorities. There is again a noticeable difference in the government’s approach to the problem during the first and second phases of the pandemic. In the case of the former, there was a strong political will in dealing with the situation and taking decisions to combat the disease. During the latter, elections became the priority and action on the pandemic went into the background with all the consequences that followed. In other words, the political will was located in winning the polls rather than in taking considered decisions about how to contain Covid. The time is ripe for evolving a sound healthcare policy with a long-term perspective. And this is where political skills become important. According to American political scientist Michael R. Reach who is a specialist in political analysis of health reform and is a Research Professor of International Health Policy at the Harvard School of Public Health, political leaders engaged in policy reform need political skills in two key areas: political analysis and political strategies. Analysis relates to assessing the political intentions and actions of stakeholders who could include individuals, groups and organisations who have an interest in a policy and the potential to influence related decisions. Strategies are concerned with making causal predictions -- what happens if a particular approach is adopted. Decisions taken after a careful analysis of the issue and choosing the right strategy can result in a successful policy change. In dealing with a complex situation like the current pandemic, the issues to be tackled such as testing, tracing, hospital admissions, use of masks, enforcement of the lockdown, the success of the entire operation called for adequate resources, technical competence and political skills in taking decisions on crucial matters, convincing stakeholders and ensuring accountability. How did the political leadership respond to the challenge? Take just one issue, viz, dealing with stakeholders who included health professionals, hospital authorities, pharma industries, the media and of course, the people. Contracting the services of private hospitals had become essential in view of the severe shortage of public resources. The approach of the state governments was to use the coercive power of the state for reservation of beds in private hospitals and pricing of their services. Failure to comply with government instructions involved penalties. Ministers, legislators and senior officers started inspecting hospitals and showing their might against the errant ones. This led to a feeling of alienation and resentment amongst private hospitals, a key stakeholder in the programme. Could there have been a better strategy to secure voluntary cooperation instead of subjecting them to submission? There were other issues like the confusion in organising the supply of vaccines -- the vacillation in deciding whether the central or state governments should deal with it, resulting in delays and precious loss of time, the timing of elections and allowing crowded gatherings during the pandemic. Could these have been better managed? The case of Health Care Reform in the US offers illuminating lessons. When Bill Clinton wanted to reform the healthcare system, he faced enormous pressure from interest groups, mainly from the American Medical Association and medical insurance and other business groups. The Centre for Public Integrity noted that the debate over health reform was “the most heavily lobbied legislative initiative in recent US history” involving hundreds of organisations and over $100 million. Political analysts have argued that Clinton’s strategies failed on account of three factors: a) appointing a technocrat with limited experience to head the health reform task force, b) giving the overall responsibility to Hillary Clinton and c) starting the process of political bargaining over the reform package after presenting it to the Congress. In contrast, Barack Obama made his plan for health care reform a part of his presidential campaign. Once in office as President, he initiated a discussion on what he termed Health Care for America Plan. This pushed the Congress to study the proposal and interstingly, the Senate and the House of Representatives came up with their own plans. Efforts were made to reconcile the two and finally the Patient Protection and the Affordable Care Act were passed in 2010.There were several obstacles, but what helped Obama’s success was his strategy to involve the Congressional leaders, a transparent process and his own championing the cause of reform and effectively communicating it to the people. The key issues to be addressed in healthcare reform in India are: a) making a clear distinction between public health or preventive care and curative services, b) market failures in the private health sector, especially in insurance coverage, c) state capacity and d) areas of state intervention. Political analysis of the challenges involved in such matters and evolving appropriate political strategies are crucial in deciding policy changes. Reforming a policy also requires the ability to manage the politics of change. Government would do well to engage professional policy analysts just as they employ economic advisors. It’s not just ‘the economy, stupid’ of Clinton, but ‘it’s the politics, stupid’ that is important for success. (The writer is former Chief Secretary, Government of Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/politics-and-policy-1014800.html
31-07-2021||National||Data storage norms: Mastercard submits audit report to RBI||After being banned by the RBI from issuing new cards, US-based payments technology major Mastercard on Friday said it has submitted an audit report to the regulator showing compliance with the local data storage norms. The restrictions were put in place because of the company's failure to comply with local data storage norms that require payments companies to store data related to Indian customers only in the country. "When RBI required us to provide additional clarifications about our data localisation framework in April 2021, we retained government-empaneled Deloitte to perform a supplemental audit to help demonstrate our compliance. "We have been in a continued dialogue with the RBI from April through the report's submission on July 20, 2021," Mastercard said in a statement in response to a set of queries sent by PTI. The company said since the RBI's 2018 directive on data localisation and storage, it has worked closely with the central bank and Indian government to ensure that Mastercard is compliant with both the letter and the spirit of the order. "This includes submitting reports as required by the RBI. We look forward to continuing our conversations with the RBI and reinforcing how seriously we take our obligations. We are hopeful that this latest filing provides the assurances required to address their concerns," it said. Further, the company said it is committed to put in whatever resources are required to meet any additional requirements raised by RBI and bring this matter to a close "expeditiously". "In the meantime, we remain focused on ensuring our current business continues to operate as usual, working in lockstep with our customers and partners to minimize any impact on cardholders," it added. Mastercard, a major card issuing entity, is the third company to have been barred by RBI from acquiring new customers over data storage issues, after American Express Banking Corp and Diners Club International. RBI had said that Mastercard was found to be non-compliant with the directions on 'Storage of Payment System Data' despite being given adequate opportunities. However, the regulator had said the ban on issuing new cards was not going to impact the services of the existing customers of Mastercard in India. Mastercard is a payment system operator authorised to operate a card network in the country under the Payment and Settlement Systems Act, 2007 (PSS Act). RBI's circular on Storage of Payment System Data on April 6, 2018 had directed all system providers to ensure that within a period of six months the entire data relating to payment systems was stored only in India. They were also required to report compliance to RBI and submit a board-approved System Audit Report conducted by a CERT-In empanelled auditor within specified timelines. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/data-storage-norms-mastercard-submits-audit-report-to-rbi-1014827.html
31-07-2021||National||India logs 41,649 new Covid-19 cases, 593 deaths||With a single-day rise of 41,649 new cases, India's Covid-19 tally climbed to 3,16,13,993 on Saturday, while the death toll due to the viral disease shot up to 4,23,810 with 593 more people succumbing to it, the Union health ministry said. The number of active coronavirus cases in the country registered an increase for the fourth consecutive day, according to the ministry's data updated at 8 am. The number of active cases has gone up to 4,08,920, accounting for 1.29 per cent of the total number of cases, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.37 per cent, the data showed. An increase of 3,765 cases was recorded in the active Covid-19 tally in a span of 24 hours. Also, 17,76,315 tests to detect the infection were carried out on Friday, taking the total number of such tests conducted so far in the country to 46,64,27,038, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.34 per cent. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.42 per cent, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recovered from the disease has gone up to 30781263, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data showed. The cumulative number of Covid vaccine doses administered in the country so far has reached 46.15 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30-lakh mark on August 23, 40-lakh mark on September 5 and 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28 last year, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore Covid-19 cases on May 4 this year and the three-crore mark on June 23. The 593 fresh fatalities include 231 from Maharashtra and 116 from Kerala. A total of 4,23,810 Covid deaths have been reported in the country so far, including 1,325,66 from Maharashtra, 36,525 from Karnataka, 34,050 from Tamil Nadu, 25,052 from Delhi, 22,756 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,128 from West Bengal and 16,292 from Punjab. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)," the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-41649-new-covid-19-cases-593-deaths-1014837.html
31-07-2021||National||India set to take over as President of UN Security Council for August||India will take over the Presidency of the UN Security Council on August 1 and is set to host signature events in three major areas of maritime security, peacekeeping and counterterrorism during the month. “It is a singular honour for us to be presiding over the Security Council the same month when we are celebrating our 75th Independence Day,” India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti said in a video message on the eve of India assuming the rotating Presidency of the powerful 15-nation UN body. The first working day of India’s Presidency will be Monday, August 2 when Tirumurti will hold a hybrid press briefing in the UN headquarters on the Council’s programme of work for the month. Tirumurti will also provide a briefing for member states of the United Nations which are non-members of the Council on its work for the month, according to a schedule released by the UN. India’s two-year tenure as a non-permanent member of the Security Council began on January 1, 2021. The August presidency will be India’s first Presidency during its 2021-22 tenure as a non-permanent member of the Security Council. India will again preside over the Council in December next year, the last month of its two-year tenure. During its Presidency, India will be organising high-level signature events in three major areas - maritime security, peacekeeping and counterterrorism. In the video message, Tirumurti said maritime security has a high priority for India “and it is important for the Security Council to take a holistic approach to this issue”. Peacekeeping is a topic “close to our hearts, given our own long and pioneering involvement” with peacekeeping, he said, adding that India will focus on how to ensure the safety of peacekeepers, especially by using better technology and how to bring perpetrators of crimes against peacekeepers to justice. As a country that has been at the forefront in the fight against terrorism, India will continue to keep the spotlight on counterterrorism. Tirumurti said in the last seven months of India’s tenure in the Council, “we have taken a principled and forward-looking position on various issues. We have been unafraid of shouldering responsibilities. We have been proactive. We have focused on issues of our priority.” “We have made efforts to bridge the different voices within the Council to ensure that the Council comes together and speaks in one voice on a variety of important issues of the day. This is what we will bring into our Presidency,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-set-to-take-over-as-president-of-un-security-council-for-august-1014845.html
31-07-2021||National||IED defused in J&K's Rajouri; search operations on to nab terrorists||A major tragedy was averted on Saturday with timely detection of a powerful Improvised Explosive Device (IED) in Jammu and Kashmir's border district of Rajouri, officials said. The IED was found planted by suspected terrorists under a culvert at Bathooni-Dilogra on Jammu-Rajouri national highway and was subsequently defused by the bomb disposal squad of the Army at 9:10 am, the officials said. The traffic on the vital road remained suspended for over three hours after the detection of the IED by the Road Opening Party (ROP) of the security forces, they said. The terrorists are believed to have planted the IED during the intervening night under the cover of darkness, the officials said, adding that a massive search operation is on to arrest the terrorists who were planning to set off the blast. The officials said the experts removed the IED from the road to a secluded place in the nearby forest and later detonated it in a controlled explosion without causing any damage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ied-defused-in-jks-rajouri-search-operations-on-to-nab-terrorists-1014852.html
31-07-2021||National||Yamuna water level recedes below danger mark in Delhi||The water level in the Yamuna receded below the danger mark of 205.33 on Saturday morning, a day after the Delhi administration sounded a flood alert and expedited efforts to evacuate people living in the river floodplains. The water level was recorded at 205.01 metres at the Old Railway Bridge at 8 am. It was 205.44 metres at 1 am and 205.20 metres at 6 am, an official said. On Friday, with Haryana discharging more water into the river from the Hathnikund Barrage, the Delhi Police and the East Delhi district administration started evacuating people living on the floodplains of the Yamuna in the capital. The Irrigation and Flood Control Department deployed 13 boats in different areas and put 21 others on standby. A flood alert is declared when the Yamuna crosses the "warning mark" of 204.50 metres. The situation is being monitored round-the-clock, a district administration official said. According to the Delhi flood control room, the discharge rate at the Hathnikund Barrage peaked to 1.60 lakh cusecs on Tuesday afternoon, the highest this year so far. The water discharged from the barrage normally takes two to three days to reach the capital. Haryana had been releasing water from the Yumananagar-located barrage at the rate of 37,109 cusecs at 8 pm on Friday, it increased to 45,180 at 1 am on Saturday, which resulted in the water level reaching 205.44. At 6 am on Saturday, the water was released at the rate of 35,109 cusecs. Normally, the flow rate at the Hathnikund barrage is 352 cusec, but the discharge is increased after heavy rainfall in catchment areas. One cusec is equivalent to 28.32 litres per second. In 2019, the flow rate had peaked to 8.28 lakh cusecs on August 18-19, and the water level of the Yamuna had hit the 206.60 metre-mark, breaching the danger mark of 205.33 metres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yamuna-water-level-recedes-below-danger-mark-in-delhi-1014857.html
31-07-2021||National||Rajya Sabha lost 40 hours to disruption in first two weeks of Monsoon Session||Rajya Sabha could hold proceedings for just 10.08 hours of 50 hours working hours available in the first two weeks of the ongoing Monsoon Session of Parliament, with sources on Saturday claiming that disruptions are costing the Upper House substantially -- from Rs 1.11 lakh to Rs 1.39 lakh a minute. The productivity, which has touched just 21.60 per cent in nine sittings in two weeks since July 19, could have been much lower if both sides did not have agreed to hold a discussion on Covid-19 on July 20, which lasted for 4.37 hours. Sources in the Rajya Sabha Secretariat said the annual budget for Rajya Sabha, which includes the functioning of Rajya Sabha TV and Parliamentary Committees under it, is around Rs 460 crore and the expenditure would come to around Rs 1.2 crore per day for a year whether the House sits or not. If one takes only the days when Parliament is in session, sources said, the calculation comes to around Rs 4-5 crore a day for 70-80 days. This would mean, they claimed, every lost minute would mean that Rs 1.11 lakh to Rs 1.39 lakh are lost per minute. During the nine sittings held so far, 39.52 hours out of 50 working hours has been lost due to disruptions. Usually, Rajya Sabha is scheduled to sit for six hours a day. Sources said the productivity of Rajya Sabha fell to 13.70 per cent during the second week of the ongoing Monsoon Session from 32.20 per cent during the first week, resulting in an overall productivity of 21.60 per cent for the first two weeks. Only 1.38 hours out of nine hours of Question Hour could be held. Only one minute of nine hours of Zero Hour could be held while four minutes were spent on tabling Special Mentions. During the first two weeks of the current session, 130 Zero Hour Submissions and 87 Special Mentions could not be taken though they were admitted by Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu. The Rajya Sabha Secretariat has started mentioning the business that could not be taken up in the daily bulletins following the direction from the Chairman. For legislative business, 1.24 hours were spent during which four Bills were passed even as Opposition MPs protested. Seven members participated in the discussion of these Bills. The Bills passed so far are The Marine Aids to Navigation Bill 2021, The Juvenile Justice Amendment Bill 2021, The Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill 2021 and The Coconut Development Board (Amendment) Bill 2021. The Limited Liability Partnership (Amendment) Bill 2021 and The Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (Amendment) Bill 2021 were among the four Bills introduced in the Rajya Sabha. During the all-party meeting ahead of the Session and the Business Advisory Committee meeting during the first week, Naidu has urged the government and the leaders of various parties to discuss the legislative and other business to be taken up in the House and also has been talking to them separately to enable the smooth functioning of the House.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-lost-40-hours-to-disruption-in-first-two-weeks-of-monsoon-session-1014875.html
31-07-2021||National||Change negative perception of police among people: PM Modi to IPS probationers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday told Indian Police Service probationers that the spirit of 'Nation First, Always First' should be reflected in every action of theirs and they should also work towards changing the negative perception of the force among people. He urged the IPS probationers to keep national interest in mind and have a national perspective while taking decisions when they are in the field. "You have to always remember that you are the flag bearers of 'Ek Bharat, Shrestha Bharat' too," Modi said. "Therefore, the spirit of Nation First, Always First, should be reflected in your every action," the prime minister said addressing the IPS probationers at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy via video-conferencing. Modi said the negative perception of the police among the people is a big challenge in itself. This perception changed a bit during the beginning of the coronavirus period when people saw police personnel helping out, but the situation has again gone back to the old perception, he said. "Our police personnel even sacrifice their lives for security of the country, maintaining law and order and for fighting terrorism. They are unable to go home for days, they are unable to go home even during festivals but when it comes to the police's image, people's perception is different," he said. It is the responsibility of the new generation coming into the police force that this image changes and this negative perception of the police goes away, Modi said. The prime minister said in the last 75 years, India has tried to build a better police service and police training infrastructure has also improved a lot in recent years. "The way the youth of the country came forward in the country between 1930 and 1947, the whole young generation got united for one goal, today the same sentiment is expected from you," Modi told the IPS probationers. "At that time the people of the country fought for 'swaraj', today you have to move forward for 'surajya’ (good governance). You are starting your career at a time when India is going through a phase of transformation in every field, every level," he said. "The coming 25 years of your career are also going to be the most important 25 years of India's development. That's why your preparation, your mental state, should be in line with this big goal," he said. Modi also interacted with the probationers during the event. Union Home Minister Amit Shah also participated in the function. The Hyderabad-based academy is the premier police training institution in the country. It trains officers of the Indian Police Service at induction level and conducts various in-service courses for the serving IPS officers. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/change-negative-perception-of-police-among-people-pm-modi-to-ips-probationers-1014888.html
31-07-2021||National||LAC stand-off: India, China hold 12th round of military talks, focus on disengagement in Gogra, Hot Springs||The senior military commanders of India and China met on Saturday to discuss ways to resolve the 15-month-long stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. The meeting started at 10:30 am after the Indian Army delegation led by its 14 Corps commander Lt-General P G K Menon reached Moldo across the LAC. The delegation of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) was led by its commander in charge of the South Xinjiang Military District. The meeting continued till 7:30 pm. The two sides discussed a proposed deal to end the stand-off at Gogra and Hot Springs along the LAC. Neither New Delhi, nor Beijing, however, made public the outcome of the talks till late in the evening. It was the 12th round of talks between the military commanders of the two sides since the stand-off started in April-May 2020 after the Chinese PLA sought to unilaterally alter the status quo along the LAC – the de facto boundary between the two nations – and the counter-deployment by the Indian Army to resist the move. The Indian Army and the Chinese PLA had earlier mutually withdrawn frontline troops from the face-off points on the northern and southern banks of Pangong Tso between February 10 and 21.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lac-stand-off-india-china-hold-12th-round-of-military-talks-focus-on-disengagement-in-gogra-hot-springs-1014898.html
31-07-2021||National||VP Naidu calls for innovative, collaborative efforts to protect Indian languages||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday called for innovative and collaborative efforts to protect and rejuvenate Indian languages. Noting that preserving languages and ensuring their continuity is possible only through a peoples movement, he said people must come together and pool in efforts to pass on the heritage of language to future generations. Naidu, who was virtually addressing a conference organised by Telugu Kootami on the protection of mother tongues, touched upon various people-driven initiatives needed to preserve the Indian languages. Highlighting the important role translation plays in enriching a language, he called for increased efforts in improving the quality and quantity of translations in Indian languages. He also suggested making ancient literature more accessible and relatable to the youth in plain and spoken language. The Vice President recommended compiling endangered and archaic words in a language from rural areas and various dialects in order to preserve them for posterity. He cautioned that one's self-identity and self-esteem will eventually be lost if one's mother tongue is lost. It would be possible to preserve various aspects of our heritage - music, dance, drama, customs, festivals, traditional knowledge - only by preserving our mother tongue, he said. On the occasion, he lauded the recent initiative of Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, who resolved a 21-year-old marital dispute in an amicable way, by allowing the woman to voice her concerns in her mother tongue, Telugu, when she expressed her difficulty to fluently speak in English. Naidu said the case underlines the need for the judicial system to allow people to express their problems in their native languages in courts and also deliver judgments in regional languages. The Vice President reiterated the importance of imparting education in the mother tongue up to primary school level and according priority to the mother tongue in the administration. He lauded the Centre for bringing out a visionary National Education Policy (NEP) which lays emphasis on the use of mother tongue in the education system. A holistic education, as NEP envisions, is only possible when culture, language and traditions are integrated into the education system, he pointed out. Appreciating the recent decision of 14 engineering colleges in eight states to offer courses in various Indian languages from the new academic year, he favoured gradual increase in the use of Indian languages in technical courses. Referring to various best practices in the world in preserving mother tongue, the Vice President called upon language enthusiasts, linguists, teachers, parents and the media to take insights from such countries. He said countries like France, Germany and Japan, while using their native tongue in various advanced disciplines like engineering, medicine and law, have proved themselves strong vis-a-vis English-speaking countries in every field. Naidu also sought improving scientific and technical terminology in Indian languages in order to facilitate their wider reach. Asserting that according importance to mother tongue did not imply the neglect of other languages, he called for encouraging children to learn as many languages as possible, beginning with a strong foundation in ones own mother tongue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vp-naidu-calls-for-innovative-collaborative-efforts-to-protect-indian-languages-1014910.html
31-07-2021||National||BJP using ‘e-Ravanas’ on social media to spread propaganda and hatred, says Akhilesh Yadav||The BJP is using “e-Ravanas” on social media to spread “propaganda and hatred” ahead of the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls. Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav alleged on Saturday while underlining the perils of fake news on virtual platforms. The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said he has alerted his party cadres against social media content used by the BJP to paint its political rivals in a bad light and also asked them to be “disciplined and decent”. "Like the demon king Ravana, the BJP is using ‘e-Ravanas’ on social media to spread its propaganda and hatred. Like Ravana, they are there on social media in disguise and spread lies and rumours," the SP president told PTI in an interview. He claimed "pseudo BJP leaders" pose as SP supporters, and post and forward "indecent remarks" on virtual platforms. "I have asked my party cadres to remain alert and keep an eye on the activities of such dubious elements. Party workers have also been asked not to share, respond or forward anything objectionable on social media, and report the same to the party office,” Yadav said. Taking an aggressive stand against those spreading false information targeting the SP, the party last week filed a complaint against unidentified people for allegedly creating a fake Twitter account of the party chief and spreading hatred. The complaint was filed by state SP chief Naresh Uttam, who submitted screenshots of a tweet claiming the party would construct a “Babri mosque” at the place of the Ram temple in Ayodhya after coming to power in the state,, sources said. An FIR was registered in the matter against unidentified people at the Gautam Palli Police Station on July 25. Sounding a word of caution, Yadav said, "As the state polls are near, BJP men can do anything as they are experts in spreading lies to fool the people to grab power. Their objective is to divert the attention of people from core issues, including development. "We have asked our workers to be disciplined, decent and practice restraint in the language they use on social media, which has emerged as a strong medium to communicate. Unfortunately, the BJP is misusing it," he said. The former UP chief minister added that it is ironical the BJP cannot highlight any achievement of its government despite ruling the state for four-and-a-half-years. Stating that the people of the state have hopes from the SP, Yadav claimed the party will win 350 seats in the upcoming assembly elections. "When the BJP can win over 300 seats by lying, why cannot we win more seats on the development work done by our previous government?" he asked. The BJP, Yadav asserted, has no faith in democracy. “It is conspiring so that the entire system goes out of the hands of the people. Its intention is that the people should be behind and the system should dominate. "Democracy is in danger. In order to save democracy from BJP's deceit, the SP is raising the voice of people," he added. The SP leader also hit out at the “worsening” law and order situation in the northern state under the BJP regime. "The entire country has seen what treatment was meted out to women during the panchayat poll nominations… how BJP goons took the law in their hands and misbehaved with women," he said. Yadav had earlier alleged that BJP workers pulled the saris of SP candidate Ritu Singh and her proposer Anita Yadav during the recent block panchayat chief elections in Lakhimpur Kheri. Based on Ritu Singh’s complaint, a case was filed against BJP workers in Lakhimpur. Six policemen were also suspended. The BJP has said those involved in any misbehaviour will not be spared.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-using-e-ravanas-on-social-media-to-spread-propaganda-and-hatred-says-akhilesh-yadav-1014913.html
31-07-2021||National||Lovlina Borgohain: Diverse Assam's new unifying factor||In Lovlina Borgohain, multi-cultural and multi-ethnic Assam has found its new unifying factor, a very strong one at that, evidence of which was the manner in which the state rejoiced the young boxer's medal-clinching feat at the Tokyo Olympics. Days after Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma led an unprecedented cycle rally to wish the state's "daughter" the best for the Games, people from all spheres of life discussed and celebrated her "historic achievement" at the sport's biggest stage. Dipayan Chakraborty, a member of the state's legislative assembly who represents the Silchar constituency, the seat of power in the Bengal-dominated Cachar district, was part of the rally that was spearheaded by the CM. Like so many from the state, including the Bengali-dominated region, the Silchar MLA was also delighted when news trickled in that the 23-year-old Assamese has ensured the country its second medal at the Games. "This is a huge thing for all of us, for the entire state, for the country. It's a matter of great pride for all of us. And I am very optimistic that the run is going to continue as she is going to go for the gold medal in the Olympics," he told PTI. There was no sign of exhaustion in his voice despite a long day full of meetings, workshops and visits to various places, as he spoke enthusiastically about the athlete from the state's Golaghat district and her achievements. The seasoned leader has been associated with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party for many years. "I must the thank our honourable chief minister for this fine initiative and other awareness activities. Lovlina has the blessings of the entire state to go to the Olympics, win there and bring glory to the state," Chakraborty said. After calls were made to numerous people across the state, it was found out that a good number of them woke up early on Friday to follow one of their all-time biggest sporting stars in action at the biggest stage. When asked about Borgohain's achievement in a state known for its diversity, Chakraborty said, "Caste, communities and religion they don't matter at all in sports anywhere, and Assam is no different." Around the time Borgohain's first Olympic bout in Tokyo was to take place, all district sports associations across the state lit oil lamps to wish the boxer as the two-time world championship medallist braced up for her career's biggest test. This was done at the behest of the Assam Olympic Committee, which has also played its part in her development. "We have tried to do as much as we could. Last four-five years she has been working hard and the Boxing Federation of India and the Assam boxing association has also supported the boxers," said Assam Olympic Committee's general secretary Lakhya Konwar. Konwar missed the bout as he came back from Tokyo on Thursday night but the official, nevertheless, was delighted that they could play a role in her development, including giving her an aid of Rs 25 lakh during the lockdown. The debutant boxer (69kg), provided the spark that India's Olympic campaign desperately needed with her exploits on Friday. She defeated former world champion Nien-Chin Chen of Chinese Taipei to become the first among nine Indian boxers in fray here to be assured of at least a bronze. "Isi ladki se 4 baar haar chuki hun (I had lost to her four times earlier), all I wanted to do was prove a point to myself by being fearless against her. I was just looking for revenge," she had said with a wide grin after the fantastic win which has triggered celebrations across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lovlina-borgohain-diverse-assams-new-unifying-factor-1014915.html
31-07-2021||National||Vice Admiral Ghormade takes charge as new Vice Chief of Indian Navy||Vice Admiral SN Ghormade, a navigation and direction specialist, on Saturday assumed charge as the new Vice Chief of the Indian Navy. Admiral Ghormade has had extensive operational tenures onboard frontline warships of the Indian Navy that included commanding guided missile frigate INS Brahmaputra, submarine rescue vessel INS Nireekshak and minesweeper INS Alleppey. He succeeded Vice Admiral G Ashok Kumar who retired after 39 years of service. The Flag Officer was holding the tri-service appointment of deputy chief (operations and training) at the headquarters of the Integrated Defence Staff prior to taking over as the Vice Chief of the Naval Staff. Vice Admiral Ghormade is an alumnus of the National Defence Academy, Khadakwasla, Naval Staff College at the US Naval War College in Rhode Island, and the Naval War College, Mumbai. He was commissioned in the Indian Navy on Jan 1, 1984, and is known as a navigation and direction specialist. His important staff appointments ashore included assistant chief of personnel (human resources development), principal director of personnel and director of naval plans at naval headquarters. In the rank of Vice Admiral, he has held the challenging and coveted appointments of director-general naval operations, chief of staff Eastern Naval Command and controller personnel services. The Flag officer was awarded the Ati Vishisht Seva Medal in 2017 and Nausena Medal in 2007 by the President of India. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vice-admiral-ghormade-takes-charge-as-new-vice-chief-of-indian-navy-1014916.html
31-07-2021||National||Centre releases 15% of amount under Covid emergency response package to states||The Centre has released 15 per cent of the amount under the Covid-19 Emergency Response and Health System Preparedness (ECRP-II) Package to the states to improve health infrastructure, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Saturday. He said an amount of Rs 1,827.8 crore has been sent to the states and Union territories. The amount constitutes 15 per cent of the total allocation of Rs 12,185 crore under the package. In a tweet, the minister said, "15 per cent of the total amount of 'Emergency Covid-19 Response Package' fixed by the Central Government to empower the country to fight Covid-19 which means Rs 1827.80 crore has been sent to the states and UTs. This package will prove helpful in the development of health infrastructure across the country." केंद्र सरकार द्वारा कोरोना से लड़ने हेतु देश को सशक्त बनाने के लिए तय ‘इमरजेंसी कोविड रिस्पांस पैकेज’ की कुल राशि का 15% यानी कि ₹1827.80 करोड़ राज्यों एवं UTs को भेज दिए गए है। He also shared infographics that showed the allocation to all the states and Union territories out of Rs 1,827.8 crore. The highest allocation of Rs 281.98 crore has been made to Uttar Pradesh, followed by Bihar (Rs 154 crore), Rajasthan (Rs 132 crore) and Madhya Pradesh (Rs 131 crore).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-releases-15-of-amount-under-covid-emergency-response-package-to-states-1014918.html
31-07-2021||National||Centenarian sprinter Man Kaur passes away||Centenarian sprinter Man Kaur has died of a heart attack, her son Gurdev Singh said on Saturday. Man was 105 and is survived by two sons and a daughter. Gurdev told PTI that she was admitted to Derabassi Ayurvedic hospital and breathed her last at around 1 pm today. Born on March 1, 1916, Kaur was known as the "Miracle Mom from Chandigarh". She shot to fame after winning the 100 metre sprint at the World Masters Games in Auckland in 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centenarian-sprinter-man-kaur-passes-away-1014924.html
31-07-2021||National||7 policemen suspended in Bhopal after audio clip on their conversation with bookies surfaces||Seven police personnel in Bhopal have been suspended after an audio clip of their purported conversation with bookies has surfaced on social media, an official said on Saturday. Sources in the police department said that the action was taken against these cops posted at the city's Aishbagh police station on Friday evening after the audio clip of their conversation with bookies emerged on social media and was reported in a section of local media. In the audio clip, the policemen can be heard demanding money from the bookies, they added. When asked, Superintendent of Police (Bhopal South) Sai Krishna Thota told PTI on Saturday that following a preliminary inquiry into the case, seven personnel have been suspended and a show-cause notice has been issued to the in-charge of Aishbagh police station. Further investigation into the case was underway to know if any more police personnel were involved in it, he said. After the suspension of these policemen, 10 other personnel have been posted on duty at Aishbagh police station as their replacement so that the regular work does not get hampered, Thota said. "Appropriate legal action will be taken in the case after the inquiry," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/7-policemen-suspended-in-bhopal-after-audio-clip-on-their-conversation-with-bookies-surfaces-1014925.html
31-07-2021||National||Here's a look at inter-state border disputes in India||"The approach of the central government has consistently been that inter-state disputes can be resolved only with the cooperation of the state governments concerned and that the central government acts only as a facilitator for amicable settlement of the dispute in the spirit of mutual understanding," Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai said. According to available information, there are disputes arising out of demarcation of boundaries and claims and counter-claims over territories between Haryana-Himachal Pradesh, Union Territory of Ladakh-Himachal Pradesh, Maharashtra-Karnataka, Assam-Arunachal Pradesh, Assam-Nagaland, Assam-Meghalaya and Assam-Mizoram, he said. Here are the seven disputes: Karnataka-Maharashtra The Belgaum district is arguably part of one of the biggest inter-state border disputes in India. The district has a large Marathi and Kannada-speaking populations and have been at the centre of a dispute for a long time. The area came under Karnataka in 1956 when states were reorganised and till then it was under the Bombay presidency. Assam-Mizoram The border dispute between Assam and Mizoram is a legacy of two British-era notifications of 1875 and 1933, when Mizoram was called Lushai Hills, a district in Assam. The 1875 notification differentiated Lushai Hills from the plains of Cachar and the other demarcated boundary between Lushai Hills and Manipur. While Mizoram became a state only in 1987 following years of insurgency, it still insists on the boundary decided in 1875. Assam, on the other hand, wants the boundary demarcated in 1986 (based on the1933 notification). "Why would we accept a Colonial era order? In that case, entire Mizoram was part of Assam before the Independence," Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on July 27. Mizoram says the 1986 agreement is not acceptable as the Mizo civil society was not consulted at that time. Haryana-Himachal Pradesh The Parwanoo region has had the spotlight over the border dispute between the two states. It is next to the Panchkula district of Haryana and the state has claimed parts of the land in Himachal Pradesh as its own. Himachal Pradesh-Ladakh Himachal and Ladakh lay claim to Sarchu, an area on the route between Leh and Manali. It is considered a major point where travellers stop when travelling between the two cities. Sarchu is in between Himachal’s Lahul and Spiti district and Leh district in Ladakh. Arunachal Pradesh-Assam Arunachal's grievance is that the re-organisation of North Eastern states unilaterally transferred several forested tracts in the plains that had traditionally belonged to hill tribal chiefs and communities to Assam. After Arunachal Pradesh achieved statehood in 1987, a tripartite committee was appointed which recommended that certain territories be transferred from Assam to Arunachal. Assam contested this and the matter is before the Supreme Court. Meghalaya-Assam The problem between Assam and Meghalaya started when the latter challenged the Assam Reorganisation Act of 1971, which gave Blocks I and II of the Mikir Hills or present-day Karbi Anglong district to Assam. Meghalaya contends that both these blocks formed part of the erstwhile United Khasi and Jaintia Hills district when it was notified in 1835. At present, there are 12 points of dispute along the 733-km Assam-Meghalaya border. Meghalaya bases its case on survey maps of 1872 and 1929 and certain notifications of 1878 and 1951, while Assam wants to go by the recommendations of the Churachand Committee which in turn has been rejected by Meghalaya. Joint surveys of the disputed border segments have been undertaken in part and the chief ministers of both the states are scheduled to meet again on August 6 in Guwahati to discuss ways to resolve the dispute. Assam-Nagaland The longest-running border dispute in the North East is between Assam and Nagaland, which began soon after Nagaland became a state in 1963. The Nagaland State Act of 1962 had defined the state’s borders according to a 1925 notification when Naga Hills and Tuensang Area (NHTA) were integrated into a new administrative unit. Nagaland, however, does not accept the boundary delineation and has demanded that the new state should also have all Naga-dominated areas in North Cachar and Nagaon districts. Since Nagaland did not accept its notified borders, tensions between Assam and Nagaland flared up soon after the latter was formed, resulting in the first border clashes in 1965. This was followed by major clashes between the two states along the border in 1968, 1979, 1985, 2007 and 2014. (With inputs from DHNS, PTI) Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heres-a-look-at-inter-state-border-disputes-in-india-1014927.html
31-07-2021||National||Over 3.14 crore Covid-19 doses available with states, private hospitals: Centre||More than 3.14 crore balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states, union territories and private hospitals to be administered, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. Over 48.78 crore vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far through all sources and further 68,57,590 doses are in the pipeline. Of this, the total consumption including wastage is 45,82,60,052 doses, the ministry said. More than 3.14 crore balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states, UTs and private hospitals to be administered. The new phase of universalisation of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from June 21.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-314-crore-covid-19-doses-available-with-states-private-hospitals-centre-1014930.html
31-07-2021||National||Amit Shah to visit Uttar Pradesh on August 1||Union Home Minister Amit Shah will travel to Uttar Pradesh on Sunday to launch projects. During his visit, Shah will lay the foundation stones of Uttar Pradesh Institute of Forensic Sciences (UPIFS) in Lucknow and the Vindhya Corridor at Mirzapur. According to the official programme received on Saturday, he will arrive at Lucknow airport on Sunday by a special plane at 11:45 am and from there he will proceed via the state government's helicopter to lay the foundation stone of UPIFS, Pipersand. He will also address a function organised after laying the foundation stone of the institute in which intellectual people of the capital have been specially invited, it said. According to a BJP spokesperson, Shah might go to Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) to enquire about the health of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister and former Rajasthan Governor Kalyan Singh. However, there is no mention of his visit to SGPGI in his moment-to-moment schedule. According to the programme, the Union home minister will leave for Mirzapur by a helicopter from Pipersand's helipad to the Deori helipad site in Mirzapur. Thereafter, he will leave for Vindhyavasini temple. After this, his programme till 4:37 pm has been reserved for laying the foundation stone of Maa Vindhyavasini Corridor project and other development schemes, including ropeway. Shah will leave for Varanasi from helipad at GD Binani College, Mirzapur at 4:40 pm and will leave for Delhi from Varanasi airport at 5:10 pm. BJP MLA from Mirzapur Nagar area Ratnakar Mishra had said on Tuesday that Shah would lay the foundation stone of Vindhya Corridor on August 1 and after that he would also address a public meeting in the ground of Government Inter College in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-to-visit-uttar-pradesh-on-august-1-1014934.html
31-07-2021||National||Advocacy group CJAR urges SC to form SIT to probe Pegasus snooping row||Expressing "deep concern" at the Pegasus episode, the Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Reforms (CJAR) on Saturday urged the Supreme Court to set up a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to inquire into claims of the usage of the Israeli spyware to snoop on people, including the complainant in the sexual harassment case against former Chief Justice Ranjan Gogoi. The CJAR said in a statement that the SIT should be composed of independent and credible investigators, headed by a former Supreme Court judge, to inquire into the allegations of phone hacking by the NSO group, allegedly at the Centre's behest. It wanted the SIT to investigate who authorised the use of Pegasus on phone numbers "belonging to Supreme Court judges and those belonging to the woman staffer (and her family), who had complained of sexual harassment by the then CJI Gogoi". The SIT should also inquire into "whether there was improper collusion between...Gogoi and the Union Executive in respect of the sexual harassment allegations leveled against him, it said. It also wanted the Supreme Court to make public the report of the Justice AK Patnaik committee which looked into the allegations of “conspiracy” in relation to the sexual harassment case against Justice Gogoi. It said the "large-scale intrusive surveillance" into the personal phones of political leaders, journalists, activists is a "flagrant violation of the right to privacy" as upheld by the Honorable Supreme Court and an "affront" on the civil liberties of citizens. "That the Pegasus software was inserted in some of the target phones has been established by cyber forensic analysis of some of these phones by internationally reputed labs. That this was done at the behest of the Indian government is evident from the fact that NSO sells this software only to 'vetted governments'," it said. While the name of a sitting judge of the Supreme Court whose phones were the target of hacks has not been made public yet, the statement said, the very fact that phones belonging to judges were targets of hacks reportedly by the Centre, is itself sufficiently serious to merit investigation and apportion responsibility. On reports that the woman complainant against Justice Gogoi and her family were targeted using Pegasus, the CJAR said a detailed and independent probe is required to investigate why a software reportedly made available to only 'vetted governments' for national security issues was used against the victim. There is also a need to probe the possibility of an "improper collusion between the executive and a judge, where the executive has attempted to intimidate and browbeat" the victim.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/advocacy-group-cjar-urges-sc-to-form-sit-to-probe-pegasus-snooping-row-1014946.html
31-07-2021||National||SC to examine increase in minimum age for general duty doctors; issues notice to Karnataka govt||The Supreme Court has decided to examine validity of changes brought in by the Karnataka government increasing the minimum age of recruitment for general duty doctors from 21 to 26 years. A bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and V Ramasubramanian issued notice to the Karnataka government on a petition filed by Kushal K S and another person. The court sought a response from the state government by August 20. The petitioners challenged the Karnataka High Court's order of April 12, 2021 which dismissed their plea against the amendment in rules. The Karnataka Directorate of Health and Family Welfare Services (Recruitment of Senior Medical Officers/Specialists, General Duty Medical Officers and Dental Health Officers) (Special) Rules, 2019 were published on July 14, 2020. The petitioners claimed there is no rationale behind enhancement of the age from 21 years to 26 years as it was discriminatory and created artificial restrictions. With the change, the candidates claimed they would be deprived of the opportunity to participate in the selection process. The change was brought in with the sole intention of extending the benefit to those who would have taken a longer time to complete the MBBS degree. The candidates, who are less meritorious and got admission by payment of capitation fee would be benefited, sacrificing merit, they said. The petitioners said they have been working from 2018, 2019 and 2020 respectively on contract basis as General Duty Medical Officers and would suffer if change in rules was not struck down. Before the High Court, the state government defended the change, saying under the Indian educational system, by the time of completion of MBBS/BDS degree, the age of candidate would be 23 years and internship of one year and compulsorily rural training at Government Primary Health Centre or Government Hospitals in rural areas for one year would result in the candidate being aged about 25 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-examine-increase-in-minimum-age-for-general-duty-doctors-issues-notice-to-karnataka-govt-1014953.html
31-07-2021||National||Govt to observe August 1 as 'Muslim Women's Rights Day' to 'celebrate' enactment of triple talaq law||The Narendra Modi government will observe Sunday as 'Muslim Women Rights Day' to "celebrate" the enactment of the law against Triple Talaq two years ago. Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said that there is a significant decline in Triple Talaq cases after the law came into effect and Muslim women across the country have overwhelmingly welcomed this law. The government enacted the law against Triple Talaq on 1 August, 2019 which has made the "social malpractice of Triple Talaq a criminal offense". Naqvi along with the Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani and Environment, Minister Bhupender Yadav will attend a programme in New Delhi to observe the 'Muslim Women Rights Day' on Sunday. The government has "strengthened self-reliance, self-respect and self-confidence of the Muslim women of the country and protected their constitutional, fundamental and democratic rights by bringing the law against the Triple Talaq".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-to-observe-august-1-as-muslim-womens-rights-day-to-celebrate-enactment-of-triple-talaq-law-1014958.html
31-07-2021||National||Mamata Banerjee's proposed anti-BJP front likely to face leadership crisis||Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee’s effort to create an anti-BJP front by uniting the opposition parties suffers from the same major flaw which plagued the saffron party in the West Bengal Assembly elections. So far her proposed opposition front has no clear face or leader. Despite her initiative to form a nationwide alliance against the BJP for the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, Mamata herself is not sure who will be the face of this front. When asked by journalists during her visit to Delhi, Mamata gave vague replies such as “it will be decided in future” or “I am not a leader but only a cadre.” The conflicting ambitions of the concerned opposition parties and differing political compulsions in the states may not make the selection of the face of such an alliance a smooth one. Fresh from her thumping victory over the BJP, Mamata has the political momentum on her side. But with only 42 Lok Sabha seats in West Bengal, and the TMC not having any presence in other states, it is unlikely that it will have numerical superiority over other alliance partners, especially the Congress. Even the grand old party has strong state-level differences with the likes of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Samajwadi Party (SP) in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh respectively. The same issue of not having a clear face ahead of polls played a key role in BJP’s defeat in the West Bengal Assembly elections and was the reason behind Mamata’s proposed United India alliance failing in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The Bengal BJP leadership is confident that like the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, this time also Mamata’s proposed opposition unity will fizzle out. “At that time Mamata Banerjee held a United India rally in Kolkata with several opposition party leaders and everyone knows what happened after that,” said State BJP president Dilip Ghosh. Speaking to DH, political analyst and author Snigdhendu Bhattacharya said “The proposed united opposition against the BJP will face the same problem of not having any face which they faced in the last Lok Sabha elections. But this time they have started well in advance and will get more time to resolve the issue.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-banerjees-proposed-anti-bjp-front-likely-to-face-leadership-crisis-1014967.html
31-07-2021||National||Covid-19 fallout: Woman moves SC for Rs 1 crore aid from PM-CARES Fund for husband's lungs transplant||A woman has approached the Supreme Court seeking a direction to PM-CARES Fund and others to provide monetary assistance to her husband who suffered huge health complications due to Covid-19 and incurred Rs one crore for treatment and required Rs one crore more for lungs replacement. She said no life should meet its end for the reason of financial constraints and the State is duty-bound to extend help in appropriate cases as the PM CARES Fund is a national endeavor to provide relief to the persons in situation of distress.  Petitioner, Sheela Mehra got married to Manish Kumar Gohiya on June 19, 2020. However, on May 4, 2021 the man got infected with Covid-19. With high doses of steroids, the condition of her husband worsened. He was diagnosed with severe pneumonia and Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS). After initial treatment at AIIMS Bhopal, he was shifted to Yashoda hospital, Secunderabad on June 11 for a lungs transplant. At present, he was at KIMS hospital, where his treatment was costing Rs two lakh per day and required one crore for a lungs transplant due to his grim situation.  In a writ petition filed by advocate Krishna Kumar Singh, the woman said she and her family (including the parents) have exhausted all their money for the treatment. The woman said she and her husband are software professionals, but they are in dire need of additional financial support or she will lose him. The woman said she contacted the Prime Minister's Office with recommendation of two MPs, which approved aid of Rs three lakh, grossly insufficient to meet the expenses. The amount as per the PMO can be claimed on discharge of the patient. Likewise, an amount of Rs two lakh was approved by the MP Chief Minister's Relief Fund but the amount has yet not been disbursed. She said she tried crowdfunding, personal appeal on social websites, loans from friends and acquaintances before approaching the authorities for financial help. "All her effort would go in vain if requisite financial help is not extended by the State," her plea said. Failure to provide necessary financial assistance to save the life of her husband would be violative of Article 14 and 21 of the Constitution and it can be construed as inaction on part of the State in providing adequate health care to the citizens, particularly during the prevailing Covid-19 situation, her plea added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-fallout-woman-moves-sc-for-rs-1-crore-aid-from-pm-cares-fund-for-husbands-lungs-transplant-1014977.html
31-07-2021||National||For each Covid-19 case detected in India, 30 were missed or undetected: Virologist||For every single Covid-19 case reported in India, there were 30 cases that remained undetected or were missed, according to an analysis of ICMR's fourth sero-survey by independent epidemiologist Dr Chandrakant Lahariya. The public health expert shared his analysis on Twitter in which he showed for every reported Covid-19 case in India, how many cases were missed. Epidemiological speaking. Based upon 4th national sero survey. under reporting of casesHighest in UP: 98lowest in Kerala at 6.Nat’l avg: 30. Kerala reporting ~half of daily cases but likely to hv only 10% of estm. daily cases in India . He, however, clarified that it does not mean this was deliberate but simply reflects the performance of the disease surveillance system and the response to pandemic in the state in tackling the cases. "Many cases are asymptomatic so they are likely to go unreported. If contact tracing is done well, even asymptomatic cases can also be reported. This has been reflected in the fact that a few states have done better than others as they can report on more cases as compared to other states," Lahariya told PTI. The Union health ministry on Wednesday shared the findings of the fourth round of national serosurvey conducted by ICMR across 70 districts of India. While Madhya Pradesh leads the chart with 79 per cent seroprevalence, Kerala is at the lowest with 44.4 per cent followed by Assam with 50.3 per cent and Maharashtra with 58 per cent. For every laboratory confirmed Covid-19 cases in India, the number of unreported or undetected cases ranged from 6 to 98, according to the analysis. Among states and union territories, the analysis by Lahariya showed that Uttar Pradesh missed the highest number of cases. With every case reported in that state, 98 cases were missed or remained undetected. The under-counting factor was lowest for Kerala at 6 which means for every case reported six cases were missed, according to the analysis. The under-counting factor for India was 30 which means for every case reported 30 cases were missed, according to the analysis. For Madhya Pradesh, the under-counting factor was 83 - highest after Uttar Pradesh followed by Jharkhand at 63, Rajasthan at 62, Gujarat at 61 and Bihar at 59. Speaking about the analysis, Lahariya said, "What we need to remember is that sampling of sero survey has been done in a scientific manner from 21 states and UTs so we know India has 67.6 per cent seropositivity at national level which is undisputed and the government says it so this essentially means there are 90-95 crore people in India who are sero-positive and a majority after natural infection. So they will come in the same proportion from states through which we have arrived at this conclusion." In immunology, seroconversion is the development of specific antibodies in the blood serum as a result of infection or immunization. However, Lahariya said that a state and district specific survey will provide a more accurate picture and the government should urgently plan such a survey.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/for-each-covid-19-case-detected-in-india-30-were-missed-or-undetected-virologist-1014979.html
31-07-2021||National||India, UK to conduct clinical trials on 'Ashwagandha' for Covid recovery||The Ayush ministry's All India Institute of Ayurveda in collaboration with the United Kingdom's London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine will conduct a study on 'Ashwagandha' for promoting recovery from Covid-19 in a boost to the traditional Indian medicine system. Both the institutions signed a Memorandum of Understanding to conduct the clinical trials of Ashwagandha on 2,000 people in three UK cities -- Leicester, Birmingham, and London (Southall and Wembley), said the ministry in a statement. Ashwagandha (Withania Somnifera), commonly known as 'Indian winter cherry', is a traditional Indian herb that boosts energy, reduces stress, and makes the immune system stronger. It is an easily accessible, over-the-counter nutritional supplement in the UK and has a proven safety profile. The positive effects of Ashwagandha have been observed in Covid, which is a multi-system disease with no evidence of its effective treatment or management. The successful completion of the trial can be a major breakthrough and give scientific validity to India's traditional medicinal system. While there have been several studies on Ashwagandha to understand its benefits in various ailments, this is the first time the Ministry has collaborated with a foreign institution to investigate its efficacy on Covid-19 patients. AIIA director Dr Tanuja Manoj Nesari, who is also a co-investigator in the project along with Dr Rajgopalan, Coordinator - International Projects, said that the participants have been randomly selected. Dr Sanjay Kinra of LSHTM is the principal investigator of the study. The participants will have to take the 500mg tablets twice a day. A monthly follow-up of self-reported quality of life, impairment to activities of daily living, mental and physical health symptoms, supplement use and adverse events will be carried out. "For three months, one group of 1,000 participants will be administered Ashwagandha (AG) tablets while the second group of 1,000 participants will be assigned a placebo, which is indistinguishable from AG in looks and taste. Both patients and the doctors will be unaware of the group's treatment in a double-blind trial," Dr Nesari said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-uk-to-conduct-clinical-trials-on-ashwagandha-for-covid-recovery-1015001.html
31-07-2021||National||Over 46.72 cr Covid vaccine doses administered in India so far; 53 lakh on Saturday: Government||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 46.72 crore, the Union health ministry said on Saturday. On the 197th day of the countrywide vaccination drive, a total of 53,72,302 vaccine doses were administered — 38,22,241 beneficiaries vaccinated for the first dose and 15,50,061 for the second dose — according to a provisional report compiled at 7 pm. The cumulative vaccination coverage of 46,72,59,775 doses is segregated based on the population priority groups, the ministry said. It said 27,90,366 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years received the first dose and 4,98,407 were administered the second dose of the vaccine on Saturday. Cumulatively, 15,52,16,851 people in the 18-44 age group have received the first dose and 85,77,075 have received the second dose of the vaccine across the 37 states and Union territories since the start of the third phase of the vaccination drive. Five states — Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh — have administered more than one crore vaccine doses each to beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have administered the first dose of the vaccine to more than 10 lakh beneficiaries each in the said age group. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-4672-cr-covid-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-so-far-53-lakh-on-saturday-government-1015002.html
31-07-2021||National||Seminars held for protection of environment but work on ground lacking: NGT||Despite a lot of seminars and lectures held in the name of protection of the environment, work on ground is lacking, National Green Tribunal said on Saturday.   The NGT said that the torchbearer for the protection of the environment in the last 40 years is only the judiciary. The Principal Bench of the NGT headed by its chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel made these observations while quashing the environmental clearance granted to a high-rise luxury project by Godrej Properties Limited and Wonder Projects Development Private Limited in Bengaluru and directing its immediate demolition. “A lot of seminars, lectures and debates are held in the name of protection of the environment by Executives, political and otherwise but on the ground level substantial work is wanting,” the bench said. The tribunal said that the Executive sometimes feels satisfied by framing some laws without being serious about the execution and implementation thereof. “Executives primarily have the responsibility to preserve, protect and maintain the environment as clean and green but unfortunately, they treat it as an enemy to their own notion of development. Statutory Authorities/Regulators who are made responsible for the protection of environment and heavily managed by Executives lack will to do, intention to perform and desire to achieve the ultimate goal of protection of environment, the NGT said. The tribunal said that even when orders are passed on the judicial side, the real problem comes with regard to implementation and execution of the orders. “Sooner is the better that the Executives understand and show more responsibility and accountability towards nature and ecology before it is too late rendering the things improbable and impossible to be reversed,” the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/seminars-held-for-protection-of-environment-but-work-on-ground-lacking-ngt-1015041.html
31-07-2021||National||Tibetans to observe protest day against China on October 20||The India-Tibetan Cooperation Forum (ITCF), an umbrella body of Indians supporting the Tibetan freedom movement, on Saturday that it has decided to observe October 20 as a protest day against the Chinese aggression on Arunachal Pradesh in 1962 and Ladakh in 2020. The Chinese attack on Arunachal Pradesh started on October 20, 1962. The armies of India and China were also engaged in a faceoff at Galwan valley in Ladakh in June last year. Dharamshala-based Central Tibetan Administration's newly-elected president (Sikyong) Penpa Tsering, recognized as the highest political leader for exiled Tibetans across the world, is likely to attend the function, senior ITCF functionary Rinchen Khandu Khrimey said. “Sino-India ties cannot progress unless Tibet issue is amicably resolved and His Holiness 14th Dalai Lama regains his Potala Palace in Lhasa in a dignified manner,” Khrimey said. He said during a meeting of ITCF at Guwahati on Friday that it was decided that the ITCF and other India-Tibet support groups would hold the function at Tawang on October 20. Khrimey added that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s recent birthday wishes to the Dalai Lama, the Tibetan spiritual head, gave fresh hope for millions of Tibetans. The 14th Dalai Lama has made India his home since fleeing China in 1959. Tsering, who was sworn-in as the president of the Tibetan govern-in-exile, is likely to visit Tibetan settlements at various places during his trip in October, said Khrimey, the national convenor of Tibetan cause India Core Group, which is a part of the ITCF.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tibetans-to-observe-protest-day-against-china-on-october-20-1015045.html
31-07-2021||National||Harish Rawat shares pictures on Facebook of BJP leaders wearing skullcap||Former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat on Saturday shared on Facebook pictures of BJP stalwarts like Atal Bihari Vajpayee and L K Advani wearing skullcaps, and dared the party to add the prefix of 'maulana' to their names as it had done with him earlier. In a post accompanying the pictures, the Congress leader said when he wore a skullcap at a dargah, the BJP took those pictures to "every household and gave him the name maulana Harish Rawat". Requesting his "BJP friends" to look at the pictures in which top BJP leaders like Vajpayee, Advani and Rajnath Singh are seen wearing skullcaps, Rawat asked them whether they had the guts to use the prefix of "maulana" for their leaders too. In his post, Rawat claimed that there is also a picture of BJP's "Hindutva icon" Narendra Modi and asked the party whether it would dare to address him too like that. However, the picture of Modi could not be found among the photos uploaded by the Congress leader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/harish-rawat-shares-pictures-on-facebook-of-bjp-leaders-wearing-skullcap-1015049.html
31-07-2021||National Politics||DH Toon | Opposition unites over Pegasus issue||Stalemate in Parliament over Pegasus revelations continued for the second consecutive week as the Opposition disrupted proceedings demanding a discussion on the snooping allegations, which the government dubbed as a “non-issue”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-opposition-unites-over-pegasus-issue-1014812.html
31-07-2021||National Politics||Opposition’s role is to caution government when it goes wrong: Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury||Congress leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said that the functioning of the Parliament is the responsibility of the government and the Opposition’s duty is to participate in the legislative process, raise issues of people’s concern, and express their opinions. “We have made certain demands. It is our legitimate right. We are using all legitimate instruments… following all established practices to press our demand for a discussion on the Pegasus scandal in the presence of either the Prime Minister or the Home Minister,” he added. He further addressed the claims of the government on the Opposition running away from the Parliament. “The Opposition’s role is to caution the government when it goes wrong. I have told the Speaker (Om Birla) too that…. had the Opposition not cooperated in the previous sessions how would have the productivity of the House gone up?” he asked. Chowdhury also mentioned that the productivity of the House has gone up since 2019 due to the participation and cooperation of the Opposition. “We are not ministers sitting in Delhi. We come from far-flung areas. We are not going to Parliament everyday to have a feel of the House. We are going to Parliament to raise issues that concern the people and identify and point out to the government deficiencies and lacunae in its functioning,” he added. “When the entire world is discussing this… how can it be a non-issue?” questioned Chowdhury, adding that India’s name is being taken everywhere. "French President Emmanuel Macron had called a national security meeting to discuss the Pegasus spyware issue. He had spoken to the Israel Prime Minister too. In Hungary, there are demands for resignations of ministers. And our government is saying it is a non-issue." Chowdhury said that the Opposition is ready to have a discussion with the government but the Centre has not yet initiated any step to diffuse the situation that’s going on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-s-role-is-to-caution-government-when-it-goes-wrong-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-1014907.html
31-07-2021||National Politics||Congress did nothing for weaker sections: BJP on reservation in medical courses for OBCs, EWS||Hailing Prime Minister Narendra Modi for approving reservation for OBCs and EWS candidates in the all India quota for medical courses, the BJP on Saturday said the government has taken a historical step aimed at establishing an egalitarian society, while the Congress did "nothing" for social justice and uplift of weaker sections during its rule. The government on Thursday had announced 27 percent reservation for OBCs and 10 percent reservation for the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) category in the All-India Quota (AIQ) scheme for undergraduate and postgraduate medical and dental courses from the current academic year, 2021-22. Addressing a press conference, BJP leader and Union Minister Bhupender Yadav said the party congratulates Prime Minister Modi for taking this historic step. "This is a historic decision aiming for setting up an egalitarian society based on social and economic justice," Yadav said, while questioning the opposition especially the Congress over their contribution to the progress of the socially and economically weaker sections. Despite ruling the country for such a long time, "the Congress did nothing for the uplift of the backward and economically weaker sections of the society", Yadav alleged. He said the Modi government works on the principle of 'Sabka Sath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas' to ensure inclusive development of the country by taking everyone along. Taking on the opposition for doubting the government's intent behind this decision, Yadav said, "Those who used to talk about the uplift of backward communities were only concerned about their respective families and their own well-being." Whereas, he said, the Modi government "is working for everyone in the society and that's why it also gave reservation to economically weaker sections in the general category". Underlining that the OBC Commission was given constitutional status by the Modi government, Yadav said the previous Congress-led UPA government did nothing on this front despite several reports given by various commissions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-did-nothing-for-weaker-sections-bjp-on-reservation-in-medical-courses-for-obcs-ews-1014936.html
31-07-2021||National Politics||BJP trying to enter people's bedrooms: Surjewala slams Modi, Shah over Pegasus row||Karnataka Congress in-charge Randeep Singh Surjewala slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Amit Shah over the pegasus snooping row. Modi and Shah are attacking Indian democracy, Constitution and media. The government is involved in illegal phone tapping, he said. Surjewala made these allegations while addressing mediapersons after a Congress party workers' meet in Mysuru. The Congress leader claimed that everyone was under the BJP's surveillance. "The party is trying to enter the bathroom and bedroom of the people," he said. He also alleged that former Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa was running a 'totally corrupt government and was removed from the CM's post by Modi and Shah to insult him. Modi and Shah are habitual offenders when it comes to insulting their own leaders, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-trying-to-enter-peoples-bedrooms-surjewala-slams-modi-shah-over-pegasus-row-1014940.html
31-07-2021||National Politics||BJP leader Babul Supriyo quits politics||Within weeks after being dropped from the Union Cabinet former minister and BJP MP Babul Supriyo announced that he will resign as an MP. The singer-turned-politician in a lengthy Facebook post said that he will also be quitting politics. Starting with “Leaving, Alvida," Supriyo, in the Facebook post, stated that he had repeatedly approached Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP president J P Nadda seeking to leave politics, but they repeatedly turned down his request and inspired him to remain as a politician. Supriyo further stated that he will not approach Shah and Nadda again with the same request as it may create doubt in their mind that he was “bargaining”’ for some posts. “Resigning from my MP-ship too (obviously). Hopefully they (Shah and Nadda) will not misunderstand me,” Supriyo said. Indicating that he may leave politics altogether, Supriyo stated “ Leaving, Alvida. I have spoken to my parents, wife, friends, and after listening to their advice, I am leaving.” However, Supriyo made it clear that he will not join any other party. “I am going nowhere. I am a one-team player. I have always supported one team, one team #MohunBagan. I have been with only one party-BJP West Bengal. That’s it. Leaving,” Supriyo stated. As to whether his decision had anything to do with him being dropped from the Union Cabinet, Supriyo confirmed that it played a role. “There will obviously be a question why I tried to leave politics. Does it have something to do with being dropped as a minister? Yes it does; at least to some extent,” Supriyo explained. He admitted that prior to the Assembly elections he was having differences with the state BJP leadership and it was coming out in public. “While I was responsible in some cases (I made a Facebook post that amounted to violating party discipline), in other cases other leaders were clearly responsible. But I don’t want to get into this discussion now,” he said. He also said that it was not only harming the interests of the party but also the morale of cadres. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh declined to comment on the matter.  The two-time MP from Asansol was among the several ministers who were dropped from the Union Cabinet on July 7 as part of a major rejig. He unsuccessfully contested Assembly polls against Trinamool Congress’s Aroop Biswas in the last Assembly elections. Both Supriyo and Debasree Chaudhuri were dropped as ministers. Four other MPs from West Bengal – Nishit Pramanik, Santanu Thakur, Subhas Sarkar and John Barla were inducted as MoS in the ministry. "If someone ask that whether leaving politics is somehow connected to losing ministry. Yes, then it is true to some extent.... Also had differences with the state leadership since the assembly poll campaign,” he wrote. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh declined to comment on it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-leader-babul-supriyo-quits-politics-1014952.html
31-07-2021||National Politics||Lalan Singh replaces R C P Singh as JD(U) president||JD(U) MP Rajiv Ranjan, better known as Lalan Singh, was on Saturday chosen as its national president at the party's national executive meeting here, sources said. Singh replaces R C P Singh, who offered to step down as he has been inducted as a Cabinet minister in the Modi government. Lalan Singh, a Bhumihar MP from Munger Lok Sabha constituency in Bihar, has long been a close confidant of Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, the main face of his party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lalan-singh-replaces-r-c-p-singh-as-jdu-president-1014961.html
31-07-2021||North and Central||Jaish IED expert, mastermind of 2019 Pulwama attack killed in Kashmir||A top commander of Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) outfit, who was the mastermind of 2019 Pulwama fidayeen (suicide) attack, in which 40 CRPF men were killed, was neutralized along with his accomplice in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Saturday. Abu Saifullah alias Adnan Ismail alias Lamboo, a close relative of the Jaish chief Masood Azhar, had infiltrated into Kashmir in 2017 and was on the list of most-wanted militants in the Valley, police said. GOC 15 Corps Lieutenant General Devendra Pratap Pandey, told reporters here that based on an input, an operation was launched in dense woods of the Dachigam area of Pulwama on July 27. "Today morning, contact was established with the terrorists and in the ensuing encounter, Jaish’s IED expert Lamboo was killed along with his associate,” he said. The GOC, who was flanked by Inspector General Police (IGP) Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, termed the killing of Lamboo as a major success for security forces. He said the slain commander was responsible for carrying out attacks on civilians and security forces, recruiting young boys and brainwashing them. “Lamboo is a relative of the Jaish chief Masood Azhar and there were 14 FIRs registered against him. He was the mastermind and main accused in the February 14, 2019 Pulwama fidayeen attack,” the IGP said. He said there are 19 accused in the Pulwama attack and among them seven have been arrested and seven have been killed so far. “Five are still absconding,” Kumar added. Lamboo, who was an expert in breaking the security cordons, had earlier escaped from many encounters including at Doniwari, Chadoora in Budgam on March 3, 2020, Parigam Jagir in Pulwama on November 19, 2020 and Kalenvan, Bijbehara in Anantnag on July 7 2021. “He (Lamboo) was an expert on vehicle-borne IED, which is routinely used in Afghanistan and also in the Pulwama attack of 2019. He tried to re-establish and strengthen the Jaish outfit and utilise Awantipora, especially the Kakpora and Pampore areas of Pulwama, as a hotbed for recruiting new terrorists and transporting them to other parts for carrying out attacks,” police revealed. Police said the identity of the second slain militant was awaited, adding that an M-4 rife, AK-47 rifle, a Glock pistol was recovered from the encounter site. On February 14, 2019, Kashmiri fidayeen militant Adil Ahmed rammed his vehicle packed with explosives into a paramilitary bus they were travelling in on the Srinagar-Jammu national highway in Pulwama.  In the worst casualties suffered by the security forces in peacetime operations, 40 CRPF personnel were killed and several others wounded. The Jaish terror outfit had claimed responsibility for the attack and released a video clip of the suicide bomber which it claimed was shot before the young man carried out the audacious attack in Lethpora, about 30 km from here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jaish-ied-expert-mastermind-of-2019-pulwama-attack-killed-in-kashmir-1014829.html
31-07-2021||North and Central||In Madhya Pradesh, boy ends life after losing Rs 40,000 in online game||A 13-year-old boy allegedly hanged himself to death in Chhatarpur district of Madhya Pradesh, leaving behind a purported suicide note, which says that he was taking the drastic step after losing Rs 40,000 in an online game, police said on Saturday. The Class 6 student, son of a pathology lab owner, ended his life at his residence in Chhatarpur city on Friday afternoon, they said. Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Shashank Jain said that the teen left behind a suicide note. “In the note, the boy, who studied in a private school, sought apology from his mother and said that he is committing suicide due to depression. It mentioned that he had withdrawn Rs 40,000 from her UPI account and wasted the money on ‘Free Fire’ game,” he said. The minor took the extreme step when his mother, a nurse working with the state health department, had gone to the district hospital and his father was also not at home, police officials said. After getting an alert on her phone about the financial transaction from her account, the boy’s mother had called and scolded him for it. The boy then locked himself inside a room. After some time, his elder sister found that he was not opening the door and informed her parents about it, they said. Later, when the door of the room was broken open, the boy was found hanging from the ceiling fan using a scarf, police said. A similar incident had occurred in January this year at Dhana town of Sagar district in Madhya Pradesh, in which a 12-year-old boy had hanged himself to death after his father took away his mobile phone due to his addiction to 'Free Fire' game.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-madhya-pradesh-boy-ends-life-after-losing-rs-40000-in-online-game-1014856.html
31-07-2021||North and Central||Two Pakistani intruders shot dead along IB in Punjab's Tarn Taran||Two Pakistani intruders were shot dead by the Border Security Force along the International Border in Punjab's Tarn Taran district, an official of the BSF said on Saturday. The BSF troops noticed suspicious movement near the border fence at 8.48 pm on Friday, he said. The BSF personnel asked the intruders to stop, but they did not pay heed to repeated warnings. Sensing threat, the BSF troops opened fire, the official said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-pakistani-intruders-shot-dead-along-ib-in-punjabs-tarn-taran-1014860.html
31-07-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh teachers seek 3-day period leave over unmaintained toilets in schools||Taking a cue from the Bihar government and amid debates over 'menstrual leave' for working women, Uttar Pradesh women teachers have demanded that they too be given a three-day 'period leave' every month over and above the other leaves given to them. The UP Women Teachers' Association has submitted its demand to the state women's commission and has also decided to meet state deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to take up the matter. The women teachers cited physical and mental discomfort, pain and poor condition of toilets at the schools for their 'period leave' demand. ''Many corporate houses give this leave to their women employees...but at most places it is an optional leave....we want the UP government to give such leave as a matter of policy,'' said Poonam Gupta, an office-bearer of the Association's Prayagraj district unit. ''During their periods, the women often suffer pains owing to the bleeding...it affects their physical and mental state...though the leave can not ease their pains, it can certainly provide them some relief,'' she added. Another member of the Association said that menstruating women also faced hygienic problems as the condition of the toilets at the schools is very poor. ''They are not maintained and rarely cleaned,'' she said. The members pointed out that the Bihar government provided period leave to the women teachers in the state. ''The UP government should follow the Bihar government,'' she added. The Association office-bearers said that all its members had been asked to submit memorandums to the ministers and legislators from their respective districts in this connection. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-teachers-seek-3-day-period-leave-over-unmaintained-toilets-in-schools-1014873.html
31-07-2021||North and Central||Gangster Chhota Rajan discharged from AIIMS, returns to Tihar jail||Gangster Chhota Rajan, who was admitted to AIIMS on Tuesday due to stomach ache, was discharged from the hospital and taken back to Tihar jail, officials said on Saturday. Rajan, 61, underwent treatment and was discharged from the hospital on Friday evening, they said. Director General (Delhi Prisons) Sandeep Goel said Rajan has been discharged from AIIMS and is now back in jail. In April also, Rajan was admitted to the hospital after he had tested positive for Covid-19. He was brought back to the jail after his recovery. Rajan has been lodged at the high-security prison since his arrest upon his deportation from Bali in Indonesia in 2015||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gangster-chhota-rajan-discharged-from-aiims-returns-to-tihar-jail-1014884.html
31-07-2021||North and Central||Re-enacting Bhagat Singh’s execution, 10-year-old accidentally hangs himself in UP village||A 10-year-old boy died in a village while allegedly re-enacting the hanging of freedom fighter Bhagat Singh for a play which was to be staged on Independence Day, police said on Saturday. The family cremated the body soon after the incident on Thursday without informing the police, an officer said. Shivam, son of Bhure Singh and a resident of Babat village under Kunwargaon Police Station of the district, was rehearsing for the play along with other children. While re-enacting the scene of Bhagat Singh's execution, Shivam tied a noose around his neck, however, the stool on which he was standing slipped, causing him to hang, locals said. The other children panicked and screamed for help following which some local residents reached there and brought Shivam down after cutting the noose but he had died by then, they said. SSP Badaun, Sankalp Sharma said, a team led by the SHO of Kunwargaon Police Station was sent to the village on Friday but the family members refused to give any information as to how the boy had died. We are investigating the matter, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/re-enacting-bhagat-singh-s-execution-10-year-old-accidentally-hangs-himself-in-up-village-1014900.html
31-07-2021||North and Central||Delhi Police arrests ‘Rajasthan don’ Anuradha||A day after wanted gangster Kala Jathedi was held from Uttar Pradesh, the Delhi Police's Special Cell on Saturday said it has arrested the infamous woman don of Rajasthan. The woman, identified as Anuradha, is involved in several cases, including that of extortion, kidnapping and murder in Rajasthan. She was also carrying a reward of Rs 10,000 on her arrest by the Rajasthan police, officials said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell-Counter Intelligence) Manishi Chandra said Anuradha was an associate of gangster Anandpal Singh, who was killed in a police encounter in 2017 in Rajasthan’s Churu district. He said the arrest comes a day after gangster Sandeep alias Kala Jathedi was held from Uttar Pradesh's Saharanpur on Friday. Kala Jathedi is wanted in several cases of extortion, murder and other heinous crimes in Delhi, Rajasthan, Punjab and Haryana, police said, adding that he was carrying a reward of Rs 7 lakh on his head. The Delhi Police had also invoked the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) against Jathedi. According to police, the gangster's name had cropped up when his relative Sonu got injured in the Chhatrasal Stadium brawl incident in which two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar has been arrested. The police is also probing Jathedi's alleged links with the wrestler.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-arrests-rajasthan-don-anuradha-1014908.html
31-07-2021||North and Central||Part of Delhi road under IIT flyover caves in, traffic affected||A portion of a road under IIT-Delhi flyover caved in due to heavy rains in the last few days, affecting traffic in the area on Saturday, officials said. Taking to Twitter, the Delhi Traffic Police asked commuters to take the alternate route. "Traffic going from Adhchini to IIT has been diverted from Adhchini to Katwaria Sarai after a portion of a road near IIT red light (traffic signal) caved in," the Traffic Police tweeted in Hindi. The city received an average of 43.6 mm rain till 8.30 am on Saturday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Moderate rains are expected later in the day, the weatherman said. The IMD on Friday had issued an orange alert, predicting moderate rain on Saturday and warning of possible waterlogging in low-lying areas of the national capital and major traffic disruptions. The department has issued a yellow alert for Sunday, and orange alert also for Monday. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/part-of-delhi-road-under-iit-flyover-caves-in-traffic-affected-1014909.html
31-07-2021||North and Central||Man stabs wife to death, enters police station with blood-soaked knife to confesses crime||A 45-year-old man allegedly stabbed his wife to death following an argument on Saturday morning and later walked into Mangolpuri police station with a blood-stained knife to confess his crime, police said. His wife Sabana, 40, was rushed to Sanjay Gandhi Hospital by the neighbours where she was declared brought dead by doctors, they said. According to the police, Sameer and Sabana used to fight often over the accused's drinking habit. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer) Parvinder Singh said, "We got a PCR call at 7.47 am about the murder and in the meantime, Sameer came to Mangolpuri police station with a blood-stained knife and told police that he has killed his wife." The couple has two children aged 21 and 17 years. Based on a statement of the couple's daughter, who is one of the eyewitnesses, a case of murder was registered and Sameer was arrested. "Sameer told police that his wife quarrelled with him for his drinking habit and for not doing any job. She had also not allowed him to enter the house since last one month. Therefore, he considered her responsible for his miserable homeless life and to take revenge he killed her today (Saturday)," Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-stabs-wife-to-death-enters-police-station-with-blood-soaked-knife-to-confesses-crime-1014911.html
31-07-2021||North and Central||CBI registers case into death of undertrial prisoner in Delhi's Tihar Jail||The CBI has registered a case into the death of an undertrial prisoner at Tihar Jail in May 2002, officials said on Saturday. The action comes on the the directions of the Delhi High Court which had handed over the case, earlier probed by the Hari Nagar Police Station, to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), they said. Srikant Rama Swami, an Under Trial Prisoner (UTP) in Barrack No.4, Ward No.2 of Jail number 2 of Tihar Jail was found dead on May 14, 2002. "It was alleged that the victim was beaten by his inmates and he died at the Safdarjung Hospital. In this case, Delhi Police had arrested four accused (all UTPs) and they are presently in judicial custody at Tihar Jail. CBI has taken over the case and investigation is in progress," CBI spokesperson R C Joshi said. The high court had handed over the probe to the CBI on the plea of Swamy's mother Malika, who had alleged that her son's body had multiple wounds from sharp objects. She had alleged that after looking at the photos and videos of the body, deep cut wounds on his thighs and hands were found which could not be caused due to cricket bats, as alleged, and such wounds would have been inflicted only by a sharp object. In her plea before the court, she said her daughter and Swamy's sister had received a call from him, a day before his death, where he had said he would be murdered by the jail officers. "Further, at the time of incident, a PCR call was received from the jail which was not from the officers, wherein the caller stated 'my brother has been murdered by R N Meena. I am in jail and R N Meena is also in jail, who is D S in jail and has assaulted me yesterday and also assaulted my brother with sticks... my brother Shreekant Rama Swami has been moved to DDU Hospital; my brother has been murdered'. When Shrikant was admitted in hospital, after some treatment, he was declared dead," the high court had noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cbi-registers-case-into-death-of-undertrial-prisoner-in-delhis-tihar-jail-1014931.html
31-07-2021||North and Central||NIA carries out raids in J&K in connection with IED cases||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nia-carries-out-raids-in-jk-in-connection-with-ied-cases-1014954.html
31-07-2021||North and Central||89 militants killed in Jammu and Kashmir this year, over 200 still active, say security officials||Security forces have killed 89 militants, including seven Pakistani nationals, in Jammu and Kashmir this year so far, top Army and police officials said on Saturday, maintaining that over 200 ultras are still active in the union territory. “Out of these 89 terrorists, seven were FTs (foreign terrorists or Pakistanis). It (number) is lesser than the last year, but more top commanders were killed this year,” Inspector General of Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said. He was addressing a joint press conference with GoC of Army's 15 Corps Lt Gen D P Pandey and GoC of south Kashmir-based Victor Force Major Gen Rashim Bali. To a question about the number of militants present in J&K, Lt Gen Pandey said about 200-225 ultras were active across the UT. He, however, said there has been no successful infiltration along the Line of Control (LoC) so far this year. “There has been information about one or two infiltrations. We have launched operations, which are on to check or neutralise them (infiltrators). But, according to ground inputs, there has been no successful infiltration or intrusion in the 15 Corps zone in the Valley so far,” LT Gen Pandey said. Asked about the operation in Shokbaba Sumlar-Aragam area of Bandipora in north Kashmir in which three militants were killed last week, the Army officer said out of the three ultras, two had travelled through proper visa route to Pakistan in 2017-18. “This is a design to take youth from here, train them there (in Pakistan), and then send them back as terrorists. At least 40 youth have travelled on visa to Pakistan for studying purpose after being given proper certificates for visa, but they were sent back here as terrorists,” he said. The GoC said those youth who return from there in the “right manner” will be welcomed, but those who come back with weapons will be neutralised. The IGP said out of the 40 youth who had taken visa and travelled through the Wagah border route in Punjab to Pakistan, “27 came back with weapons and have been killed in encounters”. “Rest are still across, a few of them are in touch with their families. We are keeping a watch,” he said. Security forces on Saturday killed two Jiash-e-Mohammed militants, including a top Pakistani ultra belonging to the family of the group's chief Masood Azhar and involved in the planning of the 2019 Pulwama attack, in an encounter in Pulwama district, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/89-militants-killed-in-jammu-and-kashmir-this-year-over-200-still-active-say-security-officials-1014986.html
31-07-2021||North and Central||Amarinder Singh rules out immediate cabinet reshuffle, says his govt fulfilled 93% of poll promises||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday ruled out the possibility of an immediate cabinet reshuffle and said his government has already implemented several steps from the 18-point agenda given by the Congress high command. Singh also said his government had fulfilled 93 per cent of the party's promises made in the election manifesto. After the party's state unit revamp to quell factionalism, there was speculation about the possibility of a reshuffle in the cabinet. The party high command last month had also asked Amarinder Singh to act on 18 issues including the desecration of Guru Granth Sahib, drugs and power purchase agreements. On the issue of "two power centres" in the party following the appointment of Navojot Singh Sidhu as the state unit chief, the chief minister said the government and the party are two different entities having defined roles and they would work unitedly towards steering Congress to victory in the ensuing assembly elections. “Right now the party position is good and the same has to be further consolidated till elections,” said Singh who dedicated Shaheed Udham Singh memorial to people here during a state-level function on the 82nd martyrdom of the great revolutionary.           Ruling out any possibility of an immediate cabinet reshuffle, Singh, however, said that he would surely discuss this issue with the party high command during his visit to Delhi, according to an official press release.           On the issue of the 18-point agenda given by the Kharge committee, the CM said there was “some confusion” in this regard as his government had already implemented several points of this agenda and the remaining others would be accomplished soon. The CM said that he had already apprised both party president Sonia Gandhi and Rajya Sabha member Mallikarjun Kharge on this issue in their meeting. Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu has been raising the issue of the 18-point agenda in his meetings, saying that these will be implemented. On the roadmap for the upcoming assembly polls, Singh said his government had already fulfilled 93 per cent of poll promises made in the election manifesto and it would soon go up to 95 per cent, according to the release.          Replying to a query from media on Sidhu not mentioning the names of the chief minister, Rahul Gandhi or Priyanka Gandhi in his address at his installation ceremony as PPCC chief, Singh was quoted as saying that it is hardly any issue and doesn't affect him at all.          On Sidhu's frequent meetings with party leaders and MLAs, the CM said it is the duty of the party president to strengthen the organisational structure which can only be possible by keeping close liaison with the rank and file of the party. Singh said he also remained PPCC president thrice and knew well about the duties of the party president. He said the party and the government should work as a team since the assembly elections are just six months away.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amarinder-singh-rules-out-immediate-cabinet-reshuffle-says-his-govt-fulfilled-93-of-poll-promises-1015048.html
31-07-2021||Opinion||Why Tesla's 'beta testing' puts the public at risk||Greg Bensinger One of the greatest tricks technology companies ever played was convincing their human guinea pig users that they were a privileged group called beta testers. From novel email software to alternative versions of Twitter to voice-enabled listening devices, such trials are cheap and easy to make available to thousands or millions of customers. It’s a great way to see how a new version stacks up against the old. Other than some annoying glitches or unfamiliar icons, software beta testing is generally innocuous. The stakes for most apps are far below life and death. But there’s nothing innocuous about the beta tests being run by Elon Musk, the billionaire CEO of Tesla. He has turned American streets into a public laboratory for the company’s supposed self-driving car technology. Tesla says that its inaccurately named full self-driving and autopilot modes are meant to assist drivers and make Teslas safer — but Autopilot has been at the center of a series of erratic driving incidents. In public, Musk sometimes overhypes these technologies on social media and in other statements. Yet Tesla engineers have privately admitted to California regulators that they are not quite ready for prime time. Tesla’s Autopilot mode uses software, sensors and cameras to detect lanes, objects and other vehicles on the road and can steer, brake, accelerate and even change lanes with minimal input from the driver. Full self-driving beta version 9 — available today to just a few thousand Tesla owners — is supposed to assist with more complicated driving on local streets. Musk has assured buyers of his electric vehicles that they would have “full self-driving, software, everything,” yet the autos are not fully self-driving, nor do they have anything like a real autopilot. This kind of experimental technology, in the hands of regular drivers, has caused multiple fiery crashes and may have other fatal flaws, like an inability to distinguish the moon from a yellow traffic light. Autopilot, features of which must be activated by the driver, has come installed in all new Teslas since 2016. The technology is the subject of multiple lawsuits, including allegations of false advertising. Musk tweeted this month, “Beta 9 addresses most known issues, but there will be unknown issues, so please be paranoid. Safety is always top priority at Tesla.” Safety may be a top priority at the factory, but out on the public roads, it’s not only Tesla drivers who have a vested interest in the safety of the vehicles. On Tesla’s quarterly earnings call this week, Musk appeared to acknowledge that full self-driving is still half-baked. “We need to make full self-driving work in order for it to be a compelling value proposition,” he said of the technology, when asked about the $199 monthly fee to access it when Tesla releases it to a wider swath of drivers. Tesla drivers may fall victim to a version of what’s known in clinical drug trials as therapeutic misconception, in which trial participants (beta testers, in this case) tend to overlook the potential risks of participating in an experiment, mistakenly regarding themselves as consumers of a finished product rather than as guinea pigs. And with self-driving cars, Tesla owners aren’t the only trial participants. Consumer Reports has raised serious alarms about the safety of Tesla vehicles using the automated systems. Videos of full self-driving in action “don’t show a system that makes driving safer or even less stressful,” said a Consumer Reports official. “Consumers are simply paying to be test engineers for developing technology without adequate safety protection.” This is simple: The cars are a hazard to pedestrians, cyclists and other drivers. Which makes it all the more alarming that the internet is full of videos of Tesla drivers reading books, checking email, leaving the driver’s seat or snoozing behind the wheel. In other words, Teslas appear to be a risk to drivers and others on the road when a computer is behind the wheel. The National Transportation Safety Board has criticized Autopilot for lacking proper means to prevent driver misuse and effective driver monitoring systems. That should have all Americans concerned that their public streets are a testing ground. Competitors like General Motors Co.’s Cruise and Alphabet’s Waymo have taken a more measured approach, putting paid employees behind the wheel as a safety check while the cars are tested in real-world environments. At least they have no misconceptions about what’s going on. Unlike Teslas, those vehicles are easily identifiable as prototypes on the road, giving drivers of other cars a chance to steer clear. When engineers say the autonomous systems aren’t yet ready, regulators should listen. Only this year did the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration begin requiring tracking and regular monthly reporting of crashes involving autonomous vehicles, perhaps a step toward more regulation. The agency has also ongoing investigations into about three dozen crashes involving vehicles using driver-assistance systems. The vast majority of those involved Teslas, including 10 fatalities. Tesla didn’t respond to a request for comment. Self-driving vehicles hold tremendous promise to improve traffic safety. Humans are surprisingly bad at driving. Autonomous vehicles don’t drink and drive, and one day they may be able to see better than the human eye, to respond more quickly to sudden movements from other cars on the road and to lower costs for long-haul trucking operations, among other benefits. But the technology isn’t there yet. Putting it on the road before it is ready risks not only lives now but also swift public acceptance of the technology down the road when it is ready. If Tesla wants to run beta tests with human guinea pigs, it should do so on a closed track. We’d all feel safer. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-teslas-beta-testing-puts-the-public-at-risk-1014842.html
31-07-2021||Opinion||Antony Blinken's Delhi visit a message to China  ||Last week, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken paid his first visit to India. After Secretary of Defence Lloyd Austin and Special Envoy for Climate Change John Kerry, Blinken is the third senior US policymaker to visit India. The visit by any senior US policymaker naturally attains a lot of media attention, and this visit was no different. During the visit, Blinken met India's External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, and called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It's been six months since the Biden administration has taken charge, and the visit marked the importance attached to India in the US strategy in the Indo-Pacific. The visit was also significant because of the emerging situation in Afghanistan and India's security concerns in the region. Other important issues to figure in the discussions included the security and stability in the Persian Gulf, the situation in Myanmar, multilateral institutions, the importance of upholding democratic values, climate change, and renewable energy.    Message to China In the context of the challenge of China in the Indo-Pacific, the optics of the visit were significant. Blinken held discussions with civil society representatives, including the delegate representing the Tibetan government in exile. The move was a calculated step to send a message to China. Also, the meeting, happening in the wake of the visit of Chinese President Xi Jinping to Tibet, assumes broader strategic significance. Amid the increasing appeal of authoritarianism, shared values remain a firm binding factor for the Indo-US ties. Blinken said, "We view Indian democracy as a force for good in defence of a free and open Indo-Pacific." Blinken's observations on rising challenges to democracies were addressed towards China. Expectedly, it provoked an angry response from Beijing. The references to the importance of observing international law, rules and norms, including the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), were also directed towards China and its belligerent behaviour in the South China Sea. Thus, China remained a critical underlying factor dominating the discussions. Importance of the Quad India and the US, along with Japan and Australia, are part of the Quad initiative. During the visit, the Quad featured prominently as both sides see considerable stakes in strengthening the cooperation under the aegis of the Quad. The wide-ranging agenda and the necessity of the Quad as a stabilizing factor in the Indo-Pacific security were apparent in discussions and press briefings.  Jaishankar noted in the press briefing after the meeting that, in the framework of Quad, "We are engaged on maritime security, HADR [Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief], counterterrorism, connectivity and infrastructure, cyber and digital concerns, Covid-19 response, climate action, education and resilient and reliable supply chains.' Beijing deliberately projects the Quad as a military alliance positioned to constrain it in the Indo-Pacific. Blinken categorically denied that Quad is a military alliance and clarified that its purpose is to "advance cooperation, on regional challenges, while reinforcing international rules and values that we believe together underpin peace, prosperity and stability in the region." The Quad vaccine initiative is an excellent example of it. More such initiatives under the Quad framework would certainly help to challenge Beijing's claims. Situation in Afghanistan The situation in Afghanistan is another crucial area discussed in the visit. The US withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan and the growing power of the Taliban has a direct bearing on India's security. It was stated that India and the US are "committed to the proposition that there is no military solution to the conflict that afflicts Afghanistan." In fact, "there has to be a peaceful resolution, which requires the Taliban and the Afghan government to come to the table." Blinken stressed that "any future government in Afghanistan has to be inclusive and fully representative of the Afghan people." He assured that the US would "remain very much engaged in Afghanistan. We have not only a strong embassy there but also important programmes that continue to support Afghanistan, economically through development assistance through security assistance." The visit would have been helpful as both sides shared their concerns and understanding of Afghanistan's evolving situation. However, the situation remains fluid and uncertain, and it is not yet clear how exactly India and the US would work together in Afghanistan to secure their interests. Russia and S-400 Air Defence System Owing to the fraught relationship between the US and Russia, India has to do the difficult balancing act, which is most visibly seen in the S-400 deal as there is a looming threat of sanctions under US law. On India's purchase of S-400 air defence systems from Russia, Blinken said the US has shared its concerns with India on this. Beyond that, he refused to provide any concrete indication about the likely course of action. The answer by Blinken points towards the problems faced by the US in finding the right balance between its domestic legislations and foreign and strategic policy priorities. It would be interesting to see how India and the US navigate this complex problem. Overall, the visit laid the groundwork for a more productive phase in the Indo-US relations under the Biden administration. It coincided with the US Secretary of Defence Lloyd Austin's important visit to Southeast Asia. The two, taken together, underlined the US commitment to stay engaged in the Indo-Pacific region and ensure the region's stability and security. (The writer is a Research Fellow with the Indian Council of World Affairs, New Delhi.)   Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the authors’ own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/antony-blinkens-delhi-visit-a-message-to-china-1014957.html
31-07-2021||Opinion||The castoffs of growth||Last week, an irregular subject flickered across the front page news, amidst serious matters like the Pegasus surveillance, the increase of Covid cases, and the continued farmers’ protests outside Delhi: beggars. In response to a petition that sought to “restrain beggars and vagabonds/homeless from begging on (sic) traffic junctions, markets and public places to avoid the spread of Covid-19 pandemic in all the States and Union Territories across India,” the Supreme Court demurred, saying that it was “a socio-economic issue,” and that “a large number of people, including children, are compelled to be on the streets to beg due to the absence of education and employment.”   The Supreme Court’s sensitivity joins forces with a small group of legal activists who have long struggled for the repeal of the anti-beggary laws in the country which criminalise beggary. Under these laws, which derive from the laws the British put in place in colonial India like they had done in England, the police can arrest anyone they take to be beggars and put them in a government-run shelter for beggars. In contrast to the rich moral deliberations on the importance of giving alms in different religious traditions, these laws preferred to regard beggars as being wasteful and economically non-productive and punish them. Apart from asking that the freedom and dignity of beggars be respected by the law enforcers, activists have also proposed that the government devise rehabilitative measures for them. Drafted in consideration of these demands, The Persons in Destitution (Protection, Care and Rehabilitation) Model Bill of 2016, which decriminalises begging and proposes to view the issue within a rehabilitative framework, though, appears to have gone into cold storage. Beggars are a common enough sight in Indian towns and cities, but their social fate matters little to the rest. While cities are celebrated in modern thought as places that extend the pleasures of anonymity to individuals, they also render the powerless invisible. Except as a setting for an occasional cinematic episode or when a scandal breaks out, like the deaths of twenty beggars in the Beggar’s Colony in Bengaluru a decade ago, beggars don’t surface in the dominant media representations. The ceaseless media chatter about economic growth and development has dispensed with the need for social concern about those at the bottom of society. Indeed, when growth and development are seen as indispensable and non-negotiable, managing social problems through welfare measures seems the only way of showing policy sensitivity. But that would be to treat the symptom, and not the cause itself. Current models of economic growth are actively eroding the livelihoods of lakhs of people following traditional occupations and displacing them from agricultural and tribal villages. Economic development models in India have disrupted the family and community support systems that usually shield people from falling into destitution. It is no surprise that modern beggary is found mostly in urban areas where social support mechanisms of the kind seen in rural areas, where survival is not a wholly monetised affair, are not found. Indeed, even in cities, family and community support networks offer help to those experiencing social distress in ways that are hard to find in Western countries. If there is no visible unrest on Indian streets despite high levels of job loss and financial hardship, the answer will partly lie in the existing systems of social support that the affected individuals can lean on. In what appears as an undercount, the 2011 census put the total number of beggars in the country at over 4 lakhs. This figure at any rate is likely to go up if the current economic policies continue to be urban-centric and pro-modern industry and injure the livelihoods of people following traditional occupations. While the means of the proper rehabilitation of beggars and other destitute people should engage the creative imagination of policy makers, and every attempt made to crack down on the organised beggary mafias whose cruel realities formed the subject of Brecht’s powerful play, The Three Penny Opera, finding substitutes for the socially destructive models of economic growth in our midst appears a crucial task alongside.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-castoffs-of-growth-1015053.html
31-07-2021||Opinion||Teach your parents well||It’s an uneasy feeling to be in the southern United States today listening to the beautiful, close-harmony Crosby, Stills and Nash song, ‘Teach Your Children’, with its twangy and eerie ‘southern’ steel guitar riffs by the Grateful Dead’s Jerry Garcia: ‘You, who are on the road / Must have a code / That you can live by….Teach your children well / Their father’s hell / Did slowly go by.’ Uneasy, I say, because of what so many parents are teaching their children here, specifically about the Covid-19 vaccine. They’re not teaching their children well. They are teaching them that the vaccines are unsafe, indeed even diabolical. And they are teaching them that Covid vaccines are the product of a sinister conspiracy between pharmaceutical companies, the government, scientists and public health officials — and that therefore their children are prohibited from receiving the vaccine. The result is precisely that: although vaccines for adolescents aged 12-17 are cost-free, ridiculously plentiful and easy to come by, only 2% of children in that age group (compared to 40% or so of adults) have been vaccinated here! Although part of the reason that I opted to visit the US was precisely in order to get my two children vaccinated, I have been bewildered to find that not a single one of their American friends has been permitted by their parents to get the jab. And what is particularly curious is how each of these kids have told me that they wished their parents would allow them to be vaccinated. This is a generational gap issue with potentially life-or-death consequences. Yes I know we have our own problem of vaccine hesitancy in India, especially amongst rural populations (and blind followers of the likes of Baba Ramdev). But generally we characterise this hesitancy as deriving from ignorance — lack of education in general, or a cognitive inability to negotiate the sea of misinformation. What is striking about hesitancy in the southern US, however, is that it is rife across all socio-economic classes, all levels of education, and nearly all races and ethnicities — except, of course, Indian Americans, who are vaccinated at the highest percentages of all here. The most widespread fear relates to the rushed development process of the vaccines, and the lack of data with respect to long-term effects. This is a perfectly rational concern, which then opens the door to rather specious speculation about potential infertility and other random fears. Far less rational is the widespread belief that vaccines contain tracking devices (engineered, some say, by the reptilian Bill Gates). The irony here is that many of those who give this conspiracy credence first learned of it on their location-tracking smartphones. More germane, though, to vaccine hesitancy specific to the south, the so-called Bible Belt, are all the fears linked to religious belief or even in some way to the devil. Many ‘pro-life’ parents believe that the Covid vaccine was developed using fetal cells, and for these anti-abortion ideologues this is unconscionable. Although the belief is essentially false, this is a point where the generational gap becomes prominent: the vast majority of southern youth don’t even care about this issue; they are not vehemently opposed to abortion as their parents’ generation was. A bizarrely quite widespread fear is that the Covid vaccine alters the recipient’s DNA. Southern fundamentalists regard this as ‘the mark of the Beast’ from the book of ‘Revelations’ in the Bible — you know, the one where all the plagues and calamities befall us and then the world ends. This may sound absurd to you. Well, it also sounds absurd to many of the children of the southern parents who believe it and thus prohibit their kids from vaccinating. Southern youth are not as fundamentalist as their parents’ generation. Now, I am myself certainly cautious about government surveillance, the shenanigans of big pharma, and the ineptitude of public health officials, but there comes a time when a generation must relinquish some decision-making authority to the wisdom of their children. It calls to mind how CSN changed the last verse from ‘teach your children well’ to ‘teach your parents well’: ‘And you / Of tender years / Can’t know the fears / That your elders grew by. And so please help / Them with your youth / They seek the truth / Before they can die. Teach your parents well / Their children’s hell / Will slowly go by.’||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/teach-your-parents-well-1015054.html
31-07-2021||Opinion||What does the Zomato IPO tell us about Indian economy?||The food delivery company Zomato had a blockbuster initial public offering (IPO) recently. For each share that the company wanted to sell, it got applications for more than 38. So, roughly, if anyone had applied for 200 shares, they would have got around 5 shares. The company wanted to raise around Rs 9,400 crore through the IPO, it got applications of close to Rs 3.5 lakh crore. Such was the demand. Before Zomato, Clean Science and Technology wanted to raise a little over Rs 1,500 crore. For each share it wanted to sell, it got applications for more than 93 shares. In rupee terms, it got applications worth more than Rs 1.4 lakh crore. The success of recent IPOs has now led to a talk about many more unicorns like Zomato wanting to list on the stock market. A unicorn is basically a startup which is privately owned and worth more than a billion dollars. So, the question is, what’s happening here? Interest rates on fixed deposits are at extremely low levels. In May, the average interest rate on term deposits (largely fixed deposits) of banks stood at 5.32%. Retail inflation for the month stood at 6.3%. The actual return from a fixed deposit can be lower than the interest paid on it, depending on the tax bracket one falls in. Also, other forms of investing are down in the dumps. On the whole, real estate returns have been in single digits for years on end. Cryptocurrencies have done badly over the last few months. This has pushed many people towards stocks in general and IPOs in particular, in the hope of making a quick buck. What hasn’t helped is the fact that small businesses have been struggling over the last few years. Demonetisation and a botched-up implementation of the Goods and Services Tax pushed them back. The continued spread of the Covid pandemic broke their backs. This has forced many small businessmen towards the stock market. They have come to the realisation that it has been easier to make money from the stock market over the last 16 months than by running an actual business. Over and above this, work from home has made trading easier for a whole generation sitting in front of their computer screens and/or using mobile phone apps. The fact that demat accounts can be easily opened from the comfort of one’s homes and are cheaper than ever before, as are internet bandwidth and smart phones, has helped drive up demand for stocks further. This can be gauged from the fact that the number of demat accounts between December 2019 and March 2021, the latest data available, has increased by 40%, from 3.93 crore to 5.51 crore. And it doesn’t stop at this. Until a few years back, experts selling stocks were limited to business TV and newspapers and a few websites. Cheap smartphones and a cheaper internet have led to the rise of a massive number of social media influencers who are also selling stocks like experts of yore. Some of these guys have a massive following and people take their views very seriously. If they recommend a stock or an IPO, their followers go out and buy it. The interesting bit is that in some cases these people are paid to make recommendations or paid for driving their followers towards a particular stockbroker. Of course, they don’t disclose this. Most influencer activity in investing would collapse if people came to know what is actually happening. Given that it’s spread across the social media and happens 24/7, it goes unregulated most of the time. As mentioned earlier, interest rates lower than the rate of inflation are driving people towards stocks. On the flip side, the financial services industry is also flush with money. In this scenario, IPO financing has emerged as a lucrative business. Basically, IPO financing lets investors borrow money to invest in stock IPOs. By borrowing, investors can hope to get a greater number of stocks in an IPO than if they were to invest just their own money. After allocation, these stocks can be sold on the stock market once the stock gets listed and the investor can hope to make a listing day gain. Given the huge demand for IPO stocks, everyone isn’t going to get an allocation. Hence, anyone who wants to own a particular stock after its IPO needs to buy it from the market after listing. This pushes up the price of the stock, leading to listing day gains for those investors who borrowed and invested in the IPO. News reports suggest that the non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) are betting big time on the IPO financing business. This at a point of time when bank lending to industry has grown by just 0.8% over the last one year. Basically, we have reached a stage where the financial system is happy to lend to individuals to speculate in stocks, but it doesn’t want to lend to industry which creates economic activity. Of course, any lending is a two-way activity. Businesses are also not in the mood to borrow given the state of the economy. In some cases, they are yet to come out of their previous borrowing binge. All this has led to a scenario where loss-making companies that might make profit some day will be valued at a very high price by the stock market. And Zomato has just kickstarted this. There is definitely more to come. As the Americans like to say, you ain’t seen nothing yet! Or if one were to go in for a more home-grown idiom, picture abhi baaki hai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/what-does-the-zomato-ipo-tell-us-about-indian-economy-1015055.html
31-07-2021||Right in the Middle||When the mind is 'made up'||"Make up" or "make-up"  is a phrasal verb that is as versatile as its users’ intelligence or intention. In meaning, it ranges from combination to forgiveness, as a single word, perhaps the most used in fashion and performing arts. My attachment to it is close. “You must make up your mind,” my children say impatiently, when I dawdle between choices, even if it is something trivial as choosing between strawberry or chocolate ice cream. “O she can never make up her mind. Just thinks too much. Shouldn’t think too much,” my friends rave and rant the minute my face acquires a cloudy frown.  "Make up" brings to mind several contradictory things all at once. To forgive, to, combine, to alter one’s appearance, and to arrive at a decision. The last phrase relates to the mind and includes finality. It is about this last usage that I want to talk about. Though we make up our minds about things almost by habit, at times it is after excruciating anxiety. For example, you may be a good driver without making an error for years. There may come a time when you are about to start when a red light turns green and out from the left darts an erratic driver to block you dead. In a split second you make up your mind to jam your brakes; you freeze, you sweat, you curse and you thank God. Personally, I have found making up my mind is never easy. Like what I went through this summer morning when I sat down in a comfortable chair on the patio with a cup of coffee and a magazine. I folded down the page to the short story that I wanted to read. I just happened to look up. The birdfeeder caught my attention and then the birds that were flitting to and fro as they flocked to peck at their morning breakfast on time, which meant all at once.  There were the cardinals, the goldfinches, the chickadees, the warblers and the sparrows. This led to some small fights, some dislodges, some rudeness, some timidity. More birds came down to form a waiting line on the railing above. The scene got more interesting by the minute not just for the birds but also for me as I watched closely.  Soon I realised, time had passed as long as it would have taken me to read the short story. What had happened to "making up my mind" to sit and read the story?  Had I just made-up mind, without knowing it, to watch the birds? Or, instead of me making up my mind, had the mind made me up for another act, for a change? Wandering mind, maybe, but I will keep it for another time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/when-the-mind-is-made-up-1014801.html
31-07-2021||Second Edit||Deal with errant police sternly||Bengaluru police have launched a drive against the drug menace in the city which is commendable, but complaints of people being ‘fixed’ either to meet targets or to extort money, are a matter of grave concern.  In the first case, a woman inspector and three of her colleagues were suspended after forcing a street vendor to smoke ganja, subsequently subjecting him to a medical test and then booking him under the stringent Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act after he refused to pay a bribe. The victim and his friend were picked up from outside their house in Goraguntepalya and made to spend the entire night in the police station though they had not committed any crime. When one of them was released, the other was detained and fixed in a false case though he pleaded that he did not have any money to pay as his groundnut business had gone bust during the lockdown. The incident came to light when the victim attempted suicide unable to bear the humiliation and harassment. In another case, the Anti-Corruption Bureau is investigating a complaint by a cloth merchant that the Konankunte police threatened to book him and his friends as absconders in an unrelated ganja case, after he could pay only part of the Rs 4 lakh bribe demanded to release his car which was seized earlier. Such incidents dent the credibility of the police and  they may be viewed with suspicion even when a real drug peddler is nabbed. The police, however, need to be complimented for their sustained campaign against drugs in the past few months leading to the arrest of over 5,000 people and seizure of drugs worth over Rs 50 crore across the state. Unlike in the past, the police have targeted not just peddlers but the supply chain itself by raiding suspected courier companies and other conduits. Last year too, the police had launched a similar crusade leading to the arrest of two Kannada actresses, but the so-called big fish remained elusive and with most of the accused being released on bail, the whole episode turned out to be a mere media spectacle. The recent incidents of excesses and over-reach, including brutalities during the lockdown, custodial torture and extortion only indicate there are many rogue elements within the Karnataka police force who need to be identified and weeded out. Unfortunately, the failure of the top brass to initiate strong deterrent action has only encouraged such police personnel to continue with their errant behaviour. Unless corrective steps are taken immediately, the public will lose even what little confidence they have in the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/deal-with-errant-police-sternly-1014808.html
31-07-2021||South||Sterlite Copper to wind up operations of unit in Tamil Nadu||Vedanta Ltd-owned Sterlite Copper on Friday said it would be winding up the operations of its facility producing liquid medical oxygen in Tamil Nadu on July 31 as was ordered by the Supreme Court. The operations of the plant in Tuticorin, about 600 kms from Chennai, would be stopped, Sterlite Copper said in a press statement. The court, in its order on April 27, granted three months to run the plant till July 31, 2021, the company said. Sterlite Copper said its appeal for operation of the facility for a period of six months would be heard by the apex court on August 6. "Till date, we have been able to supply 2,132 metric tonnes of medical grade oxygen to 32 districts in Tamil Nadu," the company said. It said 134 metric tonne of liquid medical oxygen was available as stock and it was optimistic of further orders from the court to resume production. Sterlite Copper has requested the Tamil Nadu government for 2 MW of power supply to keep the oxygen plant in standby condition and that would be essential in dispatching the stock from the unit. "We are grateful to the court, Centre, State and district authorities for bolstering our efforts during this time. In view of the continuing uncertain situation, we stand prepared to resume oxygen production as and when directed by the court," he said. The facility in Tuticorin district began producing medical oxygen on May 13 to meet the demand for the life- saving gas following a surge in Covid-19 cases in the State. The Sterlite copper smelter plant was accorded approval by the then AIADMK government on April 26 at an all-party meeting to produce medical oxygen at its facility for a period of four months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sterlite-copper-to-wind-up-operations-of-unit-in-tamil-nadu-1014826.html
31-07-2021||South||Air India Express flight makes emergency landing in Thiruvananthapuram due to cracked windshield||A Saudi-bound Air India Express flight from here on Saturday made an emergency landing after being airborne for less than an hour when the pilots detected a crack in the windshield, an official said. After taking off from here at around 7.52 am, less than an hour into the flight, the pilots noticed the crack in the windshield of the aeroplane prompting them to turn back to Thiruvananthapuram for an emergency landing at around 8.50 am, an airport official said. However, the plane had no passengers, due to the Covid- 19 curbs on international travel to certain destinations, and was only carrying cargo and a crew of eight. All the crew members, including the pilots, are safe, C V Ravindran, the Director of Thiruvananthapuram Airport, told PTI. He also said that had the crack been detected in the pre-flight check, the plane would not have taken off and therefore, it must have happened during take-off or while cruising. The flight was going to return from Dammam in Saudi Arabia with Indian passengers as part of the "Vande Bharat Mission", he added Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/air-india-express-flight-makes-emergency-landing-in-thiruvananthapuram-due-to-cracked-windshield-1014885.html
31-07-2021||South||Tamil Nadu Serosurvey finds Covid antibodies in 66% population||The seropositivity rate in Tamil Nadu stands at 66.2 per cent, the third serosurvey conducted by the Department of Public Health has revealed. The seropositivity rate of 66.2 per cent is much higher than 29 per cent in March-April this year and 31 per cent recorded in October-November last year. The survey by the DPH was conducted between the last week of June and July this year when the second wave of Covid-19 infections was on a decline in the state. Virudhunagar district in southern Tamil Nadu and Chennai, the capital city, bagged the first two places with a seropositivity range of 84 per cent and 82 per cent respectively. Of the 26,110 samples tested during the serosurvey, as many as 17, 624 individuals had IgG antibodies for the SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19 infection. The overall seropositivity rate was 66.2 per cent which could be attributed to the expanding vaccination coverage among other reasons. While Chennai has conducted two separate surveys, this is the third serosurvey that has covered the entire state. Of the 38 districts, only five districts have less than 50 per cent of seropositivity rate while the remaining are above the mark. The western region comprising seven districts have recorded some of the lowest positivity rates. While Salem has recorded 60 per cent, Erode 937 per cent), Coimbatore (43 per cent), Tiruppur (46 per cent), Namakkal (48 per cent), Karur (51 per cent), and Nilgiris (55 per cent). “Intense vaccination drives across the state since January 16, 2021, and inclusion of 18+ individuals for vaccination would have generated Protective Antibodies in the population,” the serosurvey said. As per figures released by the Health Department, as many as 2.29 crore Covid-19 doses have been administered in the state of which 15.30 lakh are from the private sector. About the low seroprevalence rate in western districts, the survey attributed it to the “consistent reporting” of new Covid-19 cases in the region. “Serosurveys are very important in any pandemic. It is a very critical tool in finding the prevalence of antibodies for the virus. Serosurveys help the authorities plan their next course of action. If a serosurvey says 80 per cent of the total population have antibodies, then the impact even in the case of a third wave would be very less,” a public health expert who advises the Tamil Nadu Government told DH. While the first survey was conducted between October and November 2020, the second one was carried out between March and April 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-serosurvey-finds-covid-antibodies-in-66-population-1014949.html
31-07-2021||South||Kerala may rework Covid strategy as cases surge ||Kerala's Covid-19 strategy of delaying the peak has helped in keeping the pandemic under control. The state's health infrastructure is unburdened and the death count remains on the lower side. However, the prolonged lockdown and its effect on the economy and daily life seems to be nudging the government to change its course on the management of coronavirus.  It is learnt that Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has directed the state government's Covid expert committee members to review the lockdown strategy as the coronavirus situation in the state remained unabated. Experts cautioned that a weakening economy could lead the state to a very disastrous situation, especially as unemployment increases and people's debts mount. Already, many traders and those involved in casual jobs have reportedly ended life due to financial woes that aggravated during the lockdown. John Samuel, a former official of the United Nations Development Programme, told DH that around 50 per cent of Kerala's population was economically vulnerable and they were already hit by Covid. Only the government employees, pensioners, and the affluent sections were staying comfortable. It was high time for the government to come out with a contingency plan that will help the economy, he said.  A member of the state government's expert panel asked whether priority should be given to reviving the economy by lifting the restrictions or keeping the Covid death toll as low as possible. He said that the lowest seroprevalence of 44 per cent in Kerala proved that the state's delaying-peak strategy is right. If the relaxations are lifted and the Covid cases shoot up, the state's health infrastructure may not be able to handle it, and it would result in more deaths. Samuel, however, said, there was a need for micro-level management and scientific planning like extended working hours for shops and commercial establishments to avoid crowding. A balanced approach would help to keep the economy afloat and also the Covid situation under control, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-may-rework-covid-strategy-as-cases-surge-1014998.html
31-07-2021||South||Kerala's single-day Covid-19 cases remain above 20,000-mark||Fresh Covid cases in Kerala remained above 20,000-mark on Saturday, while a central team visited various parts of the state to review the pandemic situation. With 20,624 fresh cases being reported, the number of active cases also increased to 1.64 lakh. The test positivity rate (TPR) also remained on the higher side at 12.31 per cent. While the central team headed by National Centre for Disease Control Director Sujeet Kumar Singh visited Alappuzha and Kollam districts, another team was visiting parts of North Kerala where the cases are comparatively higher.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-single-day-covid-19-cases-remain-above-20000-mark-1015006.html
31-07-2021||South||Another Kerala church offers sops to promote bigger families||Close on the heels of a diocese in Kerala offering sops to families with more children, another diocese also came out with a similar offer. The Pathanamthitta Diocese under the Syro Malankara Catholic Church has offered Rs 2,000 monthly assistance to families with more than four children. Concerns over the decreasing population have prompted churches to make the offers as part of the 'Year of the Family' campaign initiated by Pope Francis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/another-kerala-church-offers-sops-to-promote-bigger-families-1015009.html
31-07-2021||South||Rape victim moves court seeking nod to marry convict||A victim in a rape case in Kerala is learnt to be moving court seeking bail for the convict ex-priest expressing wish to marry him. The move came after a similar plea by the convict was earlier rejected by the Kerala High Court. Robin Vadakumcherry, a former priest of the Mananthavady diocese in Wayanad in Kerala, was convicted by a POCSO court in Kannur district in Kerala in 2019 on charges of raping and impregnating a minor girl. It was learnt that the victim, who is now aged above 18, is approaching the Supreme Court with a plea to marry the convict. The Kerala HC in February rejected a plea of Vadakumcherry to grant bail for marrying the victim. The police and prosecution had then opposed the bail plea maintaining that the wish to marry could be a ploy to get bail. In the present move also the court may seek the opinion of the police and prosecution. Police sources said that the present move could be also a modus operandi to obtain bail for the convict. The victim and her parents could be under severe compulsions.   Vadakumcherry, who is in his mid-fifties, raped the girl belonging to his parish several times during 2016. The girl, who was only 16 at that time, became pregnant and delivered a child. Efforts were made to conceal the crime. He was held just ahead of his bid to leave the country. He was defrocked after he was convicted by the lower court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rape-victim-moves-court-seeking-nod-to-marry-convict-1015010.html
31-07-2021||South||Man believed dead in 1976 plane crash reunites with family||Kerala on Saturday witnessed a 71-year man, believed to be dead in a flight crash 45 years ago, reuniting with his family comprising a 91-year-old mother. Sajjad Thangal, a native of Kollam in Kerala, was believed to be dead by his family in a 1976 flight crash that claimed 95 lives, including that of popular actress Rani Chandra. Sajjad fled to the Gulf in the early 1970s at the age of 19 in search of jobs and later he was involved in arranging cultural events there. As part of it, a programme of Rani Chandra was organised in 1976. On the way back from UAE to Chennai via Mumbai, the flight crashed. Sajjad, who was supposed to accompany them, had to replace him with another person from Mumbai due to some last-minute inconvenience. Hence the narrow escape from the crash and fears of facing probe caused severe mental trauma and depression in him. With no whereabouts of Sajjad, his family members had believed that he was also killed in the plane crash. Over these years Sajjad was eking out a living by involving in casual jobs. But as he became weak, some of his friends took him to Seal Ashram in Mumbai about four years back. Recently some representatives of the Ashram who came down to Kollam enquired about Sajjad's family as he wished to meet his family. For Sajjad's family of 91-year-old mother Fathima Beevi and siblings, it was really unbelievable to hear that Sajjad was still alive. His siblings went to Mumbai and met him a few days back. On Saturday they brought Sajjad to Kollam and the local people gave a warm reception to him. Sajjad and his mother became emotional on meeting after 45 years. "Every thing happens as per God's plans," they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/man-believed-dead-in-1976-plane-crash-reunites-with-family-1015032.html
31-07-2021||State||Covid-19: Concern as Karnataka districts along Kerala border inch towards 5% TPR||Against the backdrop of Karnataka reporting a 34% hike in daily new cases on Thursday, virologist and state Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) member Dr V Ravi said that if the test positivity rate (TPR) breaches 5%, it’s a cause for worry. As per the latest state war room report, four districts along the Kerala border have a weekly TPR (average of seven days from July 23 to 29) inching towards 5%: Dakshina Kannada (4.42%), Chikkamagaluru (3.67%), Kodagu (3.44%) and Udupi (3.39%). Dakshina Kannada currently has 2,688 active cases, up from 1,933 two weeks ago. “At Talapady check-post near Mangaluru along the Kerala-Karnataka border, about 150 to 170 people who have no negative RT-PCR test report or vaccination certificate are being swabbed daily. At railway stations, up to 50 swabs are being taken daily. The plan is to ramp up testing at 12 such entry points into the state across the district. People from Kasargod, which reports 700 cases daily, come here every day,” said Dakshina Kannada district health officer Dr Kishore Kumar. Interstate buses were recently allowed between Kasargod and Mangaluru. As per the figures shared by Dr Ashok H, Dakshina Kannada district nodal officer for Covid-19, taluks with a weekly TPR higher than 5% are Mangaluru (5.42%) and Sullia (5.89%). Belthangady and Puttur also come close with 4.57% and 4.29% TPR respectively. Bantwal reported 3.43% TPR. Out of 44,812 samples tested from July 23 to 29, the district had 2,016 patients testing positive and the TPR reached 4.5%. Exactly a month ago, Dakshina Kannada was elevated into a category-1 district with respect to unlocking measures as it had shown a reduction in TPR, which reversed on Thursday. Dr Kumar pointed out, “Almost all activities were opened up four weeks ago. There’s no weekend curfew like before. The main aspect the district administration will focus on is increasing the number of tests. The migrating population will be strictly screened at checkpoints. Even in interior rural areas, our staff are conducting tests.” While 1,422 active cases were reported in rural areas of the district in the last 14 days, 1,070 cases were reported in urban areas. Compounding the problem is the fact that the district received 9,000 odd vaccine doses last Monday and hasn’t received a single dose after that. “We’ve been told that 15,000 more doses have been allocated but we haven’t received any. The district has a target of vaccinating 1.78 lakh college students and staff. About 80% of them have been given at least one dose. But we don’t know how many medical students from Kerala coming to Mangaluru have been vaccinated,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-concern-as-karnataka-districts-along-kerala-border-inch-towards-5-tpr-1014794.html
31-07-2021||State||CBSE: Bengaluru region bags fourth place with 99.83%||A record 99.83% students from Bengaluru region cleared the Central Board for Secondary Education (CBSE) Class 12 exams, whose results were announced on Friday. At the all-India level, Bengaluru region secured the fourth place. In the previous year, students from Bengaluru region had secured 98.23%. The overall pass percentage across the country this year is 99.37, according to an official release. This year, the Centre had cancelled the exams citing the second wave of the Covid pandemic and students were evaluated based on the policy approved by the Supreme Court. According to the approved policy, 40% of the marks were allotted for unit tests, midterms and Class 12 pre-board examinations and 30% marks from Class 11 (theory). Another 30% of marks were allotted for Class 10 average scores which are considered by taking the best of three scores of the five main subjects. Most schools and students were happy with the results. Swati Soni, head of CMR National Public School said, “CBSE had carved out a meticulous assessment pattern and the students’ scores were moderated. This year, 45% of the students scored above 90 compared to last year’s 35%. Some students who had prepared well may have missed out on the centum.” A student from National Public School said, “I could have scored more had the exams been conducted as I had studied well.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cbse-bengaluru-region-bags-fourth-place-with-9983-1014798.html
31-07-2021||State||MLC Kota Srinivas Poojary seeks Lokayukta probe against those spreading canards against him||MLC Kota Srinivas Poojary has appealed to Lokayukta chief Justice Vishwanath Shetty to conduct a probe into allegations that he (Kota Poojary) was constructing a house worth Rs 6 crore. “A few vested interests have been spreading rumours on social media that I have been constructing a house worth Rs 6 crore. I have been constructing a house on 13 cents land at an estimated cost of Rs 60 lakh by availing loan and from my income at Giliyaru in Brahmavar. A probe should be conducted into the allegations levelled against me,” Kota Srinivas Poojary urged in his appeal to Lokayukta.   “I have been serving as MLC for three terms and minister for two terms. I also had served as leader of the opposition in the council in the past. I have been furnishing details on properties owned by me to Lokayukta all these years. I had availed Rs 35 lakh loan for construction of house two years ago. I again had applied for a loan up to Rs 40 lakh. Amidst developments of cabinet expansion, the rumours are spread in social media to tarnish my reputation,” he rued. He said; “Lokayukta should probe into my income, honorarium earned by me, loans borrowed and income earned by my son through his business. Lokayukta can take action against me if they find that the expenditure on the construction of a new house exceeds my income. Legal action should be initiated against those who had levelled malicious allegations against me.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mlc-kota-srinivas-poojary-seeks-lokayukta-probe-against-those-spreading-canards-against-him-1014814.html
31-07-2021||State||Reconsider Sabarmati Ashram facelift, BKC tells Centre||Senior Congress leader B K Chandrashekar has termed as “quite disturbing” the plan to modernise the Sabarmati Ashram, founded by Mahatma Gandhi.   Responding to the July 25 DH story on this, Chandrashekar said the Ashram “is far more significant” than all other buildings that are historically and politically significant. The Ashram reflects the simplicity of Gandhi’s life, he said. “Does it deserve an un-Gandhian facelift by a government whose ideology of Hindutva directly conflicts with Gandhian beliefs, merely to turn it into a showpiece for foreign dignitaries? Would Gandhiji approve of ostentation costing Rs 1,200 crore to convert his Ashram into a tourist haven? It will be to his credit if the PM reconsiders this ill-considered project,” Chandrashekar said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/reconsider-sabarmati-ashram-facelift-bkc-tells-centre-1015024.html
31-07-2021||State||Sanjeev Kishore takes over as SWR GM||Sanjeev Kishore, IRSME officer, has assumed charge as the general manager of South Western Railway (SWR). Gajanan Mallya, general manager of South Central Railway, was looking after the post of GM SWR from April till Friday. Prior to the present appointment, Kishore was posted at the Railway Board, as an additional member (Production Units).  He has wide and varied experience in various capacities in North Eastern Railway, Rail Coach Factory, Kapurthala, Central Railway, RITES, COFMOW, Centre for Railway Information Systems, New Delhi, Railway Board, and Rail Wheel Factory, Yelahanka, Bengaluru. Sanjeev Kishore is a recipient of a national award (Minister of Railways Award) for meritorious service in 2003. He is also a fellow of Institutions of Engineer India and Institution of Mechanical Engineers, UK. He has also handled international projects, including UNDP-assisted project for the upgradation of capabilities in the Rail Coach Factory at Kapurthala, and the crashworthy coach design project of RITES. He has also come up with several research papers, said a press release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sanjeev-kishore-takes-over-as-swr-gm-1015025.html
31-07-2021||State||Speaker holds Karnataka govt responsible for e-Vidhan delay||Legislative Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri, who completed two years in office on Saturday, slammed the government for the delay in the implementation of e-Vidhan, which he is doggedly pursuing.  First rolled out in Himachal Pradesh in 2014, e-Vidhan enables the automation of the lawmaking process and makes legislature sessions paperless, saving hundreds of trees and public money annually. “The one thing that I wanted to do in these two years, but couldn’t do was implementing e-Vidhan. The government is responsible for this,” Kageri said.  “The legislature has no financial autonomy and has to depend on the government. Since 2014, despite efforts by all the previous Speakers, the e-Vidhan hasn’t become a reality,” he said. Once the e-Vidhan is rolled out, all key functions of the legislature -- questions and notices, replies by the government, laying of reports and bills -- will be done virtually on both web and mobile. Kageri lamented that smaller states, such as Kerala and Himachal Pradesh implemented e-Vidhan. “But Karnataka, where Bengaluru is hailed globally as an IT hub, does not have e-Vidhan, which is painful,” he said, blaming the bureaucracy. “Officials should aspire for new innovations in the administration that are being adopted globally. They should do away with the British-era routine of sending files back seeking clarification,” he said, urging Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to take this seriously.  Kageri was elected Speaker on July 31, 2019. “In the last two years, we had five legislature sessions for a total of 54 days,” he said, after releasing a report of his achievements. “A total of 98 Bills were tabled and 96 were passed.”  The Speaker is also planning to institute a ‘Best Legislator’ award. “Necessary preparations are on to give the award during the next session. Guidelines are ready for this,” he said.   Also, Kageri said the report of the committee to review the powers of presiding officers under the 10th Schedule of the Constitution (anti-defection law), of which he is a member, was in its final stages and would be submitted to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla shortly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/speaker-holds-karnataka-govt-responsible-for-e-vidhan-delay-1015029.html
31-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Siddaramaiah demands Karnataka govt take measures to avert third Covid wave||Congress leader Siddaramaiah demanded the state government take measures to avert Covid-19 third wave. Speaking to reporters, on Saturday, Siddramaiah said, it appears that the third wave occurred in Kerala as the state recorded 22,000 cases on Friday. The state government has to take all the measures to stop the further spread of Covid-19. A large number of people from Kerala visits Mysuru, Kodagu and other parts of the state and thus measures should be in place at the borders, he said. Siddaramaiah said, Chief Minister, Basavaraj Bommai visited Delhi to discuss the cabinet expansion but, I don't think the matter was discussed. He also charged the Union government for not releasing funds to Karnataka. The Union government has kept pending of Rs 11,300 crore, he blamed. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/siddaramaiah-demands-karnataka-govt-take-measures-to-avert-third-covid-wave-1014881.html
31-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Vaccinated? Travellers from Kerala, Maharashtra still need RT-PCR test report to enter Karnataka||Fearing a fresh spike in Covid-19 cases, the Karnataka government has tightened norms in districts bordering Kerala and Maharashtra.  Beginning Sunday, all those travelling to Karnataka from these two states will have to produce an RT-PCR negative certificate that is not older than 72 hours, apart from showing a vaccination certificate stating that the person has taken both doses of vaccine.  Speaking to mediapersons after a meeting with Deputy Commissioner (DCs) of districts bordering Kerala and those that see high number of commuters from the bordering state, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the state government had decided to tighten norms in the wake of rising number of cases in Kerala.  "Even during the second wave of Covid-19, we got many cases from Kerala and Maharashtra. Over the past week, cases have gone up in Kerala and hence we must be on high alert. Until now, we were allowing people even with a single dose of vaccine. From Sunday, both doses of vaccine will be mandatory to enter Karnataka," he said.   These districts include Chamarajanagar, Mysuru, Kodagu, Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Shivamogga. In Dakshina Kannada especially, there are people commuting from Kerala everyday for work.  While until now, they had to get tested for Covid every fortnight, henceforth, they will have to get a test done every week. Weekly travel passes will be issued for the same.  "Cases have gone up in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi. The positivity rate has increased from 1.5 per cent to 4 per cent in these districts. The state aims to keep this below 5 per cent," he said. The same rules will apply for Belagavi, Vijayapura, Bidar and Kalaburagi, which share a border with Maharashtra, Bommai said.  In other districts too, checkposts have to be setup to double-check vehicles from outside Karnataka. Homestays and resorts will also have to insist on RTPCR tests and ask for vaccination certificates from guests, he added, specifically citing Chikkamagaluru, a tourist destination.   According to a government order earlier in the day, all passengers coming to Karnataka from Kerala and Maharashtra by flight, bus, train and personal transport will be monitored. Airlines will issue boarding passes only to the passengers carrying RT-PCR negative certificate not older than 72 hours. Children below two years and those travelling in emergencies such as death or medical treatment will be exempted, the order added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/vaccinated-travellers-from-kerala-maharashtra-still-need-rt-pcr-test-report-to-enter-karnataka-1014890.html
31-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||FM Sitharaman assured release of pending GST compensation: Karnataka CM Bommai||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has agreed to release the pending GST compensation to Karnataka, Chief Minister Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Saturday.  According to him, Sitharaman assured him that a balance amount of Rs 11,800 crore GST compensation would be released at the earliest. "I have requested for payment of last year dues in GST compensation of Rs 11,400 crore. The FM has agreed to give it in instalments. She will start releasing it immediately," Bommai told reporters after the meeting. The chief minister also sought early release of GST compensation of about Rs 18,000 crore for the current fiscal and funds for the centrally sponsored schemes. Bommai said he had discussions with Sitharaman on the economic situation in the state and various schemes of the central government. The Union Minister also assured to release more funds under NABARD, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/fm-sitharaman-assured-release-of-pending-gst-compensation-karnataka-cm-bommai-1014912.html
31-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Kageri lashes out at government on e-Vidhan project delay||Karnataka Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri, who completed two years in office on Saturday, slammed the state government for the delay in the implementation of e-Vidhan, which he is doggedly pursuing. First rolled out in Himachal Pradesh in 2014, e-Vidhan enables the automation of the lawmaking process and makes legislature sessions paperless, saving hundreds of trees and public money annually. “In my two years as Speaker, the one thing that I wanted to do but could not was implementation of e-Vidhan. The government is responsible for this,” Kageri said at a news conference.  The process of rolling out e-Vidhan started in 2014 when a team from Karnataka visited Himachal Pradesh to study the project. “The legislature has no financial autonomy and has to depend on the government. Since 2014, despite efforts by all the previous Speakers, the e-Vidhan hasn’t become a reality,” he said. Once the e-Vidhan is rolled out, all key functions of the legislature - questions & notices, replies by the government, laying of reports and bills - will be done virtually through National e-Vidhan Application (NeVA) for both web and mobile. Kageri lamented that smaller states such as Kerala and Himachal Pradesh implemented e-Vidhan. “But Karnataka, where Bengaluru is hailed globally as an IT hub, does not have e-Vidhan, which is painful,” he said.  According to Kageri, the problem lay with the bureaucracy. “Officials should aspire for new innovations in administration that are being adopted globally. They should do away with the British-era routine of sending files back seeking clarification,” he said, citing the non-implementation of e-Vidhan as an example. “I urge the chief minister to take this seriously,” he said, adding that he was hoping for good things to happen going forward.  Kageri was elected as Speaker on July 31, 2019, after the BJP government came to power. “In the last two years, we had five sessions of the legislature for a total of 54 days,” he said. “A total of 98 Bills were tabled and 96 were passed. We have a 94 per cent achievement in terms of the number of questions answered in the House.”  The Speaker is also planning to institute a ‘Best Legislator’ award. “Necessary preparations are on to give the award during the next session. Guidelines are ready for this,” he said.   Kageri said he would work towards making the state legislature the best in the country. “There have been some sour incidents, yes, and whenever limits were crossed I had to take tough decisions. Overall, the Assembly has functioned well,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-assembly-speaker-vishweshwar-kageri-lashes-out-at-government-on-e-vidhan-project-delay-1014920.html
31-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to get one crore Covid-19 vaccine doses in August: Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday said the Centre has agreed to increase the monthly supply of Covid -19 vaccines to the state, from 63-64 lakh doses to 1 crore doses for the month of August. The CM, who met Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, said that the Union Minister promised to give sufficient quantities of vaccines from September onwards.   "I hope about 1 crore doses will be supplied to the state next August so that 3-4 lakh vaccinations per day can be done in our state," he added. Bommai noted that Karnataka has been allocated about Rs 800 crore fund which will be released from the Centre's Covid emergency fund of about Rs 23,000 crore. "About 15 per cent of it has been released so far. The Union health minister has promised to release more in the coming days to strengthen the state’s health infrastructure," he said. The CM also visited Raj Ghat to pay tributes to Mahatma Gandhi. He also paid his tribute to former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee at his memorial Sadaiv Atal here. The CM, who met Union Finance Minister Nirmal Sitharaman, said the Centre has agreed to give last year's pending GST compensation of Rs 11,400 crore at the earliest in instalments. The Centre will provide Rs 18,000 crore GST compensation by borrowing from the financial institutions, he said. He said the funds are required urgently to meet the Covid-19 and other expenses in the state. The Union MInister also has promised a lot of help for the agriculture sector through NABARD," he said. On the second day of his visit, the chief minister also called on Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi. The CM also visited Raj Ghat to pay tribute to Mahatma Gandhi. He also paid tribute to former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee at his memorial Sadaiv Atal here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-get-one-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-in-august-bommai-1014922.html
31-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Negative RT-PCR report must for passengers from Kerala, Maharashtra to enter Karnataka: SWR||As per the state government’s order, South Western Railway has made it mandatory for the passengers from Kerala and Maharashtra to carry the negative RT-PCR certificate while travelling by train to Karnataka. In a press release issued here on Saturday, SWR Chief Public Relation officer Aneesh Hedge said the decision has been taken in view of the current Covid-19 situations in the neighboring states. The passengers from these states should produce a negative RT-PCR certificate that is not older than 72 hours irrespective of their vaccination status. However, constitutional functionaries, health care professionals, children below the age of two years and people in a dire emergency situation (death in the family, medical treatment etc.) are exempted from this rule. The swab of such passengers will be collected on arrival with necessary details like their phone number, address and other information, said the release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/negative-rt-pcr-report-must-for-passengers-from-kerala-maharashtra-to-enter-karnataka-swr-1014995.html
31-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Will implement Mekedatu project irrespective of opposition from TN: CM Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday maintained that the state will get the Centre's approval and implement the Mekedatu drinking water project over the Cauvery river, notwithstanding any opposition from neighbouring Tamil Nadu. The CM's comments came in the wake of newly-appointed Tamil Nadu BJP president K Annamalai announcing that the state unit of the saffron party would protest against Karnataka's decision to go ahead with the Mekedatu project. "He (Annamalai) will do his job. That is not related to us. Annamalai going on a fast is not my business," Bommai told reporters here. He said Karnataka has all the rights over the river water and prepared a detailed project report and submitted it to the Centre for approval, Bommai said. "We will get the approval for it. Let anyone fast or eat," he added. The Tamil Nadu BJP has planned to observe a day-long fast in the Cauvery delta region on August 5 to protest against the decision of the Karnataka government. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/will-implement-mekedatu-project-irrespective-of-opposition-from-tn-cm-bommai-1015003.html
31-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 1,987 new Covid-19 cases, 37 deaths||Karnataka reported 1,987 new Covid-19 cases and 37 deaths on Saturday. Bengaluru Urban accounted for most of the fresh cases (450) and saw 377 discharges and 11 deaths. The total number of active cases stood at 23,796. While the positivity rate for the day was 1.43%, the case fatality rate was 1.86%. Dakshina Kannada followed Bengaluru Urban in the number of deaths (7), Hassan accounted for 4, Chikkamagaluru and Kolar and Mysuru reported two deaths each.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-1987-new-covid-19-cases-37-deaths-1015005.html
31-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Karnataka ups vigil at check-posts along Maharashtra border||Following a surge in Delta Plus variant Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, people entering the Belagavi from the neighbouring state are being screened compulsorily at the check-posts in the border areas.  Passengers, who don't have Covid-19 negative RT-PCR reports or vaccination certificates, are being sent back. Arrangements have been made for rapid antigen test (RAT) at Kognoli check-post in Nippani taluk on the Pune-Bengaluru national highway. Police personnel, accompanied by Asha workers and Health Department personnel, are verifying the RT-PCR reports and vaccination certificates at the border check-posts. People travelling in government and private buses were being verified. Drivers and conductors have been instructed to ensure that only those having Covid-19 negative test report board their vehicles. Superintendent of Police Laxman Nimbargi said that measures had been taken to prevent spread of Covid-19, and those not having negative reports as per the guidelines were being sent back. "According to the revised guidelines issued on Saturday, those who have received both the doses of Covid-19 vaccines should also have RT-PCR negative certificate, and it will be implemented from August 1, the SP said. The Belagavi city police have established check-posts at Bachi/Shinoli, Rakaskoppa, Bekkinkere, Chaluvenatti and other entry points from Maharashtra, under its jurisdiction. The RAT tests were also conducted at the Central Bus Stand here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-karnataka-ups-vigil-at-check-posts-along-maharashtra-border-1015012.html
31-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HC rejects PIL seeking probe against BSY, son||The Karnataka High Court on Saturday declined to entertain as PIL the petition filed by social activist T J Abraham challenging the order of the trial court dismissing his private complaint. The petitioner had sought for a court-monitored SIT investigation or directing the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to probe into the allegations of corruption against former Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, his son B Y Vijayendra and others. Appearing on behalf of the petitioner, senior counsel Meenakshi Arora submitted that the complaint filed by the petitioner with the Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) was not acted upon and the private complaint filed was subsequently dismissed by the special court. The trial court had dismissed the complaint on the ground that there is no valid sanction as the governor has rejected the prosecution sanction request submitted by the complainant. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, pointed out that there is no FIR registered in the first place to refer the matter to any agency as sought by the petitioner. “The petitioner himself has filed a complaint hence this writ petition cannot be treated as a petition in PIL. The registry shall re-categorise this petition under the appropriate category and posted appropriately,” the court said. On July 8, 2021, a special court, dealing with the criminal cases against the elected representatives, had rejected the private complaint against Yediyurappa and others. In his complaint, Abraham had alleged payment of a bribe in connection with a housing project of Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) and alleged collection of bribe amount by the family members of the then chief minister Yediyurappa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hc-rejects-pil-seeking-probe-against-bsy-son-1015016.html
31-07-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Reopening of schools in Karnataka doubtful from August first week due to rising Covid cases||Despite the recommendations from various experts' committees, including Dr Devi Shetty-led task force, on reopening of schools from the first week of August, the state government is forced to put its plans on hold in the backdrop of a sudden spurt in the daily Covid cases. Sources in the Department of Primary and Secondary Education told DH that it is unlikely to resume offline classes keeping in mind the spiking Covid cases in some districts of Karnataka and neighbouring states. Revealing the decision, a senior official said, "The recommendations were to resume offline classes by reopening the schools in a phased manner from August first week. However, there is no such discussion right now at the government level." Further, the officer also stated that the ongoing political development and absence of council of ministers have also affected the decision-making process at the department. "The recommendations by the various experts' committees were supposed to be discussed with the Education minister and subsequently with the Chief Minister before taking a final decision. But given the present political condition, the resumption of schools for offline classes is doubtful," the official explained. Even if, the officer added, the government decides on reopening the schools, it will only be applicable for class 8 and above grades. In the meantime, some of the surveys conducted by private organisations have revealed that parents are not ready to send their children to the schools, especially below the age group of 12 to 13 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/reopening-of-schools-in-karnataka-doubtful-from-august-first-week-due-to-rising-covid-cases-1015033.html
31-07-2021||West||Veteran PWP leader Ganpatrao Deshmukh passes away at 95||Maharashtra's longest-serving legislator Ganpatrao Deshmukh passed away in Solapur, his home district, at 95. The seniormost leader of Peasants' and Workers' Party (PWP) was suffering from old-age realated issues and had recently underwent a gall-bladder operation. The last rites would be performed on Saturday. Deshmukh has represented the Sangole seat in the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly 11 times. He was first elected an MLA in 1962 and has won 11 times during his political career spanning seven decades. He contested 13 times but lost twice in 1972 and 1995. He first became a minister for a brief period in the Sharad Pawar-led Progressive Democratic Front government in 1978, and for the second time in 1999, when the PWP supported the Congress-NCP Democratic Front government led by late Vilasrao Deshmukh. Ahead of the 2019 polls, he decided to hang up his boots as a legislator. Deshmukh is the second longest serving legislator in India after late DMK supremo M Karunanidhi. As against Deshmukh's tenure,  Karunanidhi was member of Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly for 61 years and was an MLA 13 times.  राजकारणातील एक साधे आणि सात्विक व्यक्तिमत्व हरपले अशा शब्दात मुख्यमंत्री उद्धव बाळासाहेब ठाकरे यांनी सांगोलाचे माजी आमदार आणि ज्येष्ठ शेकाप नेते गणपतराव देशमुख यांच्या निधनाबद्दल शोक व्यक्त केला आहे. Deshmukh was born on August 10, 1927. He had been influenced with Leftist thoughts since his student days. As a member of Maharashtra Legislative Assembly he was widely respected and was known for his simplicity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/veteran-pwp-leader-ganpatrao-deshmukh-passes-away-at-95-1014816.html
31-07-2021||West||BDD chawl redevelopment project set to kickstart on August 1||The much-awaited BDD chawl redevelopment project will kickstart on Sunday (August 1) as Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and NCP supremo Sharad Pawar will jointly lay the foundation stone of the project. Ahead of the inauguration, state housing minister Dr Jitendra Awhad and state environment, tourism and protocol minister Aaditya Thackeray, who is the MLA from Worli, visited the BDD chawl and spoke to the residents. The BDD stands for Bombay Development Directorate - and these chawls are around a century old. As of 2016, 195 BDD chawls are located at Worli, Naigaon and Parel and cover an area of 86.98 acres.  Among the 195 BDD chawls, the maximum of 121 chawls is in Worli. The Worli BDD chawls occupy a maximum area of 59.69 acres. The Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA) is the nodal agency for the project. Actually used as jails in the British era, these buildings were converted into housing apartments for the economically weaker sections in the 1920s. The BDD tenants association, the Akhil BDD Chawl Badekaru Hakk Sanrakshan Samiti, has been spearheading the cause of the project. The construction of the chawl buildings, each with 80 rooms, was completed between 1921 and 1925 to solve the massive housing shortage during that time. At present, around 9,500 families reside in the project precincts. Since the housing colonies are now more than 90 years old and have completed their life cycle, the Government of Maharashtra decided on its redevelopment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bdd-chawl-redevelopment-project-set-to-kickstart-on-august-1-1014854.html
31-07-2021||West||Two Opposition MLAs indulged in rowdy behaviour in Assembly, says Goa CM Pramod Sawant||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has said two MLAs from Opposition were involved in “rowdy conduct” in the Legislative Assembly session, which concluded on Friday. Sawant was apparently referring to a group of Opposition MLAs rushing into the well of the House on Friday after the state government hurriedly passed a bunch of bills. “Today, several pro-people bills were passed in the Assembly. Given the increasing popularity of various schemes and policies implemented by our Government, the opposition is frustrated,” the chief minister said in a tweet posted late on Friday night. He had also posted a video of some Opposition MLAs throwing hats of marshals in the Assembly and also a book towards Speaker Rajesh Patnekar. The Goa Assembly has 40 MLAs. “From lack of winnable candidates to failed alliance talks, they resorted to violence right inside the temple of democracy. This rowdy conduct by @VijaiSardesai and @RohanKhaunte is unbecoming of a public representative. I must remind them, people of Goa are watching,” he said in another tweet. Sardesai heads the Goa Forward Party (GFP). Khaunte is an Independent MLA. Sardesai tweeted “Advising @DrPramodPSawant to check history of @BJP4India and opinion of its 2 top leaders @arunjaitley & @SushmaSwaraj as regards to obstructionism and disruption of parliament before casting aspersions on others. Anyway, it is the government's job to run the House not that of the opposition”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/two-opposition-mlas-indulged-in-rowdy-behaviour-in-assembly-says-goa-cm-pramod-sawant-1014926.html
31-07-2021||West||Goa Assembly passes Bill providing ownership rights to dwellers of self-occupied houses||The Goa Legislative Assembly has passed a Bill providing a mechanism to grant the ownership rights to 'bhumiputras' (sons-of-soil) who are living in small housing units occupied by them in the state. The Goa Bhumiputra Adhikarini Bill, 2021 was passed in the 40-member House by voice vote on the last day of the session on Friday. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant told the House that the Bill provides for a mechanism to give ownership rights to dwellers of small housing units to enable them to live with dignity, self-respect and to exercise their right to life. Sawant said "bhumiputra" is a person who is residing in Goa for at least 30 years. "This Bill provides the protection to bhumiputras so that they shall not be evicted from the dwelling units occupied by them and the units shall not be demolished during the pendency of any proceedings under this law," he told the House.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-assembly-passes-bill-providing-ownership-rights-to-dwellers-of-self-occupied-houses-1014937.html
31-07-2021||West||Maharashtra reports its first case of Zika virus||Maharashtra reported its first case of Zika virus on Saturday. The patient, a lady, has been cured. She is back home and none of the family members have shown any symptoms. The 50-year-old patient was found in Belsar village in Purandar tehsil of Pune district, Public Health Department officials said on Saturday. "This is the first and only case in Maharashtra," the officials said. On Saturday, State Surveillance Officer Dr Pradeep Awate led a delegation to the village and inspected it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-reports-its-first-case-of-zika-virus-1015013.html
