09 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||PLA fired shots in the air, says India||Hours after the Chinese Army claimed that Indian troops opened fire along the disputed Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh, the Indian Army stated on Tuesday that it was actually Chinese troops that fired a few rounds in the air. Following fresh tensions on the south bank of Pangong Tso (lake), Army chief Gen. Manoj Naravane briefed Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on the ground situation, a defence source said. “In the instant case on September 7, it was the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) troops who attempted to close in with one of our forward positions along the LAC and when dissuaded by our troops, the PLA troops fired a few rounds in the air in an attempt to intimidate our troops,” an Army spokesperson said in a statement. “However, despite the grave provocation, our troops exercised great restraint and behaved in a mature and responsible manner.” No shots have been fired along the disputed boundary between India and China since 1975. India was committed to disengagement and de-escalating the situation on the LAC, the spokesperson asserted. “China continues to undertake provocative activities to escalate. At no stage has the Indian Army transgressed across the LAC or resorted to use of any aggressive means, including firing.” In a late night statement on Monday, the PLA accused the Indian Army of illegally crossing the LAC and entering the south bank of Pangong Tso and the Shenpao mountain area and “outrageously fired warning shots”. Two official sources said Chinese troops attempted to come close to an Indian-held peak on the south bank near Mukhpari area between 6 p.m. and 7 p.m. on Monday. Their attempt was to dislodge Indian troops from one of the dominating features, one of the sources said. Aggressive manoeuvres The PLA had been “blatantly” violating agreements and carrying out aggressive manoeuvres, while engagements at the military, diplomatic and political levels were on, the Army spokesperson said, adding that the statement by the PLA Western Theatre Command was an attempt “to mislead their domestic and international audience.” “The Indian Army is committed to maintaining peace and tranquillity; however, it is also determined to protect national integrity and sovereignty at all costs,” he noted. Brigadier-level talks have been going on for de-escalation in the area but have made no progress. Tensions have been running high on the south bank since August 29. In a pre-emptive move on the night of August 29 and 30, the Army occupied some unoccupied heights in the Chushul sector from Thakung to Rechin La within the Indian perception of the LAC, to foil the PLA’s attempts to dominate the heights. The Army had said PLA troops carried out aggressive moves on the night of August 29 to change the status quo and they were thwarted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pla-fired-shots-in-the-air-says-india/article32556644.ece
09 September 2020||MANGALURU,||Six arrested, blackbuck hide and antlers seized in Koppal district||The Police Forest Mobile Squad, Mangaluru, has busted a racket in hunting blackbuck and selling their hide and antlers in Koppal district. The squad arrested six persons from Hunasihala village in Yelburga taluk of Koppal district in this connection on Monday. It seized 20 number of hide, two antlers, a blackbuck calf and three motorcycles from the accused. The six were arrested at Hunasihala Cross in that district when they were on the lookout for customers. A release from the Office of Police Sub-Inspector, Forest Mobile Squad, Mangaluru, gave the names of the arrested as Thugleppa (37), Sharanappa Amarappa Chauhan (30), Mallaya Hiremath (30), Shivayya Hiremath (34), Sangappa Kattimani (34) and Hanumanth Kattimani (35). They were trying to sell each one of the hide at Rs. 50,000. The contraband had been wrapped in gunny bags. When the personnel of the squad and Forest Department officials confronted the accused, they tried to escape. However, they were rounded up and questioned by the personnel of the squad. The accused had sold meat after hunting the blackbuck. They were booked under Wildlife Protection Act 1972, Police Sub-Inspector, Police Forest Mobile Squad, Mangaluru, Purushothama A. said and added that the case has been handed over to the Range Forest Officer in Koppal. In all, seven personnel of the squad were involved in the operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/six-arrested-blackbuck-hide-and-antlers-seized-in-koppal-district/article32556875.ece
09 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Digital divide shadows education in the aftermath of pandemic||Schools across the country have now been closed for six months due to COVID-19, but this means vastly different things for different people. For the child in urban Himachal Pradesh, where Internet penetration is higher than 70%, it likely means online schooling, Zoom classes and digital textbooks. For the child in rural Odisha, where less than 6% of households have Internet facilities, such options are out of the question. A recent report on the latest National Statistical Organisation (NSO) survey shows just how stark is the digital divide across States, cities and villages, and income groups. The survey on household social consumption related to education was part of the NSO’s 75th round, conducted from July 2017 to June 2018. The final report was released recently. Across India, only one in 10 households have a computer — whether a desktop, laptop or tablet. However, almost a quarter of all homes have Internet facilities, accessed via a fixed or mobile network using any device, including smartphones. Most in cities Most of these Internet-enabled homes are located in cities, where 42% have Internet access. In rural India, however, only 15% are connected to the Internet. The national capital has the highest Internet access, with 55% of homes having such facilities. Himachal Pradesh and Kerala are the only other States where more than half of all households have Internet.  Internet penetration At the other end of the spectrum is Odisha, where only one in 10 homes have Internet. There are 10 other States with less than 20% Internet penetration, including States with software hubs such as Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. The biggest divide is by economic status, which the NSO marks by dividing the population into five equal groups, or quintiles, based on their usual monthly per capita expenditure. Even in Odisha, almost 63% of homes in the top urban quintile have Internet facilities. In the poorest quintile of rural Odisha, however, that figure drops to an abysmal 2.4%. Kerala shows the least inequality: more than 39% of the poorest rural homes have Internet, in comparison to 67% of the richest urban homes. Himachal Pradesh also fares well, with 40% of the lowest rural quintile having Internet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/digital-divide-shadows-education-in-the-aftermath-of-pandemic/article32556642.ece
09 September 2020||Kochi,||Three firms bid for biomining of waste in Brahmapuram||Three consortiums, including domestic and international, have bid for the rehabilitation of nearly one-lakh cubic metres of old waste lying at the Brahmapuram dumping yard. They include Zonta Infratech Pvt Ltd. and Bauer GmbH, Germany; GJ Nature Care Energy Pvt Ltd and Equipo, Poland; and Tholani Clean Energy Pvt Ltd and Geetanjali Envirotech, Mumbai. The Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC), the nodal agency for the engagement of private players for waste management solutions, will evaluate the technical and financial bids submitted. The firms have to prove their expertise in handling of old waste as per the rules specified under Solid Waste Management (SWM) Rules, 2016. They should produce a certificate from clients for whom they had undertaken similar work, according to the KSIDC. Biomedical plant The selected firm will have to biomine the existing legacy waste and recover the entire area, including the land allotted to the Indian Medical Association, for the development of a biomedical treatment plant. It should ensure recovery of the land by cutting and levelling it to the maximum possible extent, aimed at getting a relatively flat land after biomining. The successful bidder has to scientifically process the old garbage as per the guidelines specified in SWM Rules 2016. The project will be based on Design and Build Basis. The agency selected should submit a management plan for dump site land reclamation, excavation, screening and resource recovery, biomining of unprocessed municipal solid waste, and development of facility for scientific disposal of residual solid waste. The government has accorded a time period of nine months to biomine the heaps of waste after work order is issued to the firm chosen for the project. The Department of Local-Self Government and the Kochi Corporation will be responsible for ensuring that the firm completes the work within the time-frame.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-firms-bid-for-biomining-of-waste-in-brahmapuram/article32556959.ece
09 September 2020||Bengaluru,||HC stays law on 25% quota for Karnataka students in NLSIU||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday stayed the implementation of National Law School of India (Amendment) Act, 2020, that provides reservation of 25% of the total seats in the National Law School of India University (NLSIU) for students of Karnataka. A Division Bench comprising Justice B.V. Nagarathna and Justice Ravi V. Hosmani passed the interim order on the petitions filed by Master Balachandar Krishnan, an aspirant to a seat in NLSIU, the Bar Council of India, and others. The petitioners had questioned the constitutional validity of the new Act. Meanwhile, the Bench directed the NLSIU to publish the merit list without adopting the 25% horizontal reservation made for the Karnataka students as per the new Act. However, despite the stay of new Act, the Bench allowed the NLSIU to prepare a separate merit list as per the seat matrix notified on August 4 in terms of reservation provided in the new Act subject to the final outcome of the petitions. The Bench also clarified that the list, to be prepared reserving 25% of the seats horizontally for Karnataka students is concerned, should not be notified or published in any manner pending disposal of the petitions. “In view of the interim stay of the impugned amendment granted by us, only that portion of the notification dated August 4, 2020 is stayed which grants 5% concession on the cut-off score to Karnataka students. It is clarified that we have not issued any interim order regarding the increase of seats from 80 to 120,” the Bench made it clear. It further clarified that all the admissions to be made shall be provisional and subject to the final result of these petitions The Bench on September 1 had reserved its final verdict on the question of constitutional validity of the new Act after completion of arguments. However, NLSIU subsequently filed an application before the Bench informing about its decision to conduct its own entrance test for selection to students for the academic year 2020-21, citing repeated postponement of Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) to be conducted by the consortium of National Law Universities across India. Following this application, the Bench on Tuesday found it necessary to pass an interim order, keeping in mind the interest of students, as it was not possible to deliver final verdict on the petitions before September 12, the date on which the NLSIU is scheduled to hold its own National Law Aptitude Test (NLAT) for selecting candidates for admission as against CLAT, which is to be held on September 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-stays-law-on-25-quota-for-karnataka-students-in-nlsiu/article32556690.ece
09 September 2020||Mumbai,||COVID-19 cases in State cross 9.43 lakh with 20,131 additions||Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 20,131 new COVID-19 cases, taking its tally to 9,43,772, while the death toll went up to 27,407 with 380 patients succumbing to the infection, the State Health Department said. A total of 13,234 patients were discharged after treatment in the day, taking the number of recoveries in the State to 6,72,556, a health official said. The State is now has 2,43,446 active cases. Of the 380 fatalities, 256 occurred in the last 48 hours while 94 had occurred in the past week. The remaining 30 deaths were from earlier, but added to the data on last Friday, the official said. With 1,346 new cases, Mumbai’s case tally rose to 1,58,756, while 42 fatalities took the death toll to 7,942. The Mumbai division, which consists of Mumbai city and its satellite towns, reported 3,868 new cases, taking the total count of infections to 3,69,968. The division has seen 13,469 deaths so far. Pune city reported 1,711 cases and 35 fatalities in the day, taking its total infection count to 1,16,951 and toll to 2,817, the official said. The number of cases in the Pune division stood at 2,51,068 while the count of casualties reached 5,853, he said. The Nashik division’s total infection count reached 1,19,740 and the death toll rose to 2,628, the official said while Kolhapur division has a total of 56,636 cases and 1,612 patients have died. The number of cases and fatalities in the Aurangabad division stood at 36,992 and 1,005, respectively. The Latur division has 34,173 cases with 982 deaths, while Akola division’s case tally reached 21,998 with 540 fatalities. The number of infections in Nagpur division rose to 52,272 with 1,232 deaths. A total of 15,57,305 people have been placed under home quarantine while another 38,141 are in institutional quarantine in the State, the official said. Till date, 47,89,682 COVID-19 tests have been conducted in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-cases-in-state-cross-943-lakh-with-20131-additions/article32557058.ece
09 September 2020||NEW DELHI/Mumbai,||Rhea Chakraborty arrested by NCB||The bail plea of actor Rhea Chakraborty, who was arrested on Tuesday by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case, was rejected late in the evening. She was sent to 14 days judicial custody by a magistrate’s court. Following her arrest, the NCB stated, “It is clear from her statement that she is an active member of the drug syndicate connected with drug suppliers. It is also clear that she used to procure drugs for Sushant. She used to manage finance for drug procurement along with Sushant.” While seeking her judicial custody, NCB relied on the statements of Rajput’s househelp Dipesh Sawant, Ms. Chakraborty’s brother Showik and Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda. The arrest comes after Ms Chakraborty was questioned for three days. NCB’s remand application seeking Ms. Chakraborty’s custody mentioned, “During Ms Chakraborty’s statement on all three days she was confronted by all the accused and facts in their statement was verified. She has acknowledged their statement and her role explained. She revealed her involvement in procurement of drug and financial transaction and also her instructions to Mr. Miranda, Mr. Sawant and Mr. Chakraborty .” In a parallel development, the Bandra police registered an FIR charging Rajput’s sisters — Priyanka and Meetu Singh — with abetting their brother’s suicide.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rhea-chakraborty-arrested-by-ncb/article32556646.ece
09 September 2020||TAURU (NUH),||Woman held for killing girl child||“I was quivering with fear and guilt as I threw her into the septic tank. But I had lost my mind. My son and his wife were happy having three daughters, but I wanted a grandson to continue the family line,” said Laxmi inside the women’s lock-up at Tauru police station here on Tuesday. The 58-year-old woman was arrested for killing her month-old granddaughter in the courtyard of their house in Nuh’s Jaurasi village in the early hours of Friday. Lowest sex ratio Haryana has the lowest child sex ratio in the country — 834 in the 0-6 age group as per 2011 census — and reportedly a large number of illegally operating sex determination clinics. The newborn was sleeping with her mother on the intervening night of September 3 and 4. When the girl’s mother Manisha woke up a little after 1 a.m., she found the child missing. Laxmi said she had seen a big black cat around the house during the day and suggested the feline could have taken away the baby. After several hours of futile search, the family informed the police in the evening, but did not want any legal action. Two days later, an informer told the police that a family member was behind the murder. “We interrogated the family and Laxmi confessed to the crime,” said Sub-Inspector Bir Singh, the investigation officer. It was revealed during her interrogation that the couple did not want more children after the birth of their third daughter and planned to undergo sterilisation. But the accused wanted a grandson. “I thought that if the newborn was killed, they won’t go for sterilisation and plan another child,” said Laxmi. The IO said a police officer was a complainant in the case as the family could turn hostile during the trial.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/woman-held-for-killing-girl-child/article32556834.ece
09 September 2020||Kolkata,||‘No decision on Durga Puja yet’||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said a rumour is being spread that Durga Pujas will not be organised in the State when no such decision has been taken. “We have not taken any such decision. We are in the middle of a pandemic. No meeting with the [Durga Puja] clubs, which is held every year, has been held so far,” she said. The CM directed the police to take strong action against those who were spreading the rumours. “A political party is spreading vicious rumours about Durga Puja. So far, we have not had any meeting on it. Prove that the West Bengal government has said there will be no Durga Puja, I will do sit-ups in front of people 101 times,” she said at an event organised at the State Secretariat to observe ‘Police Day’ in the State. While Ms. Banerjee did not mention the name of the party, her remarks were directed at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). “Everyone knows who has done this. I won’t take any name. Those who have never done Durga Pujas are spreading this fake news,” she said. The State is yet to come out with any recommendations on holding Durga Pujas in the State. According to the government, lockdown will be observed in all containment zones till September 30 and the State will observe a complete lockdown on September 11 and 12. Durga Puja is not only the biggest socio-religious carnival in the State, it is also one of primary drivers of the State’s economy. The West Bengal police took note of the CM’s remarks and urged people not to pay heed to such rumours. “A rumour regarding Durga Puja is being spread through WhatsApp. No such decision has been taken. Please do not forward this message. It’s fake. Action is being taken,” they tweeted. During the event, Ms. Banerjee also targeted Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh and said there had been repeated remarks “targeting the police, who are doing exemplary work in the times of the pandemic”. Without naming the BJP leader, she said that he was calling for a social boycott of the family of police personnel. Mr. Ghosh has repeatedly made references targeting the police and accusing it of serving the interests of the ruling party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-decision-on-durga-puja-yet/article32557006.ece
09 September 2020||CHENNAI,||PM-Kisan scam: Rs. 110 crore paid to 5.5 lakh ineligible persons||An estimated Rs. 110 crore was fraudulently credited to the bank accounts of 5.5 lakh ineligible persons in 13 districts of Tamil Nadu under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-Kisan) Scheme during the past few months, State Agriculture Secretary Gagandeep Singh Bedi said on Tuesday. As much as Rs. 32 crore has been recovered so far. Addressing the media in Chennai, Mr. Bedi said 80 persons had been ‘dismissed’ and “major disciplinary action” initiated against 34 government officials. Among them were three Assistant Directors of Agriculture, who were suspended. The ‘dismissed’ staff included those working at computer centres and as block managers. Further action would be taken based on the probe report of the CB-CID. As many as 18 persons had been arrested so far, he added. The government is hoping to recover the remaining amount within a couple of months as it has the bank account and Aadhaar card details of the beneficiaries in question.  ‘Corona money’ Blaming the “staff in computer centres and private agents” for the scam, Mr. Bedi contended that they had conspired to cheat “innocent farmers” by misguiding them and asking them to share their bank account details, with the promise of getting them “Corona money”. Under the PM-Kisan Scheme, eligible farmers would get Rs. 6,000 annually, in three equal instalments, during a fiscal. The amount would be credited to their bank accounts. There are over 40 lakh eligible farmer-beneficiaries in Tamil Nadu. Modus operandi Mr. Bedi said the login IDs and passwords of government officials were misused by agents through data entry operators to validate the applications of ineligible persons. The passwords have since been reset. A syndicate of computer centre operators is suspected to have been behind the scam in 13 districts, including Chengalpattu, Cuddalore, Dharmapuri, Kallakurichi, Kancheepuram, Krishnagiri, Ranipet, Salem, Tiruvannamalai, Vellore and Villupuram. Kallakurichi and Villupuram districts were the ‘epicentre’ of the scam, Mr. Bedi said. While over 5.5 lakh ineligible persons from 13 districts had been included as beneficiaries since March, the remaining 25 districts accounted for just one lakh new applicants. The scam is believed to have taken place when most of the Agriculture Department officials were involved in COVID-19-related work, Mr. Bedi said, adding that it came to the government’s attention by August. However, he acknowledged that there could be “some black sheep” among government officials too. The State government had zero tolerance for such illegal acts, the Agriculture Secretary said. It had recovered a huge sum in just 10 days, unlike what happened in other States like Assam, Manipur and Uttar Pradesh, which had seen similar scams, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pm-kisan-scam-rs-110-crore-paid-to-55-lakh-ineligible-persons/article32556736.ece
09 September 2020||New Delhi,||Former V-C’s plea in SC||In a petition before the Supreme Court, NLSIU’s former Vice-Chancellor R. Venkat Rao contended that the decision taken by the premiere institution in Bengaluru to turn its back on the Common Law Admission Test and devise its own online admission amid the pandemic threatens to alter the public perception of it from an “island of excellence” to one of exclusion.page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/former-v-cs-plea-in-sc/article32556688.ece
09 September 2020||GUNTUR,||Jaya Prakash Reddy dead||Actor Jaya Prakash Reddy, popularly known as JP, died at his Vidya Nagar residence here in the wee hours of Tuesday following cardiac arrest. He was 74. Born on May 8, 1946 at Sirivella village in Allagadda mandal of Kurnool district, Jaya Prakash Reddy started his career as a teacher of a municipal school and later had become the head master. While continuing his profession, he had also dabbled in theatre activity and got fame as a well-known stage artiste in 1980s. Later, he moved to cinema, and Venkatesh-starrer Brahmaputrudu released in 1988 gave him a big break. His dialogue delivery in the Rayalaseema accent in the film was well received.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jaya-prakash-reddy-dead/article32556634.ece
09 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cong. to approach DMK for RS Dy. Chairman nominee||Opposition parties should field a joint candidate for the post of Deputy Chairman of the Rajya Sabha, the Congress decided after a virtual meeting of its parliamentary strategy group on Tuesday. The meeting, presided over by party president Sonia Gandhi, comes ahead of the monsoon session of Parliament that gets under way on September 14. Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad is authorised to hold talks with other Opposition parties on the issue. The Congress also decided to demand full-length debates on the border hostility with China and the situation in Ladakh, the alarming rise in COVID-19 cases, the collapse of the economy because of the nationwide lockdown and the contraction of the GDP by 23.9%. The post of Deputy Chairman fell vacant after Janata Dal (United) member Harivansh completed his term in April. The Congress is likely to approach the DMK to put up a candidate. The process of choosing a new Deputy Chairman was delayed because of the pandemic. The last date for filing the nomination is September 11. Polling is to be held on September 14. Other issues that were discussed at the Congress meet included the restoration of Question Hour, the Centre’s failure to meet its GST obligation toward the States, the proposed environment impact assessment and ordinances, including one related to the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code. A meeting with other Opposition parties is being planned ahead of the monsoon session for better floor coordination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cong-to-approach-dmk-for-rs-dy-chairman-nominee/article32556645.ece
09 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||No fine for driving alone without mask||After a flurry of criticism from motorists over fines for not wearing masks while driving alone, the Delhi Traffic Police on Tuesday withdrew the order with immediate effect. A person driving a car alone does not have to wear a mask, said a senior police officer. Earlier, motorists were fined for not wearing masks, irrespective of the person being alone or with other passengers in the car. Tuesday’s order, passed by DCP (Traffic), states that the traffic police shall not challan any person for not wearing a mask, spitting in public place etc. “The local police will issue challans in case more than one person is travelling in a car without wearing masks,” said Anil Mittal, Additional PRO, Delhi Police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-fine-for-driving-alone-without-mask/article32556832.ece
09 September 2020||Kolkata,||WB Assembly session begins today as cases near 1.9 lakh||West Bengal on Tuesday recorded 3,091 new cases of COVID-19 in the past 24 hours taking the total number of cases in the State to 1,86,956. The State also recorded 57 deaths, taking its total death toll to 3,677. Kolkata recorded 19 of them, taking its toll to 1,411 and the North 24 Parganas 12, taking the toll to 832. The discharge rate remained pegged at 85.6%. The State government observed ‘Police Day’ where the personnel who are at the forefront in the fight against COVID-19 were honoured. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said 24 personnel — nine from the Kolkata police and 15 from West Bengal police — have so far succumbed to the infection. She said the State government is giving jobs to one person from each of the 24 families. Meanwhile, the monsoon session of the State Assembly will begin on Wednesday. During the day, tests of all employees including police personnel were carried out. There will be no question hour in the session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/wb-assembly-session-begins-today-as-cases-near-19-lakh/article32557007.ece
09 September 2020||September 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Running out of time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/running-out-of-time/article32556739.ece
09 September 2020||KOCHI,||ED summons Bineesh Kodiyeri||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has asked Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, to appear at its Kochi office on Wednesday for interrogation in connection with the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling and the recent Bengaluru drugs seizure cases. The probe is to find out whether the accused in the gold smuggling case received any assistance from Mr. Bineesh Kodiyeri for the clandestine operations, sources said. One of the arrested in the drugs case in Bengaluru had revealed that Mr. Bineesh Kodiyeri had extended him financial assistance. Mr. Bineesh Kodiyeri was unavailable for comments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ed-summons-bineesh-kodiyeri/article32556955.ece
09 September 2020||KAKINADA,||Minister sees conspiracy in Antarvedi incident||Endowments Minister Vellampalli Srinivas on Tuesday claimed that the fire incident at Lord Lakshmi Narasimha Swami temple at Antarvedi in East Godavari district on September 6 was a conspiracy against the State government. He said the State government would bring the facts out soon. Speaking to newsmen after inspecting the temple where a 50-foot chariot was gutted, Mr. Srinivas said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had sought a report on the incident from a group of Ministers, including him, B.C. Welfare Minister Ch. Venugopala Krishna and Social Welfare Minister P. Viswaroop. The police and forensic experts were also probing the incident. The Minister said some temple property, such as chariots, were normally kept outside the temples. All the temples had been directed to ensure safety of chariots and other property and bring them under the CC camera surveillance system, he said. Tension Tension prevailed for some time on the temple premises when people under the banner of various Hindu religious organisations thronged Antarvedi and tried to enter the temple. The police allowed only the Ministers and key officials for the inspection. The locals and those associated with the religious groups blocked the convoy of the Ministers for some time, preventing them from proceeding to inspect the temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/minister-sees-conspiracy-in-antarvedi-incident/article32556635.ece
09 September 2020||September 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Five missing youth found in China: Rijiju||The five Arunachal Pradesh youths, who were allegedly captured by the PLA less than a week ago, have been found in China, said Union Minister Kiren Rijiju on Tuesday, adding that the modalities of their handover were being worked out. “The five hunters had inadvertently crossed over to the other side on September 2,” Army spokesperson Lt. Col. Harsh Wardhan Pande said.Page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-missing-youth-found-in-china-rijiju/article32556638.ece
09 September 2020||September 09 2020 00:00 IST,||LAC queries not allowed at meeting||At a meeting of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on External Affairs on Tuesday, questions from Opposition members on the situation on the Line of Actual Control were shot down, according to the sources, citing “national security”. Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla, along with other senior officials from the External Affairs Ministry, deposed before the committee.page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lac-queries-not-allowed-at-meeting/article32556639.ece
09 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. issues SOP for Classes IX-XII||The guidelines issued on Tuesday by the Health Ministry for partial reopening of schools for Classes IX to XII said only schools outside the containment zones will be allowed to reopen. Students of the senior classes will be allowed to attend classes on a voluntary basis from September 21. “Online/distance learning shall continue to be permitted and shall be encouraged and students of Class IX to XII shall be permitted to visit their school on voluntary basis for taking guidance from their teachers. This will be subject to written consent of their parents/guardians,” the Ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-issues-sop-for-classes-ix-xii/article32556641.ece
09 September 2020||Bengaluru,||BIAL to develop 2 metro stations on KIA premises||The Bangalore International Airport Ltd. (BIAL), the operator of Kempegowda International Airport, will develop, manage and maintain two metro stations that will be located within the airport boundary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bial-to-develop-2-metro-stations-on-kia-premises/article32556692.ece
09 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Five COVID-19 warriors to inaugurate Dasara||In the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, the 10-day Dasara celebrations would be held in Mysuru in a simple way next month. It will be inaugurated by five COVID-19 warriors. Crowd pullers such as Yuva Dasara, flower expo, sports, food mela, film festival, and yoga will not be organised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-covid-19-warriors-to-inaugurate-dasara/article32556694.ece
09 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Oxygen supply to Belagavi hospitals hit||Oxygen-dependent patients in nearly 30 hospitals of five taluks of Belagavi district are hit as oxygen supply to these hospitals has been affected for the last one week. Dealers are finding procurement difficult following an order from the Kolhapur Deputy Commissioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/oxygen-supply-to-belagavi-hospitals-hit/article32556693.ece
09 September 2020||New Delhi,||As testing crosses 40K, Delhi records 3,609 cases||With the Capital reporting a record 45,797 COVID-19 tests, the number of fresh cases went up to 3,609 in the past 24 hours — taking the total to 1,97,135. This is the highest number of cases reported in the city in 77 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/as-testing-crosses-40k-delhi-records-3609-cases/article32556836.ece
09 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Services on Blue, Pink lines to resume today||The Delhi Metro is set to restart services on the Blue and Pink lines on Wednesday, after resuming operations on the Yellow Line on Monday. All three lines will function between 7 a.m. and 11 a.m. and 4 p.m. and 8 p.m. The Blue Line has 58 stations and the Pink Line has 38 stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/services-on-blue-pink-lines-to-resume-today/article32556838.ece
09 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Prescription not a must for COVID-19 testing’||In the wake of rising COVID-19 cases here, the Delhi High Court on Tuesday said doctor’s prescription is not required for testing and asked private laboratories to allow 2,000 tests per day. The court clarified that people need to carry Aadhaar card for Delhi address proof.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/prescription-not-a-must-for-covid-19-testing/article32556837.ece
09 September 2020||HUBBALLI,||318 new cases, eight deaths in Dharwad||Dharwad district recorded 318 new COVID-19 positive cases and eight deaths, while 274 persons were discharged from hospitals on Tuesday. Meanwhile, Belagavi reported 230 new cases and 160 discharged patients, Davangere 240 new cases, two deaths and 198 discharged patients, Bagalkot 212 new cases and 165 discharged patients, Gadag 196 new cases, two deaths and 130 discharged patients, Haveri 165 new cases, four deaths and 382 discharged patients, Vijayapura 61 new cases, two deaths and 73 discharged patients, Uttara Kannada 24 new cases, four deaths and 72 discharged patients and Chitradurga reported 23 new cases and 179 discharged patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/318-new-cases-eight-deaths-in-dharwad/article32556872.ece
09 September 2020||Navi Mumbai,||10-year-old girl dies in chawl collapse at Taloja||A 10-year-old girl died after six rooms of a chawl in Pendhar village at Taloja MIDC collapsed on Tuesday morning. The girl has been identified as Hina Munna Harijan. Her three siblings also suffered injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/10-year-old-girl-dies-in-chawl-collapse-at-taloja/article32557059.ece
09 September 2020||New Delhi,||3 of Kabir Kala Manch held in Bhima-Koregaon case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested three members of a cultural organisation, all residents ofi Pune in the 2018 Bhima- Koregaon case for allegedly spreading the ideology of Maoism or Naxalism, and encouraging unlawful activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/3-of-kabir-kala-manch-held-in-bhima-koregaon-case/article32557060.ece
09 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘18 officers punished for Palghar lynching’||The Maharashtra police informed the Supreme Court on Tuesday that 18 police officers have been punished for negligence and dereliction of duty for their inability to prevent the lynching of two sadhus by a mob at Palghar during the national lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/18-officers-punished-for-palghar-lynching/article32557061.ece
09 September 2020||Chennai,||2,000 mini clinics to be opened soon, says CM||Around 2,000 ‘mini clinics’ will be opened across the State for treating patients with headache, mild fever and other ailments, as several hospitals are reluctant to treat patients for fear of COVID-19, said Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2000-mini-clinics-to-be-opened-soon-says-cm/article32556731.ece
09 September 2020||Dindigul,||Kodaikanal to welcome tourists from today||Tourists from other districts can visit Kodaikanal from Wednesday. Those applying for an e-pass to Kodaikanal can click on the ‘tourist’ category, said Dindigul Collector. Only Bryant Park, Rose Garden and Chettiar Park will be open for now. The decision follows a representation from various trade and tourist associations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kodaikanal-to-welcome-tourists-from-today/article32556734.ece
09 September 2020||Chennai,||T.N. records 5,684 more cases, 87 deaths||Tamil Nadu recorded 5,684 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday. Another 87 persons died of the infection taking the death toll past 8,000. A total of 6,599 persons were discharged on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-records-5684-more-cases-87-deaths/article32556733.ece
09 September 2020||Chennai,||Toll in T.N. crosses 8,000 with 87 more deaths||Telangana’s COVID-19 fatalities crossed the 900-mark on Monday, with 11 more deaths. The toll moved up to 906. On Monday, 2,392 samples tested positive, taking the total to 1,45,163. Over the past 11 days, deaths ranged from nine to 11 per day. On September 4, the Telangana High Court had observed that the tally of nine to 10 deaths a day due to COVID-19 given by the State government was ‘unbelievable’. The Health department said on Tuesday that the percentage of deaths due to COVID-19 was 46.13% and due to co-morbidities 53.87%. These numbers remained unchanged for over a month. On September 7, the State tested 60,923 samples and results of 1,606 samples were awaited. The 2,392 fresh cases included 304 from Greater Hyderabad, 191 from Rangareddy, 157 from Karimnagar, 132 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 116 from Khammam, 105 from Nalgonda, 102 from Nizamabad, 101 from Suryapet. In Andhra Pradesh, it was back to over 10,000 new cases. With 10,601 new infections on Tuesday, the tally rose to 5,17,094; the toll mounted with 73 new deaths, the Health Department said. As many as 70,993 samples were tested in the past day. The positivity rate of tests was 12.20% and tests per million were 79,345. Confirmed cases per million came to 9,683. Prakasam reported the highest single-day tally and five districts reported more than a thousand cases while Guntur reported the highest number of fatalities. New cases and deaths were: Prakasam (1,457 cases and 7 deaths), East Godavari (1,426 and 5), Chittoor (1,178 and 8), West Godavari (1,122 and 5), Nellore (1,042 and 6), Kadapa (801 and 7), Guntur (702 and 10), Vizianagaram (598 and 1), Kurnool (514 and 2), Srikakulam (505 and 3), Anantapur (441 and 8), Visakhapatnam (426 and 6) and Krishna (389 and 5). Meanwhile, East Godavari’s infection tally was close to 70,000 and that of Kurnool to 50,000. As testing picked up again in Kerala after the weekend, daily cases also went up on Tuesday. The State tested 37,264 samples in 24 hours, picking up 3,026 new cases. Patients in hospitals stood at 23,217, and 227 patients were in ICU, 54 on ventilator support. Tthe Health department added 13 deaths on Tuesday. Four deaths were in Thiruvananthapuram, three each in Kannur and Ernakulam, two in Kozhikode and one in Thrissur. On a day when Tamil Nadu recorded 5,684 more cases of COVID-19, the State’s toll crossed 8,000 with another 87 persons succumbing to the infection. The State’s overall tally of cases climbed to 4,74,940. A total of 50,213 persons are presently under treatment in the State.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Thiruvananthapuram, and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ap-again-records-over-10000-new-infections/article32556590.ece
09 September 2020||GUWAHATI,||‘Five missing Arunachal youth found in China’||The five Arunachal Pradesh youth, who were allegedly captured by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) less than a week ago, have been found in China, said Union Minister of State for Sports and Youth Affairs Kiren Rijiju. “China’s PLA has responded to the hotline message sent by Indian Army. They have confirmed that the missing youth from Arunachal Pradesh have been found by their side. Further modalities to hand over the persons to our authority is being worked out,” the Minister tweeted on Tuesday evening. Mr. Rijiju is the BJP MP for the Arunachal West constituency that covers Upper Subansiri district. Officials in Arunachal Pradesh hoped the PLA would return the five teenagers soon, just as the Indian Army had handed over 13 yaks and four calves to China on September 7. The bovines had strayed into East Kameng district west of Upper Subansiri on August 31. “The five missing hunters who had inadvertently crossed over to the other side on September 2, were traced as a result of the Army’s persistent efforts. Formalities for their early transfer is being coordinated with the Chinese Army,” said Lt. Col. Harsh Wardhan Pande, Army spokesperson in Assam’s Tezpur. The five teenagers of the Tagin community from the Nacho area of Upper Subansiri district had gone hunting to the Tungdara Mountain or Sera-7, close to the Line of Actual Control (LAC) between India and China. They went missing on September 4, and members of their families claimed they were taken away by PLA personnel. Citing the incident and several others in the past, local NGOs have urged the Central government to improve the “pathetic road and other infrastructure” in Upper Subansiri and other districts of Arunachal Pradesh bordering China, Bhutan and Myanmar. No clear demarcation “The Indian government needs to ensure there is proper demarcation of the border. There is no way of knowing where the international boundary is, and local people who venture out are often caught unawares,” said Tabu Paktung, president of Tagin Cultural Society.  Hoping that the government and the armed forces would succeed in bringing the five boys back from “across the border”, Mr. Paktung said New Delhi should focus on improving the infrastructure in Upper Subansiri district and elsewhere in the strategic State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/five-missing-arunachal-youth-found-in-china/article32556593.ece
09 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Large parts still vulnerable to COVID-19’||“Our COVID-19 numbers are rising — we haven’t stabilised yet. The pandemic is still on and a large population is still vulnerable,” said NITI Aayog member (Health) V.K. Paul, at a press conference organised by the Health Ministry on Tuesday. He said the Central government was getting repeated complaints from States that people had become lax. “This can prove to be very damaging for the country,” he said. The infection had now spread from big cities to smaller cities and villages. “It is very important that we stay careful and get testing done quickly,” he said. Replying to a question about India being approached by the Russian government for testing and manufacture of its COVID-19 vaccine candidate, he said that “Russia has reached out to India for collaboration on two counts — to consider manufacturing through our network of companies, and phase 3 studies in India — and because the Indian government attaches great importance to this offer of partnership from a very special friend of this nation, on both these offers there has been significant movement”. He said Oxford University’s vaccine candidate, called ‘Covishield’ in India, will soon go into Phase 3 trial in 17 sites across India, including Pune and Delhi. Falling fatality rate Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said India’s case fatality rate was continuously declining and had dropped from 2.15% in the first week of August to 1.7% currently. “Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu account for 70% of COVID-19 deaths in the country, while 14 States/UTs have less than 5,000 COVID-19 cases,” he said. Cumulative COVID-19 tests done so far had exceeded 5 crore. “India has come a long way from conducting just one test from the lab at the National Institute of Virology, Pune, in January 2020 to [touch] 5,06,50,128 on Tuesday. 10,98,621 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours. The average daily tests conducted [week-wise] are demonstrating a consistent increase. This has registered a 3.2 times expansion from the third week of July [3,26,971] to the first week of September [10,46,470],” said a release issued by the Ministry. The country currently has a network of 1,668 testing labs (1035 in the government sector and 633 private labs). The Ministry said eSanjeevani — telemedicine service — had completed 3 lakh teleconsultations. “The platform ensures physical distancing while connecting doctors with patients. It has provided essential healthcare at a critical time when conventional medicine is perceived to be risky owing to the nature of the infectious disease,” noted the Ministry. eSanjeevani has been implemented by 23 States so far and other States are in the process of rolling it out. Tamil Nadu alone has contributed 97,204 consultations and all are on the eSanjeevaniOPD app. Uttar Pradesh is second with 65,173 total consultations. Himachal Pradesh has held the highest number of Ayushman Bharat Health and Wellness Centre (AB-HWC) teleconsultations of eSanjeevani with 30,869 interactions. The State ranks third with a total of 31,689 teleconsultations. Andhra Pradesh and Kerala have conducted 30,189 and 28,173 teleconsultations respectively. Considering the uptake of eSanjeevani by the populace in the States/UTs, tertiary level institutions like Lady Hardinge Medical College & Associated Hospitals, AIIMS Bathinda, AIIMS Bibinagar, AIIMS Rishikesh have also on-boarded eSanjeevani, said the Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/large-parts-still-vulnerable-to-covid-19/article32556609.ece
09 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nutrition guidelines soon: Irani||The long-pending nutrition guidelines for the country are likely to be made public soon, Minister for Women and Child Development Smriti Irani said on Tuesday. The guidelines are likely to prescribe healthy diet for pregnant women and lactating mothers and children in the age group of six months to six years, who receive ration and hot cooked meals at anganwadis under the government’s supplementary nutrition programme. The nutrition norms are expected to also suggest ways to source the food distributed at anganwadis and what caloric content these should have. These may also suggest nutrition intake for children who are severe acute malnourished. Ms. Irani was chairing a webinar on “Nutrient Requirement for Children and Mothers during the first 1000 days” as a part of a series of webinars planned to mark September as the National Nutrition Month. She said the guidelines would be sensitive to the issue of coexistence of obesity and under-nutrition, which is also known as the double burden of malnutrition. The first-ever nutrition survey conducted in the country between 2016 and early 2018 found that 2.8% of children in the 0-4 years age group surveyed suffered from the double burden, while 0.8% each in the categories of 5-9 years and 10-19 years also faced the issue. The guidelines have been pending for several years, after Ms. Irani’s predecessor Maneka Gandhi declined to approve the draft guidelines. While Ms. Gandhi favoured ready-to-eat mixes sourced from government or private undertakings, officials wanted food to be sourced locally through the help of self-help groups and emphasised on hot cooked meals — both suggestions derived from the National Food Security Act, 2013.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nutrition-guidelines-soon-irani/article32556627.ece
09 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Firing at LAC clouds Jaishankar-Wang talks||External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar reached Moscow on Tuesday night to attend a meeting of the eight-nation Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, which is expected to prepare for the SCO summit later this year, possibly in October. All eyes, however, are on an expected meeting between Mr. Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on the sidelines of the meeting (September 9-10), amidst a sudden escalation in military tensions at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) after the first gunshots fired there in 45 years. This would be the first face-to-face meeting between the two foreign ministers since the beginning of tensions four months ago. “The Council of Foreign Ministers (CFM) meeting in Moscow will review the preparations for the forthcoming SCO Summit and also exchange views on international and regional issues,” said a statement by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). “External Affairs Minister’s visit in Moscow will include the participation in the Council of SCO Foreign Ministers and other bilateral meetings,” it added. While officials would not confirm the timing for the India-China meeting, Mr. Jaishankar had acknowledged last week that he would meet with Mr. Wang whom he had known “for a very long time”. On Monday, he said the “very serious situation” at the LAC called for “very, very deep conversations between the two sides at a political level”. The meeting between the foreign ministers will follow a week after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh met with his Chinese counterpart General Wei Fenghe, also in Moscow, to discuss easing LAC tensions, but made no breakthrough. The diplomatic challenge ahead of Mr. Jaishankar is heightened by a number of factors, including the fact that the current situation at the LAC is unprecedented, said experts, with undertones of the run-up to the previous India-China war in 1962. ‘Boilerplate approach’ “The Chinese have taken a rather boilerplate approach so far, talking about “rights and wrongs”, just as they did in 1959 as relations began to deteriorate. But political level contacts must continue even as the EAM said yesterday that the crystal ball is pretty clouded at the moment. The situation is not looking good,” said former foreign secretary and former Ambassador to China Nirupama Menon Rao. “I don’t believe there is ground for much optimism on outcomes for such a meeting given the positions taken by each side,” she told The Hindu . The gunshots fired on Monday, which India has blamed the Chinese PLA for starting, were the first firearms used since 1975 at the LAC in Arunachal Pradesh, and the first in Ladakh since the 1962 war. In addition, the killing of soldiers at Galwanwere also the first since 1975, while the death of an SFF soldier, who stepped on a vintage landmine while patrolling near Pangong Tso last week, was the first publicly known killing of a Tibetan soldier at the LAC in Ladakh. It remains to be seen whether the Jaishankar-Wang meeting in Moscow will yield a disengagement and de-escalation of the hostilities between both sides.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/firing-at-lac-clouds-jaishankar-wang-talks/article32556600.ece
09 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||NDA likely to field Harivansh again||The former Deputy Chairman of the Rajya Sabha, Janata Dal(U) member Harivansh Narayan Singh, is most likely to be repeated as the ruling National Democratic Alliance’s (NDA) candidate for the post, while the Opposition announced efforts to put up a joint candidate for the same. Mr. Harivansh, who was elected to the post in 2018, demitted office, as his Rajya Sabha term ended this year. But he has since been re-elected to the House, making him eligible to hold the post again. The numbers in the House have, in recent times, been gradually tilting in favour of the NDA, although government managers say that support from smaller non-NDA parties, such as the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), will be crucial for the election. House numbers The Rajya Sabha has 245 members, and with the biannual polls to 61 seats recently concluded, the BJP and its allies have touched the 113-mark, just nine short of full majority (according to the seats that are currently occupied). A senior Minister said the party was counting on the support of a total of 140 MPs, which would include parties that had voted with the government on Bills earlier. These include the BJD with nine MPs, the BSP, the YSRCP with six MPs and the Telangana Rashtra Samithi with seven MPs. “We do not anticipate much challenge with regard to numbers but will not take any chances,” said a senior Minister close to the developments. Parliament has been convened after a long break due to the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nda-likely-to-field-harivansh-again/article32556604.ece
09 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Won’t push for liberation of temples’||The RSS on Tuesday reiterated its stance that it will not push for the “liberation” of Kashi and Mathura temples, where mosques exist alongside, even as the Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad passed a resolution at a meeting in Prayagraj that it would take up the issue. Senior RSS sources said the stance had been made clear by RSS sarsanghchalak Mohan Bhagwat when the Ramjanmabhoomi verdict came last year. “It is not the focus of the RSS to agitate but to concentrate on man-making, and fostering social unity,” Mr. Bhagwat said that time; the stance was repeated to The Hindu when the ABAP’s resolution was raised. Ram Janmabhoomi, said the sources, had a background and was a matter of faith across the country, making it an exceptional issue in which the RSS was deeply involved. Mr. Bhagwat, at that time, also said the verdict was “not a question of victory or defeat”, but of unity, and that “everyone has to come together to build the temple.” The ABAP is an organisation of Hindu seers, comprising 14 akharas or orders of seers, including the Nirmohi Akhara that was involved in the Ram Janmabhoomi movement. To a question whether, after the abrogation of Article 370 and start of construction of the Ram temple, the RSS would push for a uniform civil code in India, RSS sources said there was need to build a consensus around it. The three issues have been core issues of the Sangh Parivar. “In principle, who wouldn’t want a uniform civil code? But there is need to build consensus, as something that unites the country cannot be polarising,” said a source. RSS sources said it “remains to be seen if there is a public sentiment over Kashi and Mathura, but the matter is not engaging the RSS at present.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wont-push-for-liberation-of-temples/article32556596.ece
09 September 2020||New Delhi,||MPs quiz MEA officials on border crisis||At a meeting of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on External Affairs on Tuesday, questions from members on the situation on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) were disallowed on the grounds of “national security”, sources said. The meeting was called on the agenda of “India’s Neighbourhood First Policy’. Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla, along with other senior officials from the External Affairs Ministry, deposed in front of the committee. The questions raised by some of the Opposition members included reports on the PLA’s claim that Indian troops crossed the LAC and fired shots to deter them from patrolling the Pangong Tso area. The MPs also wanted to know how much of the area, which based on the Indian perception of the LAC, is in Chinese control. The MEA in a statement this morning on the reports of gunshots has already stated that at no stage “has the Indian Army transgressed across the LAC or resorted to use of any aggressive means, including firing”. The Ministry further said it was the PLA troops who were attempting to close-in with one of India’s forward positions along the LAC and when dissuaded by their own troops, PLA troops fired a few rounds in the air in an attempt to intimidate their own troops. ‘Not part of agenda’ However, sources said Committee chairperson and BJP leader P.P. Chaudhary pointed out that for one, this subject is not part of the agenda and therefore, it is unfair to the external affairs officials to expect them to answer the questions. Second, he also pointed out that since the situation is still unfolding and it is an issue of national security, it is best that the committee does not wade into it at present. Mr. Chaudhary did not respond to The Hindu ’s efforts to speak to him. Mr. Shringla and others also did not respond to questions. External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar on Monday had said the situation at eastern Ladakh, where Indian and Chinese troops have been in an eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation since April, was “very serious” and called for “deep conversations between the two sides at the political level”. Members of the Committee expressed concerns that India’s relations with Sri Lanka, Maldives and Nepal have soured while China has managed to strengthen its position among these countries. Tuesday’s meeting of the committee was the last meeting before its dissolution September 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mps-quiz-mea-officials-on-border-crisis/article32556598.ece
09 September 2020||Mumbai,||Deepak Kochhar sent to ED custody till September 19||The Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court here remanded businessman Deepak Kochhar, husband of former managing director and chief executive officer of ICICI Bank, Chanda Kochhar, in the Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) custody till September 19. Mr. Kochhar was arrested by the ED on Monday on money laundering charges. The ED said Mr. Kochhar had been evasive and non-cooperative. He was involved in laundering the proceeds of crime and in projecting the proceeds as untainted. The case pertains to the deals between the Videocon Group of companies and the bank. The ED has relied upon an FIR registered by the CBI in 2019. The accused include Videocon International Electronics Limited (VIEL); Videocon Industries Limited (VIL); V.N. Dhoot, MD, Videocon Group; Ms. Chanda Kochhar, then MD & CEO of ICICI Bank; Mr. Kochhar, MD of Nupower Renewables Limited; Nupower Renewables Limited, which is now known as Nupower Renewables Private Limited; and Supreme Energy Private Limited. High value loans The CBI’s case states, “From June 2009 to October 2011, ICICI Bank sanctioned six high value loans to various Videocon Group companies. On August 26, 2009, Rupee Term Loan of Rs. 300 crore was sanctioned to VIEL in contravention of the rules and policy by the sanctioning committee. Ms. Kochhar was one of the members of the sanctioning committee, who in criminal conspiracy to cheat ICICI Bank and in pursuance of criminal conspiracy on the same day dishonestly by abusing her official position sanctioned this loan in favour of VIEL.” The investigation under the PMLA “revealed that the rate of interest charged by ICICI Bank on the said loan of Rs. 300 crore [which was later refinanced on 26.04.2012 and sanctioned to VIL] was more than 12% per annum, since disbursement of this loan, which at times increased to more than 14% per annum.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/deepak-kochhar-sent-to-ed-custody-till-september-19/article32556606.ece
09 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Deep clean schools that were used as COVID centres’||The Health Ministry SOP (standard operating procedure) issued on Tuesday on partial reopening of schools for students of Classes IX-XII said schools used as quarantine centres should be properly sanitised and deep cleaned before partial functioning is resumed. The guidelines said all work areas intended for teaching and demonstrations, including laboratories and common utility areas, should be sanitised prior to resumption of activities with 1% sodium hypochlorite solution, with particular attention to frequently touched surfaces. “The visits of students to schools and teacher-student interaction must be organised in a staggered manner,” the Ministry said. Students, teachers and employees living in containment zones will not be allowed to attend the school, the Ministry said, adding that students, teachers and employees are advised not to visit areas falling within containment zones. For training institutes The Health Ministry has also issued SOPs for preventive measures in skill or entrepreneurship training institutions, higher educational institutions conducting doctoral courses and post-graduate studies in technical and professional programs requiring laboratory/experimental work. The SOP has also advised that the academic calendar shall be planned to avoid overcrowding, congregation etc. and as far as possible, the calendar should promote a mix of regular classes and online teaching/training, assessments. “The day-wise, time-wise scheduling of teaching/training activities may be done in a staggered manner to avoid overcrowding at any one location on any day. For practical activities in laboratories, maximum capacity per session based on redesigned spaces may be planned and scheduled accordingly,” noted the SOP. In all educational institutions — all employees who are at higher risk i.e., older employees, pregnant employees and employees who have underlying medical conditions, must take extra precautions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/deep-clean-schools-that-were-used-as-covid-centres/article32556611.ece
09 September 2020||New Delhi,||Arrested activists allege NIA pressure to apologise||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested three members of a cultural organisation in the 2018 Bhima Koregaon case for allegedly spreading the ideology of Maoism or Naxalism, and encouraging unlawful activities. The three accused have been identified as Sagar Tatyaram Gorkhe, 32, Ramesh Murlidhar Gaichor, 36, and Jyoti Raghoba Jagtap, 33, all residents of Pune. A day before he was arrested, Mr. Gorkhe put out a video statement on Kabir Kala Manch’s Facebook page where he claimed that the NIA was forcing them to become a State witness and tender an apology.  “We were called for questioning last month and were released by the NIA after being examined. The NIA asked us to write an apology and told us that we will be released if we do so. We refused as we are the sons of Ambedkar and not a follower of Savarkar. We might be arrested today,” the video posted on Monday morning said. Mr. Gorkhe and Mr. Gaichor had received summons to appear before the NIA on Monday. They said in the video that they had performed on stage at the Elgar Parishad rally on December 31, 2017, and the next day a mob led by Sambhaji Bhide and Milind Ekbote attacked the people who had congregated there. In a press release, the NIA claimed that Kabir Kala Manch is a frontal organisation of the banned terrorist organisation, CPI (Maoist). “Arrests of these three should be considered as an alert,” the Manch said. The NIA said the case was originally registered by the Pune police for “inciting people and giving provocative speeches during Elgar Parishad organised at Shaniwarwada in Pune by the activists of Kabir Kala Manch on 31.12.2017, which promoted enmity between various caste groups and led to violence, resulting in loss of life and property and Statewide agitation in Maharashtra”. The NIA took up the investigation of the case on January 24 this year and arrested Dalit scholar Anand Teltumbde and journalist Gautam Navlakha on April 14. Delhi University professor Hanybabu Musaliyavirtil Tarayil was arrested on July 28. The agency said that the three accused arrested on Tuesday were propagating Naxal activities and Maoist ideology, and were co-conspirators with the other arrested accused. “It has also come on record that the arrested accused persons were in contact with absconding accused Milind Teltumbde about Urban network of CPI (Maoist). Also, it is established that during their visits [of Kabir Kala Manch members] in the jungle, they underwent weapon and explosive training and awareness programme on various topics related to Maoist movement,” the NIA said. The accused were remanded to police custody till September 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/arrested-activists-allege-nia-pressure-to-apologise/article32556616.ece
09 September 2020||New Delhi,||40% children not fully vaccinated: NSO report||Although almost all children in India are vaccinated against tuberculosis, and receive their birth dose of polio vaccine, two out of five children do not complete their immunisation programme, according to the ‘Health in India’ report recently published by the National Statistical Organisation (NSO). Most of these children remain unprotected against measles, and partially protected against a range of other diseases. In the national capital, less than half of all children have been given all eight required vaccines. The report is based on the 75th round of the National Sample Survey (July 2017-June 2018) on household social consumption related to health. Across the country, only 59.2% of children under five years are fully immunised, according to the NSO report. This contradicts the Centre’s Health Management Information System portal data, which claimed that full immunisation coverage for 2017-18 stood at 86.7%. Eight doses Full immunisation means that a child receives a cocktail of eight vaccine doses in the first year of life. About 97% of children across the country received at least one vaccination — mostly BCG and/or the first dose of OPV at birth — a statistic that remains steady across income groups and geographies. However, only 67% of children are protected against measles. Only 58% got their polio booster dose, while 54% got their DPT booster dose. Among States, Manipur (75%), Andhra Pradesh (73.6%) and Mizoram (73.4%) recorded the highest rates of full immunisation. At the other end of the spectrum lies Nagaland, where only 12% of children received all vaccinations, followed by Puducherry (34%) and Tripura (39.6%).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/40-children-not-fully-vaccinated-nso-report/article32556633.ece
09 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Russia to create conducive environment to ease conflict’||Russia is creating a positive environment for resolution of international disputes, an official of the Embassy of Russia said on Tuesday. At an online press interaction, Roman Babushkin, Deputy Chief of Mission in India, said Moscow hopes officials from Delhi and Beijing will find “mutually acceptable solution” to the crisis in eastern Ladakh. “We are not interfering or telling them what to do and what not to do. We are basically creating some sort of a positive atmosphere. We are promoting the culture of finding political and diplomatic solution of disputes,” said Mr. Babushkin answering a question from the Indian media. He said the September 9-10 meeting of the Council of Foreign Ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) in Moscow will provide windows for bilateral interactions between India and China. “We are witnessing a lot of important opportunities on the sidelines of SCO for dialogue. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has already held his consultations on the sidelines and after that External Affairs Minister Dr. S Jaishankar is expected to arrive in Moscow.” The upcoming event will be the third Council of Foreign Ministers meeting. The first was held in Beijing on April 23-24, 2018 and the second was held in Bishkek (Kyrgyz Republic) on May 21-22, 2019. Moscow is processing India’s order for arms . “India’s orders including the S400 system is going ahead according to the schedule. Russia can expedite the supply if India requests,” said Mr. Babushkin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/russia-to-create-conducive-environment-to-ease-conflict/article32556629.ece
09 September 2020||Jaipur,||World listening to India more, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said India’s media industry needed to go global at a time when the country had a significant presence at almost all international forums and its voice and products were becoming more global. The world was listening to India now with more attention, Mr. Modi said. Inaugurating the ‘Patrika Gate’ constructed here by the Rajasthan Patrika Group of Publications through video conference, Mr. Modi said Indian newspapers and magazines should acquire a global reputation and make their digital presence felt across the world. He also released two books authored by Gulab Kothari of the Patrika group. The iconic gate, built as a monument under Mission Anupam of the Jaipur Development Authority at Jawaharlal Nehru Marg here, depicts the cultural and artistic heritage of different regions of Rajasthan. It has emerged as a centre of attraction for tourists, who also visit the Jawahar Circle garden situated nearby. While calling upon Indian institutions to give away literary awards on the pattern of global bodies, Mr. Modi said that writers as an enlightened section acted as the teachers of society. “Books and authors play a major role in the learning process that lasts the entire life after formal education is over... Every freedom fighter was involved in guiding the people through their writings,” he said. Boosting awareness The Prime Minister praised the media for serving the people in an “unprecedented way” by generating awareness on the COVID-19 pandemic, and said the media had given the shape of a mission to the concept of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra and Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot were also present at the virtual event. Mr. Gehlot said the construction of Patrika Gate was in keeping with Jaipur having recently been recognised as a UNESCO World Heritage Site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/world-listening-to-india-more-says-pm/article32556631.ece
09 September 2020||Hyderabad,||Telangana seeks Bharat Ratna for former PM Narasimha Rao||The State Legislative Assembly, on Tuesday, requested the Central government to confer Bharat Ratna, the highest civilian award of the country, posthumously on former Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao for his contributions to the country. The Assembly requested that a statue and portrait of the former Prime Minister, known to be the architect of economic reforms, a distinctive diplomat, multi-linguist and visionary, who paved the way for the progress of the country, be established in Parliament. Steps should also be taken to name the University of Hyderabad after P.V. Narasimha Rao. The Assembly adopted a resolution in this regard on Tuesday. The Congress and the BJP too, fully supported it while the Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (MIM) boycotted the proceedings for the day. “Our party cannot support the resolution and discussion on centenary celebrations of the late P.V. Narasimha Rao,” the party said. Piloting the resolution, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao said that P.V. was the chief contributor in making the country one of the largest economies in the world and appreciated the foundation laid by him to make the country one of the rapidly growing nations. Only two PMs influenced the country’s direction towards progress, the first being Jawaharlal Nehru, who was known as maker of modern India, and the second Narasimha Rao, who made the country ‘Global India’, he said. “He was the first south Indian to become Prime Minister of the country and created history as dear son of Telangana. Narasimha Rao took over the reins at a time when the country was caught in multiple troubles with economic situation badly affected and changed the path of the country forever with economic reforms and liberalisation policies, and scrapping the licence-permit raj, the CM said. While the economic reforms made the country a global player, the effective external affairs policies and the diplomatic approach adopted by the P.V. government ensured strong business relations with South Asian countries as well as the western world. At the same time, he took steps to ensure that peace was restored in Punjab and Jammu & Kashmir, which were facing troubled times due to terrorism and insurgency. At the State-level, he earned repute as an architect of land reforms during his tenure as Chief Minister. He was also instrumental in setting up of residential educational institutions and Navodaya schools enabling marginalised sections to pursue their education. “He introduced reforms in whichever portfolio he handled and ensured their effective implementation,” he said. Congress members Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka and D. Sridhar Babu recalled the impact of land reforms introduced by P.V., who himself gave away over 800 acre land for the cause of the weaker sections. “Narasimha Rao was a philosopher, economist, educationist, and writer all rolled into one,” Mr. Bhatti said extending his party’s full support to the resolution tabled by the Treasury Benches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/telangana-seeks-bharat-ratna-for-former-pm-narasimha-rao/article32556570.ece
09 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Sanjjanaa Galrani arrested in drug racket case in Bengaluru||Actor Sanjjanaa Galrani(in picture)was arrested by the Central Crime Branch (CCB) on Tuesday in connection with the ongoing investigation into the drug racket involving the Kannada film industry. Sanjjanaa is the second actor to be arrested by the CCB after Ragini Dwivedi. The CCB conducted a search operation on the apartment of the actor in the morning before she was arrested. After three hours of search and seizure of properties from her house, Sanjjanaa was taken to the CCB head office from where she was taken to K.C. General Hospital for medical examination. She was then produced before the 8th Additional Chief Metropolitan Court where the CCB obtained five days’ custody for questioning. The officials then took Sanjjanaa to the State home for women. Sources said Sanjjanaa was arrested after getting “vital clues” about her alleged involvement in the drug racket from Rahul and Niyaz, who were arrested earlier. The CCB officials also raided the Langford Road house of high-end party planner Viren Khanna, who was arrested in New Delhi on September 4. Officials said “incriminating documents” and a set of police uniform were recovered from his house. Viren had used the uniform in one of the parties he had hosted and took pictures posing with the female guests, officials said, adding that they are probing to ascertain if there are other reasons why he possessed a police uniform.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sanjjanaa-galrani-arrested-in-drug-racket-case-in-bengaluru/article32556574.ece
09 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||T.N. rubbishes claims on disaster for Mullaperiyar dam||The Tamil Nadu government has rubbished averments made in the Supreme Court that 16th century French clairvoyant, Nostradamus, predicted a disaster linked to the Mullaperiyar dam in Kerala. “The averment that media is anticipating disaster as per the directive of the world famous French astrologer Nostradamus is anyway a propaganda to mislead and to create fear psychosis among the people living in the downstream area of Mullaperiyar dam,” an affidavit filed by the Tamil Nadu government said. Besides, the State said the court itself had on multiple occasions found the dam to be “hydrologically and structurally safe.” Tamil Nadu was responding to averments made in a petition filed by Idukki resident Russell Joy, who said the 125-year-old dam is a source of constant fear of people who live in downstream areas at the time of floods and earthquakes. Mr. Joy wants the water level to be maintained at 130 feet in the monsoon season. But Tamil Nadu debunked Mr. Joy’s claim that the area saw 62 earthquakes between January and May. It said there were only 21 very minor tremors. “Further, the Mullaperiyar dam is a masonry gravity dam founded on hard rock with a broad base and will not suddenly burst like an arch dam as imagined by the petitioner [Mr. Joy],” the State, represented by advocates G. Umapathy and Yogesh Kanna, reasoned. The affidavit said the dam was designed to withstand “maximum credible earthquake forces” in that region. It had been checked for seismic stability by the Central Water and Power Research Institute, Pune. The report of the Empowered Committee in 2012 had found it safe to store up to 152 feet of water in the dam. Attorney General K.K. Venugopal, for the Central Water Commission, has already informed the court that the water level in the dam was 131.85 feet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tn-rubbishes-claims-on-disaster-for-mullaperiyar-dam/article32556583.ece
09 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Bangalore Club need not pay tax’||A social club where members get together with no motive of commerce and profit like the 152-year-old colonial Bangalore Club is not liable to pay wealth tax, the Supreme Court held on Tuesday. A Bench led by Justice Rohinton F. Nariman said the Bangalore Club hardly fits the bill for an “association of persons” out to make a killing profit. In fact, to make his meaning all the more clear about the Club’s sheer lack of interest in profits and commerce, Justice Nariman recounts the anecdote of “one Lt. W.L.S Churchill” who ran up a debt of Rs. 13 at the club. The bill remains unpaid though Churchill became the British Prime Minister. The club has also not bothered to collect. “The ‘Bill’ never became an ‘Act’. Till date, this amount remains unpaid. Lt. W.L.S. Churchill went on to become Sir Winston Leonard Spencer Churchill, Prime Minister of Great Britain. And the Bangalore Club continues its mundane existence, the only excitement being when the tax collector knocks at the door to extract his pound of flesh,” Justice Nariman wrote in a 33-page judgment. The judgment was based on an appeal filed by the club against the State High Court’s finding that it has to pay wealth tax.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bangalore-club-need-not-pay-tax/article32556581.ece
09 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC to Centre: adhere to Ministry circular on roads in Char Dham||The Supreme Court on Tuesday ordered the Centre to adhere to a Union Road Ministry circular of March 2018, which had advised against building full-fledged roads cutting across the fragile Himalayan slopes, while implementing the Rs. 12,000-crore ambitious Char Dham project for better connectivity to pilgrimage centres in Uttarakhand. A Bench led by Justice Rohinton Nariman also directed the government to undertake reafforestation of the area to make up for the loss of green cover caused by the construction. Widening of roads The project had proposed the widening of single-lane roads into double-lanes by up to 10 metres, developing the highways and thereby improving access to the Char Dham (four shrines) — Yamunotri, Gangotri, Badrinath and Kedar Nath. Environmentalist groups, led by the Dehradun-based Citizens for Green Doon, had moved the apex court after they failed in the National Green Tribunal (NGT). The petitioners had contended that the project was proceeding without environmental clearances and the debris was being disposed haphazardly. Earlier, the NGT had found no need for an environmental clearance. The petitioners had informed the apex court about the extensive excavation of the eco-sensitive landscape for the project. They had contended that the project, which extends across nearly 900 km of hilly roads, was an environmental threat. The government had said the programme for development of road connectivity was launched by the Prime Minister on December 27, 2016. It had said most of the project works were sanctioned before the issuance of the Ministry’s circular on March 23, 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-to-centre-adhere-to-ministry-circular-on-roads-in-char-dham/article32556613.ece
09 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Restart Shramik Specials from Odisha, says Union Minister||Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan has written to Railways Minister Piyush Goyal requesting that Shramik Special trains be restarted to ferry migrant workers from Odisha to their workplaces in States like Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra. In the letter dated September 7, the Petroleum and Natural Gas Minister said he has received multiple representations from workers hailing from Ganjam district for the services. “There is a need to resume rail services for migrant workers back to their workplaces. These workers have highlighted their plight due to the unavailability of livelihood options and difficulty in travelling back to their workplace,” he said, adding that though some employers are willing to offer bus transport services from Odisha, a long and arduous journey via road is neither feasible nor safe in the monsoon conditions. Mass exodus The lockdown imposed towards the end of March led to a mass exodus of migrant workers, with thousands undertaking the journey on foot. Subsequently, the Railways began running Shramik Specials from May 1 to ferry them to their native States. The Railways ran 4,615 Shramik Specials, ferrying over 63 lakh people. The last train was run on July 9. “I request your personal intervention for restarting of the trains at the earliest,” Mr. Pradhan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/restart-shramik-specials-from-odisha-says-union-minister/article32556618.ece
09 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Petition in SC questions NLSIU’s online admission move||A sudden, solo decision taken by the National Law School of India University in Bengaluru (NLSIU) to turn its back on the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) and devise its own “elitist” online admission process amid the pandemic has left thousands of aspirants in a tizzy. This is what a petition filed by none other than NLSIU former Vice Chancellor R. Venkat Rao told the Supreme Court on Tuesday. Dr. Rao, along with a parent, Rajesh Kumar Agarwalla, said the conduct of the NLSIU and its Vice Chancellor Sudhir Krishnaswamy threatened to permanently alter the public perception of the premier institute from an “island of excellence” to one of exclusion. The new exam called the ‘National Law Admission Test Under Graduate 2020’ or NLAT-UG 2020, was devised by the NLSIU “unilaterally and in obscene haste” to avoid a zero year, the plea said. A notification issued last week fixed the NLAT for September 12. The exam will be conducted online using “artificial intelligence and human proctoring”. The NLSIU decision was prompted by the multiple postponements of the CLAT due to the health crisis. The petition urged the court to quash the holding of the NLAT. Dr. Rao, represented by advocates Vipin Nair and Sughosh Subramyam, said the technical equipment required to access the NLAT were heavily loaded against underprivileged aspirants. The petition said the move was intended to “create an elitist institution which caters to those whose are able to afford to take the test.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/petition-in-sc-questions-nlsius-online-admission-move/article32556622.ece
09 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Mahalingam is Luxembourg Honorary Consul in Chennai||S. Mahalingam has been appointed Honorary Consul of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg in Chennai, with consular jurisdiction over Tamil Nadu and Kerala. The “commission of appointment” was signed by the Grand Duke of Luxembourg, following the recommendation of the government in April. President Ram Nath Kovind signed the exequatur confirming the appointment of the new Honorary Consul on July 31. Mr. Mahalingam retired as chief financial officer and executive director of Tata Consultancy Services. He is on the board of many companies and is associated with several social causes. His experience and capability would help deepen the relations with the government and industry, said a press release from the Embassy of Luxembourg in New Delhi. Mr. Mahalingam said he felt privileged to be the Honorary Consul of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. “Its industrial ethos and the opportunities it provides on multiple spheres should be of value to the industry in this region,” he said. Mr. Mahalingam is replacing former Honorary Consul Suhasini Maniratnam, whose mandate was terminated after five years. The Consulate in Chennai is at No. 22 Karpagambal Nagar, Mylapore, and can be contacted through phone (044 - 24987145/24987745), the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mahalingam-is-luxembourg-honorary-consul-in-chennai/article32556621.ece
09 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||More flood in offing in Krishna||Reservoirs in the Krishna Basin in the two two Telugu States are set to receive another bout of heavy flood, this time from the Bhima river, a major tributary of Krishna, with the retreat of the southwest monsoon season set to begin soon. The Central Water Commission (CWC) has issued an advisory to major reservoir in the Bhima Basin in Maharashtra, particularly Veer and Ujjani dams, that they are likely to receive heavy flood over the next few four-five days as the Meteorological Department has forecast heavy to very heavy rainfall in the Central Maharashtra, the catchment area of Bhima, over the next couple of days. As all the reservoirs in the Bhima Basin, including Veer and Ujjani, are maintaining full reservoir level of water any flood has to be discharged and it is likely to reach Jurala and other projects in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. “The CWC has advised pre-depletion of water in Veer, Ujjani and other dams in Maharashtra since heavy inflows are expected in these dams and the pre-depletion will avoid flooding in the downstream,” a flood monitoring official told The Hindu . Although, the days of flood during the current monsoon season are spread across about 60 days already, the quantum of flood received is hardly about one-third of the water received by several major reservoirs in the Krishna Basin during the last season. “Jurala had received about 1,446 tmc ft, Tungabhadra got 418 tmc ft, Srisailam received 1,787 tmc ft, Nagarjunasagar got 1,374 tmc ft and Pulichintala about 935 tmc ft last flood season. Accordingly, the discharge of excess water towards sea from Prakasam Barrage was 797 tmc ft,” the official explained. Meanwhile, the discharge of flood from Almatti increased again on Tuesday evening to over 30,000 cusecs and from Narayanpur to over 40,000 cusecs. In the Godavari Basin, Singur and Nizamsagar projects continue to remain almost empty with their storage standing at 3.18 tmc ft and 2.49 tmc ft, respectively, against their capacity of nearly 30 tmc ft and 18 tmc ft. This water year, they have received 3.3 tmc ft and 1.78 tmc ft water, respectively, with some small inflows.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/more-flood-in-offing-in-krishna/article32556897.ece
09 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||IIIT-H prof. bags Google India research award||Vasudeva Varma from the International Institute of Information Technology-Hyderabad (IIIT-H) is all set to receive support as part of the Google India AI/ML Research Awards for his ‘Project Angel’. According to an announcement made on the Google India Blog, Mr. Varma is one of the five awardees belonging to different varsities. As reported previously in these columns, Project Angel uses artificial intelligence, machine learning and neuro-linguistic programming to trawl social media, scrape words or phrases which are tantamount to bullying or hate speech to protect young social media users, especially teenage girls, from online toxicity. AI for social good “This year, we received over a hundred proposals across various fields of AI. We also received several proposals working to advance the use of AI for social good. All proposals went through an extensive review process involving expert reviewers across Google who assessed the proposals on merit, innovation, connection to Google’s research efforts and alignment with our overall research philosophy and AI principles,” an excerpt from the Google India Blog reads. “He (Varma) intends to develop a cohesive technology stack (including prior work on building on hate speech detection, sexism classification), through multi-disciplinary research for helping teenagers in an empathetic, proactive manner,” another except reads. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Varma said that his team is engaged in building machine learning models to classify sexism and to detect hate speech. The content filters, which are being developed, seek to ‘question’ bullying. “The most important thing is that when they (users) are trying to write belittling content such as body shaming somebody, these filters will be helpful to warn them against what they are doing,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iiit-h-prof-bags-google-india-research-award/article32556697.ece
09 September 2020||September 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Assembly byelections inessential, says BJP||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State secretary K. Surendran has said the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in the State thinks that the Assembly byelections in Chavara and Kuttanad are inessential. Mr. Surendran’s pronouncement in Thrissur on Tuesday came against the backdrop of reports that the government was in consultation with the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) Opposition regarding the necessity of the byelections given the Assembly polls in April 2021. He said the BJP-led NDA was ready to fight the bypolls and would name its candidate once the Election Commission of India (ECI) declared the date. The Congress was in disarray. The Indian Union Muslim League had hijacked the UDF. It had rendered the Congress irrelevant. The NDA was the only credible Opposition in the State. The front would field candidates in all seats in the upcoming local body elections. The Left Democratic Front was steeped in corruption and scandals. The drug investigation in Bengaluru and the National Investigation Agency probe into the UAE consulate linked gold smuggling racket would lead to the doorstep of the CPI(M). Mr. Surendran said Congress MPs from Kerala were now aspiring to desert national politics for Assembly seats in the 2021 elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assembly-byelections-inessential-says-bjp/article32556960.ece
09 September 2020||KALPETTA,||NDA policies led to economic crisis: Rahul||Congress leader and Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the economic crisis in the country and blamed it for the alleged failure in adopting timely measures to contain the spread of COVID-19. Speaking after inaugurating a newly constructed outpatient block of the Community Health Centre at Meppadi in the district through videoconferencing, Mr. Gandhi said: “I am feeling quite sad about the COVID situation in the country because I told the Central government in February itself that they needed to prepare for it and adopt strong actions against the spread of the pandemic. But they ridiculed me and they made fun of me,” Mr. Gandhi said. “Even after the outbreak, the Congress and I had told them that the most important thing was to put money in the hands of the poor as it was the only way to kick-start the economy,” Mr. Gandhi said. Though the government had put lakhs of crores into the account of the richest people, it failed to put it into the accounts of the poor, he said. “The result is that we have been hit by COVID and we have been hit by an economic disaster,” he said. Mr. Gandhi said that small and medium industries, the backbone of the country, had been destroyed owing to the wrong decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nda-policies-led-to-economic-crisis-rahul/article32556961.ece
09 September 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,||Security beefed up in Bhadrachalam Agency||A day after the Pusuguppa encounter in Charla mandal, in which two Maoist rebels were killed, the police beefed up security in the border areas of Bhadrachalam Agency to preempt attacks, if any, by the rebels targeting vital installations. The banned outfit has lost its three cadres in separate “encounters” one in Gundala mandal on Thursday and two in Charla mandal on Monday within a span of a week. The police established the identity of the deceased Maoist of Gundala “shootout” incident as Devalu alias Shankar. However, the police did not confirm the identity of the two Maoists killed in Pusuguppa “encounter”, till reports last came in on Tuesday night. Tension flares up According to unconfirmed reports, Jogaiah, 30, of a Guttikoya tribal habitation at Lankapalli village of Chintoor mandal in Andhra Pradesh, was among the two killed in Pusuguppa incident. Meanwhile, tension persisted in the far-flung tribal pockets of Charla mandal adjoining Chhattisgarh in the aftermath of the blasting of a portion of the Pedamidisileru-Tippapuram road by the Maoist rebels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/security-beefed-up-in-bhadrachalam-agency/article32556950.ece
09 September 2020||September 09 2020 00:00 IST,||NCB arrests actor Rhea Chakraborty||Apart from Ms. Chakraborty’s brother, Rajput’s housekeeping manager Samuel Miranda and staff member Dipesh Sawant have also been arrested in the case. They all are currently in NCB custody. Following his son's arrest, Ms. Chakraborty father Indrajit Chakraborty had issued a statement to lodge his protest. “Congratulations India, you have arrested my son, I'm sure next on the line is my daughter and I don't know who is next thereafter. You have effectively demolished a middle-class family. But of course, for the sake of justice everything is justified. Jai hind,” he had said. Mr. Showik Chakraborty is also an accused in the case being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation, following a complaint by Rajput’s father alleging abetment to suicide, criminal conspiracy, cheating, breach of trust, theft, wrongful restraint and confinement. He has been examined several times by the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate. On Sunday, the NCB had arrested another alleged drug peddler, Anuj Keshwani, after drugs and cash were seized from him. In the FIR filed by the Bandra police, Ms Priyanka and Ms Meetu Singh have been charged with abetment to suicide, cheating and criminal conspiracy. According to the FIR, accessed by The Hindu, they have been charged under Sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 464 (making a false document), 466 (forgery of record of Court or of public register, etc.), 306 (abetment to suicide) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code among others. Along with this, they have also been booked under Sections 8(1) - prohibition of certain activities relating to property derived from offence, 21 (punishment for contravention in relation to manufactured drugs and preparation), 22 (punishment for contravention in relation to psychotropic substances) and 29 (punishment for abetment and criminal conspiracy) of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. Bipolar disorder The seven-page complaint filed by Ms. Chakraborty earlier with the police station said: “Sushant had been diagnosed with bipolar disorder by multiple renowned doctors. However, he was not disciplined in respect with his treatment and would often abruptly stop taking his medication.” It went on to mention, “On June 8, 2020, Sushant showed her text messages exchanged with his sister Ms. Singh and she was shocked to read that Ms. Singh had sent him a list of medications to take.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ncb-arrests-actor-rhea-chakraborty/article32556586.ece
09 September 2020||September 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Digital divide shadows post-pandemic education||At the other end of the spectrum is Odisha, where only one in 10 homes have Internet. There are 10 other States with less than 20% Internet penetration, including States with software hubs such as Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. The biggest divide is by economic status, which the NSO marks by dividing the population into five equal groups, or quintiles, based on their usual monthly per capita expenditure. Even in Odisha, almost 63% of homes in the top urban quintile have Internet facilities. In the poorest quintile of rural Odisha, however, that figure drops to an abysmal 2.4%. Kerala shows the least inequality: more than 39% of the poorest rural homes have Internet, in comparison to 67% of the richest urban homes. Himachal Pradesh also fares well, with 40% of the lowest rural quintile having Internet. Assam shows the most stark inequality, with almost 80% of the richest urban homes having the Internet access denied to 94% of those in the poorest rural homes in the State. The Centre has directed State Education Departments to map the online access available to all their students in order to adequately plan curriculum and teaching methods that can reach such students. Although much of the focus has been on digital platforms, television and radio are also being used to deliver lessons. Of course, having Internet access is no guarantee that one can use it. The NSO report shows that 20% of Indians above the age of 5 years had basic digital literacy, doubling to just 40% in the critical age group of 15 to 29 years, which includes all high school and college students as well as young parents responsible for teaching younger children. Even as digital literacy is likely to grow during this pandemic, concerns remain about basic literacy, with September 8 celebrated as International Literacy Day. More than one in five Indians above 7 years still cannot read and write in any language. Over the last decade, literacy rates have increased from 71.7% to 77.7%, with the highest gains coming among rural women. A State-wise split of literacy rates also throws up some unexpected results. Andhra Pradesh has the country’s lowest literacy rate, at just 66.4%, significantly lower than less developed States such as Chhattisgarh (77.3%), Jharkhand (74.3%), Uttar Pradesh (73%), and Bihar (70.9%). Kerala remains at the top of the pile with 96.2% literacy, followed by Delhi (88.7%), Uttarakhand (87.6%) and Himachal Pradesh (86.6%).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/digital-divide-shadows-post-pandemic-education/article32556584.ece
09 September 2020||September 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Cong. to approach DMK for RS Dy. Chairman nominee||A joint meeting with other Opposition parties ahead of the monsoon session is being planned for better floor coordination. This was the first time that some of the 23 senior Congress leaders who written a letter calling for an overhaul of the party, came face-to-face with the leadership after the meeting. Attended by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, Mr. Azad, his deputy in the Upper House Anand Sharma, former party chief Rahul Gandhi and Lok Sabha leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, the meeting discussed in detail on how the Congress should articulate its position on the government’s ‘mishandling’ of the LAC standoff with China. ‘Truth must come out’ Ms. Gandhi is learnt to have said that the truth about Chinese incursions must be spoken and it must come out. While Mr. Chowdhury talked about asking for a white paper from the government on the Ladakh situation, Lok Sabha member Manish Tewari advocated a ‘nuanced approach’ since the Indian and Chinese troops are in an eyeball-to-eyeball situation. While exposing the government’s “missteps”, Mr. Tewari argued, nothing should be done to lower the morale of the troops. Calling the situation unprecedented since 1962, Mr. Sharma cited how former Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru had taken Parliament into confidence. Party general secretary K.C. Venugopal said the party should target China for its aggressive and expansionist stance. Agreeing with Mr. Tewari that the Army is “sacrosanct”, Mr. Gandhi is learnt to have pointed out that the country had become vulnerable on multiple fronts – from COVID-19 to facing an economic recession to the border face-off – and the government needed to be questioned for its failures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-to-approach-dmk-for-rs-dy-chairman-nominee/article32556585.ece
09 September 2020||Hyderabad,||TS EAMCET from today||The Telangana EAMCET will begin on Wednesday amidst COVID-19 protocols and more than 1.43 lakh students trying their luck in the engineering stream. The engineering test will be held on September 9,10,11 and 14 in two sessions – from 9 a.m. to 12 noon and 3 p.m. to 6 p.m. The computer based test will be held in 102 centres including 79 in Telangana and 23 in the neighbouring Andhra Pradesh. There are test zones including four in AP and in each of the test zone about 17,000 candidates will write in each session Candidates will be asked to give a self-declaration form that they have not been tested positive for coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ts-eamcet-from-today/article32556898.ece
09 September 2020||Ghaziabad,||Taj Mahal to reopen from September 21||Six months after the Taj Mahal and the Agra Fort were closed to the public, the Agra administration has decided to open the world heritage monuments on September 21. Ready with his team to implement the new normal, Dr. Swarnkar, Superintending Archaeologist, Agra Circle, Archaeological Survey of India, said that to maintain social distancing only 5,000 persons would be allowed to visit the Taj Mahal in a day. “This number would be 2,500 for the Agra Fort.” This, he said, was a far cry from a footfall of 3,0000 to 80,000 per day before the lockdown. “Circles are being marked, the mask would be a must and nobody would be able to enter without thermal screening,” he said. Old-timers like noted historian Ali Nadeem Rezavi remembered how the Taj Mahal was closed during World War II and wars with Pakistan in 1965 and 1971 as well. “There are photos of it being covered with sandbags during World War II to protect it from bombing.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/taj-mahal-to-reopen-from-september-21/article32556839.ece
09 September 2020||Bengaluru,||HC questions petitioner on warning letter||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday directed a petitioner to explain on what authority he wrote a letter warning a private channel that airing a documentary on the Cauvery Calling project would amount to contempt of court. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S Kinagi issued the direction while hearing a PIL petition filed by A.V. Amaranathan, a city-based advocate. ISHA Outreach, which manages the project spearheaded by ISHA Foundation, had complained to the court that the petitioner on August 21 sent an email to Discovery Channel warning that telecasting the documentary, scheduled to be aired on August 22 at 6.30 p.m., would amount to contempt of court as the legality of the project is sub judice. Asking what business the petitioner had to write such a letter, the Bench adjourned further hearing till September 24 as Mr. Amaranathan, who is arguing his case personally, was not present during the videoconference hearing on Tuesday and his representative told the court that the petitioner is unwell. The court directed the petitioner to submit an explanation in writing on his action. The petitioner had contended that public money was being collected via donation for planting samplings on government land. However, the ISHA groups have denied the allegations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-questions-petitioner-on-warning-letter/article32556575.ece
09 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||UDF all but closes the door on Mani||The United Democratic Front (UDF) has all but shut the door on the Jose K. Mani faction of the Kerala Congress (M) [KC(M)]. A meeting of Opposition leaders via videoconference here on Tuesday decided that Mr. Mani would no more sit at the high-table of the UDF. No expulsion The front would not expel him. However, it would not invite him to attend coalition meetings. The onus was on Mr. Mani to quit the alliance. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, who chaired the meeting, later told journalists that Mr. Mani had betrayed the UDF and the legacy of his late father K.M. Mani. The two MLAs in Mr. Mani’s faction, Roshy Augustine and N. Devaraj, had ‘violated the party whip’ and abstained from voting in favour of the Opposition’s no-confidence motion against the Left Democratic Front government in the last Assembly session. ‘No more talks’ Mr. Chennithala said Mr. Mani engaged in secret negotiations with the LDF even as he broke every intra-party peace agreement brokered by the UDF leadership. The scope for rapprochement is remote. There is no point in further talks. He said propriety demanded that Mr. Mani relinquish the Rajya Sabha seat he won on the UDF ticket. The two MLAs should choose between Mr. Mani and the UDF. If they felt the need to quit the front, they should step down as UDF legislators. Mr. Chennithala said KC(M) chairman P.J. Joseph was the true inheritor of the Kerala Congress tradition. The UDF seconded Mr. Joseph’s proposal to field Jacob Abraham as its candidate in the Kuttanad byelections. RSP leader Shibu Baby John would contest the Chavara seat. Indian Union Muslim League leader P.K. Kunhalikutty, Mr. Joseph, Revolutionary Socialist Party leader Shibu Baby John, All India Forward Bloc secretary G. Devarajan and Communist Marxist Party leader C.P. John attended the meeting.  Propriety demands that Jose K. Mani relinquish the Rajya Sabha seat he won on the UDF ticket. Ramesh Chennithala Leader of the Opposition||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/udf-all-but-closes-the-door-on-mani/article32556580.ece
09 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC rejects plea against petrol price hike||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to entertain a plea by a Kerala-based lawyer challenging the almost “daily” increase in petrol prices even as the cost of crude oil dips. A three-judge Bench led by Justice Rohinton Nariman stopped advocate Gaurav Agarwal, appearing for petitioner Shaji Kodankandath, while the latter was making his submissions. “Do you want to argue this case because if you do we will impose heavy costs,” Justice Nariman said. “If Your Lordship puts it that way I will withdraw the plea,” said Mr. Agarwal and bowed out gracefully.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-rejects-plea-against-petrol-price-hike/article32556582.ece
09 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Adverse inputs led to FCRA action’||The Home Ministry on Tuesday claimed that a report in The Hindu on Monday, headlined “Government suspends FCRA clearance of 4 Christian groups”, gives “an impression” that the action had been taken as they belong to a particular religion. “This impression not only comes out in the headline but also in the very first sentence of the report. This is far from the factual position as licenses of NGOs and Associations are regulated based on well-established rules, as provided under the FCRA,” Nitin Wakankar, Director-General (MHA Media), said on Tuesday. Mr. Wakanakar said the Ministry was “provided serious adverse inputs regarding the working of dozens of FCRA NGOs in tribal areas and the names of the four NGOs mentioned in the report of The Hindu figured in that list.” The Ministry found prima facie violations of Sections 8, 12(4)(a)(vi), 12(4)(f)(iii) and 12(4)(f)(vi) of Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA), 2010. “Therefore, MHA suspended FCRA certificate of 13 NGOs, which included the four aforesaid NGOs. Their bank accounts were frozen and they were asked to explain their position regarding violations of FCRA,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/adverse-inputs-led-to-fcra-action/article32556591.ece
09 September 2020||JAIPUR,||Gehlot writes to PM over GST dues||The Congress government in Rajasthan has demanded full compensation to States for loss of revenue on account of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) implementation. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has shot off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi drawing his attention to the Centre’s suggestion that the States resort to borrowing to cover the shortfall. “The Centre’s stand is against the letter and spirit of the constitutional amendment by which the States had given up their right to levy certain taxes as well as the understanding reached in three meetings of the GST Council,” he said. Mr. Gehlot added that the quantum of compensation to be paid to the States was not an executive decision of the Central government or the GST Council, but was a legal obligation on the Centre under the GST (Compensation to States) Act, 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gehlot-writes-to-pm-over-gst-dues/article32556594.ece
09 September 2020||MUMBAI,||‘Kangana will face drug probe’||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Tuesday said that the Mumbai Police would probe allegations by Adhyayan Suman that actor Kangana Ranaut took drugs. Talking to reporters, Mr. Deshmukh said Mr. Suman, the son of actor Shekhar Suman, was once in a relationship with Ms. Ranaut and he had alleged that she used to take drugs. Mr. Deshmukh said that Shiv Sena’s Pratap Sarnaik and Sunil Prabhu raised the issue in the Assembly on Tuesday. “I replied that she had relations with Mr. Adhyayan who has said in an interview that she took drugs and also forced him to take drugs. The Mumbai Police will look into all this in detail,” he said. Ms. Ranaut had crossed swords with Sena MP Sanjay Raut last week when he said that she should not return to Mumbai if she felt unsafe in the city. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Sarnaik denied that this was a political vendetta. “The law is same for everyone. There is no political vendetta. Security is given to people who are looked upon as idols. If there are allegations of drug consumption against her and if they are false, the people levelling them should be thrown into jail,” the Sena MLA said. In the Assembly, Mr. Deshmukh termed Ms. Ranaut’s comments against the Mumbai Police as irresponsible. “A girl from another State comes here to earn a livelihood and Mumbai accepts her but she insults the Mumbai Police. This is sad. If you insult Maharashtra, people will not tolerate it,” the NCP minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kangana-will-face-drug-probe/article32556602.ece
09 September 2020||TAURU (NUH),||Woman held for killing girl child||A 58-year-old woman was arrested on Tuesday for killing her month-old granddaughter by throwing her into a septic tank in the courtyard of their house in Nuh’s Jaurasi village in the early hours of Friday. The newborn was sleeping with her mother on the intervening night of September 3 and 4. When the girl’s mother Manisha woke up a little after 1 a.m., she found the child missing. After several hours of futile search, they informed the police. Two days later, an informer told the police that a family member was behind the murder. “We interrogated the family and the woman, Laxmi, confessed,” police said. The woman wanted her son to have a boy. “I thought that if the newborn was killed, they will plan another child,” said Laxmi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/woman-held-for-killing-girl-child/article32556607.ece
09 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘18 officers punished for Palghar’||The Maharashtra police informed the Supreme Court on Tuesday that 18 police officers have been punished for negligence and dereliction of duty for their inability to prevent the lynching of two sadhus by a mob at Palghar during the national lockdown. A short affidavit filed by the police said a departmental inquiry prima facie found that they did not act in time to prevent the incident. The punishment ranges from dismissal to reverting to minimal pay for a specific number of years. The police is opposing a plea filed by the relatives of the priests to transfer the case to the CBI. An earlier affidavit by the Maharashtra government had informed the court that a specialised unit of the State CID was probing the case since April 20 and two chargesheets against 126 accused had been filed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/18-officers-punished-for-palghar/article32556614.ece
09 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Advance claims up by 212%: EPFO||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) on Tuesday said claims for partial withdrawal of advances had increased by 212% in April-August compared to last year. It said it had settled 94.41 lakh claims amounting to Rs. 35,445 crore from April to August, an increase of 32% in the number of claims settled and 13% in the amount disbursed to members compared to the same period last year. “To help members tide over the liquidity needs during this crisis, the EPFO fast tracked settling of COVID-19 advances and illness-related claims. It introduced auto mode of settlement for these two categories of advances. Notably, 55% of advance claims settled during April-August 2020 were related to the recently introduced COVID-19 advance while around 31% of advances settled during the period pertained to illness claims,” an EPFO statement said. The EPFO said nearly 75% of the advances given under the special pandemic scheme and about 79% of claims for illnesses were to subscribers who earn less than Rs. 15,000 a month. “Timely availability of PF advances prevented many low-wage earners from falling into debt, providing social security support to the weakest section of workforce during these adverse times,” the EPFO said. It said while there was a 212% jump in partial withdrawal claims, there was a decline of 35% in the number of final PF settlement claims in April-August 2020 compared to the same period in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/advance-claims-up-by-212-epfo/article32556625.ece
09 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Five COVID-19 warriors to inaugurate low-key Mysuru Dasara this year||In the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, the 10-day Dasara celebrations would be held in Mysuru in a simple way next month. It will be inaugurated by five COVID-19 warriors. Crowd pullers such as Yuva Dasara, flower exhibition, sports, food mela, film festival, yoga, and other events will not be organised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/five-covid-19-warriors-to-inaugurate-low-key-mysuru-dasara-this-year/article32556576.ece
09 September 2020||Hyderabad,||Former dargah custodian found dead||The body of former mutawalli (custodian) of the Dargah Hazrat Yusufain, Faisal Ali Shah, was found hanging at his house in Nampally, Habeebnagar police said on Tuesday. Police said the body was found by Irfan, an employee there. The victim’s house is in a portion of the dargah, where he was said to have lived alone. Police said Irfan called the victim’s wife, informing her of Shah’ death around 10.30 am on Tuesday. She rushed to Nampally and later approached the Habeebnagar police with a complaint. Habeebnagar inspector P Shiva Chandra said that as per the complaint, the victim was suffering from health issues and was in a financial crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/former-dargah-custodian-found-dead/article32556928.ece
09 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Priority sector lending: State opposes RBI’s master directions||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi opposing the Reserve Bank of India's (RBI) recent master directions for priority sector lending, which covered “all of Tamil Nadu” in the dis-incentive framework for priority sector lending. He urged Mr. Modi to prevail upon the RBI to immediately reverse the decision and restore the earlier weightage system for free flow of priority sector credit. As per Annexure 1A of the master directions, all 32 districts (prior to bifurcation) were categorised as districts with a comparatively high flow of priority sector credit. “In no other State have so many districts been covered in the dis-incentive framework. Tamil Nadu appears to have been singled out for particularly adverse treatment in the master directions,” Mr. Palaniswami pointed out. A copy of his demi-official letter to the Prime Minister was released to the media in Chennai. The RBI’s policy was “unfair and regressive and must be reversed immediately,” he contended and said hardworking, law-abiding borrowers, who serviced their debt on time, deserved to be encouraged by a higher flow of credit. “While attempts can and should be made to increase credit flow to districts where it is low, such efforts ought to be by increasing the overall credit flow and not by attempting diversion of credit from other districts / States. The overall size of the pie needs to be increased alongside greater financial penetration,” he underlined. The districts have received a higher flow of credit on account of the enterprise, hardwork, diligence and timely repayment of loans by households and businesses in the State, he pointed out. “These households and businesses have been good borrowers, utilising the loans for the intended purpose and servicing the debt on time. They should not now be penalised for having abided by the rules, by directing the flow of credit away from them. On the contrary, they should be encouraged to expand the economic activities in the country,” the Chief Minister added. All parts of the country and Tamil Nadu in particular have been affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, and hence the uninterrupted flow of credit at this time was critical for the revival of economic activity. “No such retrograde action, adversely affecting the flow of credit, should be taken. Dis-incentivising good borrowers who repay on time is a short-sighted and counter-productive strategy, for not just the overall economic well-being of the nation, especially when the nation is combating the impact of COVID, but also for the health of the banking system which is struggling with rising non-performing assets,” he said. Para 7 entitled “Adjustments for weights in PSL Achievement” contained a provision to incentivise flow of priority sector credit to districts with a comparatively lower flow of credit with a higher weightage of 125 %. “Prima facie, this is not objectionable. However, what we find unacceptable is the dis-incentive framework contained in the guideline for districts with a comparatively higher flow of priority sector credit with a lower weightage of 90%,” Mr. Palaniswami argued.  Tamil Nadu appears to have been singled out for particularly adverse treatment in the master directions||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/priority-sector-lending-state-opposes-rbis-master-directions/article32556783.ece
09 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. records 5,684 fresh cases as death toll crosses 8,000||On a day when Tamil Nadu recorded 5,684 more cases of COVID-19, the State’s toll crossed 8,000, with another 87 persons succumbing to the infection. The State’s tally climbed to 4,74,940. Till date, 4,16,715 persons have been discharged after treatment, including 6,599 on Tuesday. A total of 50,213 persons are presently undergoing treatment in the State. Of the fresh cases, Chennai recorded 988, taking its tally to 1,43,602 (1,29,677 discharged, 11,029 active cases and 2,896 deaths). Coimbatore and Cuddalore recorded 446 and 407 cases respectively. As many as 364 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Chengalpattu and 277 in Tiruvallur. Tiruvannamalai recorded 242 cases, while Tiruvarur reported 198. In Salem, 164 persons tested positive for COVID-19, while Tiruppur reported 142 cases. Past 10,000 With 135 new cases, Tirunelveli’s tally crossed 10,000. Among the 87 deceased (44 in government hospitals and 43 in private ones), 18 died in Chennai, while Cuddalore recorded nine deaths. There were six deaths each in Salem and Vellore. More than 30 persons were aged between 60 and 69, while three non-agenarians also succumbed to the infection. The oldest deceased was a 93-year-old man from Villupuram with severe anaemia and renal failure. He was admitted to the Government Headquarters Hospital in Cuddalore with complaints of fever for a day and difficulty in breathing on September 3. He died on September 6 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. A total of 83,266 samples were tested in the last 24 hours in the State. Till date, 54.62 lakh samples have been tested. Two more private laboratories — ProGen Molecular Biology Lab in Salem and Priya Lab, a unit of Salem Heart Clinic in Salem — were approved for COVID-19 testing. With this, there are 99 testing facilities in the private sector and 64 government testing facilities in the State.  Of the deceased, over 30 persons were aged between 60 and 69, while three nonagenarians also succumbed to the infection||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-records-5684-fresh-cases-as-death-toll-crosses-8000/article32556771.ece
09 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||About 5,000 passengers use Metro Rail services on Day 1||On the first day of reopening, Chennai Metro Rail had 5,033 passengers travelling on the stretch between Washermenpet and Chennai airport. Services between the Chennai Central and St. Thomas Mount stations will resume on Wednesday. However, passengers cannot take a direct train from the airport and will have to switch at the Alandur Metro. With opening of the second stretch, the entire 45-km network is now functional after the lockdown. The Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) expects patronage to pick up significantly after the Chennai Central-St. Thomas Mount stretch reopens. “This is the stretch which most passengers usually take, with Thirumangalam getting the highest number of passengers. We are hopeful that footfalls will improve in a few days. Early this year, about 60,000-70,000 passengers used this route,” an official said. Hub stations Sources said most of the traffic was concentrated in the Chennai Central and the Airport stations. Apart from this, many commuters from the southern suburbs, such as Pallavaram and Tambaram, took trains from the airport. “Till suburban services resume, commuters will use the Metro because it is safer than buses and there is no crowding,” an official said. Before COVID-19, the stretch between Washermenpet and Chennai airport used to handle nearly 45,000-50,000 passengers each day. CMRL is currently operating trains every five minutes during the peak hours. “When more people start using the service, naturally, the trains will get partially full. If a passenger doesn’t want to take a chance, he will just have to wait another five minutes. This is the reason for the current trip frequency,” another official said. Commuters satisfied While the passenger turnout has been low, those who travelled so far are satisfied with the maintenance and cleanliness of the trains and stations. Radha S., a commuter, said, “The places have been kept so clean. I was quite surprised that they have been meticulous with the maintenance . But they should continue keeping it this way.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/about-5000-passengers-use-metro-rail-services-on-day-1/article32556746.ece
09 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Renegotiate revenue agreement, producers tell theatre owners||Even if the Central government allows the reopening of cinema halls, Tamil film buffs may have to wait longer to watch their favourite stars on the big screen if the renewed conflict between theatre owners and producers remains unresolved. The Tamil Film Active Producers’ Association (TFAPA) has written a strongly-worded letter to Tiruppur Subramanian, president, Tamil Nadu Theatre Owners’ Association, urging its members to agree to a list of demands, failing which producers would not release new films. The letter from TFAPA, undersigned by association president Bharathiraaja and all other leading producers, said they had serious doubts over whether the revenue from a theatrical run would match what was possible in pre-pandemic times. The producers categorically stated that they will not pay the Virtual Print Fee (VPF), which is normally paid by producers to digital cinema distribution companies (Qube Cinema Technologies and UFO Moviez) towards projector and digital distribution expenses.  Budget-based returns They demanded a renegotiation of the percentage share of revenue, based on the film’s budget and where it is released — city, multiplexes, or single screens. “We have been paying the VPF charges for more than 10 years, and this has exceeded the investment for a projector,” the letter read. “With the producers not getting the required number of shows and screens for a movie release, the producer’s share of revenue is also very low. This has to be renegotiated and regularised according to the film’s budget and for city, multiplexes and single screens,” it added. The producers also demanded a share in the revenue raised by theatres and digital distribution companies by playing advertisements on screen, arguing it is the producers who spend crores of rupees marketing the movies and bringing audiences to theatres. They demanded that the theatres bring back the ‘holdover’ tradition, as it had become common for movies to be removed from screens despite doing well at the box office, and good films needed to be given a chance to pick up at the box office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/renegotiate-revenue-agreement-producers-tell-theatre-owners/article32556754.ece
09 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Anna University functioning on negative recurring budget’||Anna University has informed the Madras High Court that it had been functioning on a negative recurring budget with its revenue being only Rs. 587 crore as against its expenditure of Rs. 727 crore, leaving a deficit of Rs. 140 crore, in the financial year 2018-19. The varsity told Justice N. Anand Venkatesh on Monday that any order against collection of examination fees this year, just because the government had ordered cancellation of examinations of pre-final year students, would dwindle its revenue and hamper its financial status. Further, the university Registrar said that out of its revenue of Rs. 587 crore in 2018-19, Rs. 112 crore came from collection of tuition fees and the rest Rs. 374 crore, including examination fee of Rs. 281 crore, was collected from the colleges affiliated to it. Additional Advocate General Narmadha Sampath submitted a detailed counter affidavit filed by the Registrar L. Karunamoorthy in response to a batch of cases filed against collection of exam fees. After taking the counter on file, the judge adjourned the case to September 15. According to the document, Anna University had 560 engineering colleges affiliated to it. During every semester, it deals with a minimum of 4,000 question papers for conducting examinations for about 4.5 lakh students, enrolled in 37 undergraduate and 59 postgraduate programmes. The office of the Controller of Examinations in Chennai, with 175 staff members, coordinates the process with the assistance of 21 zonal offices. The semester examinations span over 35 days and they were supposed to begin on March 27 this year. Claiming that the process of preparing the question papers had begun in December 2019 itself, the university said even the question papers were printed in the first week of March and that 378 non-autonomous colleges paid the examination fees too. The Registrar also said the State government had permitted all universities to collect examination fees before declaring the results based on attendance and internal marks. Further, referring to a meeting chaired by Higher Education Minister with the vice-chancellors of all universities on July 29, he said it was decided then that the results would be declared only if the students had paid their semester and examination fees before the due date. “The intention of a student to subject himself for the examination process would get validated if and only the student registers himself for the said semester examinations and pays relevant examination fees,” the Registrar concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anna-university-functioning-on-negative-recurring-budget/article32556779.ece
09 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||2,000 mini clinics coming soon: CM||The Tamil Nadu government is planning to open around 2,000 ‘mini clinics’ across the State for treating patients with headache, mild fever and other ailments as doctors at several private and government hospitals are reluctant to treat patients due to suspicion that they may have contracted COVID-19, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Tuesday. At a review meeting with officials and public health experts, Mr. Palaniswami said the government’s decision followed representations it had received in this regard. The mini clinics would come up in Corporations, Municipalities and major villages that don’t have primary health centres. Each clinic would have a doctor, a nurse and an assistant, with adequate stocks of medicines and medical equipment. The Chief Minister reiterated that the public must wear face masks while stepping out of their homes. Recalling his trip to Tiruvallur on Monday, he said, “About 40% of the people were not wearing masks.” He instructed officials to ensure compliance with norms on mask wearing and impose fines on violators. He reiterated that the public must avoid visiting vegetable markets and meat and fish shops in groups. Those visiting beaches must be advised against it and sent home, he said. Due to the large number of tests being carried out across the State every day, the spread of COVID-19 “has been on the decline”, he said. Since the lockdown restrictions have been relaxed, he advised officials not to let their guard down to ensure that the infection does not spread. As industries and shops have been allowed to open with 100% staff, he instructed the Labour Department to inspect them to ensure compliance with the safety and precautionary measures being taken to curb the spread of COVID-19. As workers tend to gather for lunch, he instructed officials to ensure adherence to distancing norms. The Labour Department must organise meetings with the managements of industries and trade unions to ensure that all precautionary measures are being taken, he said. Containment zones would continue to remain in place, he said. Later in the day, the CM called on Governor Banwarilal Purohit at the Raj Bhavan and briefed him on the measures being taken to control the spread of COVID-19. He also submitted a report on the same to Mr. Purohit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2000-mini-clinics-coming-soon-cm/article32556758.ece
09 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Case fatality rate in city has decreased, says Corporation||The Greater Chennai Corporation officials claim that they have registered a decline in the COVID-19 case fatality rate over the past 14 days. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said the case fatality rate had reduced to 1.2% over the last 14 days because of an arrangement to shift SARI (severe acute respiratory infection) cases to hospitals, as well as other interventions. The rate during the past month was 1.5%, and it was 2.2% two months ago. The civic body has used 90 ambulances with oxygen support to shift patients from homes to hospitals. “We got an additional 10 ambulances. We have transferred 1,100 SARI cases in 30 days. The city is currently experiencing a slow decline phase in the pandemic. After the serosurvey 45 days ago, we have estimated the serological prevalence at 35% to 40%,” Mr. Prakash said. Focused intervention The Corporation has been monitoring local eruptions in various parts of the city. “Our intervention has been focused on industrial clusters. We have focused on old age homes also. We have prevented at least 10,000 deaths because of our intervention,” Mr. Prakash said. The number of positive cases in the past 65 days has been stable with less than 1,000 cases every day. According to Corporation officials, 43,850 fever clinics have been conducted in the city from May 8 to September 7. As many as 23.21 lakh people attended the clinics and 1.36 lakh symptomatic patients were identified and tested for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-fatality-rate-in-city-has-decreased-says-corporation/article32556741.ece
09 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Higher paddy procurement from fewer farmers is Tamil Nadu’s new norm||In the last two years, there has been a perceptible fall in the number of farmers supplying paddy to the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation (TNCSC). But this has not led to a decrease in the quantum of the produce procured. On the contrary, the quantum has been on the rise, and this year, the State has made a record procurement of over 30 lakh tonnes of paddy. During the 2011-12 kharif marketing season (KMS), about 23.87 lakh tonnes of paddy were procured from 11.75 lakh farmers. Four years later, 17.8 lakh tonnes came from 8.5 lakh farmers. In 2018-19, the procurement rose to around 19.1 lakh tonnes, but the number of farmers involved was a mere 5.06 lakh. In the current year, around 30.24 lakh tonnes — the highest since the introduction of the decentralised system of procurement in October 2002 — were procured from just 5.34 lakh farmers. An interesting feature of the procurement this time is that about one-third of the total quantum was procured during April-August, when lockdown restrictions were in force in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. About 10.4 lakh tonnes were procured by the Corporation from the farmers. Asserting that the State administration as a whole does not discourage farmers from supplying produce, a senior official of TNCSC explained that the recent trend – higher procurement from fewer farmers – was due to the launch of a revamped procurement system, under which procurement is linked to the farmers’ Aadhaar numbers and unique identification numbers assigned by TNCSC. As this also covers land documents of farmers, the measurement of the size of farmers is far more precise than it was earlier. Though it was introduced in 2017-18, the revamped system became fully operational only the following year. At present, payment for the paddy procured is credited to the bank accounts of the farmers concerned through RTGS. “No cash payment is being done,” the TNCSC official said. Of around 2,100 direct procurement centres, 554 have been opened in districts other than those in the Cauvery delta, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/higher-paddy-procurement-from-fewer-farmers-is-tamil-nadus-new-norm/article32556792.ece
09 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Varsities gear up for end-semester exams||State universities are gearing up to conduct end-semester examinations for final year students. On Tuesday, Anna University issued a notification announcing the tentative date for end-semester examinations. The university proposes to hold the exams online from September 22 to 29. The timetable would be announced soon. Students will undertake an hour-long multiple choice question type test using either their laptop, mobile phone or tablet with the camera on, from their homes. A week before the exams, the university will hold a mock test. Authorities of affiliated colleges are, however, awaiting detailed instructions from the university. The principal of an affiliated college said they had learned that the online exam would be similar to the recruitment tests offered by companies. “Students will receive a user ID and password to log in at a specified time. They must complete the test as the portal will close at the end of the hour. The students will be monitored,” he said. Those unable to access the internet may come to the institution for the test. “The university has been conducting State-level placements and is familiar with the online process. Since final year students would have to write anywhere between two and four papers, even if we have to provide the tests on alternate days we can complete them,” the official said. Colleges do not see problems as students attend online classes and manage to do assignments as well. Colleges are preparing to upload the attendance and first assessment results by September 11 on the university’s portal.  Three days ago the University of Madras held a meeting with affiliated colleges. Most of them were concerned about net connectivity, said a college principal. “There are only 30 aided colleges within the city. The rest are in the outskirts, many in remote areas where internet connectivity is poor,” said principal of another college. S. Kamalakannan, Principal of Annai Theresa College of Arts and Science, said: “Our college is in the interior parts of Tirukazhukundram in a village called Mangalam. Though student attendance is 90%, they are unable to remain connected steadily during the classes. We have 310 final year students in 13 departments, each of whom will have to write four or five papers.” The college has proposed to hold science exams in the morning and arts stream exams in the evening. It plans to provide masks to all students and teachers. Gloves would be mandatory, he said. “We have 40 classrooms and hence physical distancing will not be an issue,” he added. Principal of Malolan College in Madurantakam V. Subathra said her students would not be able to take online exams. “Most of the students are children of farmers or agricultural labourers who do not even own a smart phone of their own,” she said. The college had computer and internet connectivity. Though the students have been provided laptops by the government they did not have the money to pay for data plans, she said. Madurai Kamaraj University Vice-Chancellor M. Krishnan said that the university was yet finalise the examination schedule. Instructions had been given to affiliated colleges to follow the State government’s Standard Operating Procedure. Another senior official from the university said that they were awaiting directions from the Madras High Court, where a case is pending regarding the examinations, to finalise the schedule. A top official from Bharathidasan University said that work was under way and methodology and timetable for examinations were yet to be finalised. ( With input from Pon Vasanth B.A )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/varsities-gear-up-for-end-semester-exams/article32556785.ece
09 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. making a drama out of the arrears issue: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Tuesday accused the AIADMK government of having made a drama out of the issue of declaring engineering students, who had arrears in semester examinations, as having passed in view of the COVID-19 outbreak. He said “contradictory stands” taken by different stakeholders on the issue had caused anxiety and concern among students. In a statement, Mr. Stalin said that Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar, who had nothing to do with Higher Education, had said that the decision to declare students with arrears as having passed was taken with the consent of the All-India Council for Technical Education (AICTE). In contrast, Anna University vice-chancellor M.K. Surappa had confirmed that the AICTE had sent a circular against the move, he said. But Higher Education Minister K.P. Anbazhagan was not aware of the development. Mr. Stalin said the AICTE’s e-mail had said, “It is not acceptable to award marks without conducting any examination and graduating the students. Such students will not be recognised by industry or by other universities for higher education.” “Students and educationists are wondering whether the government is enacting a farcical drama,” he said. Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran on Tuesday demanded that the State government clarify its position on the issue of arrear examinations. In a series of tweets, he referred to a communication purportedly sent by the AICTE, stating that the council did not agree with the State government’s decision of declaring all students, including those who had arrear examinations, as having passed. He also adverted to the denial of the existence of such a communication by Mr. Anbalagan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-making-a-drama-out-of-the-arrears-issue-stalin/article32556764.ece
09 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||After recovery, patients report sleeplessness and anxiety||COVID-19 patients are displaying sleeplessness, fear and anxiety after discharge. Psychiatrists have been seeing a steady inflow of such people, including healthcare providers, and are finding that there is a sense of fear and panic among them. Elderly persons turning anxious on hearing the siren of an ambulance or healthcare providers worrying about re-infection — psychiatrists are increasingly receiving more such patients. Psychological support has become a must for many during and post-COVID-19 treatment, with standalone follow-up clinics in government hospitals offering psychiatric services as well. P. Poorna Chandrika, director of the Institute of Mental Health, said that doctors at the follow-up clinic at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital were seeing persons, including healthcare providers, coming in with sleeplessness, anxiety and fear of re-infection. Sudden isolation “There is low mood that could be related to fatigue, and could be part of depression. This happens because people go into isolation suddenly and the restrictions cause a strain on them. Those with good family support are better off, but there are instances where testing positive for COVID-19 has caused anxiety among family members, straining relationships,” she said. She added that they were also looking at the probability of patients going through Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) or having flashback memories of the event. Lakshmi Vijayakumar, psychiatrist, said there were two types of people who were most affected — those who have lost someone to COVID-19 and those testing positive for the infection and have been under hospital isolation. The latter particularly comprised the elderly. “Many are fine during the first week of discharge. They start experiencing depression and anxiety during the second week. People have been affected by isolation/quarantine and bereavement. This includes healthcare providers as well. They are experiencing difficulty in thinking and come after a great deal of reluctance,” she said. Insomnia is one of the commonest symptoms, she said, adding: “We are also seeing persons with symptoms of PTSD and suicidal tendencies. We are seeing only the tip of the iceberg of mental health consequences of COVID-19.”  A challenge In fact, Dr. Vijayakumar noted that a small percentage of persons also presented with neuro-psychological symptoms of confusion, worry and sleeplessness and then tested positive. COVID-19 is a challenging situation for everyone — patients, healthcare providers such as doctors and staff nurses, and hospital workers, observed Karthik Deivanayagam, district mental health programme officer, Pudukottai. “There is fear and illness anxiety. The stigma associated with COVID-19 is more challenging, and mental health professionals play an important role in tackling it,” he said. He, along with his team of psychiatrists, call up persons who test positive for COVID-19, and if need be, their family members, and even frontline workers, to provide video counselling. Till now, they have made 17,000 calls in Pudukottai. “Basic symptoms include sleeplessness, fear and anxiety. We educate them with appropriate information on COVID-19 and if necessary, provide drug therapy,” he added. An LEED strategy — listen, elicit, educate and de-escalate — has been put in place. Dr. Vijayakumar said, “There is no point in panicking, but precautions should be taken. We can control our sleep, appetite and exercise. So, have a routine,” she said. While she suggested that people should avoid an overdose of television news, Dr. Chandrika said that people should filter unnecessary information on social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-recovery-patients-report-sleeplessness-and-anxiety/article32556766.ece
09 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Conservancy workers call off strike||Conservancy operations were disrupted in many parts of the city on Tuesday due to protests by civic workers against the Chennai Corporation. At least 3,000 workers started a protest on Monday demanding better wages in accordance with a Government Order. The order, dated October 11, 2017, fixed the wage of conservancy workers at Rs. 624.50 per day. But the Corporation has been paying only Rs. 379 per day. The workers demanded implementation of the revised wage structure. But civic officials refused to accept the demand. As the protest continued on Tuesday, conservancy operations in most of Ambattur and some parts of Royapuram, Tondiarpet, Sholinganallur and Perungudi were disrupted. After residents complained, the civic body held talks with the workers’ representatives. The representatives said they decided to call off the protest on Tuesday evening after senior officials claimed they did not have the funds to implement the Government Order. Protect livelihood Former MLA S.K. Mahendran, who represented the conservancy workers, said the government should implement the revised wage structure to protect the livelihood of poor workers who keep the city clean. “Conservancy workers have been demanding wages as per the Government Order for three years. Senior officials are refusing to accept the demand to safeguard the interest of the private conservancy operator who is expected to start operations shortly,” he said. At least 11 zones of the city will get a private conservancy operator in a few months. Senior officials said they would give additional wages of Rs. 12 per day for each conservancy worker. “We will pay arrears. We do not have adequate funds to increase wages. Property tax collection has been poor because of COVID-19,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/conservancy-workers-call-off-strike/article32556743.ece
09 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hindi not essential to work in Official Language Cell, says GST Commissioner||The Commissioner of GST & Central Excise, Chennai outer Commissionerate, on Tuesday clarified that the work at its Official Language Cell is administrative in nature and knowledge of Hindi is not essential, especially at the level of Assistant Commissioner. The clarification comes a day after B. Balamurugan, Assistant Commissioner, Hindi Cell, GST Chennai Outer Commissionerate, wrote to the Chairman, Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC), alleging imposition of Hindi on Tamil officials. ‘Additional charge basis’ “Official Language Cell has been functioning in the Chennai Outer Commissionerate since July 2017 and in view of the shortage of staff and taking into consideration the limited work involved, no officer has ever been posted here on a regular charge. Assistant Commissioner, Superintendent, Inspector and Tax Assistant have been working in the cell purely on an additional charge basis,” it said in a statement. No currently employed officer had expressed, either formally or informally, their unwillingness to work here, it said and added that all but one of the Assistant Commissioners were from non-Hindi speaking States. The work of the Official Language Cell involves compilation of quarterly statistical reports on official language implementation and conducting quarterly review meetings. Since the format is bilingual, knowledge of English is enough to prepare these reports. Official language related work where knowledge of Hindi is essential was handled by another branch in the Chief Commissioner’s office, it said. Warning of protests Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri on Tuesday demanded that the Central government stop appointing persons who know only Hindi in Central government offices in Tamil Nadu and warned of protests against the BJP-led Centre if it failed to do so.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hindi-not-essential-to-work-in-official-language-cell-says-gst-commissioner/article32556747.ece
09 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNPCB warns marriage halls, hotels||The Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) has warned that it will take action on marriage halls, hotels, restaurants, motels and banquet spaces if they are found flouting norms. In a public notice issued by Chairman A.V. Venkatachalam, the board said action would include stopping the non-compliant activities, initiating prosecution and recovering compensation under the Polluter Pays principle. The notice is based on a July 2020 order by the National Green Tribunal, directing State Pollution Control Boards to ensure that such categories conform to environmental norms. M. Ravi of the Chennai Hotels’ Association said standalone restaurants would not be covered under these rules. “We use LPG and therefore do not cause smoke. The discharged water does not contain any hazardous material,” he said. M. Kempraj, general secretary, Tamil Nadu Kalyana Mandapam Owners’ Association, said many were already following the norms. “Halls were sealed in some districts. They were unsealed after they obtained permission to operate,” he said. Halls do not come under TNPCB guidelines, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnpcb-warns-marriage-halls-hotels/article32556752.ece
09 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC reserves verdict on 90 more days of leave to Rajiv case convict||The Madras High Court on Tuesday reserved its orders on a plea seeking 90 more days of ordinary leave to former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi assassination case life convict A.G. Perarivalan. He had already availed 60 days of ordinary leave between November 12, 2019 and January 12 this year on medical grounds. Justices N. Kirubakaran and P. Velmurugan deferred their verdict on a habeas corpus petition filed by the convict’s mother T. Arputham. Senior counsel R. Shunmugusundaram insisted on granting exemption from Tamil Nadu Suspension of Sentence Rules under which leave could be availed only once in two years. Appearing on behalf of the petitioner, he said the fact that Perarivalan was in incarceration since 1991 and that he was suffering from co-morbidities must be taken into consideration while considering his plea for granting 90 more days of leave. The counsel told the court that the convict was shifted from the Central prison in Vellore to Puzhal only to help him obtain specialised treatment through frequent visits to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital and Stanley Medical College Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-reserves-verdict-on-90-more-days-of-leave-to-rajiv-case-convict/article32556790.ece
09 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Assembly session from September 14 to 16||The upcoming session of the Legislative Assembly will be held from September 14 to 16 at the Kalaivanar Arangam in Chennai. All those intending to take part in the House proceedings have been requested to undertake tests for COVID-19, 72 hours before the House is scheduled to convene. The Business Advisory Committee (BAC) of the House, chaired by Speaker P. Dhanapal, which met here, finalised the dates for the session. On the first day, resolutions will be adopted, condoling the deaths of former President Pranab Mukherjee, DMK legislator J. Anbazhagan, Congress Member of Parliament H. Vasanthakumar and those who succumbed to COVID-19. The House will also condole the deaths of 21 former legislators who died since the previous Assembly session. The day’s proceedings will be adjourned thereafter, Mr. Dhanapal said after the meeting of the BAC. Official business will resume on September 15, and the first supplementary budget will be presented in the House on 16th. The Speaker said that all legislators who intend to attend the proceedings must test for COVID-19, 72 hours before the House is scheduled to convene. All officers, Assembly officials and journalists should also undergo testing. “Only those with authorised passes will be allowed on the third floor [of the Kalaivanar Arangam],” Mr. Dhanapal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/assembly-session-from-september-14-to-16/article32556756.ece
09 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Release of Tamil translation of EIA draft only after Delhi HC verdict’||The Centre on Tuesday informed the Madras High Court that Tamil translation of the draft Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) notification, originally released in English and Hindi alone, was ready but a decision on releasing it would be taken only after the disposal of a connected case pending before the Delhi High Court. Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy were informed by Additional Solicitor General (ASG) R. Shankaranarayanan that the Delhi High Court had on June 30 ordered publication of the notification in 22 vernacular languages. However, the Centre had now filed a review petition against that order. Stating that the review plea might get listed for hearing anytime, he said that in the meantime, the Karnataka High Court had extended till September 23 an interim stay on all further proceedings to be taken pursuant to the issue of the draft EIA. Since that stay order was already in operation, the cases before the High Court could be heard later, he said. PIL petitions The submission was made during the hearing of a couple of public interest litigation petitions that insisted upon translating the documents in local language so that people would be able to offer their comments and suggestions. After recording the submissions made by the ASG, the first Bench led by the Chief Justice adjourned the cases to October 5.  The Karnataka High Court had extended till September 23 an interim stay on all further proceedings to be taken pursuant to the issue of the draft EIA||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/release-of-tamil-translation-of-eia-draft-only-after-delhi-hc-verdict/article32556795.ece
09 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Visually impaired students lack support for education: activists||Visually impaired students are unhappy that little effort has been made to provide Braille Slate and books or low vision assistive devices to enable them continue their education. Though the State allocates funds in the budget it rarely reaches the beneficiaries. “When we enquired we were told that a few staff are still in the press and their salaries are being paid,” an activist said. C. Govindakrishnan, member of the State advisory board in the Department for the Differently Abled, said the Braille press has been defunct for the past decade. The schools are expected to send the details of the number of students in their institution to the commissionerate, which in turn will place the indent for the books with the National Institute for the Visually Handicapped. The fact is the government schools do not send the list of students as the enrolment is poor, Mr. Govindakrishnan said. “Parents will not willingly send their students to such schools. It is for the teachers to reach out to the parents and ensure enrolment. Teachers must go village to village to get students to come to school,” he added. The government allocates funds but it rarely reaches the students, he said. Teachers at schools for the visually challenged however blamed the non-appointment of a Chief Education Officer to oversee the functioning of the schools. Members of the College Students and Graduates Association of the Blind point out that the department has not appointed a Chief Education Officer to supervise the functioning of the schools for the visually impaired. A new post was created in 2011 with the mandate that the senior most person who had served in schools for the visually impaired would be given the post. However, since 2013 when the official retired no one has been appointed to the post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/visually-impaired-students-lack-support-for-education-activists/article32556786.ece
09 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SPB stable, continues to remain on life support||Singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam is stable and continues to remain on ventilator and ECMO support, a health bulletin from MGM Healthcare, Chennai, said on Tuesday. Mr. Balasubrahmanyam was hospitalised in August after he tested positive for COVID-19. The hospital said that he was awake and responsive, and his vital parameters were satisfactory. His current clinical condition warranted an extended stay in the Intensive Care Unit, the hospital’s bulletin added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spb-stable-continues-to-remain-on-life-support/article32556762.ece
09 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court orders notices to UGC, AICTE||The Madras High Court on Tuesday wanted to know the stand of the University Grants Commission (UGC) and the All-India Council of Technical Education (AICTE) on a decision taken by the State government to cancel arrear examinations of all arts, science, engineering and postgraduate computer application students, except for those in the final year. Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha ordered notices to UGC and AICTE on public interest litigation petitions filed by E. Balagurusamy, former vice-chancellor of Anna University, and advocate B. Ramkumar Adityan to quash a government order issued on August 26, for cancelling the arrear examinations and declaring the students to have cleared all those papers. Appearing on behalf of the former vice-chancellor, his counsel E. Vijay Anand said the State government had no authority to interfere in academic issues and order cancellation of examinations. Fearing that it might lead to lowering of the standards of education, he said the cancellation was against the instructions issued by the UGC and the AICTE. However, Advocate General Vijay Narayan told the court that the government had cancelled the examinations by exercising its powers under the Disaster Management Act of 2005. He asserted that the decision was not in contravention of any guidelines or instructions issued by UGC or AICTE. He said the Supreme Court and UGC had insisted upon conduct of examinations through other modes, such as online, only for those in the final year and not for others. Hence, the government was fully competent to order the cancellation of exams for pre-final year students, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-orders-notices-to-ugc-aicte/article32556768.ece
09 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CPCL gets environment nod for refinery||The proposal for setting up a nine million tonnes per annum refinery of Chennai Petroleum Corporation Ltd (CPCL) in Nagapattinam has received approval from the Union Environment Ministry's Expert Appraisal Committee. This has paved the way for establishment of Tamil Nadu's yet another major refinery. The committee, which met on August 22 through video conferencing, granted the clearance for the project on the premises of an existing refinery at Panangudi village subject to certain conditions including, creation of green belt in 33% of the project land. On completion, the Rs. 32,908 crore refinery would, apart from BS stage VI petrol and diesel, produce liquefied petroleum gas, polypropylene, ATF, sulphur and coke. The refinery would directly employ 600 persons and indirectly another 1,000. The existing one million tonne per annum refinery at Panangudi village will be dismantled while retaining some utilities. It has remained closed since July 2019. The total area requirement for the Cauvery Basin Refinery is around 1,350 acres of which the company has around 650 acres. The remaining land is under acquisition. Speaking to The Hindu , CPCL Managing Director S. N. Pandey said that the clearance was a positive step in the setting up of the refinery. “This will be the State's yet another major refinery after 50 years. We provide feedstock to at least five or six major industries in Manali in Chennai. We hope to supply to industries in Nagapattinam too. Some industries are already in talks with us,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpcl-gets-environmental-nod-for-nagapattinam-refinery/article32556794.ece
09 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: nodal officers appointed to collect fine||Following the recent amendment of the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act declaring certain offences — including COVID-19 safety protocol violations — as compoundable, the State government has appointed a nodal officer and notified appropriate authorities for collecting fine amount. The Joint Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine (Epidemics) is the nodal officer for monitoring the effective implementation and reconciling authority for collection of fine amounts at the State level. Deputy Directors of Health Services would be the nodal officers at the district-level. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan has written to the DGP, Directorate of Public Health and Prevent Medicine, District Collectors, and Chennai Police Commissioner, requesting them to immediately authorise officers as appropriate authority for collection of fine amount as an effective preventive activity to control the spread of COVID-19. For the field-level, an official not below the rank of health inspector, sanitary inspector, sub-inspector, revenue inspector from the respective department should be authorised. The designated authorities at each level should enforce the provisions of the Act. They should issue a proper receipt to violators, and the bill book should be monitored and maintained at the State and district-level by the Public Health department, he said. Under the Act, fines have been specified for offences such as violation of quarantine measures, non-wearing of masks, spitting in public places and violation of social distancing within the community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nodal-officers-will-collect-fines-for-covid-19-protocol-violations/article32556797.ece
09 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police personnel will get a day off on their birthday||Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal has introduced a system of greeting police personnel on their birthdays and giving them a day off to boost morale. The card signed by Mr. Aggarwal is distributed to the respective police personnel. Either the Deputy Commissioner or the Assistant Commissioner of the jurisdiction will invite the personnel to celebrate their birthday. The person will be given the card and after a cake is cut, they will be given the rest of the day off, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-personnel-will-get-a-day-off-on-their-birthday/article32556748.ece
09 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CRPF Deputy Commandant found dead in Poonamallee||A Deputy Commandant of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) on Tuesday allegedly shot himself with his service rifle on a high security campus in Poonamallee. The Poonamallee police registered a case and are investigating. According to the police, Srijan, 52, attached to the 77th Battalion of CRPF, functioning from Karayanchavadi, near Poonamallee, took the extreme step around 7 a.m. On hearing the gunshot, his colleagues rushed to his office and found him bleeding. He was taken to a private hospital in Porur, where the doctors declared him “brought dead”. The police sent his body to the Kilpauk Medical College Hospital for post-mortem examination. Assistance for those with suicidal tendencies is available at the State health helpline 104 or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crpf-deputy-commandant-found-dead-in-poonamallee/article32556744.ece
09 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. urges HC to close case against Minister||The State government on Tuesday insisted upon disposing of a case filed by Arappor Iyakkam, an NGO, seeking a detailed inquiry into allegations of irregularities levelled against Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani in award of civil contracts by Greater Chennai, Coimbatore and other municipal corporations. Advocate General Vijay Narayan told Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha that the case had become infructuous since the government had decided to drop action against the Minister after the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) gave a clean chit to him pursuant to a detailed preliminary inquiry into the complaint. The A-G said the government had filed a sub application for disposing of the NGO’s case since nothing survived to be adjudicated upon. State Public Prosecutor A. Natarajan told the court that an officer in the rank of Superintendent of Police had conducted the preliminary inquiry and found that no cognisable offence had been made out. The NGO’s complaint was inquired along with a similar complaint lodged by DMK MP R.S. Bharathi. The inquiry officer’s report, stating that there was no necessity to register a First Information Report against the Minister, was endorsed by the Vigilance Commissioner and accepted by the State government, he informed the Bench. However, V. Suresh, representing the NGO, said the case could not be closed that easily since the DVAC’s preliminary inquiry report was biased. He claimed that the inquiry had been conducted in such a way that the Minister got exonerated. He urged the Bench to list the case for hearing before regular court and not through virtual court. Accepting his submission, the judges decided to commence the hearing from September 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-urges-hc-to-close-case-against-minister-velumani/article32556800.ece
09 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Complex jaw surgery done in city hospital||A 75-year-old chronic tobacco user, diagnosed with Stage IV head and neck cancer, recently underwent a complex single-stage jaw implant reconstructive surgery at MGM Healthcare. Senior consultant and head of the Institute of ENT at the hospital Sanjeev Mohanty said the cancer had metastasised to the lymph nodes in his neck. They removed the right half of his jaw bone and part of the eft half before reconstructing it. Senior consultant maxillofacial and dental surgeon Abhilash Ayalur Bhaskaran and his team performed the procedure. Dr. Mohanty said the surgery had to be done in one sitting to prevent the patient from contracting COVID-19 during hospital visits. “ The patient was counselled and educated about the procedure so that he could be prepared for it and the follow-up,” he said. The patient was discharged on the tenth day after surgery. The patient is able to swallow and his breathing functions are intact, Dr. Mohanty added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/complex-jaw-surgery-done-in-city-hospital/article32556750.ece
09 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ponmudi, A. Raja to be elected to party posts||The DMK general council meeting slated for Wednesday is expected to elect former State minister K. Ponmudi and former Union Minister A. Raja as deputy general secretaries of the party. The general council meeting originally slated to elect party general secretary and treasurer will also elect two deputy general secretaries. Party president M.K. Stalin will announce the unanimous election of senior leader Duraimurugan for the post of general secretary and T.R. Baalu as treasurer. The election of Mr. Ponmudi and Mr. Raja would increase the number of deputy general secretaries to five.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ponmudi-a-raja-to-be-elected-to-party-posts/article32556798.ece
09 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fishers stage protest||Members of various organisations on Tuesday staged a protest demanding a proper search for the 10 fishermen from Kasimedu, who went missing at sea 50 days ago. K. Bharathi of the South Indian Fishermen Welfare Association said that the Coast Guard had searched for the men only for a day. They said that since the emergency transponder had been turned off, they could not search for the craft, he claimed. Both the Central and State governments have not done anything for finding the missing men, alleged M. Ilango, National Fisher Foundation. “There is so much scientific advancement and each time a satellite is launched they say it is for the welfare of the fishers and farmers. But now they say they cannot search for a boat in the sea,” he said. Boat owner Balaji, whose second vessel has gone missing, said in the last 10 years there had been no change in the search protocol. “Ten families are desperate for their bread winners. They have nowhere to go,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishers-stage-protest/article32556772.ece
09 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PIL seeks complete lockdown in Puducherry||The Madras High Court on Tuesday ordered notices, returnable in six weeks, to the Centre as well as the Puducherry government on a public interest litigation (PIL) petition seeking the imposition of a complete lockdown in the Union Territory until the threat of COVID-19 subsides. Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy passed the order on the PIL petition filed jointly by G. Sougomarane of the Federation of People’s Right in Puducherry and G.A. Jagannathan, a former president of Karikalampakkam village. Claiming that Puducherry was facing an alarming situation, the petitioners wanted the Centre as well as the local government to evolve a comprehensive scheme for identifying and treating COVID-19 patients by strictly ordering hospitalisation of all infected people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pil-seeks-complete-lockdown-in-puducherry/article32556773.ece
09 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City police chief stresses on wearing masks||City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal, accompanied by senior officers, on Tuesday inspected the Marina, Elliots Beach and other places to ensure that the public maintain COVID-19 norms. Mr. Aggarwal and Additional Commissioners R. Dhinakaran and M. Kannan stopped motorists without masks and people standing in bus stops. They explained the necessity of wearing masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-police-chief-stresses-on-wearing-masks/article32556789.ece
09 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. starts removing barricades in front of quarantined houses||Coimbatore Corporation has started removing barricade in front of quarantined houses. Sources familiar with the development said that following Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian’s instruction on Monday night, the Corporation had stopped erecting poles and sheets in front of quarantined houses and also started removing these that were put up at quarantined houses. The exercise started on Tuesday morning and by afternoon, the officials in the five zones had removed the poles and sheets from over 200 houses. The Corporation would, however, continue to use the poles and sheets to quarantine or isolate streets or parts of streets that had more than three positive cases, the sources said. Partially or fully quarantining such streets would be at the discretion of the field officers, who would take a call depending on the spread of cases. Will paste stickers As for the quarantined houses from where the sheets were removed, the Corporation would, instead, stick notices stating that these were quarantined houses with restriction on movement of people. The sticker would also have the period of restriction and number of people in such houses. The sources said that at the time of pasting the stickers, Corporation officials would warn the occupants not to violate the restriction and that a police complaint would be lodged if they did so. The Corporation’s latest move followed an incident at K.C. Thottam, near Hope College Junction, where a resident displayed a banner in front of his house taunting the civic body for “wrongly” quarantining his house. Close watch The sources said that in addition to warning the occupants of quarantined houses to not venture out, the Corporation staff at zonal micro control rooms would make frequent video calls to check their presence at home. And, on the field, sanitary supervisors would keep a watch, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-starts-removing-barricades-in-front-of-quarantined-houses/article32556821.ece
09 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Minister distributes solatium to kin of building collapse victims||Minister for Municipal Administration and Rural Development S.P. Velumani on Tuesday visited the spot on Chetty Street where a building collapsed two days ago and distributed financial support. The collapse of the 40-year-old building on Sunday night led to the death of four persons Gopalswami, 72, his wife Kasturiammal, 65, their son Manikandan, 42, and another woman Swetha aka Shalini, 25. Mr. Velumani distributed Rs. 4 lakh each to the families of Gopalswami, Kasturiammal and Swetha, which included Rs. 1 lakh from Chief Minister's Public Relief Fund and Rs. 3 lakh from State Disaster Relief Fund, a release said. Official sources said that there were no legal heirs for Manikandan, hence the solatium was provided to the families of only three victims. Mr. Velumani also visited the three persons injured in the collapse – a four-year-old boy Thanvir, Vanaja, 65 and Manojkumar, 49 - who were undergoing treatment at Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. The Minister distributed financial support of Rs. 50,000 each to the three injured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-distributes-solatium-to-kin-of-building-collapse-victims/article32556812.ece
09 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Tourists can now opt for helicopter ride in Coimbatore||For those in Coimbatore and nearby areas who are tired of spending time indoors because of the spread of COVID-19, here is a safe getaway option. Planet-X Aerospace and Express Holidays have launched private helicopter rides here as a tourist attraction. According to P.K. Ganesh, Managing Partner of Express Holidays, they have prepared two customised packages in the city so far and each was a 30-minute ride offering an aerial view of Coimbatore and nearby areas. “We customise the entire package and the cost varies accordingly. We want to promote Coimbatore as a tourist destination,” he said. The helicopter can be booked for a tour of the city, medical emergencies, and temple and business visits. Each ride can accommodate maximum five people and can go non-stop for almost one-and-a-half hours. The tour organisers have tie-ups with helipads in other areas for longer trips. With changing norms in tourism industry because of the pandemic, many people want private tourism. They want safe solutions. The helicopter has a separate, safe air-conditioned passenger cabin and the entire travel is contact-less for the customer. The services offered include executive travel, film shoots, wedding photography, celebration of special occasions, corporate promotion and product launches, and flower shows. “We plan to offer private jet services too in the future,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tourists-can-now-opt-for-helicopter-ride-in-coimbatore/article32556810.ece
09 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Auto drivers stage protest||Nearly 50 autorickshaw drivers staged a sit-in demonstration on Monday alleging harassment by micro financing institutions to repay their equated monthly instalment (EMI) for vehicle loans. According to M.G. Prabakaran, State general secretary of Independent Vehicle Owners and Drivers Union, the drivers staged the protest on the premises of a private finance company in Ramanathapuram. Noting that the demand for autorickshaws had not picked up despite the relaxations in the COVID-19 lockdown, he alleged that the institutions had been repeatedly demanding repayment of EMI for vehicle loans. Mr. Prabakaran said the demonstration was withdrawn after police officials held talks with the drivers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/auto-drivers-stage-protest/article32556824.ece
09 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Calf dies after biting explosive||A two-year-old male calf died after biting into a country-made explosive or avittukai near Periyanaickenpalayam in Coimbatore district on Tuesday. According to sources in Forest Department, the calf was grazing on a private farm at Gudalur Kavundampalayam when it bit into the avittukai, which exploded in its mouth and caused its death on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/calf-dies-after-biting-explosive/article32556813.ece
09 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Resume trains in Pollachi section’||Members of the Pollachi Train Passengers Welfare Association demanded resumption of regular and special train services in the Pollachi section. Association secretary B. Mohanraj on Monday submitted petitions in this regard to Southern Railway General Manager John Thomas, Pollachi MP K. Shanmugasundaram, Pollachi Division Railway Manager Pratap Singh Shami and Deputy Speaker of Legislative Assembly Pollachi V. Jayaraman. Mr. Mohanraj said the residents had no choice, but to go to Coimbatore to board trains now. In particular, train services between Thiruvananthapuram and Madurai, Palakkad and Chennai and Coimbatore and Madurai should be resumed at the earliest with stoppages at Pollachi Junction, he said. The petition also demanded speeding up of the railway electrification works and operation of goods train arriving from Salem and Erode Junctions at the Pollachi-Kinathukadavu-Podanur section. Sources in the Palakkad Division said the State governments of Kerala and Tamil Nadu must consent for the operation of inter-State passenger trains amid the COVID-19 situation and that there were demands for train from Kerala to Chennai and Bengaluru. Meanwhile, the passenger reservation system counters were reopened at Pollachi Railway Station on Tuesday to facilitate train bookings. The counters would be open from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. every day, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/resume-trains-in-pollachi-section/article32556823.ece
09 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||DIC’s weekly webinar||The District Industries’ Centre, Coimbatore, will conduct online consultation meetings every Thursday regarding NEEDS, UYEGP, PMEGP, PMFME schemes, subsidies, guidance to entrepreneurs, skill development and savings schemes. According to a press release, the meetings will be conducted through Zoom application. Those interested should log in using the meeting ID: 79287703871 and the password: Gmdic The meetings will be held from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. For details, call 9443565891||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dics-weekly-webinar/article32556801.ece
09 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Elephant found dead in Valparai||A male elephant was found dead by Forest Department officials in the Valparai forest range of Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) in Coimbatore district on Monday. Officials attached to ATR and veterinarians commenced the autopsy on Tuesday morning. Forest Department officials said that they found the carcass on Monday evening at the reserve forest in Andiparai Shola, which falls under the Valparai forest range of the Pollachi Forest Division attached to ATR. They traced the elephant based on inputs from local tea estate workers about a fight between two elephants. Estimated to be around 25-year-old, the elephant probably died due to the injuries caused due to the fight with another male elephant, according to the officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-found-dead-in-valparai/article32556815.ece
09 September 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Assumes charge as Dharmapuri SP||Pravesh Kumar took charge as Superintendent of Police of Dharmapuri here on Tuesday. A 2007-batch IPS officer from Uttar Pradesh, he was formerly the SP of Vellore and had also been the SP of Namakkal and Kaniyakumari districts. He was also Deputy Commissioner of Police, Law and Order, Coimbatore City; Superintendent of Police, CB-CID, Chennai. He succeeds Superintendent of Police P. Rajan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/assumes-charge-as-dharmapuri-sp/article32556807.ece
09 September 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Kodaikanal will welcome tourists from today: Collector||Tourists from other districts can visit Kodaikanal from Wednesday, Dindigul Collector M. Vijayalakshmi said on Tuesday. In a statement, the Collector said that following representations from applicants intending to visit the hill station and various trade and tourist associations, the district administration had proposed to permit people from other districts to enter Kodaikanal from Wednesday. The Collector said from now, those applying for e-passes to Kodaikanal could click on the “tourist” category that was not provided earlier on the online application. The government had earlier accorded permission only for marriages, deaths and return of stranded persons to return. Health authorities in Kodaikanal said that initially, only three tourist spots — Bryant Park, Rose Garden and Chettiar Park — would open for tourists. Other locations, including Berijam Lake and Green Valley View, among others, would open in a phased manner after consultation with Forest Departments officials and others. Similarly, for residents from Dindigul district, a valid identity card (preferably Aadhaar card) would be sufficient for entering the hill station, officials said, and added that based on the arrival of tourists and the level of cooperation from them, the next phase of relaxations would be considered. Kodaikanal Hotel Owners’ Association president Abdul Gani Raja welcomed the move. “After five months, we are now hopeful of revival. People started enquiring from September 1, but tourists were unable to get e-passes then,” he said. The association, he said, would cooperate with officials.  However, eco-conscious people and residents expressed reservations and described the move as hasty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kodaikanal-will-welcome-tourists-from-today-collector/article32556760.ece
09 September 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Flash floods affect vehicle movement in Bargur Hills||Flash floods at a forest stream near Devarmalai in Bargur Hills affected the movement of vehicles for over two hours here on Tuesday as people wanted a bridge to be constructed to overcome the problem. Devarmalai is located about five km away from Thamaraikarai at the east Bargur hills where over 100 families reside. Bejalatti, Vellimalai, Madam, Elachipalayam are other villages located near Devarmalai. Heavy rain in the morning resulted in flash floods at the stream leading to the low-lying bridge getting submerged from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. Vehicles from Thamaraikarai and Devarmalai area were stopped and people waited for the water level to drop. Later, they crossed the stream on foot while vehicle movement commenced after 1 p.m. Villagers said that rain in the hills cause flash floods frequently affecting the movement of workers and school children. They said that during emergencies, ambulances could not transport the patient to the hospital on time and hence wanted a bridge to be constructed across the stream to ensure vehicle movement round-the-clock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flash-floods-affect-vehicle-movement-in-bargur-hills/article32556804.ece
09 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Two more swab collection centres in Erode||With the COVID-19 cases increasing in the district, two more swab collection centres would function in the Corporation limits from Wednesday, said Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan. The district reported 4,000 positive cases so far of which 65% was in the Corporation limits. Last month, permanent centres were established at the three urban primary health centres (UPHCs) on Gandhiji Road, at Surampatti Valasu and B.P. Agraharam where samples were collected and sent to the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai for testing. On an average, 300 samples were lifted from people every day at these centres. Since there had been a spike in cases in the Corporation limits, two more centres at the UPHCs at Karungalpalayam and Periyasemoor would function from Wednesday. Mr. Elangovan said density of population was high in these areas and the centres would help lift more samples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-more-swab-collection-centres-in-erode/article32556822.ece
09 September 2020||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Woman self-immolates||An unidentified woman, aged about 40, set herself afire in front of Railway Hospital here on Tuesday. She died on the spot. The identity of the woman was yet to be ascertained. Karur town police registered a case. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-self-immolates/article32557089.ece
09 September 2020||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Bus passengers pay toll plaza||Passengers came to the aid of three State Transport Corporation buses that were denied passage through the toll plaza for non-payment of toll fare here on Tuesday. The Hosur-bound bus carrying passengers from Vellore was stopped at the toll plaza. The bus conductors were apparently told that they will not have to pay any fare at the toll plaza. However, according to the toll plaza sources, there was no such exemption and the buses were asked to pay up. Following this, two buses were pulled off the roads and the passengers were shifted to another bus. However, passengers of three other buses pooled up their own resources and paid the toll gate fare, much to their dismay, choosing not to be delayed for their destinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bus-passengers-pay-toll-plaza/article32556808.ece
09 September 2020||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Krishnagiri Collector inspects development works||Collector V. Jaya Chandra Bhanu Reddy inspected rural development works here in the district on Tuesday. Dr. Bhanu Reddy visited Kelamangalam and Shoolagiri blocks to inspect various development works, including road laying works undertaken under the MNREGS here. Earlier, the Collector verified the beneficiaries under the Green housing scheme at Shoolagiri block. He inspected the construction works on a green house of a beneficiary at Annanagar in Shoolagiri. Later, the Collector also inspected the panchayat union office building under construction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/krishnagiri-collector-inspects-development-works/article32556806.ece
09 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||2 COVID-19 care centres closed||Two out of five COVID-19 Care Centres in the district have been closed as there was steady drop in new cases since the last week of August, Health Department officials said. Five centres were opened at Thiagarajar Engineering College, Agricultural College, Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine, Madurai Kamaraj University and the IT Park at Vadapalanji to treat COVID-19 patients who are asymptomatic or with mild symptoms. Those with moderate or severe symptoms were to be treated at the Government Rajaji Hospital and the Railway Hospital. Now, persons with mild symptoms are being housed and treated at the Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine in Thoppur which has a capacity of 240 beds and at the centre established at Madurai Kamaraj University. None of the other centres are treating patients as on date. Ever since its inception, the Information Technology (IT) Park at Vadapalanji which could accommodate a total of 1,100 patients, is yet to be used, said a source. “The IT Park, which was kept ready in the second week of July, is yet to be put to use because there were not many patients needing admission. Although there were about 450 cases every day in the end of July, there was no need for admission at Vadapalanji as other centres were sufficient. Medical teams were however kept there,” the source said. Collector T. G. Vinay said the IT Park was being maintained as a health facility in case of sudden rise in the number of cases. The administration is cleaning and sanitising the Agricultural College in Melur as it has no patients now. A decision regarding its handing over will be taken soon. “A majority of the case load is being handled by the Government Rajaji Hospital. The facilities at the Thoppur are excellent as we have oxygen cylinders there for those whose symptoms get worse. Some are being treated in private hospitals. Others are in home isolation. The less number of cases is helping us monitor cases effectively,” the Collector added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2-covid-19-care-centres-closed/article32557044.ece
09 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Southern Railway handled 1,043 parcel cargo trains’||Southern Railway continued to operate goods trains and parcel cargo express trains amidst COVID-19 lockdown and earned close to Rs. 14 crore in April-August, said General Manager John Thomas. Interacting with the media through a virtual conference, Mr. Thomas said the Southern Railway had handled 1,043 parcel cargo express trains that moved 33,135 tonnes of goods, and 614 of the trains were operated by the zone. Loading of tractors from Vadipatti near Madurai increased 420% this year, he said. While the loading was only to five rakes in 2019-20, it had increased to 26 rakes in 2020-21, he added. The earning through this had increased from Rs. 1.01 crore to Rs. 5.05 crore. Among various infrastructure works taken up, Madurai-Usilampatti (37 km) section under Madurai-Bodi gauge conversion work had been authorised for commissioning of passenger traffic in January 2020. While Usilampatti-Andipatti (21 km) section had been targeted for completion by March 2021, the remaining portion of Andipatti-Theni (17 km) and Theni-Bodi (15 km) had been targeted for completion by September 2021. Similarly, Milavittan yard had been commissioned as part of the new line project between Madurai and Thoothukudi via Aruppukottai, he said. Doubling work on Madurai-Thoothukudi; Vanchi Maniyachi-Nagercoil section was completed for 45 km in July. The Southern Railway was in the process of preparing zero-based time-table to run trains faster, create additional path for freight movement and adequate time for mandatory maintenance, said Principal Chief Operations Manager Neenu Ittyerah. “We are in the process of assessing patronage, demand and usage of these services and a report would be sent to the Railway Board,” she said. Se said there was no move to run point-to-point train services. “Trains will cover multiple stations,” she said. When asked about the failure to run additional trains to meet huge demand after increasing the line capacity with completion of doubling work between Chennai and Madurai, Mr. Thomas said as of now the zonal railway had no plans to run additional trains. When the zero-based time table was introduced, there could be more trains. However, Ms. Neenu said though the line capacity had been increased, lack of terminal capacity was holding up introduction of additional trains. Once Tambaram terminal was improved, more trains could be run. Additional trains could be run in the next phase and more cities and routes could be covered, she said. Principal Chief Commercial Manager R. Dhananjayulu, Chief Administrative Officer/Construction/Chennai Egmore, K. Raveendra Babu, and CAO/Construction/Ernakulam, Prafulla Verma, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/southern-railway-handled-1043-parcel-cargo-trains/article32557034.ece
09 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Police digitising records of 700 anti-social elements||The police have embarked on digitising records of around 25 anti-social gangs, comprising over 700 members, operating from and in Madurai city with easy search options on various aspects to keep a close tab on them. Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha said the gangs were involved in murders of rival gang members and indulging in chain-snatching and robberies for their sustenance. “We have a huge data base about these anti-social elements. We are trying to put them together with inputs on various aspects of different gangs, their rivalry and whereabouts of the gangsters,” he said. The information to be updated on a daily basis would help police personnel monitor their movements and take preventive measures. The rivalry among gangs was caused by ego clashes, area domination and ganja peddling, he said. The City Police were planning to secure the 22 entry/exit points of the city with high-quality cameras that would help in quick tracking of anti-social elements, who tried to escape after committing crimes. “Initially, we are planning to secure four entries/exits with high quality automatic number recognition cameras,” he said. The registration number of each vehicle entering and exiting the city would be read by the cameras and stored in a digital format and at the press of a button, the movement of any particular vehicle that passed through the point could be obtained, he said. These details would be helpful in tracking those vehicles and nabbing the accused. The police were planning to find sponsors for installing the cameras at the remaining check-posts, he said. “In the next stage, all the bridges across the Vaigai would be covered on both sides to monitor the movement of vehicles. We will put as much pressure on the criminals as possible and make their operation more difficult,” Mr. Sinha added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-digitising-records-of-700-anti-social-elements/article32557048.ece
09 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Transport workers stage protest in Madurai||Representatives of workers from State-run Transport Corporation Employees Cooperative Credit Societies and Credit stores in Madurai and Dindigul region staged a protest against the two wings for irregularities in maintaining loan accounts here on Tuesday. Centre of Indian Trade Unions general secretary A. Kanankasundar said that loans to the tune of Rs. 42 crore which were repaid by employees to the societies and stores were yet to be credited to the society’s accounts. Usually, TNSTC employees who wish to get loans from the State can do so from these societies. The societies would deduct the money every month from the employee’s salary. In Madurai district alone, a total of Rs. 30 crore has been repaid in over two years. But it is yet to reflect in the society’s books, he said. They said they were hopeful of recovery of the amount in the society’s accounts after discussion with senior officials of the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/transport-workers-stage-protest-in-madurai/article32557036.ece
09 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Madurai district’s positivity rate lowest in TN||Madurai district’s positivity rate in the week between August 26 and September 1 has been the lowest in the State. A document explaining the positivity rate as per RT-PCR monitoring report states that Madurai district, which once had the highest number of active cases, second only to Chennai, has reduced its overall case count and increased the number of tests significantly, says a senior official from the health department. While Tamil Nadu’s overall positivity rate stands at 7.7, Madurai district’s positivity rate is stands at 3.4. The State capital’s positivity rate stands at nine while Nagapattinam district has the highest positivity rate of 16.7. Collector T. G. Vinay says the district administration has been conducting 3,000 to 4,000 tests everyday since mid-July due to rise in cases. “We have been tracking Urban Primary Health Centres, walk-ins at Government Rajaji Hospital, nursing homes in peri-urban areas and medical stores where people buy drugs over the counter to check the number of persons who could display symptoms,” he said. Door-to-door fever surveillance has helped the administration to decide where to hold fever camps. “Though we are not testing at the borders, we are going to hit 3,000-test mark to ensure that our positivity rate is low,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-districts-positivity-rate-lowest-in-tn/article32557046.ece
09 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Arrangements made to regulate street vendors||The Madurai Corporation took steps to regulate the crowd of street vendors. A loan of Rs. 10,000 is offered to registered street vendors under the PM-SVANidhi scheme. The corporation is the authority to register street vendors for the loan. According to Assistant City Health Officer S. Vinodh Raja, around 6,000 street vendors from Madurai can avail loan in the first phase. Hundreds of street vendors have been thronging the corporation office for the past few days to apply for the loan with a total disregard for personal distancing norms. A total of 300 chairs were placed under a shamiana. The chairs were placed in such a manner that there was sufficient distance between applicants. A separate team of officials were deployed to ensure that applicants wore face masks and maintained adequate distance, he said. We have increased the number of loan registration counters to 10 to avoid crowding of applicants. The entire place was disinfected in the morning and evening. Registration takes place at corporation zonal offices also apart from Anna Maligai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arrangements-made-to-regulate-street-vendors/article32557045.ece
09 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||11,135 received benefits illegally||As many as 11,135 ineligible persons have availed the benefit of Rs. 2,000 per term under the PM Kisan Scheme, Collector T. G. Vinay said here on Monday at the District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committees (DISHA) meeting headed by MP Su. Venkatesan. When Virudhunagar MP Manickam Tagore made the query, he said that though the administration has recovered Rs. 7,06,000 from 6,000 accounts so far. He said teams had been formed to investigate misuse of funds. “We have asked senior officials of the revenue department to look into the issue. Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan, Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju and Theni MP O. P. Raveendranath Kumar spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/11135-received-benefits-illegally/article32557033.ece
09 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||GRH rises to the occasion||A 46-year-old woman from Tirumangalam, who was positive for COVID-19 and suffered a ruptured brain aneurysm, was successfully operated upon at the Government Rajaji Hospital here on September 2. Dean J. Sangumani said her problem was discovered at a private hospital two months ago. Since she contracted COVID-19, she was brought to the GRH. Neurosurgeons R. Manimaran and V. Prasad, under the guidance of department head R. Veerapandian, performed a procedure. The patient continues to be on ventilator support in the COVID-19 Intensive Care Unit but is recovering. Positive woman delivers baby A 23-year-old woman, who was COVID-19 positive, with pregnancy-induced hypertension and jaundice, delivered a healthy baby at the Government Rajaji Hospital. In a press release, the Dean said the woman was brought to the COVID-19 speciality hospital wing on August 11 in a critical stage. Doctors from different departments including urology, gastroenterology, obstetrics and gynecology monitored her health and ensured delivery through C-section. The mother and the baby have made a complete recovery and have been discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/grh-rises-to-the-occasion/article32557042.ece
09 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Kudimaramath plans must come from farmers: HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has issued a series of directions to the State on the implementation of ‘kudimaramath’ scheme and held that work proposals must emanate only from the farmers’ organisations. Delivering his verdict on a batch of petitions related to the implementation of kudimaramath works, Justice G.R. Swaminathan quashed the government orders to the extent they permitted the nominations to be made in favour of private entities. The court directed Collectors to make arrangements for immediate constitution of management committees as per the Tamil Nadu Farmers Management of Irrigation Systems Act, 2000, and ensure that farmers’ organisations were not without the committees. The PWD must call for a holistic plan from the respective water users associations and the plan should identify the catchment area of the waterbody. The catchment area should be cleared of all ‘karuvelam’ trees and encroachments and the inlet channels should also be identified, the judge said. Further, the court said the Village Administrative Officer and the revenue officials should be involved to identify the inlet channels and take steps to ensure that the excess rainwater from agricultural lands drained into the inlet channels. Also, the outlet channels must be properly desilted. The village map and the cadastral map must be perused and the status of all waterbodies in the map must be checked. If fraudulent pattas had been issued in respect of waterbodies, action should be taken and if encroachments were noted, they should be removed, the court said. If a waterbody had not received any inflow, the officials should record it, identify the reasons and place it before the Collector. Tree plantation should be made a mandatory component to kudimaramath and bunds of waterbodies be strengthened. As per the earlier HC direction, the government should host all guidelines in its website, which should contain basic data of the waterbodies. They should be geo-tagged with latitude, longitude, boundaries, inlet and outlet length and other required parameters, the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kudimaramath-work-plans-must-come-from-farmers-organisations/article32557056.ece
09 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Eleven streets under 7-day lockdown in U.T.||As part of measures to arrest the spread of COVID-19 cases, the government has declared 11 streets at Mettupalayam, Mudaliarpet, Odiansalai, Lawspet, Gorimedu and Reddiyarpalayam as containment zones and imposed restrictions on the movement of people and vehicles and opening of shops for seven days, starting Tuesday. In an order on Monday, District Collector T. Arun said all shops, establishments, industrial units and private offices would remain closed. Vegetable and grocery outlets would function from 6 a.m. till noon. People would not be allowed to move out of the containment zones other than for medical emergencies. Government servants would be allowed to travel. No transportation would be allowed other than to ferry essential items. People from outside will not be allowed to enter the containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eleven-streets-under-7-day-lockdown-in-ut/article32556776.ece
09 September 2020||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||With 12 more deaths, toll in Puducherry now 337||Puducherry’s COVID-19 toll rose to 337 with 12 more deaths recorded on Tuesday while 440 new admissions and 446 patients discharged in the last 24 hours. Puducherry accounted for 10 deaths and Yanam two. The case fatality rate rose to 1.90% while the recovery rate stood at 70.88%. The tally is 337 deaths, 4,831 active cases, a cumulative total of 17,749 cases and 12,581 patients discharged. Of the new cases which were detected from 2,081 samples tested, 369 were reported in Puducherry, 26 in Karaikal, 42 in Yanam and three in Mahe. Of the 1,775 patients under treatment in hospitals, 1,498 are in Puducherry, 63 in Karaikal, 181 in Yanam and 33 in Mahe region. Another 3,056 cases are in home quarantine, of which 2799 are in Puducherry, 141 in Karaikal and 116 in Yanam. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said the 140 new recruits hired on a temporary basis would be given training before being assigned for duty. The door-to-door testing campaign, which was now focused on 25 containment areas with high incidence of cases, would gradually be extended to other places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/with-12-more-deaths-toll-in-puducherry-now-337/article32556793.ece
09 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Murder of govt. staff sparks protest||A section of residents belonging to Vazhakulam in Puducherry on Tuesday staged a road roko on S.V Patel Salai demanding the arrest of culprits involved in the murder of a government employee. S. Ganeshan, an employee of Khadi Board, was hacked to death by a gang while he was returning home after attending a funeral at Vazhakulam on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/murder-of-govt-staff-sparks-protest/article32556774.ece
09 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Man carried on make-shift stretcher for medical treatment in Yercaud||A video of an elderly man carried on a make-shift stretcher, reportedly for medical treatment in Yercaud, has gone viral on social media platforms. In the video, an elderly man is being carried by youth along a path inside an estate near Killiyur waterfalls. Shooting the video, one of them lamented that there is no road facility to their village Kodikadu near Killiyur waterfalls and they need to trek, taking patients in such make-shift stretchers for medical emergencies. T. Jayanthi, a social activist in Yercaud said, “There are about 15 families in the village and they have been demanding a road to that village for a long time. The villagers need to trek for about eight km to reach the main road. In case of medical emergencies, patients need to be carried in make-shift stretchers till the main road. Since the road to the village has to be laid through a private estate, officials are not taking enough initiative. Though peace talks were initiated almost six months ago, it all got affected due to COVID-19 restrictions," she said. Senior panchayat officials said the village is located inside a private estate here and since a private estate falls between the main road and the village, laying a road has been beset with hurdles. Officials said they are trying to work out a solution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-carried-on-make-shift-stretcher-for-medical-treatment-in-yercaud/article32556818.ece
09 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Video of man carried on makeshift stretcher for treatment goes viral||A video of an elderly man being carried on a makeshift stretcher, reportedly for medical treatment in Yercaud, has gone viral on social media platforms. In the video, an elderly man was being carried by youth along a path inside an estate near Killiyur waterfalls. While shooting the video, one of them lamented that there was no road facility to their village Kodikadu near Killiyur waterfalls, and that they needed to trek, taking patients on such makeshift stretchers during medical emergencies. T.Jayanthi, a social activist in Yercaud said, “There are about 15 families in the village and they have been demanding a road for a long time. The villagers need to trek for about 8 km to reach the main road. In case of medical emergencies, patients need to be carried on makeshift stretchers till the main road. Since the road to the village had to be laid through a private estate, officials were not taking enough initiative. Though peace talks were initiated almost six months ago, it all got affected due to COVID-19 restrictions," she said. Senior panchayat officials said since the village is located inside a private estate, laying a road has been beset with hurdles. Officials said they are trying to work out a solution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/video-of-man-carried-on-makeshift-stretcher-for-treatment-goes-viral/article32556780.ece
09 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Check illegal sale of liquor: MP||S.R. Parthibhan, MP, has demanded authorities concerned to take necessary steps to check sale of illegal liquor. Submitting a petition to Superintendent of Police S. Deepa Ganiger here on Tuesday, he said that distillation of illicit liquor is happening in the district and no measures have been taken to control sale of illicit liquor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/check-illegal-sale-of-liquor-mp/article32556814.ece
09 September 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Anxiety over early discharge of patient||The reported discharge of a COVID-19 positive patient from the Government Hospital here on the third day of admission has triggered suspicion among the public. After the patient was admitted to the Government Hospital on September 3 at 8.30 a.m. with fever, the 49-year-old person tested positive for COVID-19 the same day. Even as the treatment was under way, the patient was allegedly discharged from the hospital on September 6 at 7 p.m. with the advise of home quarantine for a week. As there was no mention in the discharge summary that the patient tested negative for COVID-19 before being discharged from the hospital, there was anxiety among relatives and some neighbours. “Even as the COVID-19 management protocol says that the patient should be under treatment at least for a week and then in home quarantine for one more week, this individual has been discharged on the third day,” an activist S.P. Muthuraman said. As the issue surfaced on Tuesday, officials took immediate steps to bring the patient back to the hospital for treatment by afternoon. When contacted, an official in the Department of Public Health assured to conduct a probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anxiety-over-early-discharge-of-patient/article32557051.ece
09 September 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Number of positive cases in Thanjavur coming down, says Collector||The number of COVID-19 positive cases reported in Thanjavur district on a daily basis has come down by 25% to 50% in comparison to the situation in mid-August, according to Collector, M. Govinda Rao. Talking to reporters in Kumbakonam on Tuesday, the Collector said around 200 positive cases were recorded a day during the middle of August. The figure had come down to around 100 to 150 cases daily during the last 10 days. It might reduce further if people adhered to standard operating procedures laid down by the government to control the spread of the infection. Urging people not to be complacent, he called upon them to attend fever camps conducted in their areas to get their health checked frequently and extend their support to government staff conducting field surveys to check the spread; of the virus. To a question on the response from people recovered from the infection to the call for plasma donation, Mr. Govinda Rao said only 10 persons were found suitable to donate plasma out of more than 30 who offered to donate. As on September 8, out of a total 7,572 people who tested positive for the infection, 6,368 were discharged from hospitals after treatment . Stating that around 4,000 beds with oxygen supply facility had been made available in government hospitals in the district to treat infected patients, he said those with mild symptoms were being treated at Government District Headquarters hospital, Kumbakonam, and at Government hospital, Pattukottai. Those with confirmed symptoms were treated at Thanjavur Medical College hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/number-of-positive-cases-in-thanjavur-coming-down-says-collector/article32557078.ece
09 September 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Meet to expedite BG project||A high-level coordination meeting was organised to expedite the long-pending railway project from Madurai to Bodinayakkanur. Theni Lok Sabha MP O P Raveendranath Kumar, senior officials from various departments participated in the meeting here on Tuesday. Collector M Pallavi Baldev, who presided, said the objective was to find glitches and obstacles and get them sorted out quickly. The district administration would coordinate, wherever required, and ensure that the project was dedicated to the public soon, she said. Officials from Railways, Forest, TANGEDCO, Revenue and other departments attended the meeting. The Railways, which wanted certain relocation of high tension power lines along the Madurai-Usilampatti stretch and in some pockets in Theni district, TANGEDCO officials sought two months to carry out the work. Similarly, when the Railways wanted removal of some encroachments, forest department officials sought a month. Revenue authorities said that they would examine the modalities to relocate dwellings, which were blocking the project. By involving the TN Slum Clearance Board, the habitations would be moved to an alternative space. The MP said he would coordinate with the Railway Minister and, if required, he would seek Prime Minister’s attention to get the project implemented without any delay. The project was initiated in 2009 and is set to see the light soon, officials from the railways said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meet-to-expedite-bg-project/article32557032.ece
09 September 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Honoured for honesty||Superintendent of Police Sai Charan Tejaswi and his team of officers honoured five people on Monday for their honesty. On August 31, when Sundarapandi and his friend Mahendran of Varushanadu found Rs. one lakh cash left unclaimed in an ATM outlet in Cumbum, they handed it over to the Inspector of Police, Cumbum. The money was handed over to the rightful owner later. On Sept. 6, Ketan Patel of Sivananda Nagar here went to an ATM on Periyakulam Road. He found two bundles of Rs. 2000 notes left behind the ATM’s chest. He took Rs. 4 lakh and handed it over to the Theni police station. CCTV footage revealed that bank employees had left behind the cash by mistake after refilling the machine. The bank manager took possession of the cash. Two days ago, Abdul Khader and Abdul Hakeem found four gram gold ring left on the road in Cumbum. When they handed it over to the police, it was found that a local resident had lost the valuable while riding his two-wheeler. The SP presented them with a reward and thanked them for their gesture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/honoured-for-honesty/article32557041.ece
09 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Allotment of shops at Kallikudi central market completed||The Department of Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business has completed allotment of shops to traders at the Central Market for Vegetables, Fruits and Flowers at Kallikudi situated on the outskirts of the city. The department expects around 70 shops, including many allotted to farmers’ groups, to start functioning at the market from Wednesday. Among the allottees are 136 new applicants, who submitted bids in response to the District Market Committee’s call for fresh applications in June, and 108 traders of Gandhi Market, who were allotted shops at the market in 2018 after they came forward to pay rental dues. According to sources, 623 shops have been alloted in ground and first floors of the complex. This time, shops on the ground floor and the one directly above them on the first floor have been allotted to applicants in pairs or bunches. All allottees have been issued individual allotment letters. They have been asked to remit six months’ rent as advance, take possession of shops and begin operations latest by September 12. “We hope about 60-70 shops will start functioning from Wednesday,” an official said. With a public interest litigation pending before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court, seeking opening of the market, the department is keen to make the market functional. The Bench, in an interim order, said Gandhi Market shall remain closed till disposal of the petition. A section of wholesale traders of Gandhi Market, for whom the market at Kallikudi was originally intended for, have been opposing any move to shift them out. They claim that the Kallikudi market complex is far away from the city and the shops do not suit their requirements. In June, the District Market Committee called for fresh applications from traders for allotment of shops at Kallikudi market after revoking the allotment of 288 shops to traders, many of them from Gandhi Market, as they failed to function and renew the agreements. Subsequently, the committee allotted 104 shops to 52 Farmers Interest Groups (FIGs), Farmers Producers Groups (FPGs) and Farmers Producers Organisations (FPOs) at the market. Some of the groups have set shop at the market recently but in the absence of poor patronage suspended operations.  Plea to CM Meanwhile, a delegation of Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu, led by its president A.M. Vikarama Raja and general secretary Ve.Govindarajalu, called on Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami in Chennai and urged him to take steps to get the interim injunction of the High Court vacated to pave the way for the reopening of the Gandhi Market, which remains closed in view of the pandemic. “With the easing the lockdown norms and resumption of public transport services, the government should also take steps to protect the interest of traders,” they said in a petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/allotment-of-shops-at-kallikudi-central-market-completed/article32557087.ece
09 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||667 more test positive in central region||The central region recorded 667 fresh cases of COVID-19 and death of eight patients on Tuesday. Three of the eight districts in the region registered more than 100 fresh cases. Four districts registered less than 50 cases. The maximum number of cases were recorded in Tiruvarur district followed by Thanjavur. While Tiruvarur added 198 more cases, Thanjavur saw 128 more positive cases. Pudukottai district followed them with 116 cases followed by Tiruchi with 98, Karur with 46, Ariyalur with 45 and Nagapattinam with 21 new cases. Perambalur finished at the bottom of the list with 15 cases. Pudukottai and Nagapattinam recorded two deaths each, while Tiruchi, Tiruvarur, Ariyalur and Karur registered one death each, according to a medical bulletin of the State Health Department on Tuesday. One of them had no pre-existing medical conditions. A 57-year-old male from Ariyalur, who was admitted on August 30 with fever and cough to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Tiruchi, died on Saturday. He died of COVID pneumonia and respiratory failure. A 85-year-old male from Nagapattinam, who tested positive for the virus on September 1, died on Saturday. He had complaints of fever, cough and difficulties in breathing for three days prior to hospitalisation. He was hypertensive. The second patient, who died of COVID-19 in Nagapattinam, was admitted to the hospital on September 1. The 74-year-old patient, who had complaints of fever, cough and breathing difficulties, died within 24 hours of admission. The lone patient, who was reported to have died of COVID-19 in Tiruchi, was admitted to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital on August 29. The 63-year-old patient died of COVID pneumonia and respiratory failure on Saturday. A 65-year-old male from Karur, who was admitted to Government Medical College Hospital on Saturday, died on Tuesday. He had acute respiratory distress syndrome. Both patients, who died at Pudukottai Medical College Hospital in Pudukottai, had type 2 diabetes mellitus and systemic hypertension. They were aged 50 and 58. One of them was admitted to the hospital on September 4 and the other patient was brought to the hospital on September 5. Both of them died on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/667-more-test-positive-in-central-region/article32557080.ece
09 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Where have all the cattle gone?||Cattle growers and traders are disappointed over the continued closure of the weekly cattle shandy at Manapparai even after resumption of inter-district bus and train services and easing of lockdown restrictions. The Manapparai shandy is one of the major cattle trading centres. It attracts cattle rearers, traders and buyers from different parts of the State, Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Puducherry. Since it is the only major shandy that deals with different varieties cattle, it is a favourite market for both buyers and sellers. About 10,000 traders visit it every week. The shandy meets from 3 p.m. on Tuesdays to 11 a.m. on Wednesdays and transacts business to the tune of Rs. 5 crore a week. About 25,000 to 30,000 milch animals, animals for meat, and bulls for ploughing andjallikattuare brought for sales every week. The shandy, which is under the control of Manapparai municipality, remains closed since the third week of March following the imposition of a nationwide lockdown in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. Without the arrival of cattle, the busy shandy now looks deserted. The relaxations on public transport such as bus and rail and e-pass and permission to operate industries and offices with 100% workers and employees have raised expectations among traders and farmers that the Manapparai shandy will assemble on Tuesday after a gap of more than five months. Officials say the government has not given permission to re-open it. “Cattle rearing and dairying are the important aspects of rural economy. But the chain has been broken with the closure of cattle shandies in the State for close to six months. Farmers have been hit hard,” says N. Ponnusamy, a cattle trader in Manapparai. Pointing to resumption of bus and train transport, farmers say people and commuters have begun travelling in large numbers to cities, towns and villages. The cattle shandies too should be allowed to resume business by applying the same yardstick. “The shandy at Manapparai will attract a large number of buyers and sellers from different States if it is allowed to function,” Collector S. Sivarasu toldThe Hindu. Many aspects have to be analysed while allowing resumption of the shandy. No shandy in the State has so far been given permission to reopen. However, the demand of farmers and traders has been taken to the notice of the government, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/where-have-all-the-cattle-gone/article32557083.ece
09 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Teachers Day: NIT-T alumnus pays tribute to faculty with multi-lingual composition||A multi-lingual composition by an alumnus extolling faculty for their professional dedication was the highlight of Teachers Day celebration by National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi on Monday. Titled 'Guru Vandanam', the video released on behalf of RECAL (REC/NIT Trichy Alumni Association) is an original piece composed by Satish Chakravarthy (class of 1999), who produces film scores and sound track in Hindi, Marathi and Tamil film industries. The video running for a minute presents a kaleidoscope of the journey of the institution, its standing as one of the best institutions in the country, and the teachers behind the achievements, as the backdrop for the musical rendering. The online function that saw the participation of the newly appointed Chairperson of the Board of Governors Bhaskar Bhat, former Managing Director, Tital Co Ltd., as chief guest witnessed honouring of top-performers among teaching and non-teaching staff. A recipient of the Best Entrepreneur Award in 2019, Mr. Bhaskar Bhat emphasised the potential of high-quality education to transform the nation into a vibrant knowledge society and global knowledge superpower. The National Educational policy that envisions India-centered education system contributes directly in bringing about the transformation, Mr. Bhaskar Bhat said underscoring the need to provide under graduates rigorous exposure to science, arts, humanities, mathematics, and professional fields through flexible curricular structure. He explained the advantages inherent in combinational studies with vocational courses and multiple entry exit points. NIT-T Director Mini Shaji Thomas said the institution was aligned to the concept of Multidisciplinary Educational and Research University (MERU) in the National Education Policy 2020, referring to start of three new PG programmes: M.A. in English (Language and Literature), M. Tech. in Geotechnical Engineering and M. Tech. in Industrial Automation. The NIT-T on a growth path had attained ninth position among engineering institutions based on NIRF rankings. Other milestones included installation of a supercomputer at an investment of Rs. 19 crore, as part of the Prime Minister’s Research Fellowship (PMRF); start of an exclusive centre for IPR by National Research Development Corporation, and selection of the institution as the National MOOC (Massive Open Online Courses) coordinator for UG and PG Engineering, Ms. Mini Shaji Thomas said. The outstanding best performer award was given to 27 faculty members, and Prof. P.S. Manisundaram Award to three non-teaching staff. The Budding Researcher Award was presented to 14 research scholars. The departments of Chemical Engineering and Management Studies were adjudged the best.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teachers-day-nit-t-alumnus-pays-tribute-to-faculty-with-multi-lingual-composition/article32557075.ece
09 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Outfit plans agitations demanding jobs for Tamils in Central organisations||The Tamizh Desiya Periyakkam has decided to stage a series of picketing agitations in front of Golden Rock Railway Workshop here from September 11 to 18 demanding among others 90% employment to candidates of Tamil Nadu during recruitment in Central government offices and undertakings functioning in the State. The outfit has also demanded that eligibility criteria be changed to allow only candidates from Tamil Nadu to take part in examinations conducted for recruitment in Southern Railway and other Central government organisations functioning in the State. In a press release issued here on Tuesday, Periyakkam president P. Maniyarasan said the proposed week-long agitation would highlight the demand that only Tamils should be recruited for jobs in Tamil Nadu. He claimed that more than 90 % of 3,218 candidates recruited in Southern Railway were from north India and other States. Over 400 candidates out of 541 recruited at Golden Rock Railway Workshop in Tiruchi were from north Indian states. The railway administration was ignoring thousands of candidates of Tamil Nadu who had completed Act Apprentices training in railways. Priority should be accorded to these candidates for employment in Southern Railway. The Central government was recruiting more than 90% of candidates from north Indian States in BSNL, Neyveli Lignite Corporation, ONGC, IOC, Central Universities,.Income Tax, Postal Department, Airports and Ports functioning in Tamil Nadu besides at JIPMER hospital in Puducherry. While several States enacted legislation according priority to sons-of-the-soil in job opportunities, the AIADMK government brought an amendment in the Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission Act making candidates, who could not read or write Tamil, eligible for employment subject to the condition that they should learn Tamil in two years after joining service. It should enact a law to ensure that only Tamils were employed for jobs in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/outfit-plans-agitations-demanding-jobs-for-tamils-in-central-organisations/article32557084.ece
09 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Banned tobacco products seized||The police have seized six tonnes of banned tobacco products worth about Rs. 38 lakh when they were being smuggled to Kerala from Karnataka. Sources said a team that was patrolling the Madurai Highway on Tuesday, picked up drivers of two mini lorries which had been parked at Karaiyiruppu under Thatchanallur police station limits. As the drivers, identified as R. Ramachandran, 28, of Karaiyiruppu, and E. Velmurugan, 38, of the same area, replied in a contradictory tone, the police checked the lorries to find that both vehicles had been loaded with banned tobacco products, weighing about six tonnes. After taking the lorries with the drivers to the Thatchanallur police station, the police informed officials attached to the Department of Food Safety to check the contraband and take the samples for mandatory analysis. Even as a police team was questioning Ramachandran, another team started checking the godowns in and around Thatchanallur area as they suspected that Ramachandran, a native of this area, might have stocked the tobacco products to be smuggled to Kerala at an advantageous time. “Though both the Kerala-bound lorries had to cross several check-posts erected en route from Karnataka, the drivers have managed to reach Tirunelveli without the banned product being seized at any of these points. So we’re in the process of identifying the persons behind this illegal trade,” said the police. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banned-tobacco-products-seized/article32557038.ece
09 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC increases bus services||The Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation increased the bus services to the nearby districts on Tuesday. As operation of buses to the nearby districts resumed on Monday, buses, which plied to Tenkasi, Thoothukudi, Madurai, Nagercoil, Kovilpatti, Rajapalayam and Tiruchendur, attracted huge crowd. Since the passengers ignored physical distancing even as they travelled to these destinations, the TNSTC management increased the number of buses operated to these places on Tuesday. “Based on inputs provided by our officials, we are operating around 70% buses,” the authorities said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnstc-increases-bus-services/article32557052.ece
09 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Tirunelveli Corporation collects Rs. 2.24 lakh fine||The corporation has collected Rs. 2.24 lakh as fine from those who had violated the COVID-19 safety norms on Tuesday. Corporation Commissioner G. Kannan said the urban civic body had deployed 4 teams in four zones to check the public, business establishments and its workers whether they wear masks or not. The teams would monitor those who are not following physical distancing norms, spitting in public places and business establishments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tirunelveli-corporation-collects-rs-224-lakh-fine/article32557091.ece
09 September 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||19 sample collection centres in Tiruppur||Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan said that 19 sample collection centres had been set up across Tiruppur district for COVID-19 testing. In a release on Tuesday, he said six government hospitals including Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital and 13 primary health centres in all the panchayat unions were equipped to collect swab samples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/19-sample-collection-centres-in-tiruppur/article32556825.ece
09 September 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Five held for hunting giant squirrel, barking deer||Five persons, including four tourists, were arrested after they shot and killed a Malabar giant squirrel and a barking deer in the Ketti valley on Monday. The five were identified as V. Manikandan from Santhoor in Ketti, the owner of MK Cottage, a resort functioning in the area, and four tourists - M. Suleiman alias Solomon, from Madurai, C. John Armstrong Babu, D. Jebakumar, and D. Ramaiah, all from Thoothukudi. The four men were staying in the cottage owned by Manikandan. And, the five men had gone for a trip around the cottage on Monday morning. Manikandan had used an air gun he owned to shoot and kill a Malabar giant squirrel. The men had brought the carcass of the animal to the resort and had cooked most of it and consumed it. Later in the evening, they went out in their vehicle when they spotted a barking deer by the side of the road, when Manikandan is once again alleged to have shot and killed the animal. The men loaded the animal onto the vehicle and fled from the spot. Local residents heard the gunshots and informed the police. During a vehicle check, police stopped the vehicle on suspicion, and checked the car. Forest department officials said they discovered blood and fragments of fur belonging to the barking deer inside the car, and took the owner of the vehicle, Manikandan, into custody. They then searched a small shed next to his property where they discovered the remains of the carcasses of both the Malabar giant squirrel and the barking deer. Assistant Conservator of Forests, K. Saravanakumar , who headed the team formed by the District Forest Officer (Nilgiris division), D. Guruswamy, said that during investigations, it was revealed that the owner of the resort, Manikandan was the prime instigator in hunting wildlife. “We will probe into whether he has been responsible for hunting of other wildlife too in the past,” said Mr. Saravanakumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-held-for-hunting-giant-squirrel-barking-deer/article32556816.ece
09 September 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Resort owner, 4 tourists held for hunting giant squirrel, barking deer||Five persons, including four tourists, were arrested after they shot and killed a Malabar giant squirrel and a barking deer in the Ketti valley on Monday. The five accused were identified as V. Manikandan, 43, from Santhoor in Ketti, owner of MK Cottage, a resort in the area, and four tourists — M. Suleiman alias Solomon, 39, from Madurai, C. John Armstrong Babu, 41, D. Jebakumar, 44, and D. Ramaiah, 39, all from Thoothukudi. The four persons were staying at Manikandan’s cottage. And, all the five had gone for a trip around the cottage on Monday. Manikandan used his air gun to shoot and kill a Malabar giant squirrel. The men brought the carcass of the animal to the resort and had cooked and consumed it. Later in the evening, they went out in their vehicle when they spotted a barking deer by the roadside. Manikandan allegedly shot and killed the animal. The men took the animal and fled the spot. Local residents heard the gunshots and informed the police. During a vehicle check, police stopped their vehicle. Forest department officials said they found blood and fur of the barking deer inside the car, and took the owner of the vehicle, Manikandan, into custody. Carcasses found They then searched a small shed next to his property where they discovered the remains of the carcasses of both the Malabar giant squirrel and the barking deer. All five involved in hunting the two animals were charged under sections of the Wildlife Protection Act of 1972, arrested and remanded to judicial custody. Assistant Conservator of Forests K. Saravanakumar who headed the team formed by the District Forest Officer (Nilgiris division), D. Guruswamy, said that during investigation, it was revealed that Manikandan was the prime instigator in hunting wildlife.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/resort-owner-4-tourists-held-for-hunting-giant-squirrel-barking-deer/article32556781.ece
09 September 2020||VELANKANNI,TAMIL NADU||Velankanni annual feast ends, restrictions on pilgrimage lifted||The annual feast of Shrine Basilica of Our Lady of Health, Velankanni, which was conducted without the usual gathering of pilgrims this year in view of COVID pandemic, drew to a close with lowering of the flag on Tuesday. Parish Priest Rev. Fr. Susai Manickam lowered the flag in the presence of Nagapattinam Collector Praveen P. Nair and Rector Rev. Fr. Prabakar. According to officials, restrictions on visit of pilgrims from other districts would be lifted from September 9, with measures in place for social distancing and other components of safety protocol. Though the churches of the Basilica were closed for public worship for the annual festival to safeguard the people from COVID-19, the administrators of the Shrine live-streamed the prayers conducted in Konkani, Malayalam, Tamil, English, Kannada and other languages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/velankanni-annual-feast-ends-restrictions-on-pilgrimage-lifted/article32557076.ece
09 September 2020||VIRUDHUNAGAR/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Two die in Virudhunagar district, take toll up to 200||Virudhunagar’s death toll has touched 200, with two more COVID-19 fatalities recorded in the last two days. The deceased were a 51-year-old woman and a 58-year-old man. The number of fresh cases reported on Tuesday stood at 109, which took the district’s case count to 13,458. With 20 people having been discharged, the number of active cases stands at 517. A total of 135 people tested positive in Tirunelveli, taking the district’s tally to 10,523, with 1,091 active cases. The district marked 160 discharges and two deaths, with which its toll rose to 189. Kanniyakumari recorded 95 fresh cases to have an overall tally of 10,404, with 840 active cases. A total of 107 people were discharged from hospitals. In Tenkasi, 74 more cases and 42 discharges were recorded on Tuesday. The district’s tally rose to 5,959 and the number of active cases to 663. The district witnessed two more deaths to have an overall toll of 111. Thoothukudi’s tally rose to 11,894 after 62 new cases were reported. After 65 patients were discharged from hospitals, the district has 713 active patients. Following the death of a person, the district’s toll increased to 116. Theni reported 92 fresh cases, which took the tally to 13,338. There were 107 discharges. Dindigul registered 87 new cases to have a tally of 7,501. A total of 121 people were discharged from hospitals. Ramanathapuram had 32 new cases and the tally rose to 5,039. There were 24 discharges. Sivaganga added 48 new cases, with which its tally moved up to 4,345. There were 137 discharges. A total of 110 fresh cases – all indigenous – were added to Madurai’s tally, which rose to 14,988. The district recorded 87 discharges. One death was reported in the district. The total number of active cases is 1,046.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-die-in-virudhunagar-district-take-toll-up-to-200/article32557055.ece
09 September 2020||September 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Migrant worker arrested for murder of roommate||Bajrangi Kumar, a migrant worker from Patna, was arrested on the charges murdering his roommate Sidhu Kumar. On Monday, they allegedly engaged in a physical altercation, where Bajrangi Kumar physically attacked Sidhu Kumar, causing him to collapse and die eventually, the police said. The worker was booked under section 302 (Murder) of the Indian Penal Code and was remanded in judicial custody.  Man arrested Velampalayam police arrested a 41-year-old man on charges of throwing an empty liquor bottle at the residence of a Hindu Munnani functionary on September 4. The police said that Chandrasekar was caught through CCTV footages and he confessed of throwing the bottle at the residence of P. Marimuthu due to personal enmity. The accused was booked under sections 451 (House-trespass) and 506(ii) (Criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/migrant-worker-arrested-for-murder-of-roommate/article32556826.ece
09 September 2020||September 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||No COVID-19 deaths reported in Coimbatore, Tiruppur||After nearly two months, Coimbatore district did not report any COVID-19 deaths on Tuesday, while it reported 446 fresh cases, taking the overall tally to 19,948. Cases from the Corporation limits accounted for more than 70% of the district’s fresh cases, according to Health Department sources. While no death was reported in Tiruppur district too after August 31, Salem reported the death of six persons aged 24, 60, 62, 67, 53, 69 on Tuesday. Deputy Director of Health Services (Coimbatore) G. Ramesh Kumar said the COVID-19 death rate of Coimbatore district had come down to 1.6 %. He cited multiple measures implemented by the Health Department to detect positive patients early such as checking patients with pulse oximeter in private testing laboratories, door-to-door surveys and setting up of screening centres as reasons for the decline.  Warning After a video showing asymptomatic patients playing cards inside a COVID-19 Care Centre went viral, Dr. Kumar warned that patients indulging in such activities would be sent into home isolation and a officer would be appointed to monitor them. Tiruppur reported 142 cases, taking the district’s tally to 3,792. A total of 77 patients were discharged. Of the 164 cases reported in Salem, 162 were indigenous including 113 in the Salem Corporation limits. Two patients returned from Villupuram and Dharmapuri. In Namakkal, 94 persons tested positive, of which 20 returned from Erode, Salem, Karur, Tiruchi and Chennai. Erode district reported 121 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 4,082. A total of 226 persons were discharged on Tuesday, and 1,157 are under treatment. In the Nilgiris, 76 people tested positive, taking the total number of cases to 1,989, with 1,567 people having recovered so far. Krishnagiri reported 83 cases and Dharmapuri 59.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-covid-19-deaths-reported-in-coimbatore-tiruppur/article32556828.ece
09 September 2020||September 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Scam: Rs. 110 cr. paid to 5.5 lakh ineligible persons||Mr. Bedi said the login IDs and passwords of government officials were misused by agents through data entry operators to validate the applications of ineligible persons. The passwords have since been reset. A syndicate of computer centre operators is suspected to have been behind the scam in 13 districts, including Chengalpattu, Cuddalore, Dharmapuri, Kallakurichi, Kancheepuram, Krishnagiri, Ranipet, Salem, Tiruvannamalai, Vellore and Villupuram. Kallakurichi and Villupuram districts were the “epicentre” of the scam, Mr. Bedi said. While over 5.5 lakh ineligible persons from 13 districts had been included as beneficiaries since March, the remaining 25 districts accounted for just one lakh new applicants. The scam is believed to have taken place when most of the Agriculture Department officials were involved in COVID-19-related work, Mr. Bedi said, adding that it came to the government’s attention in August. However, he acknowledged that there could be “some black sheep” among government officials too. The State government had zero tolerance for such illegal acts, the Agriculture Secretary said. It had recovered a huge sum in just 10 days, unlike what happened in other States such as Assam, Manipur and Uttar Pradesh, which had seen similar scams, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pm-kisan-scam-rs-110-crore-was-paid-to-55-lakh-ineligible-persons/article32556751.ece
09 September 2020||September 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||CM releases translations of ‘18 lesser texts’||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami released the translations of 1,837 select poetic works from ‘18 lesser texts’ (known as Pathinenkilkanakku Noolgal in Tamil) in French and German, through the International Institute of Tamil Studies. The translations of these works in Hindi, Malayalam and Telugu were released by the Chief Minister in February last year. An official release cited a statement made by former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa in the Assembly on September 13, 2016, that select poetic works from 18 lesser texts would be translated into French and German and also in Indian languages such as Hindi, Malayalam and Telugu. Mr. Palaniswami also unveiled a new building for a data resource centre of the Information Technology Department through a video conferencing. Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar, Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar, Minister for Tamil Official Language K. Pandiarajan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-releases-translations-of-18-lesser-texts/article32556777.ece
09 September 2020||September 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||Till September 8     Cases on Tuesday: 446 Persons tested +ve so far: 19,948 Indigenous cases: 19,904 Imported cases: 44 Persons recovered: 15,584 Active cases: 4,032 Death: 332      Cases on Tuesday: 142 Persons tested +ve so far: 3,792 Persons recovered: 2,425 Active cases: 1,285 Death: 82||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district/article32556827.ece
09 September 2020||September 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Four held for cheating Chennai businessman||The Entrustment Document Fraud-II (EDF-II) wing of the Central Crime Branch (CCB) on Tuesday arrested four persons, including three from a family, for allegedly cheating a businessman after receiving Rs. 58.40 lakh from him promising to get his son admission in Harvard University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-held-for-cheating-chennai-businessman/article32556788.ece
09 September 2020||September 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Coimbatore   RS Puram sub-station (9 a.m. to 2 p.m.) September 9: Arokiaswamy Road, Ramachandra Road, part of DB Road, Lawley Road, Thadagam Road, Cowly Brown Road, West Periasamy Road, TV Swamy Road, Sambantham Road, Sir CV Raman Road, Azad Road, Subramaniam Road, part of Sukrawarpet, TK Street, Merikar Road, Ponnaiahrajapuram, EB Colony, part of Chokkampudur Road, Gopal Layout, Sami Iyer New street, Gandhipark, Sullivan Street, Telugu Street, Edayar Street, part of Raja Street, part of Big Bazaar Street, PM Samy Colony, part of Sundapalayam Road, Flower Market, Makkaliamman Koil Street, Theppakulam Street, Lingapachetty Street, Thyagarayar Pudhu Street, RG Street, Kamarajapuram Area, Devangapet Street 1,2,3, Syrian Church Road 1,2, Devanga High School Road, Shanmugha Theatre Road, RR Layout, VVC Layout, Krishnasamy Road and part of Chinthamani.  ERODE  In view of installation of electric poles from Erode sub-station, power supply will be disrupted in the Market electric lines from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on September 10 at Nehru Street, Sakthi Road, Masjid Street, Kuppakadu, Brindha Street, Palanimalai Street, Ottukara Chinnaiya Street, Krishnan Street, A.B.T. Road, K.A.S. Nagar, Marapalam, Mosikeeranar Street, Madhava Krishna Street, Cauvery Road, R.K.V. Road, Indira Nagar, Janaki Ammal Layout, Kandasamy Street, Periya Mariamman Kovil Street, Pavaadai Street, Periyanna Street, Kalaimagal Kalvi Nilayam, Vamalai Street, Meenatchi Sundaranar Road, Perumal Street and market areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article32556805.ece
09 September 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Repeated flooding has eroded our savings and made us bankrupt,’ farmer tells team||A team of Union government officers visited some villages in Belagavi district on Tuesday to assess the damage due to floods. In Badakundri near Hukkeri, the officers met farmers who complained that they had lost all their crops and that they would find it very difficult to invest in cultivating the next crop. Basavanneppa, a farmer, told the officers that he had spent around Rs. 15,000 to sow soyabean crop in his one-acre plot. He was expecting Rs. 50,000 following an yield of around 15 quintals. All that was lost in the floods, he said. In reply to a question from the officers, he said that he had taken a loan for seeds and land preparation from the local cooperative bank. Another farmer Shankar Chougula requested the team to remove encroachments on the river to stop flooding. He told them he had lost his soyabean and sugarcane crops due to flooding for two consecutive years. “Repeated flooding has eroded our savings and made us bankrupt,” he said. Yet another farmer Kallappa of Ingali village told the team that all his maize crop had been washed away. “The little that was left standing has begun to rot. We cannot harvest it. It has to be thrashed and used as green manure,” he said. The officers inspected a carrot farm in Hosur village. MLC Mahantesh Kavatagimath and the former Minister Shashikanth Nayak met the team and requested them to recommend just compensation to farmers. The team consisted of Senior Scientist from the Directorate of Oil Seeds Development in Hyderabad R. Manoharan and Superintending Engineer of the Central Water Resources Department J. Guruprasad. Before leaving for a field visit, they spoke to Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath and other officers. Regional Commissioner Aditya Amlan Biswas, ZP CEO H.V. Darshan, Assistant Commissioner Ashok Teli and Joint Director of Agriculture Shivanagouda Patil were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/repeated-flooding-has-eroded-our-savings-and-made-us-bankrupt-farmer-tells-team/article32556877.ece
09 September 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Lolsur farmers stage protest, stop visiting team’s vehicles||A group of farmers staged a protest against the Union government flood assessment team when it visited its village of Lolsur near Gokak on Tuesday. Farmers and local leaders stopped the vehicles of the visiting team and shouted slogans against the Union and State governments. They said that they had not received any relief for the losses they suffered in last year’s floods. They termed this visit of the team as an eyewash that would not yield any meaningful relief to them. They shouted slogans against the government when Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath got off the vehicle to talk to them. Mr. Hiremath said that all their grievances would be considered. He requested them to let the vehicles pass, as they were pressed for time. The farmers agreed and allowed the vehicles to go.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lolsur-farmers-stage-protest-stop-visiting-teams-vehicles/article32556878.ece
09 September 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Decision welcomed||KLE Society chairman and former Rajya Sabha member Prabhakar Kore has welcomed the Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi’s announcement that a direct railway line between Belagavi and Dharwad has been sanctioned. Several leaders from the State have served as Railway Ministers in the past. But none had taken this decision. This is a boon to North Karnataka, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/decision-welcomed/article32556879.ece
09 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BIAL to develop, maintain two metro stations inside campus||The Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL), the operator of Kempegowda International Airport (KIA), will develop, manage and maintain two metro stations that will be located within the airport boundary. According to an MoU signed between the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) and BIAL on Tuesday, BMRCL will construct the metro corridor that includes civil, electro-mechanical and other associated facilities between trumpet junction and the airport. Rs. 800 crore for 2 stations The stretch of the metro alignment inside the campus is 4.95 km and includes construction of two stations at an estimated cost of Rs. 800 crore. The airport section is part of the 56-km line named as ‘ORR-Airport Metro’ from Central Silk Board to the KIA. The alignment runs via K.R. Puram, Nagawara and Hebbal. The BMRCL has taken up the project at an estimated cost of Rs. 14,844 crore. The MoU was signed by BMRCL MD Ajay Seth and Hari Marar, MD and CEO, BIAL in the presence of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. The CM said that the two stations within the airport boundary are likely to see a daily ridership of 60,000 commuters in 2024, increasing to 1.88 lakh commuters by 2041. He said that the metro link to the airport will be commissioned by 2024. In a joint press release, the two companies have said that the civil work on the airport metro section is likely to commence in March 2021. “The tenders for the civil works of the 56-km metro viaduct and 30 stations, at an estimated cost of over Rs. 3,230 crore, have already been called in five packages. The work on the first two packages from Central Silk Board Junction to K.R. Puram is likely to commence in December 2020, and that on the three packages from K.R. Puram to the airport is likely to commence in March 2021. The airport section and the section from Hebbal to the trumpet junction will be prioritised,” states the release. Bettahalasuru station In another MoU signed with BMRCL, real estate developer Embassy Group has said it will provide capital grant of Rs. 140 crore to build a station at Bettahalasuru, which is part of the metro link to the airport and located between Bagalur Cross and trumpet junction. A BMRCL release said the station will be named ‘Embassy Boulevard – Bettahalasuru Metro Station’. The BMRCL will construct the station and a foot overbridge, underneath the viaduct, from the station concourse to the other side of Ballari Road. The construction work is likely to start by July 2021. The ownership will continue to be with the BMRCL, but Embassy is entitled to utilise 1,000 sq.ft. of wall space in the premises for branding and advertising activities, and an exclusive 3,000 sq.ft. area for commercial development that may include retail stores, food, beverage and other kiosks. After the MoUs were signed, the Chief Minister reviewed ongoing implementation of metro projects in the city. Mr. Seth told The Hindu that the CM directed expedition of work and approach him for solving problems hindering implementation of the project. “He has recently written to the government of India seeking early approval for the ORR – Airport Metro project,” said the MD.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bial-to-develop-maintain-two-metro-stations-inside-campus/article32556704.ece
09 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kolhapur DC’s order hits oxygen supply to Belagavi hospitals||Oxygen-dependent patients in nearly 30 hospitals of five taluks — Nippani, Chikodi, Athani, Raibag, and Hukkeri — of Belagavi district are hit as oxygen supply to these hospitals has been affected for the last one week. Dealers supplying medical oxygen to these hospitals have been procuring it from Kolhapur Oxygen and Acetylene Pvt. Ltd. for the past five years. However, they are finding procurement difficult now following an order from the Kolhapur Deputy Commissioner in the last week of August asking manufacturers not to supply oxygen across the border as the demand is high there with the number of COVID-19 patients on the rise. “Although we have an agreement with the company, supply has been hit for the last one week. Vehicles that had gone to collect the load from Kolhapur were stopped from moving out of the company’s godown on Tuesday. Our dealers are struggling to convince the authorities that oxygen supply cannot be suddenly stopped as patients’ lives will be at risk,” said N.A. Magadum, a doctor running a 50-bed COVID-19 hospital at Ankali in Chikodi taluk. “Over 300 patients are on high-flow oxygen in nearly 30 hospitals in these taluks. We cannot even think of shifting our patients out of the taluk to other hospitals in Belagavi,” said another doctor from Athani. He said of the daily demand of 150 jumbo cylinders in these taluks, barely 25% was being supplied in the last one week. “We cannot blame the company as it has to follow the State authorities’ order,” he said. The doctors, who have brought the issue to the notice to elected representatives from the district, are now worried how they will manage if they do not get the supply on Wednesday. “Following our appeal, Ministers Laxman Savadi and Shashikala Annasaheb Jolle have intervened. They have also spoken to the Kolhapur authorities and have assured us of resolving the issue,” Dr. Magadum said. Belagavi District Health Officer Shashikant Muniyal told The Hindu that the issue was being resolved. “We will ensure supply is not hit. We have spoken to other manufacturers and are making immediate alternative arrangements for supply from Karnataka Gases in Dharwad,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kolhapur-dcs-order-hits-oxygen-supply-to-belagavi-hospitals/article32556715.ece
09 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||After criticism, NLSIU makes test more accessible||After facing criticism that its online home-based test was ‘exclusionary’, the National Law School of India University (NLSIU) has decided to allow candidates to appear for the test at a few physical centres that will be set up and has also relaxed some of the technical specifications that it had earlier stated were necessary. The university’s National Law Aptitude Test (NLAT) is scheduled to be conducted on September 12. The university has said that these centres will be managed by a private testing company for students who are unable to meet the test requirements. Candidates will have to pay Rs. 350 to avail this facility and also observe all COVID-19 related health and safety protocols. The university’s website states that these centres will, however, have limited availability. The university, on Tuesday, said that candidates registered for the NLAT 2020 can now explore the option of taking the test at centres in 15 cities across the country. None of the centres are in Karnataka. “The list of centres will be updated on an ongoing basis to ensure greater accessibility,” the university said.  NLSIU has also updated the technical requirements for the test. Now, candidates can take the test on desktop computers, laptops, and android mobile devices, and the minimum Internet bandwidth is 512 kbps. The university had earlier said that the Internet bandwidth needed to be 1 mbps. According to the new technical specifications, candidates can take the test on desktops and laptops: Window 7 or above (Windows 10 recommended), Mac OS 10.13 and above, and Linux (ubuntu versions 18.04, 16.04, 15.04 only) systems. Candidates who wish to take the test on their mobile phones need to have the android version 6 or newer versions. Mock test Meanwhile, the university has decided to conduct a mock test for NLAT 2020 from 9 a.m. on September 9 to 12 a.m. on September 12 . The university has said that they can attempt the mock test multiple times. NLSIU decided to make NLAT – its admission test for its B.A. LLB and LLM programmes, after the Common Law Entrance Test was postponed multiple times due to the COVID-19 pandemic. While NLAT is scheduled on September 12, CLAT is scheduled on September 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/after-criticism-nlsiu-makes-test-more-accessible/article32556719.ece
09 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Councillors seek extension||Cutting across party lines, several councillors sought an extension of six months in the term of the BBMP council on the lines of the West Bengal model. The term of the incumbent BBMP council comes to an end on September 10. The subject was raised by Kacharakanahalli councillor Padmanabha Reddy during the council meeting on Tuesday, as discussions were limited to conducting polls to the urban local body. He said that in West Bengal, the term of 91 local bodies had been extended and that the mayor had been appointed as administrator. On the other hand, opposition leader Abdul Wajid pointed out that the BBMP polls were put off for three years – 2007 to 2010. “Even now, the BJP government is using the ruse of increasing the number of wards to 225 from 198 to put off the polls,” he said. “There is no provision under Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act, 1976 to appoint an administrator. Since the elections cannot be held immediately, under what provision of the law will be administrator be appointed?” He alleged that none of the MLAs were in favour of holding polls to the civic body. However, claiming that the government was ready to hold polls, Mayor M. Goutham Kumar said, “We will take a call on proposing to the government an extension of term, since many councillors have expressed the need to extend the term by another six months.” “The ward delimitation exercise has been completed and the final voters’ list will be ready, as per directions of the State Election Commission, by the end of November,” added Mr. Reddy. Shankar Math councillor M. Shivaraju said since the government was keen on increasing the number of wards to 225, the delimitation exercise would have to be taken up again, which would be a waste of public funds. Later, Special Commissioner V. Anbu Kumar said the government could appoint an administrator under Section 100 of the KMC Act. K.D. Deshpande, head of Legal Cell, said that an administrator could be appointed even under Sections 508 and 509 of the KMC Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/councillors-seek-extension/article32556701.ece
09 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Order on AYUSH practitioners and allopathy withdrawn||Three years after issuing an order allowing practitioners of AYUSH (Ayurveda, Yoga, Unani, Siddha, and Homoeopathy) appointed at primary health centres (PHCs) of Karnataka to practise allopathy “during emergencies”, the Health and Family Welfare Department has taken a U-turn and withdrawn the permission. The department issued an order on Monday withdrawing its earlier order, dated January 5, 2017. The old order was issued amid stiff opposition from Karnataka Medical Council (KMC) and Indian Medical Association (IMA), based on a green signal from a committee headed by the State Drugs Controller. The committee had recommended that AYUSH practitioners at PHCs undergo a six-month crash course under senior doctors in district hospitals. The jurisdictional Deputy Commissioner-headed regulatory committees, set up under the Karnataka Private Medical Establishment Act, should certify trained AYUSH practitioners, the panel said. Subsequently, it was also said that AYUSH practitioners could be trained through the Indira Gandhi National Open University or the jurisdictional district medical colleges. While the training never took off, there was a demand from the State unit of the AYUSH Federation of India (AFI) to extend the same permission to private AYUSH practitioners as well, after training at their own cost. Around 2,000 of the nearly 25,000 AYUSH practitioners are working under the government. However, the department, after studying various previous court orders, stated, “A harmonious reading of Section 15 of Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 and Section of the 1970 Act leads to the conclusion that there is no scope for a person enrolled on the State Register or Central Register of Indian medicine to practice modern scientific medicine in any of its branches unless that person is also enrolled on a State Medical Register within the meaning of the 1956 Act. Hence, the earlier order has been withdrawn.” Opposing the new order, AFI members rushed to Bengaluru to meet Health Minister B. Sriramulu and appeal to him to reconsider the decision. “We are surprised by the department’s move. We wonder what is the motive behind withdrawing the permission now after three years, especially at a time when the country is battling the COVID-19 pandemic,” said Mohan Biradar, AFI State unit president. ‘No change in situation’ N.A. Magadum, former AFI State unit president, said more than 2,000 AYUSH practitioners were working at PHCs and were on the frontlines of the COVID-19 battle. “The permission was accorded earlier as the government did not have adequate doctors in its PHCs and had posted AYUSH practitioners against the sanctioned posts of General Duty Medical Officers. The situation is no different now,” he said. Integrated practice is legal in several States, including Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Assam, and Uttarakhand, he said. Welcoming the new order, IMA State secretary Srinivasa S., said the right to practise a system of medicine was derived from the Act under which a medical practitioner was registered.  We are surprised by the department’s move. We wonder what is the motive behind withdrawing the permission now after three years, especially at a time when the country is battling COVID-19 Mohan Biradar,State unit president, AYUSH Federation of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/order-on-ayush-practitioners-and-allopathy-withdrawn/article32556711.ece
09 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka reports 7,866 fresh cases, 146 deaths||A day after the number of COVID-19 cases saw a decline, it rose again to 7,866 on Tuesday. With this, the State’s tally rose to 4,121,90. With 146 new deaths, the toll rose to 6,680. This includes 19 deaths of COVID-19 patients due to other reasons. As many as 7,803 patients were discharged on Tuesday, taking the total number of people discharged to 3,08,573. Bengaluru Urban reported 3,102 cases, taking the total number of cases there to 1,53,625. With 55 of the 146 deaths from Bengaluru Urban alone, the total number of deaths in this district rose to 2,266. Ballari and Dakshina Kannada recorded 404 and 374 cases, respectively. Mysuru recorded 337 cases and Dharwad saw 318. Mandya, Udupi, Koppal, Raichur, Davangere, Hassan, Belagavi, and Bagalkot recorded over 200 cases. Surprisingly, while the State health bulletin showed zero cases in Shivamogga, the district bulletinrecorded 359. Karnataka, which had recorded a dip in number of tests on Sunday, saw 67,443 people being tested in the last 24 hours. This included 38,291 rapid antigen tests. So far, the State has conducted 34,61,119 tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-7866-fresh-cases-146-deaths/article32556716.ece
09 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Elderly remain vulnerable during pandemic||Lakshmi (name changed) , 68, lost her husband a few years ago but managed to raise her two sons and get them settled. As an elderly woman, she developed joint pains and started needing support to move around. Her dependence became a source of irritation at home and there were constant conflicts. She finally approached the police for help and they referred her to a home for elderly destitute women. Her ordeal did not end there, as her family took her back after being counselled, only for tensions to escalate during the COVID-19 outbreak. She was taken back into the home, Sandhya Suraksha, on her request. As the pandemic broke out, it was clear that the elderly were at risk health-wise. But what has emerged is their vulnerability on other counts too, including being subjected toharassment, abuse, and abandonment. The elders’ helpline, run by the city police and Nightingales Medical Trust (NMT), have seen such cases being reported since the pandemic set in. At Sandhya Suraksha, run by NMT and the Methodist Church of India, there have been 15 admissions of destitute elderly women. Subhashini (name changed) , 68, was staying with her sister’s family all her life. She was working at a school nearby as a member of the housekeeping staff, but she was asked to leave because of her advancing age. In the midst of the pandemic, her sister’s son asked her to leave as he was unable to look after her. Neighbours informed the local police, who helped her get admitted to a home in June. There have been other cases of family members themselves approaching the police to help them find homes for the elderly deemed a financial burden during these uncertain times that have seen job losses and pay cuts. Harassment “Now everyone is at home. Financial problems are surfacing during COVID-19. There are space constraints. People are finding it difficult to adjust with each other. As a result, harassment cases have increased. Elders are being forced to sell their property by their children as they are out of work,” said Radha S. Murthy, managing trustee of NMT.  Dr. Murthy said it takes both sides to resolve the problem. While elders need to learn how to adjust to the younger generation and changing times, the younger lot needs to become more sensitive to the elderly. “Simple things, like sharing TV time, can help,” she said. She also advised senior citizens to be clear about property issues. “See that you have made proper financial arrangements for yourself. Don’t give away everything. Give property after your time. Know your rights about the Maintenance Act, reversing the will, etc. And don’t hesitate to report harassment,” she said. Theelderly living independently too are finding ways to cope with the situation. Sudarshana (name changed) , 65, and her husband, 70, live alone. “It is difficult not meeting friends and family. There is also fear psychosis, so we are not going out and getting things... The introduction of a ‘hello neighbour’-like concept for senior citizens would also help,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/abandoned-and-harassed-elderly-remain-vulnerable/article32556709.ece
09 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Document verification is difficult during pandemic’||The document verification process is turning out to be a difficult task for students though the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) has stated that all documents of the candidates can be uploaded online for their Common Entrance Test (CET) counselling. Students point out they still have to travel and make visits to multiple offices to obtain these documents. Out of several documents that students have to upload online, they are required to get a counter signature by the Block Education Officer/ Deputy Director of Public Instructions for their study certificate which states that they have studied in Karnataka for a minimum of seven years. Candidates have also been asked to keep two copies of all documents attested by a gazetted officer. One of the candidates who uploaded their documents online on Tuesday said, “We have to run from pillar to post to get the counter signature for the study certificate. Apart from going to our school or college, we also need to go to the BEO and DDPI office for the same. At these offices, we have to wait for a long time to get a signature. We do not mind doing this during other times, but during the pandemic, we are worried about our health and want to ensure that we do not venture out of home as we still have to write competitive examinations like NEET.”   Venkat Raja, Executive Director of KEA, said that the onus of providing the study certificate was with the Department of Public Instruction. When asked why this process was not online, a DPI official said some student details needed to be verified before the BEO/DDPI signs the document, as they were yet to be digitised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/document-verification-is-difficult-during-pandemic/article32556720.ece
09 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||More people take metro||After ridership remained low on Monday, Namma Metro saw a slight improvement on Tuesday, the second day of resumption of operations on the Purple Line between Baiyappanahalli and Mysuru Road after a gap of over five months. On Tuesday, Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) operated 91 round trips in two shifts from 8 a.m. to 11 a.m. and from 4.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m., and carried 5,031 passengers. Around Rs. 1.84 lakh was generated as revenue. On Monday, the first day of resumption of services, BMRCL had operated 91 trips in two shifts and carried 3,770 passengers. Starting Wednesday, Namma Metro will resume operations on the Green Line between Nagasandra and Yelachenahalli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/more-people-take-metro/article32556699.ece
09 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New appointments||Advocate Arun Shyam has been appointed as Additional Advocate General of Karnataka. He has been appointed in place of R. Nataraj, who was elevated as judge of Karnataka HC. Y.H. Vijaykumar has been appointed as Additional Advocate General of the Kalaburagi Bench, a post that was vacant. Dhyan Chinnappa will continue as Additional Advocate General, Dharwad Bench of High Court of Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-appointments/article32556722.ece
09 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||MoU for halt station at KIA||The South Western Railway and BIAL, the operator of KIA, signed an MoU for operation and maintenance of the new halt station on the border of the airport campus. The project is nearing completion and is located between Doddajala and Devanahalli stations. The BIAL has built the station with amenities such as waiting room, ticket counters and passenger information system. The project cost is approximately Rs. 3 crore. The MoU states that BIAL will provide shuttle service once the station opens for commercial operations. The SWR had earlier announced that it will introduce an express train service from Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna station via Yeshwantpur after getting clearance from the Railway Board. The SWR will provide a halt for six scheduled trains on the Yelahanka-Kolar route. “BIAL shall hand over the airport railway station to the Railways for overall operation and management thereon.” stated a release from the SWR. The BIAL will operate food and beverage outlets at the Airport Railway Station for two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mou-for-halt-station-at-kia/article32556705.ece
09 September 2020||bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Fourth-semester exam||The theory exam of fourth-semester postgraduate students will be held from September 21, along with those for the second semester backlog subjects. Bengaluru Central University said in a release that the practical exam will be held from September 10 to 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fourth-semester-exam/article32556706.ece
09 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||KSRTC sleeper service||Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation will operate a new non-AC sleeper service between Bengaluru and Panjim, via Chitradurga, Hubballi, and Karwar, from Thursday. According to a KSRTC release, the bus will leave Bengaluru at 6.30 p.m. and reach Panjim at 10.15 a.m. the next day. In the return direction, it will depart from Panjim at 5.30 p.m. and reach Bengaluru at 9.15 a.m. the next day. The fare is Rs. 960.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksrtc-sleeper-service/article32556710.ece
09 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Five more deaths||Five more people died of COVID-19 in Hassan taking the toll to 228. Apart from this, 220 more tested positive taking the total number of confirmed cases to 10,387. As many as 314 people were discharged and with this, the number of discharged so far went up to 7,242. As many as 2,917 are undergoing treatment and of these, 53 are in the intensive care unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/five-more-deaths/article32556880.ece
09 September 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Central teams assess flood damage in Dharwad, Gadag||Central teams of inter-ministerial officials on Tuesday visited various places in Dharwad and Gadag districts that have been affected by heavy downpour and floods and collected information on the loss and damage caused to crops and property. The teams interacted with officials and also residents. In Dharwad district, Deputy Commissioners of Dharwad and Belagavi Nitesh Patil and M.G. Hiremath, respectively, welcomed a Central team comprising Director from the Directorate of Oil Seeds Development R. Manoharan and Superintending Engineer of Ministry of Water Resources J. Guruprasad near the damaged bridge at Haro Belavadi on Saundatti-Dharwad State Highway and briefed them about the situation. They were accompanied by MLAs Amrut Desai and Anand Mamani. The team then visited the farmland of Ishwar Shivalli where onion crop has been damaged due to floods in the Tuppari Halla. Later, it went to the farmland of Anwar Noor Ahmed Amminabhavi and Chandrashekhar Shindhe in Amminabhavi village. The team visited the farmland of various farmers before proceeding to Alnavar town and surrounding places where flood waters have caused extensive damage. First, the team visited Indirammana Kere which has suffered damage due to heavy downpour. Officials told the team members that a Rs. 4.5-crore comprehensive project had been prepared to prevent loss caused by heavy rain every year. The team inspected the extensive damage caused and water wastage due to a breach in the Dougi Nala in Alnavar and also the veterinary hospital at Aravatagi. In Gadag Another team comprising Superintending Engineer from the Regional Office of the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways Sadanand Babu and Undersecretary from the Ministry of Rural Development V.P. Rajavedhi began its visit in Gadag district from Konnur village before going to Lakamapur and surrounding villages. Deputy Commissioner of Gadag Sundaresh Babu briefed the team about the loss and damage. Meanwhile, KPCC media analyst Pandurang Neeralakeri submitted a memorandum to the team on behalf of the KPCC and urged the team members to recommend adequate compensation to the affected families and farmers. A permanent solution to floods caused due to a spate in the Tuppari Halla and the Benni Halla should also be recommended in the report, he demanded. Mr. Neeralakeri, however, was upset with the way the visits were planned. “The team seemed to be focussing more on damage caused to public property rather than getting details on the problems being faced by farmers due to crop loss. The team should have actually visited Navalgund taluk where extensive crop loss has occurred due to floods, but it did not,” he told presspersons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/central-teams-assess-flood-damage-in-dharwad-gadag/article32556884.ece
09 September 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Actor Siddaraj Kalyankar passes away||Actor Siddaraj Kalyankar, who had played character roles in over 70 Kannada films and several plays and teleserials, died of a cardiac arrest in Bengaluru late on Monday night. A native of Hubballi, the senior actor had celebrated his 60th birthday on the sets of Premaloka serial on Monday night and even posted it on Facebook. Family sources said that he died of cardiac arrest late in the night.  He is survived by his wife and two sons. Several artistes and film directors, including director B. Suresh, have mourned his demise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/actor-siddaraj-kalyankar-passes-away/article32556887.ece
09 September 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Former MLA’s son found dead in Hubballi||A teenaged son of a former Hubballi-Dharwad East MLA was found dead at his residence in Hubballi on Tuesday. The deceased was the son of Veerabhadrappa Halaharavi. The Suburban Police have registered a case. Investigation is on. ( Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani on Ph: 104 for help. )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/former-mlas-son-found-dead-in-hubballi/article32556885.ece
09 September 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Body of MBBS student who died in Kiev, Ukraine, reaches Bidar||The body of a 19-year-old MBBS student Amar Shaliwan Biradar who died under mysterious circumstances in Ukraine about 10 days ago reached his native place in Bidar district on Tuesday. The last rites were performed at an agricultural field in Kadlabad village of Bhalki taluk in Bidar late on Tuesday night. The family received the mortal remains at Hyderabad airport in a pre-embalmed, hermetically sealed coffin along with the post-mortem reports that state the cause of death as due to heavy collective injuries sustained after an accidental fall from the seventh floor of an apartment. The student’s uncle Pavan Biradar speaking to The Hindu said that his nephew was admitted for the MBBS course at Kharkiv National Medical University in Ukraine through a Hyderabad-based agent in the last academic year. On August 28 this year, the agent informed the family members about Amar’s death. “Though the agent stated that Amar had jumped from the seventh floor of the rented apartment, we still do not know the exact cause of his death,” Mr. Pavan Biradar said. After sustained efforts through the Embassy of India in Kiev in Ukraine, the Ambassador of India in Ukraine and Congress senior leader Eshwar Khandre, the body was finally flown from Ukraine to Bengaluru on Turkish Airlines. It was brought to Bhalki on an ambulance on Tuesday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/body-of-mbbs-student-who-died-in-kiev-ukraine-reaches-bidar/article32556893.ece
09 September 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Ganja plants seized from sugarcane field||Kalaburagi Police seized ganja plants from an agricultural field in Sangapur village in Chincholi taluk of Kalaburagi district on Tuesday. Kalaburagi Superintendent of Police Simi Mariam George said that a team led by Chincholi Deputy Superintendent of Police raided the sugarcane field belonging to Chandru Rathod and seized the ganja plants that weighed around 88 kg. The police arrested Chandru Rathod’s son Ramesh Rathod and sent him to judicial custody. Chandru Rathod is yet to be arrested. Konchavaram Police have registered a case. Hookah bar raided Hassan Special Correspondent writes: Holenarasipur Police on Monday raided a house at Honnashetti Halli in Holenarasipur taluk and arrested a person on the charge of running an illegal hookah bar and seized 74 grams of ganja from him. The police gave name of the arrested as Suhas (40), a resident of Honnashetti Halli. Based on a tip-off, Holenarasipur Rural Police conducted the raid. The accused was selling ganja to his customers at his hookah bar. He was running the bar in his house located on the outskirts of the village. The value of the seized ganja has been estimated at Rs. 5,000. Holenarasipur Rural Police have registered a case. On Tuesday, Hassan Police arrested a person on the charge of possessing ganja in Hassan. The police seized 180 grams of ganja from Sathish (24), a resident of Mothi Colony in the Pension Mohalla Police limits. The accused was getting ganja from his contacts in Bengaluru and selling them at a higher price in Hassan. A few college students were said to be his regular customers. Acting on a tip-off, the police took Sathish into custody and interrogated him. He has been remanded in judicial custody. Pension Mohalla Police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ganja-plants-seized-from-sugarcane-field/article32556882.ece
09 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Zero tolerance to drug abuse, says DG & IGP||The police drive against drugs racket will continue all over the State. The police have adopted zero tolerance to end the menace, Director-General and Inspector-General of Police Praveen Sood said in Udupi on Tuesday. Speaking to media persons after holding a meeting of senior police officials of Udupi district, he said that the government has given a free hand to the police to deal with drug peddlers. There is a need to free the State from drug abuse. The Chief Minister and the Home Minister have given clear instructions to the police to act tough against drug peddlers. Mr. Sood said that he has instructed senior police officials to deal sternly with drug peddlers. He said that there is a racket in not only soft natural drugs but also in synthetic drugs in the State. Police officials have been asked to take action against drug abuse, including instances of mixing drugs with chocolates and various drinks. Mr. Sood said that drug menace is not just restricted to Bengaluru which is one of the hubs. The menace is rampant in other parts too, including Mangaluru. The Bengaluru Police Commissioner will give comprehensive information on the drug racket involving celebrities after completing the ongoing inquiry. Dearness allowance He said that dearness allowance and travel allowance pending to be paid to police personnel from April to August will be paid within a month. Funds for the purpose have been released. He said that discussions are on whether an all-in-one emergency helpline number, 112, introduced in Bengaluru, can be extended to all the entire State. Mr. Sood said that he has been touring the State for the last two months to review the functioning of the police who have carried out good work during the lockdown and then, in dealing with the COVID-19 situation. Foreign players Speaking to media persons in Mangaluru later in the day, Mr. Sood said that drug trafficking is an international phenomenon. Some foreigners who had overstayed in the country are also involved in it. At the same time, such foreigners are engaged in cyber crime and prostitution. The police are investigating drug-related cases from all angles. Referring to the Bengaluru drug racket case, he said: “There is nothing called ‘high-profile’ people. All are equal in the eyes of the law. No one (involved in the racket) will be spared.” He said that the police are already taking action against drug trafficking. But there should be a concerted effort by all to end the consumption of drugs. “There should be a collective effort by parents, teachers, students, media, non-government organisations and others to end consumption of drugs,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/zero-tolerance-to-drug-abuse-says-dg-igp/article32556889.ece
09 September 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Tiger captured||An adult tiger with worn out canines and frequenting human habitation in the N. Begur range of Bandipur Tiger Reserve, was tranquillised and captured on Tuesday to the relief of villagers. The tiger – suspected to be over 10 years old – was hovering outside the forest boundary and preying on domestic animals since July. Though the authorities made all efforts to drive it back, it used to return to the villages bordering the park boundary. A committee comprising Forest Department officials and local representatives was constituted. Finally, it was decided to capture and shift the tiger as it had become habituated to prey on domestic animals, according to R. Balachandra, Director, Bandipur Tiger Reserve. He said there was no question of the tiger being released back into the wild as it was old and could not defend its territory. It was decided to shift the tiger to Bannerghatta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tiger-captured/article32556721.ece
09 September 2020||September 09 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Probe into Sanjjanaa’s links with Rahul Shetty, Niyaz||The Central Crime Branch (CCB), probing into the drug racket, is investigating actor Sanjjanaa Galrani’s links with Rahul Shetty, a real estate businessman who was arrested on September 3. Officials said Rahul, who used to organise private parties in the city and also run a casino in Sri Lanka, was close to Sanjjanaa and she had attended all the parties hosted by Rahul in Sri Lanka. Apart from organising private parties, Rahul would allegedly supply and sell drugs to the people who attend the parties. “Sanjjanaa, who was earlier defending Rahul, knew about his drug dealing and is suspected to be a part of his business. Apart from Rahul, Sanjjanaa also had close contact with Niyaz Mohammed,” officials said. Niyaz, a small time actor in Kerala, also ran a talent hunt company. He is is allegedly a peddler who used to supply drugs to Rahul and other peddlers. The CCB has retrieved and analysed the actor’s mobile data, which indicates that she was in contact with the duo and was part of the racket, officials said. CCB officials are now questioning Sanjjanaa in detail to establish her links to the racket and also verifying the details of her properties, and contact details from her mobile phone. Meanwhile, CCB officials have rounded up several peddlers and are questioning them. A few of them are said to have links with the accused, who are in CCB custody, and the police are contemplating using them as approvers to testify against the accused. There are as many as 12 accused in the FIR filed by the CCB. While some of them, including party planner Viren Khanna and Loum Pepper Samba, an African national, have been arrested, the other accused, including prime accused Shiva Prakash, a film producer and former friend of actor Ragini Dwivedi, are on the run. The police are also on the lookout for Aditya Alva, brother-in-law of actor Vivek Oberio, who is absconding after being named in the FIR. The questioning of actor Ragini Dwivedi continued on Tuesday. CCB officials said that though Ragini and Sanjjanaa did not party together, some of the peddlers booked by the CCB had allegedly supplied drugs to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/probe-into-sanjjanaas-links-with-rahul-shetty-niyaz/article32556703.ece
09 September 2020||September 09 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||HC stays law on 25% quota for Karnataka students in NLSIU||It further clarified that all the admissions to be made shall be provisional and subject to the final result of these petitions The Bench on September 1 had reserved its final verdict on the question of constitutional validity of the new Act after completion of arguments. However, NLSIU subsequently filed an application before the Bench informing about its decision to conduct its own entrance test for selection to students for the academic year 2020-21, citing repeated postponement of Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) to be conducted by the consortium of National Law Universities across India. Following this application, the Bench on Tuesday found it necessary to pass an interim order, keeping in mind the interest of students, as it was not possible to deliver final verdict on the petitions before September 12, the date on which the NLSIU is scheduled to hold its own National Law Aptitude Test (NLAT) for selecting candidates for admission as against CLAT, which is to be held on September 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-stays-law-on-25-quota-for-karnataka-students-in-nlsiu/article32556723.ece
09 September 2020||September 09 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Flying ambulance||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday launched an integrated air ambulance service equipped with a state-of-the-art German Isolation Pod that will enable safe transport of critical COVID-19 patients. The service has been developed by ICATT (International Critical Air Transfer Team), an air ambulance company, in collaboration with Kyathi, an aviation technology firm. The fixed wing air ambulance, to be stationed at HAL airport in Bengaluru, will also be the first air ambulance based out of South India, enabling quick services during medical emergencies in the region, overcoming the challenge of heavy road traffic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/flying-ambulance/article32556713.ece
09 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Cases cross 200 mark again in Alappuzha||The single-day tally of COVID-19 cases in the district crossed the 200-mark for the second time in three days with 217 people testing positive for the viral infection on Tuesday. While 183 patients contracted the infection through local transmission, 29 who had come from other States and five who had returned from abroad were also diagnosed with the disease. 183 contact cases Of the 183 contact cases reported on Tuesday, 26 were from Alappuzha, 19 from Chennithala, 16 from Mararikulam South and 10 each from Panavally and Kayamkulam. Rest of the locally transmitted cases in the district were from Cheriyanad (6); Arattupuzha, Krishnapuram, Cheruthana, Thaikkattussery, Chunakkara, Pathiyoor and Mavelikara (five each); Haripad, Pallippuram and Neelamperoor (four cases each); Cherthala, Mannar, Venmony, Pattanakkad, Veliyanad and Kudassanad (three each); Punnapra South, Mannancherry, Thuravoor, Thamarakulam, Karuvatta, Ambalappuzha and Perumbalam (two each); and Arookutty, Champakulam, Pulinkunnu, Kavalam, Aroor, Palamel, Cheppad, Kadakarappally, Pallippad, Kumarapuram, Thazhakkara, Mulakuzha, Arthunkal, Thekkekara, Thalavady, Thiruvanvandoor and Vayalar (one each). Active cases Meanwhile, 147 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in hospitals in the district tested negative for the virus. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 1,589. Containment zones Wards 2, 8 and 37 in Kayamkulam municipality and 9 and 6 in Venmony grama panchayat along with parts of ward 37 and 51 in Alappuzha municipality, and 17 in Cherthala South and 16 in Thazhakara grama panchayat were declared as containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cases-cross-200-mark-again-in-alappuzha/article32557071.ece
09 September 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Pettimudy landslip: further probe mooted||An inquiry report submitted by the Revenue Department on the landslip at Pettimudy last month has stated that further investigation is needed to find whether there was any lapse on the part of Kannan Devan Hills Plantations (KDHP) Ltd. in timely informing the incident to the authorities concerned. District Collector H. Dinesan had constituted a 12-member special team to analyse the damage. It has recommend steps to rehabilitate the surviving families. The team, headed by Munnar special tahsildar Binu Joseph, submitted the report last week. The district administration is working on a rehabilitation plan. A compensation package of Rs. 5 lakh each by the State and the parent company and Rs. 3 lakh by the Tamil Nadu government had already been announced. The report said there was information that the company official (field officer) was informed of the landslip within an hour. The news of the tragedy that occurred around 10.30 p.m. on August 6 came out after a survivor reported it to the forest check-post at Eravikulam National Park (ENP) the next day morning. The information of the tragedy was passed on and the rescue team reached by 11 a.m. Four estate lanes were completely buried under the debris and 66 bodies were recovered, with four still missing. No delay Meanwhile, the KDHP said there was no delay in giving information to the officials. The BSNL tower was not working and as soon as the information was received from Pettimudy, it was given to the officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pettimudy-landslip-further-probe-mooted/article32557066.ece
09 September 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||A spike in cases in Idukki||There was a spurt in COVID-19 cases here with 85 new cases on Tuesday. Sixty three are contact cases and 13 have unknown source. Those infected are from Adimali, Alakkode, Kalayanthani, Ayyappancoil, Chakkupallom, Ealappara, Kanchiyar, Karimannur, Karunapuram, Kattappana, Kumily, Kumaramangalam, Manakkad, Nedumkandam, Pallivasal, Pampadumpara, Peerumade, Santhanpara, Thodupuza and Upputhara. Those with unknown source are from Ayyappancoil, Karunapauram, Kumily, Manakkad, Muttom, Nedumkandam, Peerumade, Santhanpara, Udumpannur and Vandiperiyar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-spike-in-cases-in-idukki/article32557067.ece
09 September 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||‘Govt. to promote inland fisheries’||Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma has said that the government will adopt steps to tap the full potential of inland fisheries in the State. Speaking after inaugurating a caged aquaculture project of the department at Kuttyamvayal at the Banasura Sagar reservoir in the district on Tuesday, Ms. Mercykutty Amma said the State was gifted with vast inland waterbodies, but they were yet to be tapped fully. It was time to promote inland fisheries to ensure food security, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-to-promote-inland-fisheries/article32556968.ece
09 September 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Madrasa teacher arrested||The Kannur police on Tuesday arrested a madrasa teacher who allegedly used children to steal gold and money from their houses and sexually abused a minor. A team led by Ullikkal station Sub Inspector K.V. Nishith arrested Abdul Kareem, 45, of Ulikkal Nuchiyad Madrasa in Kannur. Abdul Kareem was taken into custody from Karnataka, where he had gone into hiding after five cases were filed against him. The accused allegedly carried out the crime after misleading the students of his madrasa, stating that they would go to heaven if they brought him gold and money. He had allegedly stolen 15 sovereigns of gold. Most children are in the age group of 10 to 14 years, the police said. The accused also allegedly sexually abused a 14-year-old boy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/madrasa-teacher-arrested/article32556966.ece
09 September 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||SDPI activist hacked to death in Kannur||A Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) activist was hacked to death at Kannavam in Kannur on Tuesday evening. The police identified the deceased as Syed Muhammad Salahuddin. He was travelling in his car when a group of people on a motorcycle hit the car. When he got down to question them, he was reportedly hacked to death. Salahuddin was the seventh accused in Akhil Bharathiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) activist Shyamaprasad murder case. He was out on bail. Though he was rushed to the Thalassery General Hospital, he succumbed to injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sdpi-activist-hacked-to-death-in-kannur/article32556981.ece
09 September 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Gas tanker overturns||A gas tanker of the Indian Oil Corporation overturned at New Bevinje in Kasaragod on Tuesday afternoon, triggering panic in the area. Following the incident, which took place at 2.30 p.m., around 200 persons residing within a 500-metre radius were immediately evacuated. A minor gas leak was detected from the tanker. Officials said that the situation was under control.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gas-tanker-overturns/article32556967.ece
09 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Land-based solar plants to power Water Metro||The fleet of 78 battery-operated aluminium ferries that would be introduced as part of the Rs. 747-crore Water Metro project in Kochi will mainly rely on power sourced from land-based solar plants located atop boat terminals and floating pontoons. Efforts are also under way to establish a solar power plant, to increase the share of solar power needed for the air-conditioned vessels to operate. Each vessel will also have a diesel-run generator to provide power if there is a shortfall in power from batteries. The solar power generated by panels at the ferry terminals will be given to the Kerala State Electricity Board and they will provide an equivalent as required to charge batteries of the ferries, Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) sources said. The KMRL already has a solar plant adjacent to its coach depot at Muttom, which meets 60% power needs of Kochi metro. Unlike Aditya — India’s first solar ferry operated by the State Water Transport Department (SWTD) in the Vaikom-Panavally route — the roofs of Water Metro vessels, including 23 which are under construction at Cochin Shipyard, will not have solar panels atop them. This is because Water Metro vessels are expected to travel at higher speed than Aditya and thus would have a sleeker design with a smaller roof area. Moreover, power-generating capacity is a must for these vessels since they would be air-conditioned, unlike Aditya , said K. Sivaprasad, a naval architect and professor at Cusat’s Department of Ship Technology. A new chapter Referring to aluminium replacing steel as the material for each vessel’s hull, he said this would open a new chapter in aluminium fabrication in the passenger-ferry sector in Kerala. Being lighter than steel, aluminium would increase energy efficiency, thus lessening reliance on fossil fuels. It would also lessen the life-cycle cost of each vessel, said yet another naval architect. “On the flip side, solar power could have been used to a bigger extent if Water Metro ferries did not have AC or were only partly AC. Air-conditioning would increase both the capital and operational expense. This would reflect in the fare too. Water Metro ferries would thus have to compete with ferries operated by SWTD in the West Kochi sector at very low fares,” he said. The State government had sought inclusion of water transport projects, including Water Metro, in the Centre’s Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Hybrid and Electric Vehicles (FAME-2) scheme, so that its electric boats can get incentives similar to those available for electric buses, three and four-wheelers used for commercial purposes. The first lot of 23 ferries that will be procured under the Water Metro project will use Lithium Titanate Oxide (LTO) batteries. They are more advanced and effective than lithium-ion batteries. Though costlier, the life-cycle cost of LTO batteries is lesser than that of lithium-ion ones. They charge faster, have better range and need be replaced only after 35,000 cycles of recharging. Under FAME, the Centre can also invest in setting up charging stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/land-based-solar-plants-to-power-water-metro/article32556970.ece
09 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Infections cross 300-mark||The number of COVID-19 positive cases crossed the 300-mark in Ernakulam on Tuesday. The district reported 318 positive cases on the day. Of this, 304 got infected through local contact. Twenty of them were migrant workers in Kaloor. Twelve health workers also figured among those tested positive. Some of the regions that reported a higher number of cases in the district included Alangad, Udayamperur, Edathala, Kalamassery, Kunnukara, Kottuvally, Choornikkara, Nedumbassery, Pallippuram, Palluruthy, Fort Kochi, Maradu, Varapetty, and Vengola. The number of persons undergoing treatment after being tested positive in the district is 2,555 at present. More cops test positive The functioning of the North Police in the city has taken a severe hit after four police personnel were tested positive for Covid-19 over less than a week sending 19 of their colleagues into quarantine inflicting a heavy drain on the workforce. Among those who tested positive were a sub inspector, two assistant sub inspectors and a civil police officer. This has brought down the available persons on duty after the routine weekly offs and leaves to mere 16 in a station with a staff strength of 52. Four cops – two from Central station and one each from Palarivattom and Kadavanthra stations – have been allocated as reinforcements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/infections-cross-300-mark/article32556973.ece
09 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Joseph challenges EC order in HC||Kerala Congress (M) [KC(M)] leader P.J. Joseph on Monday moved the Kerala High Court challenging the Election Commission’s order declaring the group led by Jose K. Mani as the official KC(M) and granting the faction the official election symbol of “two leaves”. The Election Commission had passed the order by a 2:1 majority on a petition filed by Mr. Mani. Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora and Commission member Sushil Chandra delivered the order with a dissent note of the third member, Ashok Lavasa, who had suggested further scrutiny of the documents submitted by both factions before pronouncing a final order. Joseph’s contention In his plea, Mr. Joseph said the commission’s decision was illegal. He claimed that he was the elected working chairman of the party and had been discharging the functions and powers of the chairman (since the demise of party chairman K.M. Mani) in terms of the party constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/joseph-challenges-ec-order-in-hc/article32556979.ece
09 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||CSML works to get over by March, say officials||Many infrastructure works undertaken by Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) in the city and in West Kochi are running behind schedule, due to problems like complexities in relocating pipelines and cables laid by different agencies, officials in the agency said. Shortage of labourers post-COVID, since many have returned to their home States, has further compounded the issue. There are also problems posed by buildings and compound walls encroaching into public spaces, into areas meant for building footpaths and drains. “But efforts are being made to complete all road, drain and allied works that we undertook, by March 2021,” they added. Ongoing works to renovate roads and allied infrastructure are running behind schedule, mainly due to inadequate availability of labourers. Subsequently, footpaths and carriageway of many arterial roads, including parts of Banerjee Road and Park Avenue Road, are in dilapidated condition. The Ernakulam Vikasana Samiti has in the meantime protested against what they termed as unscientific relaying of cables and other structures, as part of renovation works in many roads. Many agencies are unduly felling trees too, as part of this, said K.S. Dileep Kumar, president of the samiti. “We are doing compensatory afforestation to make up for trees felled for our projects. Ten trees will be planted for every tree that had to be axed,” CSML sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/csml-works-to-get-over-by-march-say-officials/article32556976.ece
09 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Exempted from appearing in HC||The Kerala High Court has dispensed with an order directing the Revenue Principal Secretary and the Local Self-Government Institutions Secretary to appear before the court and explain their failure to comply with its directives on the issue of possession certificates on assigned land. The order was passed on the petitions by the Secretaries seeking to dispense with their personal appearance. They submitted that the directives of the High Court had already been complied with. The court had earlier directed the Revenue Principal Secretary to issue instructions to the revenue authorities to give possession certificates on assigned land only after verifying the purposes for which the land was assigned and also mentioning the purpose on the possession certificates. The court had also directed the Local Self-Government Department to insist on production of such possession certificates along with the applications submitted by the owners of assigned land seeking building permits. In their applications, the Secretaries submitted that a special leave petition filed against the dismissal of an appeal by a Division Bench challenging the single judge's directives was still pending before the Supreme Court.  The court directed the Revenue Principal Secretary to ensure that no possession certificate shall be issued without following the court directives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/exempted-from-appearing-in-hc/article32556980.ece
09 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Clubbing of audit reports: LDF petitions Minister||Left Democratic Front (LDF) councillors in the Kochi Corporation have petitioned the Minister and Secretary for the Local Self-Government Department against the decision of the civic administration to discuss the four annual performance audit reports and Mayor’s Development Fund together. A special session of the corporation council has been scheduled for Wednesday to discuss the five reports. “It’s impractical to discuss the five reports together in one session and each report has to be discussed threadbare and that too separately,” said V.P. Chandran, one of the LDF leaders in the council. Auditors have identified several lacunae in the functioning of the civic body in these reports and listed out the losses suffered by the corporation. They have also recommended to recover the losses from the officials concerned besides prohibiting the payment of funds for a large number of ill-implemented projects. If the liability of each erring official is not fixed and suitable action taken, the financial burden of such works would be shifted to the shoulders of corporation councillors. The councillors will eventually be made to compensate the loss caused by the officials, according to Mr. Chandran. “The Opposition councillors will attend the session and record their dissent on the manner in which the reports are discussed. The LDF has taken up the issue with the State government and the authorities concerned,” he said. Mayor’s stance Responding to the charges, Mayor Soumini Jain said the Corporation had the statutory obligation to place the audit reports before the council and not much time was left for the present regime in office. As the reports were of same nature, they were put together for discussion, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/clubbing-of-audit-reports-ldf-petitions-minister/article32556971.ece
09 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Coast Guard activates work-up team in Kochi||The Coast Guard has activated a work-up team in Kochi with the aim of achieving specified performance standards capable of meeting top-notch operational readiness of vessels and crew 24x7. Additional Director General Rajan Bargotra, Coast Guard Commander for the western seaboard, inaugurated the team. Deputy Inspector General Anwar Khan is the office-in-charge of the work-up team (west), which comprises five officers and 11 enrolled personnel. The work-up team provides Coast Guard ships refresher training and will fine-tune the operational procedures. A communication said the team would ensure the men behind the machine were professionally thorough and operationally ready to face any challenges emanating from the seas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coast-guard-activates-work-up-team-in-kochi/article32556972.ece
09 September 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kudumbashree beats pandemic to stitch a success story||While many sectors found themselves in an uncharted territory and incurred huge losses during COVID-19, Kudumbashree apparel units across the State have a different story to tell. Women working in around 5,000 apparel units in different districts took some extra effort to tide over the crisis, successfully navigating a profitable venture in the face of adversity. According to official records, they have reported a turnover of over Rs. 12 crore during the last few months, a figure much higher compared to their business during post-COVID-19 days. “We have supplied over 70 lakh masks and we are also providing cloth bags to Supplyco and Bevco. The Supplyco order alone brought us a business of Rs. 4 crore and it is for the first time we are touching such figures,” says an official. Popular brand Kudumbashree has 12 apparel parks in the State, some of them with state-of-the-art machinery so they can offer customised services as well. Though it was mainly face masks and cloth bags, some units offered PPE (personal protective equipment) kits. “Our branded masks are slowly becoming popular and our products are available on Amazon as well,” she adds. During the early days of the pandemic, Kudumbashree units were the only option for mass procurement. “We took bulk orders and ensured that they were delivered on time. It wasn’t an easy task as many units couldn’t function due to restrictions, but the women took the material home for stitching to complete the orders on time. Though some others too have started mass producing in recent times, we don’t think our business will be affected. If somebody wants a huge volume of products we will be the first choice,” the official says. While the units went for business models that tapped the lockdown economy and ensured short-term survival, they also have some big plans for the future. “In the next the phase we will be focussing on branding and upgrading the quality of our products. At present it’s difficult to conduct training sessions, but we definitely have plans to diversify,” she adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-beats-pandemic-to-stitch-a-success-story/article32556995.ece
09 September 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||209 positive in Kollam||The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district rose to 1,689 on Tuesday with 209 more persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. It includes 201 contact cases, three persons from abroad, three health workers, and two others from Assam and Gujarat. The health workers who contracted the virus include a 23-year-old Velinallur resident, a 54-year-old Kulasekharapuram resident, and a 25-year-old Vallikunnam resident. While the first two have been working at Kayamkulam taluk hospital and Thekkumbhagam Community Health Centre, the third health worker is an employee of a private dental clinic. Kollam has 17,138 persons under observation and the number of samples collected is 1,28,326. The Health Department has traced 22,657 primary and 5,667 secondary contacts of the positive cases. The district also reported 191 recoveries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/209-positive-in-kollam/article32557072.ece
09 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Stage set for formal talks between KC(M) and LDF||With its fragile ties with the United Democratic Front being severed, the stage is now set for formal parleys between the Kerala Congress (M) led by Jose K. Mani and the Left Democratic Front (LDF) for the party’s entry into the front. The party leadership has entrusted Mr. Mani to decide on its stance. Indeed, he was waiting for the Congress-led coalition’s decision on the Kuttanad seat to kick-start discussions with the rival camp. The alliance, regarded unlikely till recently, will in theory enjoy a relative comfortable relationship, but will rely on a handful of factors, including the performance of the two in the coming local body elections. KC(M)’s wish list While the KC(M)’s wish list includes maximum number of seats in the Assembly election next year, it is yet to be clear whether the LDF will concede it straightaway or wait for an evaluation of its strength at the grassroots in the local body polls. “Of the 15 seats the KC(M) contested in the previous Assembly election, nominees of the K.M. Mani faction accounted for majority of the seats. While switching sides, the party will be keen to retain those 11 seats with it,” a party leader said. But with Mani C. Kappen, Nationalist Congress Party leader and present Pala legislator, expressing his unwillingness to give up the constituency, which incidentally is regarded as the bastion of the Mani group, there are certain core issues that need deliberations. Similarly, it may not be easy for the LDF to embrace a party that it has opposed for the best part of the previous four decades. The party, however, still counts on ensuring a swift transition to the LDF by highlighting ‘the discriminatory treatment meted out to it by the Congress-led United Democratic Front’. This was all too evident when Mr.Mani addressed media in Kottayam on Tuesday, soon after the UDF decided to allocate the Kuttanad seat to the Joseph group. Charge aginst UDF “Those who allege that we have betrayed the UDF remain shockingly silent on the attempts by Mr. Joseph to defeat our candidate in Pala last year. Without making any fuss, I filed a complaint to the UDF leadership requesting action against Mr.Joseph. However, no action has been taken so far,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stage-set-for-formal-talks-between-kcm-and-ldf/article32556983.ece
09 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||168 cases in Kottayam||Kottayam logged 168 more COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. Kottayam municipality led tally with 30 cases, followed by Kangazha with 14 cases. Arpookkara reported 12 cases and Meenadom 11 cases. Meanwhile, the district also reported 141 recoveries during the day. Kottayam has 45 containment zones across 23 local bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/168-cases-in-kottayam/article32557068.ece
09 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||246 test positive in Kozhikode||As many as 213 of the 246 new COVID-19 cases from Kozhikode on Tuesday were due to local transmission of the infection. Two persons who were undergoing COVID-19 treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, after having tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 died on Tuesday. However, they were tested negative for the virus after their death. A medical bulletin identified the deceased as an 85-year-old man from Konnachal in Wayanad and a 69-year-old man from Parambath in Kozhikode. According to a release by the District Medical Officer, the source of infection was not known in 23 cases. Nine persons had returned from other States. There are 97 cases of local transmission within the Corporation limits. With 145 people recovering from the infection, the number of active cases from Kozhikode stands at 1,734.  In Wayanad The district recorded 24 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. Health department authorities said 21 persons contracted the infection through local contacts. While two persons came from Karnataka, one returned from abroad. Twenty-five infected persons recovered from COVID-19 on Tuesday. In Thrissur As many as 129 people were tested positive in Thrissur on Tuesday. Of them, 128 were infected through contact. With 110 people recovering on Tuesday, the district has a total of 1,520 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/246-test-positive-in-kozhikode/article32556965.ece
09 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Valiyangadi roofing work to be completed soon||The labourers in Valiyangadi, one of the major markets in Kozhikode city, will not have to work in the scorching sun for long. The work of roofing over the street will be completed in less than four months, said Public Works Standing Committee Chairperson of Kozhikode Corporation, T.V. Lalithaprabha. Inaugurated Mayor Thottathil Raveendran on Tuesday inaugurated the portion of the roof that was completed in the first phase, at the same time launching the second phase of the project. The first phase, which is 98 metres long, was completed at a cost of Rs. 75 lakh. The corporation has set aside Rs. 2 crore for the second phase, which includes roofing for 250 metres. The labourers of Valiyangadi had collected Rs. 12 lakh as their contribution to the project, which was handed over to the Mayor at the event. Ms.Lalithaprabha said that the corporation had a mega project for the renovation of all its markets, funded by KIIFB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/valiyangadi-roofing-work-to-be-completed-soon/article32556963.ece
09 September 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Finance scam: documents seized||A day after taking the accused in the Popular Finance scam into custody, the police here on Tuesday recovered several documents, including title deeds from their residence at Vakayar here. The documents were seized when key accused Thomas Daniel, managing director of the company, along with his wife and two daughters were taken for evidence collection in the morning. The raid, supervised by District Police Chief K.G. Simon, was led by the Station House Officers from Konni, Koodal and Enathu. The inspection was held amidst heavy police presence even as the public, braving the rain, staged protests. Mr. Simon said inspections would be conducted at several other locations, including the offices of the finance company in the coming days. “Efforts are also on to trace the destinations where the accused have parked the funds collected from depositors,” the official said. Ever since the fraud came to light a few weeks ago, the police have been receiving complaints against the company from different parts of the State and even outside. According to officials, these complaints will be tagged along with the case registered at the Konni police station for a comprehensive investigation. Plea to attach properties Special Correspondent writes from Kochi: The Kerala High Court on Tuesday sought the response of the State government to petitions by some depositors of the Popular Finance seeking a directive to invoke the provisions, including the one relating to attachments of all the properties of the Popular Group of Companies and its directors, under the Kerala Protection of Interests of Depositors in Financial Establishments Act, 2013. According to petitioners Thomas Parekattil and six others, they had deposited more than Rs. 1 crore in the financial company. The directors had defrauded them by refusing interest on the deposits and giving back their money, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/finance-scam-documents-seized/article32557017.ece
09 September 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Domestic help kills old woman||A 92-year-old woman was murdered by her domestic help at Kumbazha, Pathanamthitta, on Tuesday. The police arrested Mayilsami, a native of Tamil Nadu who was working as a domestic help to Janaki of Manayathu House near Chala, in connection with the incident. The woman was found lying in a pool of blood in her bedroom in the morning. The incident came to light when the accused handed a note to a family in the neighbourhood. “In the note, written in Malayalam, the accused confessed to the murder and expressed his wish to go to jail,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/domestic-help-kills-old-woman/article32557065.ece
09 September 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Pathanamthitta adds 160 cases||As many 160 tested positive in Pathanamthitta on Tuesday. Of these, 117 are contact cases. The disease clusters at Kadambanad and Kadakkad reported cases. Contact sources of many are unknown. There were 113 recoveries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pathanamthitta-adds-160-cases/article32557069.ece
09 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital posts 562 more cases||The COVID-19 caseload in the district took a massive leap with 562 people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday. The significant increase was recorded when testing nearly tripled as 523 swab samples were collected on the day. Going by official statistics, only 197 samples were sent for examination on Monday. Barring the lone instance of a 58-year-old Kanyakumari native who tested positive after arriving from another State, almost all fresh cases have been attributed to local transmission. These included 19 health-care workers and 35 cases with unknown source of infection. The district’s COVID-19 death toll also rose to 121 with four more deaths — those of natives of Chenkal (89 year old), Parassala (55), Anchalummoodu (66) and Mulayara (44) — being attributed to the disease. As many as 389 who were undergoing treatment tested negative for the infection on the day. The district now has 4,750 active cases. The pandemic spread continued unabated in high-range areas with nine more people being diagnosed with COVID-19 in Kallikkad when 46 people were tested on Tuesday. In all, 252 people contracted the infection in the grama panchayat. Among these, there are 75 active cases. Health workers Several health-care workers of a private hospital at Kilimanoor went into quarantine after a doctor of the surgery department tested positive. The doctor, who has been admitted to a private hospital in the State capital, is known to have examined nearly 50 people in the outpatient wing and conducted surgery on five patients in the past week. Various places in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation have been declared as containment zones. These included Vyasa Nagar in Kesavadasapuram ward, Ambedkar Nagar in Sreekaryam ward, Prasanth Nagar, Neerazhi Lane and Panayil in Ulloor ward, MLA Road in Thrikkannapuram ward, Odanvazhi in Thirumala ward, PG residents association in Perunthanni ward, Aduppukottanpara in Thuruthummoola ward, Perekkonam, Sathyan Nagar, Chavinchi vila and Malamel kunnu in Estate ward, Ayithadi and Pulayanarkotta in Akkulam ward and Punchakari ward. Restrictions have also been imposed in Mulakkottukara in Vithura grama panchayat, Edamonnila in Navaikulam grama panchayat, Thettichira and Panchayat Office wards in Azhoor grama panchayat, and Malackkal and Panappamkunnu in Kilimanoor grama panchayat. Curbs lifted The district administration has removed Madanvila and Kottaramthuruthu in Azhoor grama panchayat; Lourdepuram in Kanjiramkulam grama panchayat; Panakkadu, Mullaravila, Thozhikkal, Vazhuthoor, Irumbil, Narayanapuram, Amaravila and Alummoodu in Neyyattinkara grama panchayat; Mekkola, Dhanuvachapuram and Puthusserymadam in Kollayil grama panchayat; Keezharoor, Kavalloor, Pasuvannara in Aryancode grama panchayat; Mudiyottukonam (Nellikkunnu area) in Karavaram grama panchayat; Karichara in Andoorkonam grama panchayat; and Arattukuzhy, Vellarada, Anchumarankala, Kiliyoor, Manoor, Ponnambi and Panchauzhy in Vellarada grama panchayat from the list of containment zones. Directive to ambulances Meanwhile, District Collector Navjot Khosa has directed the operators of all government and private palliative care ambulances to register on the COVID-19 Jagratha portal. Besides, all ambulance drivers must download the COVID-19 Jagratha application on their mobile phones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-posts-562-more-cases/article32557023.ece
09 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||With more testing, cases soar||As COVID-19 testing picked up again in the State after the weekend, the daily case graph went up on Tuesday. The State tested 37,264 samples in the last 24 hours, picking up 3,026 new cases, taking the cumulative case burden to 92,515. The number of recoveries was 1,862. Having reported 68,863 recoveries till date, the number of patients currently being treated in hospitals is 23,217. Official reports said 227 patients were critically ill and in intensive care units, with 54 of them needing ventilator support. Death toll 372 The death toll reached 372, with the Health Department adding 13 more deaths to its official death list (provisional) on Tuesday. Four of these were from Thiruvananthapuram, three each from Kannur and Ernakulam, two from Kozhikode and one from Thrissur. Over 90% of the cases reported in the State for the past few weeks are a result of intense local transmission. On Tuesday, 2,814 of the 3,026 new cases (93%) were locally acquired infections, with the source of infection remaining untraceable in 237 cases. These include 89 health-care workers, 32 of them in Kannur and 19 in Thiruvananthapuram. Thiruvananthapuram remained on top of all districts in daily cases, reporting 562 cases, of which all except a lone case are locally transmitted infections. In other districts too the situation is no different, with 333 out of 358 cases in Malappuram, 307 out of 318 in Ernakulam, 239 out of 256 in Kozhikode are locally acquired infections, indicating that community transmission is rampant throughout the State. Palakkad has 226 cases, Alappuzha 217, Kollam 209, Kottayam 168, Kasaragod 166, Pathanamthitta 160, Kannur 158, Thrissur 129, Idukki 85 and Wayanad 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/with-more-testing-cases-soar/article32556978.ece
09 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Stakeholders call for unlocking tourism||With over half-a-dozen key States opening up the tourism sector based on Unlock 4, stakeholders of the travel and tourism industry in the State have demanded resuming operations in the sector that has been remaining closed for six months. They have officially raised the demand to the government to keep “Kerala open for tourism” and allow them to carry out business by adopting COVID-19 protective measures on the lines of Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Goa, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan to accelerate survival and recovery of the sector. The existing 14-day quarantine, a requirement for travellers arriving in the State, is a major setback for the travel trade. The government has given permission to open hotels in the State subject to the COVID-19 prevention and control rules, but it will benefit only those visiting the State for up to seven days on business. Only a very few hotels in major cities are open. Most have no guests as hotels, resorts and houseboats in the State are run exclusively for leisure tourists. Lack of business has affected more than 15 lakh workers directly and 20 lakh indirectly. More than 4,000 hotels, resorts, 1,000-odd houseboats, 100 Ayurvedic centres, 1,000 tour operators, homestay owners, water theme parks, taxi drivers, tourists guides, and units in the adventure tourism sector are affected. “If this continues, the tourism industry will have to be closed down permanently,” says Confederation of Kerala Tourism Industry (CKTI) president E.M. Najeeb and general secretary Sajeev Kurup. “ We should accept the situation and open up the sector with adequate safeguards. If we open up in October, we will get 20% to 30% business in the remaining months,” Abraham George, member, National Tourism Advisory Council, said.  Letter to CM “This is the time when tour operators from different States start marketing for Diwali and also the time when foreign tour operators start planning for January 2021. The government should immediately announce that Kerala is open for tourism,” Thomas John Muthoot, chairman, CII Kerala State Council, said in a letter to the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stakeholders-call-for-unlocking-tourism/article32556987.ece
09 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Road map for double line up to Kanyakumari||Railways are planning to complete the doubling of the 620-km line from Mangaluru Junction via Kottayam to Thiruvananthapuram Central by December 2021 and the 86.56-km line to Kanyakumari by December 2024. Doubling via Alappuzha to Kayamkulam will be completed by December 2024 as three corridors that were entangled in disputes over cost-sharing with the State were defrozen. The process to sanction detailed estimates of three corridors is on the Railway Board. The 18.13-km Haripad-Ambalappuzha sector will be commissioned in February 2021. The doubling from Mangaluru to Kanyakumari and the development of the Kochuveli terminal and coaching terminal at Nemom will help bring more trains to the south and improve the services, John Thomas, General Manager, Southern Railway, said at a virtual press meet on Tuesday from Chennai. Phase II of the Kochuveli terminal has been sanctioned. Mr. Thomas said the zonal railways have approached the Railway Board for Rs. 250 crore this year for completing the Nemom coaching terminal and for another Rs. 250 crore next year for Phase II. The aim is to complete the coaching terminal along with the doubling up to Kanyakumari. Railways have given in-principal approval for the SilverLine, the semi-high-speed rail (SHSR) corridor from Kochuveli to Kasaragod, to be executed on cost-sharing. “We have given our comments to the DPR [detailed project report],” he said. Railways have increased the sectional speed in the Mulanthuruthy-Piravom Road to 90 kmph, Thiruvalla-Changanacherry up to 75 kmph and Changanacherry-Chingavanam up to 75 kmph. The speed of freight trains have been increased to 46 kmph for faster delivery of goods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/road-map-for-double-line-up-to-kanyakumari/article32557018.ece
09 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Protest day observed||Physical education teachers in the State observed Tuesday as protest day against the government’s failure to implement the promises made to them three years ago. Members of the Departmental Physical Education Teachers (DPET), the umbrella organisation of physical education teachers in Kerala, held a virtual rally — members standing in front of their homes holding banners and placards. The main demand are that they be classified as general teachers and not special teachers, filling of existing posts in upper primary and high schools, equal pay, promotion, and protection as general teachers. DPET president M.K. Sunil Kumar said the State government had given an assurance to the organisation on September 8, 2017 that its demands would be met within six months. Third anniversary “The government has failed to keep its promise even after three years. We are still continuing our work-to-rule protest which we began last year. The virtual rally today is to observe the third anniversary of unfulfilled promises of the State government,” Mr. Sunil Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protest-day-observed/article32557019.ece
09 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Mayor makes Clean City declaration||Mayor K. Sreekumar on Tuesday made a declaration regarding the Clean City status of the capital city. The Haritha Keralam Mission had been apprised of the declaration, the Corporation said in a statement issued here. A review committee would visit the Corporation to ascertain whether the criteria had been fulfilled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mayor-makes-clean-city-declaration/article32557025.ece
09 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Many firms ignoring stipulations: RERA||A number of real estate firms and brokers/agents in the State have been accused of marketing projects ignoring the stipulation that real estate projects and agents should be registered with the Kerala Real Estate Regulatory Authority (K-RERA). K-RERA has begun issuing showcause notices to these firms and brokers who, sources said, are marketing projects using the deadline extension for registering ongoing real estate projects in view of the COVID-19 situation as a pretext. “This authority has been receiving many complaints, both formal and informal, pointing out the marketing activities done by some promoters in connection with their projects without even applying for registration,” K-RERA said on Tuesday. Such activities were liable to attract penal action under various provisions of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act passed by Parliament in 2016, the authority said.  Notice to agents K-RERA has also issued notices to a number of agents/ brokers/ middlemen who too have been found to be engaged in real estate-related activities without the required RERA registration. They are liable to be punished under Section 62 and 65 of the Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/many-firms-ignoring-stipulations-rera/article32556990.ece
09 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||BTech supplementary exams to begin today||Marking a return to pen-and-paper examinations after many months, BTech supplementary examinations will commence in engineering colleges in the State on Wednesday. The APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) is conducting the exams amid an intense social media campaign demanding their deferral. Enabling students to clear their backlog at one go, the KTU has decided to break the tradition that generally involved the conduct of exams of odd and even semesters separately. While the supplementary exams of the seventh (S7) and fourth (S4) semesters are set to begin on September 9 and September 15 respectively, the registration for the other semesters are under way. 18,989 to take S7 papers While 18,989 students will appear for the S7 papers, 25,385 students will write the S4 examinations. A total of 12,555 students have utilised the facility to opt for exam centres closer to their homes. Among those who have enrolled for the S7 exams, the highest number (1,016) will appear from the Government College of Engineering, Kannur, followed by the MES College of Engineering, Kuttippuram, (957), and the Government Engineering College, Kozhikode (877). COVID protocol Dispelling fears of crowding at the centres, official sources say the enrolment is less than 70 in over 90% of the colleges. The exams would be held adhering to the COVID-19 protocol in forenoon and afternoon sessions until November 9. The decision to conduct the supplementary exams has brought relief to large sections who face the threat of losing jobs and others who have been unable to apply for job openings. However, many have demanded that the exams be conducted online, raising the example of final-year exams recently conducted online by respective colleges. However, sources involved in the conduct of final-year exams say they were not held in a foolproof manner . Besides, online exams necessitated several months of preparation. A proposal to conduct supplementary exams again after three months is also being considered for the benefit of students who are unable to reach the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/btech-supplementary-exams-to-begin-today/article32556989.ece
09 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Inaugurated||Mayor K. Sreekumar inaugurated the building for the Ambalkulam anganwadi, constructed by the city Corporation in Vizhinjam ward, on Tuesday. The project was completed under the People’s Plan head.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/inaugurated/article32557020.ece
09 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Containment zones||The district administration has declared Thozhuvankode in Kanjirampara ward, Pai Nagar Residents’ Association locality in Poojappura ward, Swagat Nagar Residents’ Association locality in Valiyavila ward, Swara Residents’ Association area in Sreekanteswaram ward and Panankara in Vazhottukonam ward under the city Corporation as containment zones. Nadayara and Muttappallam in Chemmaruthy grama panchayat, Vithura and Koppam in Vithura grama panchayat, Chettikonam and Ponnara in Kattakada grama panchayat, and Kannanpally in Uriyakode ward in Vellanad grama panchayat are the other wards in the district that have been declared containment zones by District Collector Navjot Khosa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/containment-zones/article32557021.ece
09 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Paddy harvested||Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar on Tuesday formally launched the harvest of the paddy cultivated on 15 acres of land on the Karyavattom campus of the University of Kerala as part of its Harithalayam project. Lauding the campus afforestation drive, the Minister said the project was a model one that could be replicated globally. Vice Chancellor V.P. Mahadevan Pillai and Pro Vice Chancellor P.P. Ajayakumar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/paddy-harvested/article32557024.ece
09 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||e-registration in hotels||The Kerala Hotel and Restaurant Association (KHRA) has commenced e-registration across the State to maintain the details of guests. Those arriving for dining will have to scan the QR code pasted in front of hotels and restaurants via their mobile phone to register the details as per the pandemic protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/e-registration-in-hotels/article32556984.ece
09 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Cargo trains discontinued||The 00657/00658 Chennai Egmore – Thiruvananthapuram Central– Chennai Egmore tri-weekly parcel cargo express trains have been discontinued from September 9 due to operational reasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cargo-trains-discontinued/article32556986.ece
09 September 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||CM to open renovated bus stand in Thrissur||The renovated north bus stand in Thrissur, with modern amenities, will be opened to the public by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday. Mayor Ajitha Jayarajan will preside over the function in which South Indian Bank MD and CEO V.G. Mathew will hand over the renovated hub to A.C. Moideen, Minister for Local Self Governments. The bus stand, which was being used by thousands of people daily, was renovated by the Thrissur-based South Indian Bank at a cost of Rs. 6.16 crore under its corporate social responsibility fund.  The renovated bus stand has a beautifully designed roof, facility to park 20 buses at a time, waiting room for women, feeding room, police control room, public announcement system, ATM, conference hall, office room, restaurant and medical store.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-to-open-renovated-bus-stand-in-thrissur/article32556969.ece
09 September 2020||September 09 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Unsafe zone||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unsafe-zone/article32556975.ece
09 September 2020||September 09 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Bus on demand||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bus-on-demand/article32556997.ece
09 September 2020||September 09 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Masked protest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/masked-protest/article32557074.ece
09 September 2020||September 09 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Police selection||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-selection/article32557030.ece
09 September 2020||September 09 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Protest on||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protest-on/article32557028.ece
09 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||MP: Kisan Rail will provide remunerative prices to ryots||South India’s first-ever Kisan Rail, leaving for Delhi, will be flagged off from the Anantapur railway station on Wednesday with Union Minister for Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Narendra Singh Tomar, Minister of State for Railways Suresh C. Angadi and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy giving a green signal through video link. Guntakal Divisional Railway Manager Alok Tiwari, MPs, MLAs and Ministers will be present at the railway station for flag-off at 10.30 a.m. Arrangements reviewed Anantapur MP Talari Rangaiah, while reviewing the arrangements for the formal inauguration at the railway station on Tuesday, said that the Kisan Rail was aimed at providing remunerative prices for farmers of horticulture and other agriculture crops in Anantapur and surrounding regions. “The Central Government has provided for the running of Kisan Rail. In view of this, I have persuaded the Chief Minister, the Prime Minister and the Railway Minister several times with mails to ensure Anantapur fruits reached other parts of the country at the earliest so that farmers can fetch a better price,” Mr. Raingaiah added. ‘Cuts transport time’ Witnessing the loading of papaya, banana, and other fruits at the Anantapur station on Tuesday, District Collector Gandham Chandrudu said that lorries carry fruits from Anantapur to several north Indian States, but accidents and traffic conditions delay the transport. But now, with the introduction of a train, fresh fruits will reach Delhi within 36 hours. The Collector hoped for introduction of transport by air to ensure that fruits from the district could reach other States without its quality being compromised. Exports from sea and land routes have been happening from Anantapur but they are not significant in number.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mp-kisan-rail-will-provide-remunerative-prices-to-ryots/article32556648.ece
09 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jaya Prakash Reddy dies of cardiac arrest||Actor Jaya Prakash Reddy, popularly known as JP, died at his Vidya Nagar residence here in the wee hours of Tuesday following cardiac arrest. He was 74. As the actor’s son and daughter-in-law are taking treatment COVID-19 in a hospital, his friends performed the last rites. Born on May 8, 1946 at Sirivella village in Allagadda mandal of Kurnool district, Jaya Prakash Reddy started his career as a teacher of a municipal school and later had become the head master. While continuing his profession, he had also dabbled in theatre activity and got fame as a well-known stage artiste in 1980s. Later, he moved into cinema world and the Venkatesh-starrer Brahmaputrudu released in 1988 gave him a big break. Since then, he never looked back and played villain roles in a number of movies. It was the character he portrayed in Preminchukundam Raa brought him laurels. His dialogue delivery in the Rayalaseema accent in the film was well received by the audience. Flicks like Samarasimha Reddy and Narasimha Naidu , in which he played important roles had become blockbusters. The films were made in the backdrop of faction politics. The actor took a break in the year 2019 and settled down in Guntur. But he was persuaded by director Anil Ravipudi to work for the Mahesh Babu-starrer Sarileru Neekevvaru which was also a a runaway hit. In this last movie, he played the role of an ageing faction leader and father of Prakash Raj. Love for theatre In one of the social gatherings, JP said that he had spent a lot of time in Rayalaseema to perfect the accent. The love for theatre brought JP back to the stage and in 2014, he began a series of plays enacted at Sri Venkateswara Vignana Mandiram in Guntur -- ‘Nela Nela JP tho’ -- which he continued for over three years. Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy and Leader of Opposition N. Chandrababu Naidu condoled the death of JP. Expressing grief over the death of JP, the Chief Minister said the actor had a special place in the film world. He conveyed his condolences to the bereaved family members of JP. Mr. Naidu said that the Telugu movie industry lost a great actor. Leading personalities in the film industry like Chiranjeevi, Balakrishna, Venkatesh and Nagarjuna, directors and producers expressed grief over the death of Jaya Prakash Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jaya-prakash-reddy-dies-of-cardiac-arrest/article32556578.ece
09 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Be cautious till COVID-19 vaccine is out, CM tells people||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has reiterated that one should always be on alert in dealing with COVID-19 and till the time the vaccine is released, one has to live with the pandemic and take precautions. During the weekly review with Collectors, Superintendents of Police and senior officials - Spandana programme on Tuesday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy asked the Collectors to ensure that testing was done at all Primary Health Centres, Community Health Centres, area hospitals, teaching hospitals and Government General Hospitals. “I urge the Collectors to ensure that 104 helpline is working. It is the single point of contact for COVID-19 and the callers should be provided all help regarding testing, their doubts, admission in hospitals etc. If calls from 104 are routed to Collectors, they should respond immediately. It is also suggested that Collectors and Joint Collectors make mock calls to the helpline,’’ he said. Test results The results of tests – both RT-PCR and TrueNAT – should be made available within 24 hours. Testing equipment had been handed over to all the labs across the State, he said. “I also instruct the Collectors to ensure that all primary and secondary contacts of COVID-19 positive persons should be home quarantined for 14 days. Those who have tested positive should be provided with a bed within 30 minutes. We have 224 COVID hospitals and all of them should have help desks. Collectors should regularly check on four points – quality food, sanitation, basic facilities and adequate medical staff,’’ said the Chief Minister. Staff recruitment Stating that the government had so far recruited 17,000 medical and paramedical staff, he said 11,000 nurses would be recruited on a temporary basis. He said COVID-19 kits should be provided to all those in home isolation. The Chief Minister said the State had 26,250 beds with oxygen support and the target was to provide 31,589. He said that permission for plasma therapy had been given to many hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/be-cautious-till-covid-19-vaccine-is-out-cm-tells-people/article32557107.ece
09 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collectors, SPs told to monitor working of village secretariats||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said here on Tuesday that biometric attendance has been made compulsory at all village/ward secretariats. During the weekly Spandana review programme, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy asked Collectors and SPs to monitor the functioning of the secretariats and ensure that service delivery mechanism was in place. “We are able to provide 91% of Rice cards, 76.60% of Arogyasri cards and 97% of pensions on time, but I want to achieve 100% delivery. The applications for providing house sites should be processed within 90 days. I urge all the Collectors and the heads of departments to visit the secretariats every week. We have also set up a call centre with 200 people and this will directly monitor the working of secretariats,’’ he said. Recruitment tests for 16,208 vacancies in village/ward secretariats would be completed by the end of September. So far 10.57 lakh applications were received, he said. New schemes He asked Collectors to set up boards indicating the welfare calender of the government and give wide publicity on COVID-19 precautionary measures. ‘Jagananna Thodu’ a scheme benefiting street vendors would be launched in October under which beneficiaries would be provided a loan of Rs. 10,000. So far, six lakh applications were received for the scheme. The beneficiaries of YSR Bima and YSR Aaasara should be identified, he said. MGNREGS works On MGNREGS, the Chief Minister said that 4.25 crore working days had been added to the existing ones. He told the Collectors to ensure that works worth Rs. 10 crore were identified every week in each district. All pending works related to construction of village/ward secretariats, Rhythu Bharosa Kendras, Anganwadi centres and schools should be completed. Construction of drains should be taken up from October. Stating that the State government had sanctioned 16 teaching hospitals, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that the tenders for these hospitals would be called in the coming week. With this, the total number of teaching hospitals in the State would reach 27, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collectors-sps-told-to-monitor-working-of-village-secretariats/article32557105.ece
09 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Don’t hesitate to act against illegalities: CM||“I am with you, anything illegal, please don’t hesitate to act,” Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy gave a pep talk at the Spandana review programme. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy asked the SPs to crack down on illegal transportation of sand and liquor. He praised some police officers who dealt sensitively in cases related to atrocities on SCs and STs. “I have read media reports about the action taken by some officers and I wish to congratulate them. I ask the SPs to sensitise the SHOs to act with more care in sensitive cases,’’ he said .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dont-hesitate-to-act-against-illegalities-cm/article32557108.ece
09 September 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mild tension as Gandikota oustees continue stir||Mild commotion was witnessed at Thalla Proddatur village as the Gandikota project displaced continued their agitation on Tuesday demanding a proper relief and rehabilitation package. The day started with rumours on their likely arrest, even as tense moments were witnessed with deployment of additional forces in the vicinity. Barricades were erected at major entry points to restrict the movement of the villagers. However, the entry of leaders of the Left parties, the BJP and the Jana Sena to the spot to express solidarity with the displaced families helped defuse the situation. The leaders demanded rehabilitation package for the victims before moving them away in the name of reservoir expansion. JSP joint secretary (Rayalaseema) S. Srinivas and BJP mandal convener Sekhar Reddy called it an unjustifiable act to displace them by putting their future at stake.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mild-tension-as-gandikota-oustees-continue-stir/article32556657.ece
09 September 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister lauds role of police in controlling COVID spread||Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu has said the police personnel have been playing a key role in controlling the spread of COVID-19 despite many of them being contracted the dreaded virus. Reviewing the passing out parade by the 2019 batch constables of the AP Special Police at the APSP 3rd Battalion grounds here on Tuesday, Mr. Kannababu lauded the services of about 800 policemen who were infected by COVID-19 while discharging their duties in East Godavari district. Mr. Kannababu claimed that the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government brought several reforms in the Police Department which include the weekly off system. Referring to the 2019 passing out batch of constables, Mr. Kannababu said: "A majority of the 119 constables trained here hold higher education degrees. Such qualification profile will add strength to the Police Department to serve the people.” V. Manikanta bagged the best all-rounder cadet award, while B. Chinnam Naidu and G. Vasu Vara Prasad bagged the best outdoor cadet award and best fireman award during their nine-month training held here under the aegis of APSP 3rd Battalion Commandant S. Nagaraju. Inspector General (training) S. Sanjay, Eluru Range DIG K.V. Mohana Rao, East Godavari SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-lauds-role-of-police-in-controlling-covid-spread/article32557113.ece
09 September 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP leader distributes PPE kits to civic staff||A doctor and Bharatiya Janata Party leader Byreddy Shabari on Tuesday distributed Personal Protection Kits (PPEs) to sanitation workers at Gargeyapuram in Kodumuru Assembly constituency in the district. After touring the village in the morning, she also held a health camp and promised to conduct more such camps to enquire after the health of the sanitation staff, who she said had been toiling for many years without caring for their health. Promises of support Dr. Shabari enquired about the working conditions of the civic staff and said that she would do all possible from her side with the support of the party. Others who attended the medical camp, included BJP leaders Premanandam, Bala Chennu, Byreddy Sankar Reddy and Byreddy Raghu Babu Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-leader-distributes-ppe-kits-to-civic-staff/article32556650.ece
09 September 2020||KURNOOL/ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID deaths cross 400 in Kurnool||The cumulative number of COVID-19 fatalities crossed the 400-mark (401) in Kurnool district with two new deaths registered on Tuesday, and reached 371 in Anantapur district with eight new deaths recorded in 24 hours till 10 a.m. on Tuesday. As many as 1,103 persons were discharged from COVID Care Centres and Hospitals in Anantapur district on Tuesday and the cumulative number of positive patients reached 46,325 in the district with 441 new persons testing positive in the last 24 hours. Kurnool district, too, recorded less number of cases in comparison to last week. As many as 514 contracted the virus, taking the cumulative total to 49,216 and 26 persons were discharged from Santhiram General Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-deaths-cross-400-in-kurnool/article32556652.ece
09 September 2020||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vijaya Sai cleared of ‘office of profit’ charge||Rajya Sabha MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy has been cleared of the charge of holding an office of profit for being appointed the Andhra Pradesh government’s Special Representative at Andhra Bhavan in Delhi. In an order on August 31, President Ram Nath Kovind accepted the Election Commission of India’s opinion that Mr. Reddy had not incurred disqualification as an MP for his role as the AP government’s Special Representative. The EC’s June 8 opinion said the government order appointing Mr. Reddy on July 7, 2019, had stated that he would not be “entitled for any other perks”. He would, however, enjoy the status of “State guest” while undertaking official visits to Andhra Pradesh as the Special Representative of the State government at Andhra Pradesh Bhavan, New Delhi, the EC opinion said, citing the government order. The President’s order stated that a petition seeking disqualification of Mr. Reddy as an MP was received on September 9, 2019, and the petition had been referred to the EC for its opinion. Mr. Reddy was elected to the Rajya Sabha on June 3, 2016, and was then appointed to the office of Special Representative by the State government and given the rank of a Cabinet Minister on June 22, 2019. The appointment was cancelled on July 4, 2019, as Mr. Reddy was holding an office of profit, the petition said. Mr. Reddy was then re-appointed to the role on July 7, 2019, with the clarification that he would not be entitled to any other perks other than “enjoying the status of State guest during his official travels in the State of Andhra Pradesh in connection with performance of his duties as Special Representative”, the President’s order stated. The EC cited the Parliament (Prevention of Disqualification) Act 1959 Section 3, where a list of offices of profit that do not lead to disqualification includes certain offices where the holder is “not entitled to any remuneration other than compensatory allowance”. The EC also cited judgments that have held that “an office will not fall in the category of ‘Office of Profit’ if no pecuniary gain can be made from it”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-mp-cleared-of-office-of-profit-charge/article32556587.ece
09 September 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||IMA faults police on doctor’s arrest in Eluru||The State unit of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Tuesday urged the police to ensure justice to Murali Krishna, a doctor in Eluru, who was arrested for allegedly running a COVID centre without the government permission. IMA State general secretary P. Phanidhar in a letter to State Director-General of Police Gautham Sawang said though a complaint could be entertained by the police in this case, it should not culminate in instant arrest of the doctor. ''We(doctors) have immunity against arrest in such situations from the Supreme Court,'' the IMA functionary maintained. ''Rule of law is not being followed in this case,'' opined the Ongole-based ophthalmologist. The complainant in this case was seen speaking to media, asserting his position time and again as a leader of youth wing of a political party. This gave an impression to the doctors' community that clout of individuals was prevailing over rule of law, he said. Doctors in West Godavari downed shutters of their clinics as a mark of protest. The IMA, which did not want the situation to worsen further, intervened, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ima-faults-police-on-doctors-arrest-in-eluru/article32557114.ece
09 September 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kin of COVID warrior gets relief||The family of a lab technician from Markapur has been provided with Rs. 50 lakh under the insurance scheme for COVID-19 warriors as part of the Prime Minister's Garib Kalyan Yojana package. The lab technician, P. Rajasekhar, had died of COVID-19 in July. His family was the first one to get relief in Prakasam district. Andhra Pradesh State Government Employees Association(APSGEA) Prakasam district president Vinukonda Raja Rao, who took up his case with health authorities, thanked the Union and State Governments for responding quickly and settling the insurance claim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kin-of-covid-warrior-gets-relief/article32556654.ece
09 September 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prakasam district sets new high, registers 1,457 cases in a day||The viral disease claimed the lives of 13 more persons in south coastal Andhra--seven in Prakasam district and six in Nellore district-- in the last 24 hours. With this, the combined toll in the two districts rose to 690 with Nellore district accounting for 353 deaths. The toll in Prakasam district rose to 337, a health bulletin released by the State Government said on Tuesday night. A day after registering a slight dip in positive cases, the incidence of new cases rose once again with as many as 2,499 persons testing positive during the period with Prakasam district accounting for the highest-ever 1,457 cases on a single day. With this, the number of cumulative confirmed cases touched 30,950 mark in the district which is gradually emerging as a COVID-19 hotspot. Nellore tally up by 1,042 cases With 1,042 persons getting infected in the last 24 hours, the total number of positive cases in Nellore district increased to 41,435. Discharges Health authorities, who were struggling to cope with the burden of increasing number of patients, had a moment of relief as 2,094 patients were recovered in the two districts on a single day. With 1,190 patients recovering from the disease in the last 24 hours, the number of active cases stood at 6,232 in SPSR Nellore district. In Prakasam district, 904 patients recovered and discharged from hospital. The number of active cases remained high at 14,570 in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prakasam-district-sets-new-high-registers-1457-cases-in-a-day/article32556656.ece
09 September 2020||POLAVARAM (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Sanitation drive taken up in flood-hit villages in Agency||With the Godavari floodwaters completely receding from the villages in the Agency area, officials have taken up a sanitation drive to prevent the spread of water-borne diseases. Garbage piled up Sanitation workers are removing mud and garbage piled up in low-lying areas in Polavaram, Velerupadu and Kukunur mandals. Officials of the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), Revenue, Medical and Health, Panchayat Raj and Fire Services department were involved in the cleaning operation in the flood-ravaged villages. Many houses, government buildings including schools, Primary Health Centres (PHCs), Sachivalayam buildings and other offices, were inundated in floodwaters. Sanitation workers cleared the mud and sprinkled bleaching powder and dropped oil balls to keep mosquitoes at bay. 180 huts damaged K.R. Puram ITDA Project Officer (PO) R.V. Suryanarayana said that 180 huts were completely damaged due to floods in Kukunur mandal. In Valerupadu mandal, 907 huts were damaged and 62 kacha houses partially damaged in the floods. Over 500 houses were completely damaged in the floods, the PO said. Many roads, electric poles and transformers have also been damaged. Transco officials replaced the transformers and restored power supply to all the villages, said Mr. Suryanarayana. Medical and Health teams were moving around villages and are supplying medicines to the villagers in the flood-hit villages to prevent fevers and other communicable diseases, the Project Officer, who is also Polavaram Sub-Collector, said. “More than 10,000 families were affected due to floods and each family would be provided financial aid of Rs. 2,000. A report has been sent to the government on flood damage and relief to be disbursed,” Mr. Suryanarayana said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sanitation-drive-taken-up-in-flood-hit-villages-in-agency/article32556663.ece
09 September 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NHAI team inspects sites for 7 flyovers in E.G., W.G.||A three-member team from the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI-New Delhi) on Tuesday inspected the seven sites proposed for construction of flyovers across the national highway-16 between Undrajavaram in West Godavari district and Diwan Cheruvu in Rajamahendravaram city in East Godavari district. The high-level team, constituted by the Centre, was led by Regional Officer (South India-NHAI) R.K. Singh and others included Project Manager Shankar Singh, R.V. Associates Consultancy Head N.V. Subba Rao and Rajamahendravaram MP M. Bharat. The Collector underscored the need of construction of the flyovers to prevent road mishaps and manage the existing vehicular movements. The team began the field inspection of the project sites from Undraja Nagaram. They said that the flyover connects to the two bridges across the Vynateya and Vasista, branches of river Godavari down the Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage. The Jonnada flyover is the shortest route to reach Kakinada city from the Rajamahendravaram city.  The team also inspected the ongoing works of Jeelugumilli road on the outskirts of the Rajamahendravaram city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nhai-team-inspects-sites-for-7-flyovers-in-eg-wg/article32556653.ece
09 September 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police crack the whip on land-grabbers, arrest 11||The Tirupati Urban police swung into action and arrested eleven persons for trespassing into a timber and saw mill and attacking its owner, in a bid to encroach upon the land. According to the case, Ramu and Sivaprasad, owners of the property on Renigunta Road since 1975, were taken aback when a group of 15 persons led by Yandapalli Ramesh Reddy allegedly barged into their compound and threatened them with dire consequences if they did not vacate the premises. Mr. Ramesh Reddy insisted that he had entered into an agreement with T. Guravaiah, T. Timmarusu and T. Brahmanandam, who had a running feud and court case over the property with Ramu and Sivaprasad. After the victims lodged a complaint with the Alipiri police, a team led by Deputy Superintendent of Police (East division) T. Muralikrishna arrested the 11 persons near the RTO Office on Karakambadi Road on Monday. Superintendent of Police Avula Ramesh Reddy, who produced the accused before the media here on Tuesday, warned that any violation of law and order in the city would be dealt with in a tough manner and assured the denizens that the police would stand guard to their properties. The incident caused tremors in the city, with similar incidents reported across Tirupati Urban and Rural mandals in a week’s time, linking several names associated with the ruling party. “Though the accused mentioned the name of notorious smuggler K. Gangi Reddy during the trespass, there is no mention whatsoever in the complaint or the FIR,” Mr. Ramesh Reddy maintained, adding that the department would not show any mercy on political bigwigs. The arrested included Y. Ramesh Reddy, Syed Seeni Mahammad, Shaik Imran, Borra Gnanaprakash, Ariketi Venkata Nagaprasanna, Samadhula Subramanyam, Kannika Sankar, Subrahmanyam Bharani, Pasupuleti Mahesh, Manyam Manohar and Rangamareddy Iragamreddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-crack-the-whip-on-land-grabbers-arrest-11/article32556659.ece
09 September 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SPMVV back to regular working mode||Sri Padmavathi Mahila Viswa Vidyalayam (SPMVV) has announced resumption of regular mode of working from September 9. As the teachers, non-teaching staff and research scholars shed the virtual setup and reach the campus, the students will attend classes through the virtual mode. However, online teaching for the third/odd semester will go on as usual. The final semester-end examinations for 1,276 students will be held from September 21 to 26 through its distance education centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spmvv-back-to-regular-working-mode/article32556660.ece
09 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 10,000 new cases reported again||The State has yet again reported over 10,000 new cases a day after witnessing a dip in new infections. With 10,601 new infections in the past 24 hours as of Tuesday morning, the tally has gone up to 5,17,094 and the death toll mounted to 4,560 with 73 new deaths, according to the Health Department’s bulletin. For the fifth consecutive day, over 10,000 patients recovered in the State and the overall recovery rate has gone up to 80.40%, crossing 80% for the first time. In the past day, 11,691 patients recovered and so far 4,15,765 infected persons have recovered, leaving 96,769 active people under treatment. Mortality rate The death rate remains below 1% at 0.88% and the number deaths reported daily of late came down. Not more than 76 deaths were reported in the past seven days. As many as 70,993 samples were tested in the past day, and so far 42.37 lakh samples were tested. The positivity rate of the tests conducted so far was at 12.20% and the tests per million ratio went up to 79,345. The confirmed cases per million is at 9,683.  Prakasam reported the highest single-day tally and five districts reported more than a thousand cases, while Guntur reported the highest number of new deaths. The district wise new cases and deaths are as follows: Prakasam (1,457 cases and 7 deaths), East Godavari (1,426 and 5), Chittoor (1,178 and 8), West Godavari (1,122 and 5), Nellore (1,042 and 6), Kadapa (801 and 7), Guntur (702 and 10), Vizianagaram (598 and 1), Kurnool (514 and 2), Srikakulam (505 and 3), Anantapur (441 and 8), Visakhpatnam (426 and 6) and Krishna (389 and 5). Meanwhile, East Godavari's infection tally has inched close to the 70,000-mark and that of Kurnool is close to the 50,000- mark. Prakasam's tally crossed the 30,000-mark. The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (69,686), Kurnool (49,216), Anantapur (46,325), West Godavari (44,975), Chittoor(44,614), Visakhapatnam (41,618), Guntur (41,602), Nellore (39,269), Kadapa (32,729), Prakasam (30,950), Srikakulam (29,048), Vizianagaram (25,103), Krishna (19,064). Recovery rate The recovery rate in West Godavari has further increased to 94% and there are 6% active cases. In Kurnool recovery rate is at 90% and in Anantapur, Visakhapatnam, Krishna, Nellore and Guntur it is between 90% and 80%. The recovery rate in Prakasam was lowest at 52%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-10000-new-cases-reported-again/article32557100.ece
09 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. to promote high-value spices, fruits as intercrops||In an attempt to ensure sustainable profit for farmers and meet the market demand, the State government is promoting cultivation of high-value spices and a variety of fruits as intercrops with coconut. Nutmeg, pepper and cinnamon, ginger and turmeric have been successfully introduced as intercrops in the State. According to officials, Vijayasarathi, a farmer in Pedavegi mandal of West Godavari district has cultivated areca nut, cocoa and pepper as intercrops with coconut in around 40 acres. After the experiment bearing fruit, the Horticulture Department has chalked out plans to promote spices and fruits as intercrops across the State. The department has identified the potential areas in East and west Godavari districts for promotion spices, and turmeric, dragon fruit, pineapple, jamun and fig in other districts this financial year. In total, spices and new crops will be cultivated as intercrops in 513.85 hectare across the State. The government will spend Rs. 115.47 lakh under the Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture (MIDH). Sources in the department say that many farmers are evincing interest in cultivation of spices in coconut gardens to improve income with a reduced dependence on the coconut produce. The volatile market prices of coconut is prompting many farmers to adopt intercropping as a measure to augment income. Horticulture Commissioner Chiranjiv Choudhary says that the department is promoting new crops and spices as the State is blessed with different climatic conditions which is suitable for a wide range of horticulture crops. “There is a good demand for spices and farmers in West Godavari district are keen on cultivating new crops such as dragon fruit, nutmeg, cinnamon, and black pepper. Strawberry and fig are being promoted in Chittoor and Kurnool respectively. Similarly, dragon fruit is being promoted in Srikakulam, West Godavari,Guntur, Prakasam, Nellore, Kadapa, Chittoor and Anantapur districts,” says Mr. Choudhary. Planting material Giving details about the scope of cultivating high-value spices, he says nutmeg is known as a ‘twin spice’ as it is valued for its flavouring and medicinal properties. Nutmeg is a beneficiary intercrop which can be cultivated in coconut gardens, utilising the space between the trees. Nutmeg can ensure a sustainable source of income to farmers who can expect a profit of Rs. 80,000 to Rs. 1,00,000 per acre per annum, explains Mr. Choudhary. “The Horticulture Department is procuring quality planing material of pepper and nutmeg from the Indian Institute of Spices Research (IISR) at Kozhikode in Kerala for development of mother blocks at the Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) at Venkataramannagudem and Vijayarai. These KVKs will supply planting material to farmers,” he says. The farmers will be trained in method of planting in intercropping, spacing, input applications, adoption of micro-irrigation, post-harvest protocols and marketing opportunities, he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-to-promote-high-value-spices-fruits-as-intercrops/article32557116.ece
09 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 1.47 cr., 34,000 USD seized from ‘hawala operators’||Sleuths of the Commissioner’s Task Force (CTF) busted a hawala racket, allegedly being operated from Narsapuram in West Godavari district to Hyderabad. The CTF arrested four persons and seized Rs. 1.47 crore in cash, and 34,000 USD, and a car from the accused. The arrested persons were identified as Chamakuri Ananda Rao and his brother Ch. Hari Babu. Police are also interrogating two persons named Valluri Shivanath and Praveen Kumar Jain, natives of Narsapuram, over their alleged involvement in the case. Disclosing this to reporters here on Tuesday, Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu said that the CTF team led by Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (ADCP) K.V. Srinivas Rao intercepted a car at Gollapudi, under Bhavanipuram police station limits. Assistant Commissioners of Police (ACPs) V.S.N. Varma and T. Kanaka Raju checked the vehicle and found the cash and the American dollars concealed in a box. The suspects were unable to show any bills for the seized cash and the dollars, Mr. Srinivasulu said. During investigation, it was revealed that Ananda Rao and Hari Babu were working at Devi Jewellers Mart, Narsapuram, owned by Praveen Kumar Jain, who is suspected to have arranged the cash and dollars. Praveen Kumar allegedly asked the siblings to hand over the cash to his brother Keerthi Jain, who is running a jewellery business in Hyderabad. “We alerted the Enforcement Directorate and Income Tax personnel regarding the hawala racket,” Mr. Srinivasulu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-147-cr-34000-usd-seized-from-hawala-operators/article32557097.ece
09 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu blames govt. for rise in COVID-19 cases in State||TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu has squarely blamed the State government for the rise in the coronavirus cases in Andhra Pradesh as it accounted for seven of the country’s 15 worst-hit districts. The government’s ‘indifferent attitude and negligence’ has led to a total loss of control as A.P. now recorded one lakh cases in just 10 days, he said. Interacting with party people’s representatives and senior leaders via a video-conference on Tuesday, he said that over 13% of the country’s current infections were being reported in A.P. It indicated the alarming rate at which coronavirus was spreading in the State. The complacency of the government had put the people’s health in serious risk. The patients discharged from quarantine centres were not being given Rs. 2,000 promised by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, he said, adding, “It is an unpardonable crime that the Chief Minister himself is not wearing any face mask even as a mark of sending a good message to the public. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the CMs of neighbouring States are wearing masks.” Mr. Naidu expressed concern over the wastage of 30% oxygen due to a lack of proper supervision at hospitals. There was abnormal delay in supply of oxygen cylinders at COVID hospitals. Reports in the media indicated how ventilators were not being fitted in the ICUs to give proper treatment to patients. The government was not fulfilling its promise to give Rs. 15,000 for conducting the last rites to COVID-19 victims. Not a single rupee was paid towards the promised Rs. 50 lakh compensation to the kin of COVID frontline martyrs, he alleged. Heavy loss Referring to the State finances, the former Chief Minister said that Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy and his Cabinet colleagues were acting in an irresponsible manner. As per an estimate, A.P. would suffer a loss of Rs. 2.53 lakh crore in GSDP this year, while the combined loss for A.P. and Telangana would be Rs. 5 lakh crore. Just for an increase of 0.25% in borrowing limit under the FRBM Act, the government was taking anti-farmers policies. Apart from fixing meters for farm connections, the government was planning to do away with free power, which they won after 40 years of agitation. The TDP, along with other opposition parties and farmers’ associations, would oppose the move. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s rule was destroying the electricity system which the TDP had built strongly with the help of positive reforms, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-blames-govt-for-rise-in-covid-19-cases/article32556942.ece
09 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||All set for CETs from tomorrow||Minister for Education Adimulapu Suresh on Tuesday announced the exam dates for all Common Entrance Tests (CETs) and said they would be held as per the COVID-19 guidelines . The CETs are scheduled to be held from September 10, starting with AP Integrated Common Entrance Test (ICET), which will be held in four sessions on September 10 and 11. It would be followed by Engineering Common Entrance Test (ECET) on September 14 and Engineering Agriculture Medical Common Entrance Test ( EAMCET) from September 17 to 25. The Post Graduate Common Entrance Test (PGCET) will be held on September 26, Post Graduate Engineering Common Entrance Test (PGECET) from September 28 to 30. The Education Common Entrance Test (EdCET) and LawCET will be held on October 1 and the AP Physical Education CET (PECET) will be held from October 2 to 5. The Minister said the candidates could check information related to the exam dates, download admit cards and know about the instructions from the AP State Council of Higher Education websitewww.sche.ap.gov.in. Mr. Suresh said 2,72,720 candidates had registered for EAMCET, 64,884 candidates for AP ICET, and 37,167 had applied for AP ECET. The number of examination slots had been increased to accommodate fewer students in each slot, he explained. COVID-19 protocol All exam centres would be sanitised after completion of each session, and each centre would have stocks of sanitisers, gloves, masks and thermal scanners to ensure a safe environment. The Minister assured the parents that all safety precautions would be in place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-set-for-cets-from-tomorrow/article32556900.ece
09 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||ACB begins investigation into extortion by impostor gang||Sleuths of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) conducted raids on offices where some officers allegedly gave money to a fake ACB gang, in the State a few days ago. ACB officials are investigating the reasons for the officers falling in the trap of the imposters, said ACB Joint Directors Reddy Gangadhar Rao and P.V. Ravi Kumar. Mr. Gangadhar (Rayalaseema Zone) said the Anantapur and Kurnool police have arrested the gang members. The accused were identified as N. Jaya Krishna, T. Golla Gangaiah, D. Solomon Raju, B. Sai Kumar, Narayana Swamy, K. Narayanappa Govindaraju, Ramashankarappa Hemanth Kumar, and Uday Kumar. Police arrested Jayakrishna, who posed himself as ACB CI and Gangaiah, who introduced himself as ACB DSP and four others. They collected Rs. 37 lakh from officers in the last few months, the Joint Director said. Roads and Buildings (R&B) Deputy Executive Engineer John Viklif of Amudalavalasa paid some amount and Panchayat Raj Engineer (Srikakulam) G.R. Gupta paid Rs. 50,000. Others who paid money were Joint Chief Inspector of Factories J. Sivashankar Reddy, Visakhapatnam, (Rs. 5 lakh), Dwaraka Tirumala temple EO R. Prabhakar Rao (Rs. 1.97 lakh), RWS Executive Engineer, Gudivada, Venkateswara Rao (Rs. 3.50 lakh), Motor Vehicle Inspector, Markapuram, K. Ramachandra Rao (Rs. 4.94 lakh). Similarly, Atmakur RDO P. Umadevi paid Rs. 55,000, Industrial Chief Inspector, Nellore, (Rs. 2 lakh), Gudur MVI T. Raghava Rao (Rs. 2 lakh), R&B Executive Engineer (Chittoor) G. Chandrashekar (Rs. 1.50 lakh), Palamaner Municipal Commissioner Vijayasimha Reddy transferred some amount and Kadapa Irrigation Circle Superintending Engineer Ch. Krishna Murthy paid Rs. 1 lakh to the fake ACB gang. Lapses found “We verified the track record of the officers. During surprise checks, ACB officials noticed that the officers resorted to some irregularities. A report will be sent to the government on the observations,” Mr. Ravi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/acb-begins-investigation-into-extortion-by-impostor-gang/article32557122.ece
09 September 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hospital fire victims demand justice||Family members of the patients who died in a fire at a COVID Care Centre operated in Hotel Swarna Palace by Ramesh Hospitals here on August 9, demanded action against the owners of the hospital and the hotel for their negligence. The relatives also demanded to know why no action has been taken against those responsible, even 30 days after the incident. Speaking to The Hindu on Tuesday, the kin of some victims said: “We paid a huge amount but lost our family members. Many persons suffered injuries in the tragedy. But no action has been taken so far against the accused, raising doubts,” they said. Ten patients were killed and 21 persons suffered injuries in the fire mishap. The victims’ family members demanded that the government release a White Paper on the action taken against the accused and the officials responsible for the fire mishap. “The incident clearly indicates that there is corruption in the system. As the accused have political clout and money, they are using the system to their benefit and are evading arrests. Why did the district administration give permission to Ramesh Cardiac and Multispeciality Hospital to run a COVID Care Centre when there were no facilities and security at Hotel Swarna Palace?” asked a relative of a deceased person from Krishna district. “If neither the hotel and hospital managements nor the officials are responsible for the fire mishap, then who is?” questioned another family member preferring to remain unnamed. The victims’ family members blamed officials for letting those responsible go scot-free, and demanded their arrests immediately. “The Revenue, Medical and Health, A.P. State Disaster Response and Fire Services, Vijayawada Municipal Corporation and other officials observed violations and negligence at the private COVID care centre. Then why is there still no action against the violators, even after a month of the incident?” they questioned. Lacunae exposed “The government booked criminal cases against doctors, sealed their hospitals and arrested them in similar incidents that occurred in other districts but not in this case. The incident shows the poor security, lack of facilities and violation of norms in hospitals and hotels in the State,” the victims said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hospital-fire-victims-demand-justice/article32557095.ece
09 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Teachers seek COVID care on health cards||Leaders of the United Teachers’ Federation (UTF) have urged authorities to ensure that the government employees and teachers who were infected by COVID-19 are given treatment at network hospitals on their existing health cards. In a statement on Tuesday, UTF State president Shaik Sabjee and general secretary P. Babu Reddy said that the Dr. YSR Aarogyasri Health Care Trust CEO had issued orders last month asking all network hospitals to extend COVID-19 treatment to government employees on health cards. The Medical and Health Department officials, and even Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, had announced the same but the hospitals did not implement it, they complained. They said when teachers affected by the virus went to these hospitals for treatment with their Employees Health Scheme (EHS) cards, they were turned back citing lack of beds but those who had paid huge amounts were admitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/teachers-seek-covid-care-on-health-cards/article32557094.ece
09 September 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC reserves orders in security equipment case||A single-judge bench of the High Court comprising Justice M. Satyanarayana Murthy on Tuesday reserved the orders after hearing the arguments on the plea filed by IPS officer A.B. Venkateswara Rao seeking protection from arrest. Mr. Rao is facing charges of misconduct in the procurement of security equipment from an Israeli firm and other departmental affairs when he was posted as the Additional Director General of Police (Intelligence). Financial loss Appearing for the government, Advocate General S. Sriram said Mr. Rao’s contention that there was no financial loss to the State, and therefore no case could be registered is incorrect. He observed that the Indian Penal Code and Prevention of Corruption Act do not mandate that cases can be registered only if a financial loss is caused. Mr. Rao allegedly supported the purchase of equipment against the opinion of his senior colleagues and pursued the project even after the election code was imposed, by apparently hiding his son’s interest in the deal. Even in the litigation against his suspension, Mr. Rao did not implead anyone of the officers against whom he made allegations, the AG pointed out.  Mr. Rao’s counsel B. Adinarayana Rao maintained that the petitioner had the fundamental right to dignity and privacy under Article 21 of the Constitution. He alleged that some junior IPS officers were creating prejudices with selfish motives to please the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-reserves-orders-in-security-equipment-case/article32557101.ece
09 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Safety driving education centre opened in Vizag||Transport Minister Perni Venkataramaiah on Tuesday instructed the department officials not to issue licence to an applicant without ensuring that the person has sound knowledge of road safety norms. Speaking after online inuguration of the second Safety Driving Education Centre at Visakhapatnam from the Transport office in Vijayawada, the Minister reiterated that it was imperative to learn all about road safety even before acquiring the learner's licence. Informing that the Safety Driving Education Centre was set up in collaboration with Hero Honda, the Minister said the local Transport officials in Visakhapatnam should make the best of the new facility in educating the public about road safety. Principal Secretary, Transport Department, M.T. Krishna Babu, said training in driving and knowledge of road safety rules would be made mandatory for people seeking a learner’s licence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/safety-driving-education-centre-opened-in-vizag/article32557118.ece
09 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||398 restricted zones in Krishna dist.||Collector A.Md. Imtiaz said there are 398 COVID containment zones in Krishna district as of Tuesday with 2,640 active cases. As per the State bulletin, the district was the least affected so far with 19,064 infections. On Tuesday, 389 new positive cases were reported and five people died. The death toll in district is at 389 and the death rate is 1.67%, the highest among districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/398-restricted-zones-in-krishna-dist/article32557093.ece
09 September 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. seeks CBI probe into ‘lapses’ during TDP regime||Advocate General S. Sriram on Tuesday informed the High Court during a hearing on the petitions filed by TDP leaders Alapati Rajendra Prasad and Varla Ramaiah against the constitution of a Cabinet sub- committee and a Special Investigation Team (SIT) for reviewing previous government’s major policies and programmes, that the petitioners did not demonstrate how they were personally aggrieved by the government’s impugned orders. He said the government wrote to the High Court seeking allotment of a designated court for the functioning of the SIT and it is still awaited. Besides, the government has informed the Centre, seeking a CBI probe into the lapses allegedly committed during the TDP regime. Hence, taking in the Centre and Enforcement Department as parties in the present petition as implead petitioners is necessary, he pointed out. He said there was no Constitutional bar on the power to review policies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-seeks-cbi-probe-into-lapses-during-tdp-regime/article32557102.ece
09 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lecturer posts: exams on Sept. 15, 16||Candidates who have applied for the posts of lecturers in government degree colleges can download their hall tickets from the APPSC websitehttps://psc.ap.gov.infrom September 8. On September 15 (morning session), candidates would write general studies paper and mental ability. In the afternoon, English, commerce, history, physics, chemistry, botany and zoology exams will be held. On September 16, exams will be held for Telugu, economics, political science, statistics, microbiology, computer science, Hindi, Urdu, mathematics, biotechnology and geology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lecturer-posts-exams-on-sept-15-16/article32557117.ece
09 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three-member gang involved in 58 burglaries busted||The city police (Crime Wing) on Tuesday arrested a three-member gang who were allegedly involved in 58 burglaries in Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and West Godavari districts. The police have recovered valuables worth Rs. 29.95 lakh, including 108 tolas of gold ornaments, 153 tolas of silver ornaments and Rs. 1.69 lakh cash, from their possession. The arrested were identified as Bathula Prabhakar (24) alias Rahul Reddy, native of Chittor district, resident of Palakoderu, West Godavari; Pedapati Naveen (21), resident of New Gajuwaka, Visakhapatnam city, who works as a receiver; and Kuppa Taviti Raju (28), a resident of Makkuva mandal in Vizianagaram district. Addressing a press conference here, Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha said the accused were allegedly involved in 35 crimes in the city limits, 18 nder Visakhapatnam district police (Rural) limits, four from Vizianagaram and one from West Godavari limits. Mr. Sinha said that last month, police formed special teams to nab the burglars, after receiving a complaint from a man from Paradesipalem that unidentified persons made away with over 500 gm gold and Rs. 2 lakh cash, all worth Rs. 13 lakh, from his house when he was away. The police examined the CCTV footage and the available clues at the spot and nabbed the prime accused Prabhakar and recovered stolen property from his house at Gopalapatnam. Subsequently, based on his confession, Naveen and Taviti Raju were also arrested. The police said that the accused had stolen over property worth Rs. 34.21 lakh. With their arrest, the police had managed to recover property worth about Rs. 29.95 lakh. Inspector of Crimes, Harbour Sub Division, M. Avatharaam said that Prabhakar had allegedly committed thefts during his childhood and was sent to juvenile school. After growing up, he continued to commit offences in Amalapuram, Bhimavaram, Vijayawada, Hyderabad and a few other places. He was arrested in various cases and sent to jail. In 2017, he was released from sub-jail in Gannavaram. He committed several thefts in West Godavari and relocated to Visakhapatnam. Mr. Avatharaam said Prabhakar had joined various private jobs, where he met other two accused, who allegedly used to help him in receiving and pledging the stolen property.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-member-gang-involved-in-58-burglaries-busted/article32557131.ece
09 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six more deaths take toll closer to the 300-mark||Visakhapatnam district reported 426 new COVID-19 positive cases in the last 24 hours, as per the bulletin released on Tuesday, taking the cumulative tally to 42,330. The district also witnessed six more deaths taking the death toll to 299. As many as 536 persons, who were undergoing treatment at COVID-19 hospitals, COVID-19 care centres and at home quarantine, recovered, said the officials. With the new cases, the number of active cases in the district is 5,649 and discharged/recovered is 36,382. Meanwhile, the number of very active clusters rose to 116 on Tuesday from 61 on Monday. Very active clusters are those which reported a case in the last four days. According to COVID-19 Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar, among the 717 clusters, 116 are very active, 52 are active and 549 are dormant. Already 192 clusters were denotified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/six-more-deaths-take-toll-closer-to-the-300-mark/article32557134.ece
09 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘CM must allay apprehensions about Antarvedi temple fire’||BJP State president Somu Veerraju has said that it is time Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy allayed the apprehensions of people related to the gutting of the chariot at the Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Antarvedi in East Godavari district. “An inquiry by a sitting High Court Judge into the fire only can put all speculations to rest. Attacks and fires at the religious institutions of a particular faith are on the rise in the State. The BJP will not tolerate, if the government does not act tough on the perpetrators,” Mr. Veerraju told the media here on Tuesday. At a time when the government is saying that a lunatic is suspected to have set the temple chariot on fire, the people are discussing as to why the institutions belonging a particular religious faith are being targeted, he said. Dig at Naidu Taking a dig at N. Chandrababu Naidu, Mr. Veerraju said even as the TDP president is blaming the YSRCP government for the fire , the situation was no different during his government. “Mr. Naidu had ordered demolition of several temples during the Krishna Pushkarams. The TDP had proposed funds for construction of places of worships for one minority community in its poll manifesto. The YSRCP government is also adopting similar policies,” he alleged.  Alleging that the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam Trust Board has become a centre for political employment, Mr. Veerraju demanded that the TTD funds should be utilised for development of temples alone, not for other purposes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-must-allay-apprehensions-about-antarvedi-temple-fire/article32557104.ece
09 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI opposes fixing of smart meters to agri pumpsets||The Communist Party of India (CPI) has opposed the decision of the State government to fix smart meters to agricultural pumpsets at an estimated cost of Rs. 2,000 crore. The plan to fix meters for 18.26 lakh agricultural pumpsets in the State by April 1, 2021, was intended to deprive farmers of the free power scheme, the party said. The CPI will launch another agitation from Srikakulam district against the ‘anti-farmer’ measure, CPI State assistant secretary J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy told a media conference here on Tuesday. He alleged that the Centre was keen on privatisation of Discoms as part of its larger plan to hand them over to the corporate sector. It was exerting pressure on the States to do away with free power schemes. The Centre was also snatching the powers of the States, one after the other, starting with the GST. The ruling YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) and the Opposition TDP, instead of opposing the moves of the Central government, were trading charges against each other, ignoring the interests of the State, he alleged. Though the State government was saying that cash would be transferred to the accounts of the farmers, its implementation was doubtful. He said that a roundtable would be organised by the Left parties with farmers associations to create awareness among them. Mr. Murthy alleged that the appointment of Sanchaita Gajapathi Raju as chairperson of the Simhachalam Trust Board was done to grab lands belonging to the temple. He said that both the Chairperson and the Endowments Department owe an explanation to the people on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpi-opposes-fixing-of-smart-meters-to-agri-pumpsets/article32557123.ece
09 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Parks, museums under VMRDA to open tomorrow||Following the State government’s instructions, tourist spots like Kailasagiri, YSR City Central Park, Tenneti Park, VMRDA Health Arena and Telugu Museum will be opened for the public from September 10, said Secretary of Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) Ganesh Kumar. These parks and museums which come under the control of VMRDA will not have any change in visiting hours, he added. He organised a meet on the reopening of parks and museums with the officials here on Tuesday. Mr. Kumar asked the officials to encourage digital payments in the wake of the pandemic situation. He instructed the officials to make sure visitors wore face masks and maintained physical distancing without fail. He direted officials to appoint monitoring teams to inspect all COVID-19 measures at the spots. The parks and museums should be disinfected regularly, he said. It may be noted that already the tourist spots which are under the control of Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC) have opened for the public in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/parks-museums-under-vmrda-to-open-tomorrow/article32557128.ece
09 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jute mill to pay workers||Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao said that the management of the Chittivalasa Jute Mill has agreed to pay Rs. 25 crore compensation to the workers by December. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that the management would pay Rs. 11 crore in October, Rs. 7 crore in November and Rs. 7 crore in December. The union had also agreed to the arrangement, he said. “Following Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s instructions, about 6,500 workers will be benefited,” he said. District Collector V. Vinay Chand said that the district administration would monitor the payment of compensation to the workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jute-mill-to-pay-workers/article32557119.ece
09 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GITAM students get remote access to labs||To give practical experience to engineering students during the COVID-19 pandemic, GITAM Deemed-to-be-University has taken an innovative initiative by way of offering remote access to labs to students. GITAM Vice-Chancellor K. Sivaramakrishna said that the university will start with a few engineering labs such as Matlab, Labview, XiLink, CATIA, AutoCAD and Staad Pro using VPN (virtual private network) services. He said that the university staff and students will be able to access these engineering labs remotely from their homes using the VPN services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gitam-students-get-remote-access-to-labs/article32557135.ece
09 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||One-month online yoga classes for children||The Department of Yoga and Consciousness, Andhra University, is conducting a one-month online yoga classes for children — Yoga for Children — from September 14 to October 14. The timings for the classes are 4 p.m to 5 p.m. The eligible age category is 8 to 15 years. Honorary Director, Department of Yoga and Consciousness, O.S.R.U. Bhanu Kumar, said that during this pandemic situation, kids being stuck at home need some activities to increase their immunity. At the end of the course, candidates will receive an online certificate. Candidates can join the class by paying Rs. 700. For further details, interested can contact 9701342985||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-month-online-yoga-classes-for-children/article32557126.ece
09 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ED files case||The Enforcement Directorate on Tuesday filed a prosecution complaint before the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) Special Court, Visakhapatnam against Metta Appanna, former Executive Engineer of Visakhapatnam Urban Development Authority (VUDA), now called Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority, and others for awarding punishment and confiscating assets worth Rs. 58.54 lakh in a disproportionate assets case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ed-files-case/article32557120.ece
09 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mazdoor Union stages protests in Waltair division||Representatives of the East Coast Railway Mazdoor Union staged protests at various depots/units of Waltair division on Tuesday in response to the call given by the Bharatiya Railway Mazdoor Sangh. The call was given by BRMS seeking protection of the interests of Indian railways. Protests were organised at the Coaching Depot, Dispatch Yard (DYD), Ore Exchange Complex, Steam Loco Shed, Vadlapudi Wagon Workshop and the DRMs Office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mazdoor-union-stages-protests-in-waltair-division/article32557124.ece
09 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cash stolen from house||An unidentified miscreant allegedly broke into a house and made away with about Rs. 18,000 cash at Marripalem VUDA layout in Visakhapatnam in the early hours of Monday. He allegedly attempted to commit theft in a few more houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cash-stolen-from-house/article32557125.ece
09 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Admissions into Ekalavya schools||ITDA Project Officer S. Venkateswar said that the admissions for the AP Ekalavya Model Residential Schools (EMRS) are completely through lottery-based system. He picked up the names in lottery who applied for admissions into EMRS at G.K Veedhi, Munchingputtu, Dumbriguda and Chintapalle in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/admissions-into-ekalavya-schools/article32557129.ece
09 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two held, bikes recovered||The city police (Airport Crime) on Tuesday arrested two persons P. Siva (30) of Gandhi Nagar and A Venkata Ratnam (30), Durga Nagar Colony, who were allegedly involved in bike theft cases at Pendurthi, One Town and Airport Police Station limits. The police have recovered four bikes from them. The arrested have been sent to remand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-held-bikes-recovered/article32557132.ece
09 September 2020||September 09 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Avian visitor||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/avian-visitor/article32556665.ece
09 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||On second day, 26,000 travel by Metro||The second day of the Hyderabad Metro Rail (HMR) services saw a total of 26,000 passengers travelling on the two corridors of Red Line - L.B. Nagar to Miyapur, which was opened on Monday, and the Blue Line - Nagole to Raidurg which opened on Tuesday. On the first day there were 19,000 passengers when Corridor 1 was opened after more than five months with new set of COVID-19 safety regulations. HMR managing director N.V.S. Reddy informed late on Tuesday night that the number of passengers on the Red Line saw a slight decrease at 17,000 whereas the passengers count on the Blue Line was to an extent of 9,000 when the services were run from 7 a.m. to 12 noon and again from 4 p.m. to 9 p.m.  Trips doubled If the number of trips on the first day had been 120, the trips got doubled to 240 on Tuesday on both corridors with trains running at an average frequency of five minutes. Metro rail authorities had already announced that the frequency could be further increased based on the demand and if more passengers were seen to be arriving for making use of the facility, more services would be run. However, it did not become necessary for the second successive day and, as had been noticed, the limited number of passengers making use of the service followed the “new normal metro travel” of wearing face mask, getting themselves sanitised before entering the stations and also maintaining physical distance at all levels - on escalators, platforms and inside the coaches too where markings were done. Mr. Reddy stated that from Wednesday the remaining Corridor II or the Green Line too would be run from Jubilee Bus Station to MGBS, Imlibun. The major difference is that metro trains will be run continuously from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. across all the three routes without any break with the frequency of the trains on Green Line to be more than five minutes depending on the crowd. Gandhi Hospital and Musheerabad stations on this line would be out of bounds without halt; similarly Bharatnagar and Moosapet on Red Line and Yusufguda on Blue Line had no halts as these areas were in containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/on-second-day-26000-travel-by-metro/article32556919.ece
09 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Actor Jaya Prakash Reddy passes away||Actor Jaya Prakash Reddy, 73, passed away on Tuesday morning at his residence in Guntur following a cardiac arrest. News of the veteran actor’s demise was met with shock and grief by Telugu film personalities and movie lovers. While the actor. popularly known as JP, is widely recognised for his comic and character roles in blockbuster Telugu films in his 32-year film career, JP Reddy was also an ardent theatre actor who has been part of several Telugu plays. Weeks before the COVID-19 lockdown, he hosted a preview screening of the film Alexander , directed by Dhavala Satyam, in Hyderabad. The popular stage play penned by late writer Poosala was adapted for cinema and JP essayed the central character, a part that he performed on stage more than 60 times. In an interview to The Hindu after the film screening, JP Reddy had stated that he’s open to the option of screening the film digitally if not a theatrical release, since it isn’t a regular commercial film. Alexander was his dream project. In 2010 when he enacted ‘Alexander’ for the stage play in Kakinada and other cities, Reddy mentioned that character actor Nagabhushanam was his inspiration for his experiments in theatre. Born in Sirivella in Kurnool district in 1946, Reddy was an ardent theatre actor and served as sub inspector of police before he debuted in cinema with Brahma Putrudu (1988). He made a mark starring in blockbusters such as Preminchukundam Raa , Samarasimha Reddy, Narasimha Naidu and soon became popular for his villainous roles delivered with a comic touch. JP Reddy was last seen on the big screen in the Mahesh Babu starrer Sarileru Neekevvaru (2020) directed by Anil Ravipudi, in which he entertained the audiences with his trademark dialogue delivery in Rayalaseema accent. On Twitter, Mahesh Babu referred to JP Reddy as one of the finest actor-comedians in Telugu cinema, and added, “Will always cherish the experience of working with him. Heartfelt condolences to his family and loved ones.” Director Anil Ravipudi tweeted, “My travel with JP garu has always been special. He’s been a part of almost all my films. He treated me like one of his own and used to talk with lots of love. I will miss him dearly.” Actor Nagarjuna Akkineni remembered JP Reddy as a fine gentleman, while Venkatesh Daggubati recalled working with the actor and stated, “We were such a great combination on screen.” Several film personalities including NTR, Mohan Babu, Nani, Sudheer Babu, Ravi Teja, Ram Pothineni, Genelia and Riteish Deshmukh, Mehreen Pirzada, S S Thaman and others offered their condolences. In Khammam, the town-based artistes and art connoisseurs paid rich tributes to actor Jayaprakash Reddy. Speakers at a condolence meeting organised by the Annabathula Ravindranadh Kala Samskruthika Samstha (AARKSS) here on Tuesday afternoon recalled the veteran actor’s close association with the district’s artiste fraternity. They said Mr Jayaprakash Reddy staged plays titled Vaitharani and Kotha Sainyam as part of ‘Nela Nela Vennela’ monthly cultural event organised by the AARKSS on March 27 in 2016 and February 17 in 2019 respectively. He inspired several budding artistes of the district by participating in the cultural events as chief guest, they noted. . They said the theatre art and the Telugu film industry suffered a great loss in his death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/actor-jaya-prakash-reddy-passes-away/article32556949.ece
09 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID-19 deaths in Telangana cross 900||The number of COVID-19 fatalities in the State has exceeded the 900-mark with 11 more deaths being reported on Monday. The death toll currently stands at 906. On Monday, 2,392 more swab samples tested positive for coronavirus, taking the total to 1,45,163. It took 11 days (August 28 to September 7) for the deaths to increase from 799 to 906. On all the 11 days, the number of patients who died in a day ranged from nine to 11. On September 4, Telangana High Court observed that the tally of nine to 10 deaths a day due to COVID-19 given by the State government were ‘unbelievable’. According to the media bulletin issued by the Health department, the percentage of deaths due to COVID-19 is 46.13% and due to co-morbidities is 53.87%. However, these numbers remained unchanged for over a month. On September 7, a total of 60,923 samples were put to test and results of 1,606 samples were awaited. The new 2,392 cases include 304 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 191 from Rangareddy, 157 from Karimnagar, 132 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 116 from Khammam, 105 from Nalgonda, 102 from Nizamabad and 101 from Suryapet. Out of the total 1,45,163 cases, 31,670 are active cases while 1,12,587 were discharged, apart from the 906 deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-19-deaths-in-telangana-cross-900/article32556905.ece
09 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Disease leaves, stigma doesn’t||Stigma has come to be the alias of the novel coronavirus disease and several instances have emerged of how patients were thrown out of their homes along with family members, and how doctors treating COVID-19 patients were asked to vacate houses. Patients even committed suicide finding nowhere to go once afflicted by the disease. Stigma and isolation are not leaving the patients even after they have been cured of the dreadful infection. Each recovered COVID-19 patient has a sordid tale to narrate about how the disease stays in the psyche of the society even after leaving the body. Shunned by neighbours Wife and son of Shaik Vali from Champapet were infected along with his in-laws four months ago. They were isolated in Gandhi Hospital, and eventually, the father-in-law passed away. “We had to seek help from the police when our apartment society did not allow us to enter our own home, despite the fact that my younger son and I had tested negative. The stigma continues to this day,” Mr.Vali said, adding “My elder son carried my mobile phone to the hospital, so I borrowed my neighbour’s old phone to use my SIM. Till now, I am unable to return the phone, as they have refused to open the doors for me. I tried to call, but they blocked my number.” Each time Mr.Vali or his wife step out of home, the neighbours slam their doors shut, and upon any chance encounter at entry or exit points of the apartment complex, the aloofness is very stark to observe. “The first reaction often is of shock. A recent tenant in the complex, oblivious to our status, was interacting on friendly terms, only till I revealed to him that my family had survived COVID-19. Later, he altogether stopped talking,” Mr.Vali says. Far-reaching effect Srinivas Rao, another patient whose entire family had tested positive, says their neighbours not only shunned them, but also spread the stigma far and wide. “We are unable to find a domestic help, more than two months after testing positive, as nobody is willing to enter our house. A woman who had worked earlier recently walked by cautiously covering her nose. Such is the stigma that people are afraid even to greet us,” he shared.  At times, finding work becomes a problem for the COVID-recovered, because the earlier workplaces would not take them back. “I was isolated for two weeks after testing positive, and returned to the workplace after being cured without much hassle. However, I was not allowed to continue there, and unceremoniously asked to leave despite several entreaties,” said Bahadur, who worked at a fast food joint in Musheerabad.  (Names changed to protect identity)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/disease-leaves-stigma-doesnt/article32556902.ece
09 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Partha Sarathi appointed SEC||The State government has appointed C. Partha Sarathi, a retired IAS officer, as the new State Election Commissioner (SEC). He will have a tenure of three years from the date of assumption of office. Mr. Partha Sarathi succeeds V. Nagi Reddy, the first SEC of Telangana who held the office from November 2014 to November 2019. The post has been lying vacant since the completion of the term of Mr. Nagi Reddy. Mr. Partha Sarathi retired as Director-General of Environment Protection Training and Research Institute (EPTRI) on April 30 this year after attaining the age of superannuation. The appointment of new SEC comes at a time when the scheduled time of elections to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), February 2021, is approaching fast. Besides, he would have handful of work following the GHMC elections too as the term of municipal corporations of Greater Warangal and Khammam and a few more municipalities would be getting completed. However, elections to all these urban local bodies would be completed over the next six months. Mr. Partha Sarathi told The Hindu that there would be some hectic activity in the State Election Commission over the next six months starting with the GHMC polls. A masters in Agriculture (M.Sc. Agronomy) from the then AP Agricultural University here, Mr. Partha Sarathi was selected to Group-I services in the State and began his administrative career as Revenue Divisional Officer at Vizianagaram in 1988 and later he was Executive Director of SC Corporation at Vizianagaram, ED SC Corporation at Nizamabad, DRO Adilabad and Project Director of DRDA at Adilabad till March 1999.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/partha-sarathi-appointed-sec/article32556930.ece
09 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Green challenge at RGIA||GMR Hyderabad International Airport in collaboration with the Airport Security Group of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) organised Telanganaku Haritha Haaram, #GreenIndiaChallenge function at Hyderabad Airport City near GMR Arena on Tuesday. Rajya Sabha MP J. Santosh Kumar planted a sapling with Airport CEO Pradeep Panicker, chief airport security officer M.K Singh, Airport security head Bharat Kamdar following suit. Approximately 600 saplings were planted by the airport CISF personnel during the event. Saplings were of native species like Neem/ Azadirachta indica; Pongamia/ Pongamia glabra; Bauhinia/ Bauhinia accuminata; Acacia/ Acacia auriculiformis; Pink Tabebuea/ Tabebuia rosea; Gulmohar/ Dalonix regia; Jacaranda/ Jacaranda mimosifolia among others. These plants will be maintained by the airport under its green initiative. The airport has a natural ecosystem that supports the life of various flora and fauna with the main access road offering 12 km long four-tier landscape on both sides. This comprises lawn, ground cover, shrubs and trees with three metres median dotted with shrubs, palm trees equipped with cloud-based fully automated irrigation system, said an official spokesman in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/green-challenge-at-rgia/article32556910.ece
09 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Issues concerning new OGH structure need examination’||The multi-storied building the government had proposed to construct to accommodate Osmania General Hospital would require wider space, Advocate General B.S. Prasad said on Tuesday. Presenting arguments in a batch of four PIL pleas on OGH, he said the government wanted to build a new and large structure with all facilities for the hospital. This would require a lot of space. It would not be possible to construct the new building in the open space available on OGH premises. He did not agree with the contentions of some petitioners that a new building should be erected in the open space without disturbing the old one. The AG said there was no point in building a new structure closer to the dilapidated old structure from where OGH is being operated presently. Counsel of one of the petitioners said the government should construct new complex for the hospital at the earliest as COVID-19 cases were going up by the day. The bench, however, remarked that the government could not raise a new building in 24 hours. “Rome was not built in a single day. Construction of new building for the hospital might take five years,” the bench said. The bench said it took 22 years to build Taj Mahal. The bench remarked that the twin towers being built to accommodate police command and control centre had been consuming time and it was still under construction. The bench directed the AG to serve copies of the coloured site plan of OGH (presented to the court) which can help identify open lands and buildings easily to all the petitioners. It would require further analysis to decide crucial points like whether to build a structure by demolishing the old one, or erect new building in the open space, the bench said. The bench told counsel of the petitioners to present their arguments after examining the site plans of OGH. The matters were posted for September 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/issues-concerning-new-ogh-structure-need-examination/article32556916.ece
09 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||OGH junior doctors boycott elective duty||Around 120 post graduate medical students or junior doctors at the Osmania General Hospital (OGH) boycotted elective services from Tuesday demanding that provisions for elective Operation Theatre (OT), Post-Operative ward, and other resources be made. They would be joined by at least 60 more PG students and 20 house surgeons on Wednesday. OGH is one of the major government tertiary care hospitals in the State. Majority of the patients who opt for treatment come from a poor financial background and cannot afford surgeries or treatment at private hospitals where charges have increased after the COVID-19 pandemic broke out. It has been more than 20 days that they have taken their demands to the notice of the hospital administration and senior officials in the State Health department. Though the administration made some attempts to meet their demands, the issue is far from resolved.  OGH has three blocks — the in-patient block, out-patient block and Quli Qutb Shah Block. At least four OTs were functioning in the IP block. Elective surgeries under the departments of Orthopaedics, General Surgery and Surgical Gastroenterology were performed in OTs. However, the problem began after ain water flooded the 102-year-old IP block on July 15. Orders were issued by the State government to vacate the building and it was finally sealed on July 27. Thereafter, junior doctors said, elective surgeries were kept on hold for more than a month. At a loss were hundreds of patients who needed elective surgeries under the three departments. When the junior doctors pursued the issue relentlessly, the hospital’s administration resumed the elective surgeries under Surgical Gastroenterology department. Though OGH superintendent B. Nagender issued orders to accommodate General Surgery elective OT in Cardio Thoracic OT, it was met with internal resistance. General Surgery post-graduates said the elective surgeries did not resume. However, Dr Nagender said the OTs are arranged and measures were taken to conduct surgeries in all departments. Support pours in President of Telangana Junior Doctors Association-Osmania Medical College unit, P. Rohith said that post-graduates from Orthopaedics department will also join the boycott from Wednesday after serving a ‘strike’ notice to officials concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ogh-junior-doctors-boycott-elective-duty/article32556908.ece
09 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fate of VROs hangs in balance||The fate of thousands of village revenue officers hangs in balance as the government has resolved to do away with the VRO system citing inconsistencies in the existing mechanism leading to piling up of disputes in land-related matters. There are close to 5,500 VROs engaged in the revenue-related works at the village level as against sanctioned strength of around 6,900. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has more than once expressed his unhappiness with the system and is reported to have explained about the negative feelings among the people about the existing set up to the VROs during a recent meeting with them. The State government has accordingly resolved to introduce a legislation to scrap the system in the Legislature in a day or two. This was as part of efforts to cleanse the system paving the way for a transparent and efficient revenue administration. “This is apparently the first step towards speeding up mutation process and reducing manual intervention through introduction of online services,” senior officials said. Though a well-intentioned move to ensure transparency in land dealings, there is, however, no clarity as yet on the manner in which the existing VROs would be accommodated. Sources said that the government has started ascertaining the requirement of junior assistant cadre staff in different departments so that the VROs belonging to the same cadre could be accommodated. But, members of the VROs associations claim that the exercise had to be taken up in a calibrated manner as the job charts of junior assistants in other departments is at complete variance with that of VROs. “There are officials for all departments at the village level. VROs act like a bridge between the village and mandal level officials in revenue related matters,” a senior representative of the Revenue Services Association said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fate-of-vros-hangs-in-balance/article32556932.ece
09 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||UKIBC, TS renew pact to bolster ties||The UK India Business Council (UKIBC) and Telangana government’s Industries and Commerce department have renewed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) that seeks to bolster business ties, accelerate improvements in the ease of doing business and expand collaboration in higher education. The MoU was signed at a virtual round table by Industries Secretary Jayesh Ranjan and UKIBC managing director Kevin McCole. On the occasion, Deputy High Commissioner in British Deputy High Commission, Hyderabad, Andrew Fleming said the MoU’s renewal was timely as it came in the backdrop of an announcement about resumption of inbound direct British Airways services from London in a week. Expressing confidence that the MoU would enhance trade and investment between Telangana and United Kingdom, he said international cooperation was the only cure for COVID-19. “In responding to the challenges of the current pandemic my government is committed to building back lives and businesses better. This vision is shared by our friends in Telangana...” he said. A statement on the MoU signing said the collaborative partnership between the United Kingdom India Business Council and the Telangana government was well-established and already led to two United Kingdom business delegations to the State and a further delegation of leading UK universities. ‘Dynamic leadership’ Mr.McCole said the memorandum of understanding would extend and deepen the existing strong partnership. “The State has dynamic and impactful political and bureaucratic leadership, which is one of the reasons why the UKIBC is so keen to engage and why so many UK businesses want to enter and expand their investment in the State,” he said. Mr. Ranjan said “we are pleased to renew this agreement with UK India Business Council. The existing MoU over the past year has seen multiple UK delegations, resulting in business and higher education partnerships. UK and India share great synergies in trade and investment which have only grown in recent years.” Telangana’s multiple investment-promotion schemes, along with its business-friendly regulatory environment and resolution of pandemic-related business activities, acted as a major attraction for the UK based entrepreneurs and corporates, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ukibc-ts-renew-pact-to-bolster-ties/article32556917.ece
09 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Bogus voters on rise with TRS help: Cong.||Bogus voters are on the rise with the active role of Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) leaders in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), Telangana Pradesh congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy alleged and asked the Congress cadre to expose such names in each division. Senior leaders of the party met at Gandhi Bhavan on Tuesday to discuss the issues related to GHMC elections and the steps to be taken to galvanise the cadre. It was attended by AICC secretary Bose Raju, TPCC working presidents A. Revanth Reddy, Ponnam Prabhakar and Kusum Kumar, former ministers Damodar Rajnarsimha, M. Shashidhar Reddy and V. Hanmanth Rao, City Congress chief Anjan Kumar Yadav, former MP Konda Vishweshwer Reddy, Dasoju Sravan nd Feroz Khan among others. ‘The danger’ Mr. Uttam Reddy said there was a danger of government changing the contours of the divisions to suit the ruling party and the efforts were already on. Congress leaders should keep track of this, he said asking the leaders to constitute committees in all the 150 divisions. He said there was lot of resentment against the Telangana Rashtra Samithi and Congress cadre should reach each and every household to expose the government. Malkajgiri Member of Parliament (MP) A. Revanth Reddy said the delimitation exercise was unscientific and it should be exposed. For example, in several divisions in the old city the number of voters were between 15,000 and 30,000 whereas it was between 60,000 and 80,000 in other places. He suggested that the legal team should be ready to counter any move to manipulate the divisions, voter list and delimitation changes. He also wanted youngsters to be identified in all the divisions and give them the responsibility to take up padayatras and nominate them as candidates. Leadership qualities and caste equations should be kept in mind while choosing these youngsters. He also wanted division-wise manifestos to be prepared.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bogus-voters-on-rise-with-trs-help-cong/article32556920.ece
09 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||A delayed start||It was a smooth, albeit somewhat delayed, start to Hyderabad Metro Rail’s operations on Blue Line exactly 170 days after they were suspended. The first few trains had a handful of passengers. The first train started at 7.06 a.m. at Raidurg towards Nagole with thermal screening and sanitising kiosks for passengers. The social distancing norms were in place with instructions to stand diagonally on the escalator and markings for both seating and standing in the coaches for passenger safety. The Metro authorities have dispensed with physical frisking which was the norm before the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. “We are sanitising the coaches and the stations with sodium hypochlorite solution every three hours though the SOPs talk about doing it every four hours of operations. Passenger confidence is very important now,” said Shravan, a staffer of HMRL at the Raidurg station. There is no change in the fares being charged. “We have to get used to this,” said Sunil, patting his bottle of hand-sanitiser. “It has been five months since I had work. People will have to learn to get on with their life while taking precautions and calculated risks,” said the commuter who travelled between Durgam Cheruvu station and Raidurg in the morning. However, there were only a limited number of passengers. A majority of the infotech companies in the Gachibowli area have work-from-home norms. The feeder service is limited to share autorickshaws as the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC)’s city bus operations have not resumed. The number of passengers stayed low through the day with Panjagutta seeing commuters in single digit. “About 60 passengers got in from this side and 30 exited till now,” said a staffer at the station at 5.14 p.m which used to be the peak time for Metro services on the route.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-delayed-start/article32556921.ece
09 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Bhatti: Cong. getting 6 minutes in House is murder of democracy||CLP leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka wondered on Tuesday why just six minutes was given to the Congress in the Assembly, and asked who would then raise people’s issues in the Assembly. “Allotting just six minutes to Congress is nothing but suppressing people’s voice and only reflects this government’s attitude towards the society as it doesn’t want any criticism against it or allow people’s problems to find voice in the Assembly,” Mr. Bhatti said. He was speaking to reporters at Martyr’s Memorial in front of the Assembly on Tuesday along with MLAs D. Sridhar Babu, D. Seethakka, T. Jagga Reddy, Komatireddy Rajagopal Reddy and MLC T. Jeevan Reddy. Mr. Bhatti said it was the responsibility of the Opposition parties to question the government and highlight people’s issues so that the government could respond. However, CM K. Chandrasekhar Rao was intentionally suppressing the voice of the Opposition, he said. He said Congress was the only Opposition as the MIM was a friendly party of the government and would not raise public issues. “If the party that gave a separate Telangana gets just six minutes it is nothing but murder of democracy,” he said. He reminded that 19 MLAs were elected on Congress ticket but KCR ensured some of them defected to the ruling party and now they claim the Congress doesn’t have enough numbers. “People elected 19 MLAs and you snatched away some of them with inducements,” he alleged. Mr. Jagga Reddy objected to the criticism by the CM on Congress saying that he had become the CM because Congress gave Telangana. “It was the Congress that made you a Union Minister and gave you a platform at the national level. You owe everything to Congress,” he asked. He also objected to restrictions on the media in the Assembly and said it was nothing but suppression of the media so that people’s issues were not highlighted. He also alleged that most of the channels are now owned by the ruling party or people close to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bhatti-cong-getting-6-minutes-in-house-is-murder-of-democracy/article32556934.ece
09 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||30 heavy vehicle driver training schools to come up||Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar on Tuesday said training activity at the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation will soon be decentralised and proposed setting up of 30 heavy motor vehicle driving training institutes (DTIs) in the State. Mr Kumar made the announcement on completion of a year as Tranport Minister and said that these 30 DTIs would be established in district headquarters. These institutes would equip trainees with high quality course content keeping in view the Motor Vehicle Act and its rules. These DTIs would also help to tackle the shortage of skilled drivers in the automobile sector, he said. The Transport Minister expressed satisfaction with the performance of the TSRTC’s cargo, courier and parcel service, and added that despite the COVID – 19 pandemic, there has been an increase in the passenger occupancy ratio. He expressed confidence that the transport juggernaut would bounce back soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/30-heavy-vehicle-driver-training-schools-to-come-up/article32556924.ece
09 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Body of woman found||The body of an unidentified woman was found in suspicious circumstances at an unused toilet near the Bansilalpet railway bridge on Tuesday, police said. Mahankali Division ACP A Vinod Kumar said, “It has not yet been established whether she was murdered or sexually assaulted. CCTV footage will also be examined,” he said. Police issued a press note with the description of the victim. She was between 35 and 40, of wheatish complexion, with a tattoo on the left wrist. Those with information leading to her identification would be rewarded and their identity kept confidential.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/body-of-woman-found/article32556925.ece
09 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Meet on steps to curb fuel pilferage held||Cyberabad Commissioner of Police V. C. Sajjanar on Tuesday held a coordination meeting with oil corporations and officers of the Legal Metrology Department to discuss the fuel pilferage scam at various petrol bunks. Mr. Sajjanar spoke about how the mother boards of fuel dispensing machines were tampered, which led to pilferage in large quantities. He requested oil corporations and equipment manufacturers to take measures to put an end to tampering. Legal Metrology officials explained that tampering is made possible with new software in chips accepting foreign bodies. They said that the mother board and ICs should be sealed by officials of the Legal Metrology Department. These should be accessed only by authorised technicians. They suggested that a one time password be generated or an alert be sent if foreign bodies are inserted, or the mother board is tampered with. Mr. Sajjanar made several suggestions which include Legal Metrology Department and equipment manufacturers jointly inspecting the 11 petrol bunks which have allegedly been found pilfering fuel. The Police Commissioner said manufacturers develop systems which would alert them if software was tampered with.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/meet-on-steps-to-curb-fuel-pilferage-held/article32556927.ece
09 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress blackmailing Speaker: TRS||The Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) has accused the Congress of blackmailing the Speaker to get additional time than allotted to them as per their numbers. The TRS members got 74 minutes on Tuesday while Congress was given 10 minutes though they should get just 5 minutes, Government Whip Balka Suman and MLAs Saidi Reddy, Harshvardhan Reddy, Anand and Dasari Manohar Reddy said at a press conference here on Tuesday. Mr. Suman condemned the Congress MLAs’ accusations against the government on suppressing Opposition’s voice and said it was nothing but insulting the Speaker. “They are trying to attract people’s attention with false accusations despite the Chief Minister announcing that the government was open for discussion on all issues,” he said. Mr. Saidi Reddy said TRS members should get more time given their numbers and they would request the Speaker for it. He said Congress was resorting to blackmail tactics and advised them to be constructive in their criticism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-blackmailing-speaker-trs/article32556935.ece
09 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Focus on districts, SATS chairman appeals to HCA||Sports Authority of Telangana State chairman A. Venkateshwar Reddy appealed to Hyderabad Cricket Association (HCA) president Mohd. Azharuddin to streamline the functioning of the association and focus more on districts. “It is time you put an end to the infighting in the HCA and focus on developing the sport across Telangana,” Mr. Reddy told Mr. Azharuddin on Tuesday. “The need of the hour is to have recognised affiliated units in all the 33 districts of Telangana to see that more number of players from the districts are groomed to play Ranji Trophy and higher grade of cricket,” Mr. Reddy said. “There is a lot of talent but they need to be groomed in the right manner ensuring fair selection to start with,” he stressed. Mr. Reddy also appealed to the HCA chief to put an end to irregularities in the HCA by taking necessary steps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/focus-on-districts-sats-chairman-appeals-to-hca/article32556912.ece
09 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP for expert committee on revenue reforms||Telangana BJP, on Tuesday, expressed its strong opposition to the scrapping of the existing revenue system unilaterally by the TRS government to “suit its political necessities”. “Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is acting like a dictator and not as a democratically elected head of a State government, without discussing with the stakeholders, opposition parties and others,” charged official spokesman K. Krishna Saagar Rao. “The sudden decisions to scrap the VRO system, to halt land registrations overnight and snatching land records were unruly and hasty decisions taken with a selfish political objective of recording his personal political legacy,” he claimed. The party demanded an expert committee to be set up for studying the intended systemic changes to the revenue system by including leaders of Opposition parties, and retired revenue officers, among others. However, the party welcomed the Assembly resolution seeking Bharat Ratna for former PM P.V. Narasimha Rao. BJP leader and P.V.’s grandson N.V. Subhash expressed hope that the Centre would consider the proposal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-for-expert-committee-on-revenue-reforms/article32556933.ece
09 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||P.V. had communal mindset: MIM||The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) General Secretary and Yakutpura legislator Syed Ahmed Pasha Quadri accused the former PM of having a communal mindset, even as he alleged that P.V. had given a free hand to communal forces. The charge comes soon after MIM decided to boycott the ongoing Assembly and Council sessions on Tuesday, as a mark of protest against the TRS government’s decision to pass a resolution seeking Bharat Ratna for the former PM. Mr. Quadri said that the party’s stand of boycotting the resolution was consistent with the stand presented before the Andhra Pradesh Assembly on February 15, 2005. The Majlis Bachao Tahreek (MBT) challenged the MIM to sever all connections with the TRS. MBT leader Amjed Ullah Khan accused MIM of “running with the hares and hunting with the hounds”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pv-had-communal-mindset-mim/article32556939.ece
09 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Release pending pensions: HC||Telangana High Court on Tuesday sought to know from the State government when would it release the pending pension amounts, payment of which was deferred due to lockdown. Hearing two PIL petitions and three writ petitions on the matter, the HC suggested to release the pensions amounts as lumpsum instead of instalment basis. Advocate General B.S. Prasad informed the HC that the government would take a decision on the ordinance that facilitated deferred payment of pensions during Assembly session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/release-pending-pensions-hc/article32556940.ece
09 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Plea to put obese persons in high-risk category||A government hospital doctor has written to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) requesting to include people with obesity in ‘high risk category’ under COVID-19 guidelines so that they are given priority during testing for early detection. If they test positive, treatment can be provided in early stages. The e-mail letter written by Kiran Madhala, head of anaesthesia and critical care medicine at Government Medical College, Nizamabad, was sent on Tuesday. Citing World Health Organisation (WHO)’s press briefing on September 4, Dr Madhala said WHO Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus stated the odds of developing severe COVID have been found to be nearly seven times higher in patients with obesity. Stating that ICMR’s recent testing guidelines are well framed in view of widespread transmission, the doctor has written, “Please include people with obesity (BMI more than 30-35) in high risk category to ensure early detection of COVID-19 and recovery of those patients”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/plea-to-put-obese-persons-in-high-risk-category/article32556906.ece
09 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ecstasy pills, MDMA, charas seized||Three persons who allegedly procured ecstasy pills and other drugs from Goa to sell them were caught by Telangana Prohibition and Excise department officials at BK Guda, Ameerpet, on Monday. The officials of theProhibition and Excise department seized 46 ecstasy pills, three grams of MDMA and 10 grams of charas. A software employee, who placed the order, allegedly consumed and sold ecstasy pills was arrested too. The department’s Enforcement Wing (Hyderabad) officials said that the accused were P Manoj Kumar (31) alias Bunty, private employee, B Rohit (34), software employee, G Naveen Raj (31), private employee, and Mohit Sharma. Five-day stay Bunty along with his friends went to Goa a few days ago, stayed there for five days and returned with the drugs to Hyderabad on Monday. Officials said that he used to peddle and sell cocaine, MDMA, and ecstasy pills to customers in the city. “This time, he went to Goa to bring the ecstasy pills for Rohit who used to consume the pills and sell the same to customers. Bunty along with Naveen, Mohit, and two more people stayed there for five days and returned to Hyderabad,” said N Anji Reddy, assistant Excise superintendent of the Enforcement wing (Hyderabad). Based on information, the Enforcement team caught Bunty, Naveen, and Rohit at Bunty’s home, and seized the drugs from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ecstasy-pills-mdma-charas-seized/article32556914.ece
09 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Registration on DOST portal||The last date for registrations on DOST portal has been extended to September 9 on the request of students and parents. However, the last date for web options on DOST Phase-I remains September 9, DOST convenor Limbadri said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/registration-on-dost-portal/article32556913.ece
09 September 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Weavers threaten nominations a la Nizamabad at Dubbak||Weaver leaders who have been protesting for the government’s attention to their dire situation during COVID-19, and prevented from reaching Hyderabad for the ‘Chalo Assembly’, have bigger plans in store. In Nalgonda, Padmashali leader Ele Chandrasekhar was taken to Chandur police station and later let off. Leaders across the State too, were either bound over or confined to their homes by the police. A close tab on several leaders, who have been active through relay and hunger strikes in the past few weeks, continues as Assembly Sessions are in progress. Their demands include purchase of their finished goods, setting up a corporation, a yarn depot, ‘Cheneta Bandhu’ investment support on the lines of Rythu Bandhu, among others. In Hyderabad, National Weavers United JAC leader Dasu Suresh, who gave the Chalo Assembly call said it was an “unfortunate situation for weavers in Telangana”. “In the last five months, during the COVID-19 period, 12 weavers had committed suicide and 73 others died due to health and financial reasons. Why can’t the government conduct studies like Gujarat, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, to assess the damage to handloom industry during this crisis?,” he asked. According to Padmashali Yuvajana Sangham president Avvari Bhaskar, a lot of weavers are frustrated and waiting to hear from the government. “But, if we are left in difficult situation, we won’t hesitate to register a mass protest like the farmers did in Nizamabad Lok Sabha election. We will file at least 600 nominations for Dubbak bypoll, and attract 40,000 weavers’ votes,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/weavers-threaten-nominations-a-la-nizamabad-at-dubbak/article32556944.ece
09 September 2020||SANGAREDDY:,TELANGANA||Collector visits fields, examines crops||Collector M. Hanumantha Rao visited fields at Tallapally in Sangareddy mandal and Hydlapur in Munipally mandal on Tuesday and examined the crops registration process. He suggested the farmers to take the advise from agriculture officials and grow the crops. The Collector directed the officials to address the power supply problem at Tallapally. He also attended the SHG meeting held at Tallapally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/collector-visits-fields-examines-crops/article32556946.ece
09 September 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||BRF||Gajwel police arrested two persons — S. Swamy and S. Chandrasekhar — and seized 60 packets of ganja from them. Another accused S. Chandrasekhar is absconding. According to Gajwel (Rural) Circle Inspector Koteswara Rao, the three got used to a lavish lifestyle and to earn more money, entered into ganja business. On a tip-off, police conducted a raid on Tuesday and arrested the two and sent them to judicial remand.    In a noble gesture, Nagesh, a constable with Kuknoorpally police station, went all the way to Hyderabad to donate his plasma to a corona victim. According to police, Nagesh recovered from COVID recently. On Tuesday, he came to know that a patient getting treated at Suraksha Hospitals needed plasma. He rushed to the hospital and donated his plasma. He was appreciated by Commissioner D. Joyal Davis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article32556938.ece
09 September 2020||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||Yadadri temple closed for devotees||Executive officer of Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy Devasthanam N Geeta on Tuesday informed that the temple will remain closed for all devotee darshans Wednesday onwards. The decision was taken in the wake of the increasing COVID-19 cases in the temple town, she said. However, the deity’s daily service and other rituals by priests would be conducted as usually. Tentatively, temple darshan for devotees would resume Saturday onwards, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/yadadri-temple-closed-for-devotees/article32556943.ece
09 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Services on Blue, Pink lines to resume today||The Delhi Metro is set to restart services on the Blue and Pink lines on Wednesday, after restarting services on the Yellow Line on September 7.  All three lines will function between 7 a.m. and 11 a.m. and between 4 p.m. and 8 p.m. The Blue Line (Dwarka Sector 21 to Electronic City/Vaishali) is 65.35 km long and has 58 stations. The Pink Line (Majlis Park to Shiv Vihar) is 57.58 km long and has 38 stations. Both lines will be resuming operations after 171 days. On Day 2 of the Yellow Line resuming services, ridership increased slightly with 17,600 passengers taking the metro till 8 p.m. On the first day, roughly 15,500 commuters had taken the metro. Over 1,200 smart cards were sold on Tuesday, compared to 1,115 on Monday. “We will be running 66 trains on the Blue Line, performing around 478 train trips on September 9 and 10. Similarly, 27 trains with approximately 228 trips from Majlis Park to Mayur Vihar Pocket-1 and 13 trains with over 291 trips from Trilokpuri-Sanjay Lake to Shiv Vihar sections of Pink line will be put into service on these two days,” the DMRC said. Interchange stations The Delhi Metro added that the reopening of the Blue and Pink lines will ensure availability of nine of the existing 28 interchange stations. The interchange stations that will open are Rajouri Garden (Blue Line & Pink Line), INA Delhi Haat (Yellow & Pink Line), Mayur Vihar Phase-I (Blue Line & Pink Line), Karkardooma (Blue Line & Pink Line), Rajiv Chowk (Blue Line & Yellow Line), Yamuna Bank (Blue Line 3 & 4), Anand Vihar ISBT (Blue Line & Pink Line), Azadpur (Pink Line & Yellow Line) and Sikanderpur (Yellow Line & Rapid Metro). The Red Line (Rithala to Shaheed Sthal New Bus Adda); Green Line (Kirti Nagar/Inderlok to Brig. Hosihar Singh); and Violet Line(Kashmere Gate to Raja Nahar Singh) will resume services on September 10. The Magenta Line, from Janakpuri West to Botanical Garden; and Grey Line, from Dwarka to Najafgarh, will open on September 11. The Airport Express Line from New Delhi to Dwarka Sector 21 will open on September 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/services-on-blue-pink-lines-to-resume-today/article32556844.ece
09 September 2020||New Delhi,||After hike, tax collection falls in August||The tax revenue collection of the Delhi government was lesser in August compared to July, after steadily increasing in May, June, and July. However, the sum is lesser than last year’s collection, according to the State government’s monthly tax collection figures. After hitting the lowest in April, it had increased by 181.5% in May, compared to April. It hiked by 25.18% in June and 30.9% in July, but fell by 3.2% in August. The revenue collection of the Delhi government for April to August is down by 53% (Rs. 9,751 crore) compared to the estimated collection, as per the annual budget 2020-21. The tax revenue collection is from five streams — VAT from petrol and diesel, GST, excise tax, stamps and registration tax, and motor vehicle tax (MVT). In April, the amount was Rs. 525.50 crore, and it increased to Rs. 1,479.66 crore in May, Rs. 1,852.37 crore in June and Rs. 2,424.79 crore in July. But it fell to Rs. 2,341.65 crore in August. Compared to July, the GST, excise tax, and MVT have decreased. Last week, Finance Minister Manish Sisodia had told The Hindu in an interview that the State government will continue with the schemes for free water, electricity and free bus ride for women, which costs hundreds of crores, despite the economy being in a “very bad” state. The government is considering to rope in a third party to study how to boost tax revenue collection, especially GST, said officials. But a decision is yet to be taken. Due to the fall in tax revenue, the government has reduced its expenditure to Rs. 11,376.44 crore during April-July, compared to Rs. 14,411.94 crore during the same period last year. It is a reduction of 21%. Why less? “Lesser tax collection could be because there was no demand in April and May and there was pent-up demand in June and July, which would have decreased in August. You did not buy in April, May and there would have been an uptick in July,” said Arun Kumar, economist and Malcolm S. Adiseshiah, Chair Professor at the Institute of Social Sciences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/after-hike-tax-collection-falls-in-august/article32556847.ece
09 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man held for raping 90-year-old in Najafgarh||A 90-year-old woman was allegedly raped and assaulted by a 37-year-old man in Najafgarh on Monday. The accused has been arrested, the police said on Tuesday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said the police received a call around 6 p.m. regarding the incident after which they reached the spot and arrested the accused, a plumber. “The victim’s medical examination was conducted and her statement was recorded before the magistrate. She is stable,” Mr. Meena said.  Delhi Commission for Women chief Swati Maliwal met the victim on Tuesday. The victim was waiting for her milkman at 5 p.m. when the accused came and told her that her milkman was not coming today and that he will take her to the place where she could get milk. “He took the woman to a farm and raped her. The woman kept pleading that she was his grandmother’s age. Local villagers rushed to help her after hearing the cries. They caught the perpetrator and called the police,” the commission stated. The victim’s son was also informed. “From a six-month-old girl to a 90-year-old woman, no one is safe in Delhi. The kind of trauma this woman had to face clearly indicates that the perpetrators of these crimes are not humans. This case needs to be fast-tracked and justice should be served within six months,” said the DCW chairperson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-held-for-raping-90-year-old-in-najafgarh/article32556845.ece
09 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘JNU refusing to give funds for students’ union polls’||The Jawaharlal Nehru University Students’ Union on Tuesday alleged that the administration was trying to undermine the democratic rights of students by trying to withhold the funds for the students’ union elections. “The JNU administration has failed to clear the expenses of the JNUSU elections 2019 and the JNUSU condemns this attitude of not releasing funds for the payment of vendors who supply all election-related equipment and services,” the union said. ‘Not recognising’ It said that the administration has been actively making efforts to not recognise the JNUSU since 2018, because it cannot cope with the union’s resistance to its anti-student agendas. “In July 2018, the administration made the payment of the student union fee of Rs. 15 annually optional. In 2019-20, the administration has summarily removed the charge from the prospectus in an arbitrary and illegal manner,” the JNUSU said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jnu-refusing-to-give-funds-for-students-union-polls/article32556842.ece
09 September 2020||Chandigarh,||HC dismisses two pleas of former Punjab DGP||The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday dismissed former Punjab Director General of Police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini’s two petitions – one relating to anticipatory bail and the other seeking the quashing of the FIR plus issuing directions to declare the subsequent investigation against him by the Punjab police in connection with the case of disappearance and murder of a man in 1991 as non est. Verdict reserved Justice Fathedeep Singh on Monday reserved the verdict in both matters. “The anticipatory bail petition and the other petition filed by him [Sumedh Singh Saini] for declaring the probe non est and in violation of a Supreme Court judgment had been dismissed by the Court,” Special Public Prosecutor advocate Sartej Singh Narula, who appeared for the Punjab Police’s Special Investigation Team (SIT), which is probing the case, told The Hindu . Absconding Mr. Saini, who faces arrest in the wake of no interim protection orders in the case, had absconded, leaving his security detail behind, according to the police. The police recently raided his house in Chandigarh, besides other locations, but could not find him. On September 1, his anticipatory bail application was dismissed by Additional District and Sessions Judge, Mohali, and it was against this order that Mr. Saini approached the High Court. In May, on the basis of a fresh application by the victim’s (Balwant Singh Multani) brother, Palwinder Singh Multani, the former DGP and six other accused were booked under Sections 364 (kidnapping or abduction in order to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence), 344 (wrongful confinement), 330 (voluntarily causing hurt to exhort confession) and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC. Co-accused Later, the murder charge under Section 302 was added to the FIR, after two former Chandigarh police personnel — former UT police Inspector Jagir Singh and former ASI Kuldeep Singh, who are also co-accused, turned approver in the disappearance case. In their statement, they claimed to be eyewitnesses to the torture meted out to Balwant, when he was working as a junior engineer with the Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation (CITCO), under the custody of Mr. Saini, who was then Senior Superintendent of Police of Chandigarh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-dismisses-two-pleas-of-former-punjab-dgp/article32556870.ece
09 September 2020||Ghaziabad,||4 detained for beating Dalit man to death in Mainpuri||The police in Mainpuri in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday detained four persons in connection with the death of a Dalit man. He was beaten up by locals for allegedly trying to sell his 16-year-old daughter. The police, however, said it was not a case of lynching. The incident happened on Sunday evening. On Monday, a video, purportedly of it, went viral and the man died in the district hospital. According to Mainpuri Additional SP Madhuvan Kumar, Sarvesh Diwakarwas beaten up by his “drinking partners” when he told them that he had sent his daughter to Noida to live with a relative for a while. “They mistook it as he has sold his daughter and thrashed him with lathis and rained kicks and punches on him. Sarvesh ran to the rooftop of one of these locals, where he was beaten again. But here somebody shot a video of the incident.” Mr. Kumar said Sarvesh was taken to a hospital where doctors diagnosed him with internal injuries and he died on Monday. “On the basis of the video, we have identified five persons and have detained four of them. They are in their 20s, hail from different castes, and knew the deceased. During questioning, they admitted to their crime.” Mr. Kumar said the girl returned on Monday evening and corroborated that she was sent to live with an acquaintance. The Samajwadi Party has described the incident as “a case of lynching by goons of the Bajrang Dal”. In a tweet, it promised Rs. 1 lakh to the family of the deceased and demanded Rs. 10 lakh compensation from the government. Mr. Kumar said they did not find any link of the accused with the right-wing group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/4-detained-for-beating-dalit-man-to-death-in-mainpuri/article32556868.ece
09 September 2020||JAIPUR,||Blood donation camp held to mark Pilot’s birthday||Congress workers organised blood donation camps at 400 locations across the State on Monday to mark the birthday of former Deputy CM Sachin Pilot, who turned 43. A record donation of 45,000 units of blood was achieved. Mr. Pilot had appealed to his supporters not to come to Jaipur and gather in large numbers during the COVID-19 pandemic. “I asked the party workers and supporters to donate blood instead as a service to humanity. The response was overwhelming. The camps were held in all the 200 Assembly constituencies,” he said. Mr. Pilot interacted with party workers through social media platforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/blood-donation-camp-held-to-mark-pilots-birthday/article32556867.ece
09 September 2020||LUCKNOW,||Prayagraj police chief suspended||The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday suspended the Prayagraj district police chief on charges of alleged corruption and laxity in law and order. Senior Superintendent of Police Abhishek Dixit, a 2006-batch IPS officer, was suspended after serious allegations were levelled against him, a U.P. Home department spokesperson said without specifying any incident. Mr. Dixit was accused of “irregularities” during his tenure and for non-compliance of government directions. He was also accused of encouraging corruption in postings, said the spokesperson. The government statement also mentions that Mr. Dixit didn’t take necessary action in checking looting incidents by bikers, foot patrolling or providing security to banks and other establishments.  In March, Mr. Dixit had courted controversy as he, then the police chief of Pilibhit, along with the District Magistrate had led a street foot march blowing conch shells and banging steel plates in response to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call to express gratitude to those providing essential services during the COVID-19 outbreak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/prayagraj-police-chief-suspended/article32556871.ece
09 September 2020||Mumbai,||Opening places of worship with guidelines not practical: State||The Maharashtra government has told the Bombay High Court that opening of religious places, even with guidelines, is not a “practical” solution and it has decided against it till the COVID-19 situation improves. The State government on Tuesday was responding to a public interest litigation filed by a local NGO seeking direction that temples in the State be opened for worshippers. The petitioner’s counsel Dipesh Siroya had urged the court to direct the State to reopen temples albeit with restrictions such as limiting the number of worshippers at a time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/opening-places-of-worship-with-guidelines-not-practical-state/article32556866.ece
09 September 2020||Mumbai,||Sena’s Gorhe re-elected as deputy chairperson||Ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi’s candidate and Shiv Sena leader Neelam Gorhe was on Tuesday re-elected as the deputy chairperson of the Maharashtra Legislative Council. Council chairman Ramraje Naik Nimbalkar announced that Ms. Gorhe was elected unanimously after the Opposition BJP did not contest the election for the post on the last day of the two-day monsoon session of the State legislature. Leader of the Opposition in the Council and BJP MLC Pravin Darekar, however, earlier objected to the scheduling of the election on Tuesday in view of the COVID-19 crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/senas-gorhe-re-elected-as-deputy-chairperson/article32557012.ece
09 September 2020||Mumbai,||Not feasible to put cap on bed charges, HC told||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday told the Bombay High Court that it was not feasible for it to cap charges for all beds at private hospitals and nursing homes in the State. Advocate General (AG) Ashutosh Kumbhakoni informed a Bench headed by Justice Amjad Sayed that the State had capped charges for beds and ancillary items, including PPE kits, for 80% beds at private hospitals and nursing homes. Hospitals, however, were permitted to charge their own rates for the remaining 20% beds for treatment of both COVID-19 and other patients, he said. “We can’t take over private hospitals completely. Regulating charges for all beds, taking over like that will not be feasible, as these are private hospitals and the State is not providing them any aid,” Mr. Kumbhakoni said. Mr. Kumbhakoni was responding to the court’s previous query on whether the State had a mechanism to prevent overcharging of patients during the COVID-19 pandemic. The court was hearing a PIL filed by advocate Abhijeet Mangade which stated that some private hospitals were overcharging patients for treatment of COVID-19 and other ailments for ancillary items.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/not-feasible-to-put-cap-on-bed-charges-hc-told/article32557014.ece
09 September 2020||Navi Mumbai,||10-year-old girl dies after chawl collapses in Taloja||A 10-year-old girl died after all the six rooms of a chawl in Pendhar village at Taloja MIDC collapsed around 8 a.m. on Tuesday. The girl has been identified as Hina Munna Harijan. Her brother Santosh (12), sisters Ashifa (4) and Anupama (3), who were also in the chawl with her suffered injuries. They were admitted to Shree Sai Hospital at Taloja MIDC and were discharged by evening. Their parents were away to visit a doctor when the incident occurred. The chawl, a ground-plus-one structure, had around 25 residents till two days ago. “A wall adjoining the chawl had collapsed two days ago after which the owner asked all the tenants to vacate it due to its dilapidated condition,” Dashrath Bhandari, ward officer of the area, said. This family could not move out as they were searching for another room. On Tuesday morning, the mother, Lalidevi, who had acidity problems, had gone with her husband to see the doctor. They were also planning to look at some rooms for their relocation. According to the police, a portion of the roof first collapsed on Hina and then the remaining part fell off. Senior police inspector Kashinath Chavan from Taloja police station said, “Prima facie, it doesn’t seem like a case of negligence. Hence, we have filed a case of accidental death. After getting the reports from the Panvel Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the fire brigade, we will take further action if needed.” Built in 1972, the chawl faced leakages during rainy season. “The PMC had never issued any notice to the structure,” Mr. Bhandari said. Fire brigade personnel from the PMC cleared the debris at the collapse site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/10-year-old-girl-dies-after-chawl-collapses-in-taloja/article32557016.ece
09 September 2020||Beijing,||China celebrates ‘success’ in virus fight||China’s leaders held a triumphant ceremony to celebrate beating the coronavirus on Tuesday, as billions of people around the world still suffer the fallout from the pandemic and the global death toll nears 9,00,000. The upbeat mood in Beijing comes as concerns grow about a resurgence of COVID-19 across Europe, with France tightening restrictions, cases in Britain spiking and schools resuming around the region in recent days. Worldwide infections to date now stand at more than 27 million and over 8,90,000 people have died from the disease, with the pandemic showing no sign of peaking. But in China the virus has been all but banished through a combination of lockdowns and travel restrictions earlier in the year that have officials touting the nation as a coronavirus success story. President Xi Jinping said China had passed “an extraordinary and historic test” during an awards ceremony for medical professionals decorated with bugle calls and applause. “We quickly achieved initial success in the people's war against the coronavirus,” Mr. Xi said. “We are leading the world in economic recovery and in the fight against COVID-19.” The nation’s propaganda machine has been attempting to seize the narrative surrounding the pandemic, reframing the episode as an example of the agility and organisation of the Communist leadership. Mr. Xi had stern words for China’s doubters, saying “selfish moves, any buck-passing and deeds that confuse right and wrong” risked inflicting damage across the world. Beijing is also touting progress on its vaccines as a sign of global leadership and resilience. China put its homegrown vaccines on display for the first time at a Beijing trade fair this week and authorities hope the jabs will be approved for use by year-end.    Europe suffers Spain on Monday became the first country in Western Europe to pass half a million infections. The nation had largely gained control over its outbreak but cases have surged since restrictions were removed at the end of June. In neighbouring Morocco, the government shut all schools and imposed a lockdown on Casablanca on the day classes were supposed to resume after cases surged in the city. Officials said the virus risked overwhelming the North African country if it was not controlled, but some parents were left fuming. “They were on cloud nine over returning to school tomorrow,” one father wrote of his children on Twitter. “How do you explain this to a six-year-old and an eight-year-old?” Restrictions have also been reimposed in France where seven more regions were placed on a red list after successively recording daily infection rates of between 7,000 and 9,000. And in England, officials fiddled with overseas quarantine rules again, imposing curbs on travellers from seven Greek islands popular with holidaymakers, after Britain at the weekend registered a level of infection not seen since late May.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-celebrates-success-in-virus-fight/article32556556.ece
09 September 2020||COLOMBO,||Murder convict sworn in as MP in Sri Lanka||A murder convict, elected from Sri Lanka’s southern Ratnapura district, was escorted from prison to Parliament on Tuesday as he took the oath as MP amid opposition protests.  Days before the August 5 general election, Premalal Jayasekara, a member of the ruling Sri Lanka Podujana Party (SLPP of People’s Front), was sentenced to death for murdering an opposition activist at a 2015 election rally. Unable to attend the inaugural session of the legislature following the elections — since prison authorities refused him permission — Mr. Jayasekara petitioned the Court of Appeal that on Monday issued an interim order allowing him to attend parliamentary sessions. He has also appealed against the conviction and the death sentence.  Mr. Jayasekara became the first convicted murderer to serve as an MP in Sri Lanka, according to news agency AFP. Legislators from the Samagi Jana Balawegaya (SJB, or United People’s Front), the main Opposition party, wore black shawls in protest and staged a walk-out on Tuesday.  ‘Constitutional violation’ Citing articles pertaining to the grounds for disqualification of an elected representative, SJB MPs said allowing the convicted legislator into Parliament amounted to a violation of the Constitution.  Amid social media commentary on the move, much of it critical, Cabinet Minister Namal Rajapaksa tweeted: “In allowing Hon. Premalal Jayasekera to take oaths and attend #parliament the speaker of the house has not violated the constitution as the decision was made in keeping with the judgement given by the court of appeal a few days ago.”  Earlier this month, Sivanesathurai Chandrakanthan alias ‘Pillayan’, who was elected from Batticaloa in the Eastern Province, was similarly escorted to Colombo by the Prisons Department to attend the first parliamentary session. Formerly with the LTTE, he broke away from the rebel organisation to join ranks with the then Rajapaksa government, and subsequently served as the Chief Minister of the Eastern Province. Currently aligned to the ruling SLPP, he is in remand custody for his alleged involvement in the murder of Tamil National Alliance MP Joseph Pararajasingham in 2005.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/murder-convict-sworn-in-as-mp-in-sri-lanka/article32556564.ece
09 September 2020||Sydney,||Fearing arrests, two Australian journalists flee China||Two Australian journalists fled China on Tuesday under diplomatic protection, fearing arrest as political pawns in the rapidly worsening relationship between Canberra and Beijing. Their dramatic overnight exit came following days of secret wrangling that had seen both men holed up in Australia’s diplomatic missions to escape the clutches of China’s feared security police. Bill Birtles and Michael Smith had to consent to questioning before they were allowed to leave China, shepherded out of the country on a late-night flight by Australian diplomats. Both men were quizzed about fellow Australian journalist Cheng Lei, who has been detained since last month. Beijing acknowledged on Tuesday for the first time that she was being held on national security grounds — a broad category that can include crimes resulting in lengthy prison sentences. Mr. Birtles, who works for public broadcaster ABC, said on Tuesday his “interrogation” in a hotel room had touched on Ms. Cheng’s case, but that he did not think that was its primary objective. “I believe that the whole episode was really one more of harassment of the remaining Australian journalists, rather than a genuine effort to try and get anything useful for that case,” he told ABC. China confirmed that the two men had been questioned, but insisted the move had been legitimate. “As long as foreign journalists obey the law... they have no reason to worry,” foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said in Beijing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/fearing-arrests-two-australian-journalists-flee-china/article32556555.ece
09 September 2020||September 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Sri Lankan Navy reports ‘diesel patch’ behind burning tanker||The Sri Lankan Navy on Tuesday reported a ‘diesel patch’ behind oil tanker MT New Diamond , which recently went ablaze drifting off Sri Lanka’s south eastern coast. “We believe it is from the ruptured diesel tank or the residual water in the engine room that initially exploded,” Navy spokesman Captain Indika de Silva said, ruling out an oil spill. Form the time the large vessel carrying 2,70,000 tonnes of crude oil — from Kuwait to Odisha — went up in flames on Thursday, the Indian Navy and the Coast Guard personnel, along with the Sri Lankan Navy, have been fire-fighting to douse the flames. “The flames are under control,” Captain de Silva told The Hindu . India on Tuesday sent fresh supplies of chemicals to help battle a new blaze spotted on Monday night, a press statement from the Indian Coast Guard said. According to the Sri Lankan Navy, the fire-fighting teams have, over the past few days, continued to spray a large volume of sea water to extinguish the fire onboard. As a result, the engine room of the ship was flooded with sea water, making it lying in a position called ‘trim by aft’. “In this backdrop, it is believed that the diesel that had been stored in ruptured tanks close to the engine room had been mixed with flooded water and oozed out due to the ship’s changing position. However, the crude oil storage of the distressed ship is still safe from the fire and there is no danger of the ship leaking oil into the sea at the moment,” the Sri Lankan Navy said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lankan-navy-reports-diesel-patch-behind-burning-tanker/article32556567.ece
09 September 2020||Nicosia,||Can help with Turkey-Greece tension: Russia||Moscow is prepared to help ease tensions in the eastern Mediterranean where Cyprus and Greece are embroiled in a stand-off with Turkey over maritime and energy rights, visiting Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said on Tuesday. “Russia considers that any further escalation would be unacceptable and calls on all parties to settle all conflicts exclusively through dialogue and on the basis of International law,” Mr. Lavrov said. “We are ready to provide assistance to set up this dialogue if asked by the parties.” Tensions are running high over Turkey’s maritime drilling activities which Cyprus and its ally Greece say violate their sovereignty. Turkey as well as Greece, Cyprus, France and Italy have recently staged military exercises, heightening fears that the stand-off could accidentally tip into conflict. Mr. Lavrov was in Nicosia and met President Nicos Anastasiades to mark 60 years of Cyprus’ independence and bilateral relations with Russia. But Russia’s top diplomat also used the occasion to take a swipe at U.S. influence in the region, calling it an “outside player”. “There are other issues of concern to us about the situation in the Eastern Mediterranean ... such as the United States which is trying to create (dividing) lines and contribute to conflicts rather than peaceful solutions,” Mr. Lavrov said. “This is a really sad fact because in the Eastern Mediterranean other approaches are needed, peaceful ways of promoting interests.” Although Mr. Lavrov did not elaborate, the comments come after Washington partially lifted a 33-year arms embargo on Cyprus. This is part of a wider partnership to promote closer energy and security ties between Washington and Cyprus, Greece and Israel. Mr. Anastasiades in an had last week praised the “positive” move by the United States to allow sales of non-lethal military equipment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/can-help-with-turkey-greece-tension-russia/article32556558.ece
09 September 2020||Tokyo,||Campaign to select Abe’s successor begins in Japan||The official campaigning to head Japan’s ruling party began on Tuesday, with outgoing Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s long-time right-hand man now seen as a front-runner to succeed him and complete his unfinished business, including coronavirus and economic measures. Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga, 71, formally submitted his candidacy for the Liberal Democratic Party leadership on Tuesday after announcing his intention to run last week. The top government spokesman faces two younger contenders, former Defence Minister Shigeru Ishiba and former Foreign Minister Fumio Kishida, both 63. The winner of the in-party vote on September 14 will eventually become Japan’s next Prime Minister because of the ruling bloc’s parliamentary majority. Mr. Abe is stepping down for health reasons. Mr. Suga is a latecomer favoured among party heavyweights as the best candidate to continue Mr. Abe’s policies. They have reportedly lined up to support him in hopes of getting favourable party and Cabinet posts in his administration. Newspaper opinion surveys have also shown Mr. Suga surpassing the former favourite Mr. Ishiba among the public. Mr. Suga pledged to carry out the challenges left behind by Mr. Abe, including measures on the coronavirus and the economic fallout. “I will succeed Prime Minister Abe’s policies and push them forward,” Mr. Suga said at a candidates’ speaking event. “As we face the national crisis, we should never allow any political vacuum, and there is no time to waste.” “We must prevent the explosive spread of coronavirus infections as in the U.S. and Europe, no matter what,” Mr. Suga said. “We will have to protect the people’s lives and health, while also maintaining economic and social activity.” The son of a farmer in the northern prefecture of Akita, Mr. Suga is a self-made politician, a rarity in Japan’s largely hereditary business of politics and a particularly sharp contrast to Mr. Abe, the political blue-blood whose grandfather was also a Prime Minister. Mr. Suga said he has never lost affection for rural communities like his hometown and endeavoured to break down bureaucratic barriers to serve the need and interest of ordinary people, including in disaster prevention, lowering cellphone fees and bolstering foreign tourism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/campaign-to-select-abes-successor-begins-in-japan/article32556562.ece
09 September 2020||COLOMBO,||Mahinda proposes ban on cattle slaughter||Sri Lankan  Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa  has proposed banning the slaughter of cattle for beef, according to the ruling Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP, or People’s Front). Addressing the party’s parliamentary group at a meeting on Tuesday, Mr. Rajapaksa — while discussing the agenda for the week — made the proposal, Cabinet spokesman and Minister of Mass Media Keheliya Rambukwella said. Asked what the MPs said in response, Mr. Rambukwella told The Hindu : “They applauded. They appeared to welcome such a move.” However, there is no policy decision on the proposal yet, he added. “The PM was just seeking the party legislators’ views on a possible ban.” Buddhists constitute 70% of Sri Lanka’s population and most Buddhists do not eat beef, as they consider cows sacred. Minority Muslims, Christians and a section of Hindus eat beef. The Constitution gives Buddhism the “foremost place”, and states that “it shall be the duty of the State to protect and foster the Buddha Sasana ”, while assuring freedom of religion as a fundamental right. Reactionary Sinhala-Buddhist groups have in the past called for a ban on cattle slaughter. In 2013, they launched an aggressive campaign opposing halal certification, forcing stores to stop selling meat labelled for Islamic food guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/mahinda-proposes-ban-on-cattle-slaughter/article32556565.ece
09 September 2020||Geneva,||Geneva, Sept 8, 2020 (AFP) -||The UN rights chief on Tuesday called on Moscow to conduct or cooperate with a “thorough, transparent, independent and impartial investigation” into the alleged nerve agent attack on Russian Opposition leader Alexei Navalny. Michelle Bachelet stressed the need to get to the bottom of the poisoning, after German doctors said they had “unequivocal proof” that the weapons-grade nerve agent Novichok was used.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/geneva-sept-8-2020-afp/article32556560.ece
09 September 2020||September 09 2020 00:00 IST,||A case for down-to-earth governance||Nine years ago, Anna Hazare ended his historic fast when the Prime Minister, Manmohan Singh, informed him that Parliament had expressed support for proposed changes to anti-corruption legislation; “the ‘sense of the House’ was behind Anna Hazare’s key demands”. The historic bending of Parliament to the people’s will was the result of a remarkable movement of citizens — rich, middle class, and poor — coming together to take politics back from politicians and to demand Parliament’s accountability to citizens. Since then the nation’s attention has moved on, from weaknesses in institutions of governance, to threats from China on the nation’s borders and to global problems caused by COVID-19. Hazare’s point The single point demand of the Anna movement was the institution of the Jan Lokpal to try all government functionaries when accused of corruption; even the Prime Minister. Anna Hazare is a controversial person. However, one should not throw the baby out with the bathwater, and the thought he left while breaking his fast is worth recalling. He said Lokpals and Lokayuktas would not eliminate the root causes of corruption in politics and government. Electoral reforms and decentralisation of power were essential. Parliamentarians of all parties were affronted by the claims of leaders of the Anna movement that they were the representatives of the people rather than the Parliamentarians. They taunted leaders like Arvind Kejriwal to prove it by winning elections. This spurred the formation of the Aam Aadmi Party. It joined the system which had to be reformed and had to play the game by the system’s rules. This dismayed many and the movement for fundamental reforms of governance lost its steam. It is about money Around the world, electoral democracies have become infected by the disease of funding political parties and elections. Money is required to win elections legitimately, even when people are not bribed to vote, which is illegitimate. Communications with citizens, essential for democracy, can be very expensive. Advertisements have to be paid for as well as teams of professionals for managing social media. If one party raises a million to spend, and the other raises two million, the first must raise even more or its million would have been wasted were it to lose the election. Thus, the race to raise more money for legitimate electioneering purposes can corrupt the process of funding parties and elections. Solutions are not easy because the right to free speech, and to put one’s money where one’s mouth is, is a fundamental right that cannot be denied as the Supreme Court of the United States ruled. The debate continues about which is a better system. A presidential system, like the U.S. or the French one; or a parliamentary system, like the British one which India has adopted. Though the U.S. has a presidential system it cannot implement reforms to its flawed health-care system nor control the spread of dangerous weapons because party divisions within its democratically-elected Congress and Senate seem to make it impossible. Debates within India’s Parliament, in which all members have been elected by the world’s most impressive election machinery, hardly inspire citizens’ confidence in their representatives’ ability to govern the country. Process and deliberations The problem in electoral democracies is not only with the process by which representatives are elected, but also in the conduct of their deliberations when they come together. This problem is not due to the quality of the individuals — whether they are ‘educated’ or not or even whether they have criminal records or not. It is inherent in the design of the process for electing representatives. The framers of the U.S. Constitution had worried about this problem. Representatives of the people must be chosen by smaller electorates within geographical constituencies. However, when they meet together in the national chamber, they are expected to govern the whole country. They must shed their local hats and put on a national hat to consider what will be best for the whole country. However, if the people who elected them find they are not protecting local interests, they will not be elected again. Constituency favouring leads to challenges for equitable solutions for sharing of river waters, and to railway stations where there are very few people, because representatives fight for the largest share of the pie for their constituency rather than the growth of the whole pie. Electing good representatives to Assemblies is not enough to ensure good decisions will be made. Imagine 500 representatives in a chamber, each clamouring for his constituencies’ interests. How will decisions be taken? As James Madison wrote in The Federalist paper No.55 (https://bit.ly/3h7Pn9V), “had every Athenian citizen been a Socrates, every Athenian assembly would still have been a mob.” Inner democracy Political parties in electoral democracies provide a solution to the problem of creating an alignment of views among representatives from hundreds of constituencies around the country. A party’s point of view on fundamental matters can unite many. Therefore, all representatives need not be heard from in Parliament. One can speak for many. It is easier to form effective governments in electoral democracies when there are fewer parties. When there are too many parties and too many contradictory points of view to be accommodated within a coalition, governance can break down. Therefore, political parties are not evil. However, when political parties are not internally democratic, they become reviled as the means for self-aggrandising politicians to amass power and wealth, and democratic nations suffer. It has become very difficult in representative democracies, for reasons explained here, to arrive at good and fair decisions for the governance of a large state or country. It is tempting to abandon political parties and parliaments and revert to direct forms of democracy where every decision can be put directly to all citizens to vote on. New Internet technologies make this possible. But, if all voters have not understood what is at stake, they cannot decide well, as Californians have learned over decades with their forms of direct democracy, and the U.K. has too with its hasty Brexit referendum. Complex issues, where many interests collide, must be resolved by reason, not settled by the numbers. Hence there is no alternative to good local governance, wherein citizens manage their local affairs democratically. Locals know best how to balance the preservation of their water sources while making it easier for local enterprises to do business, and how to make their local schools and health facilities accessible to all citizens. One-size solutions devised by experts at the centre cannot fit all: therefore, local systems solutions are essential to solve global systemic problems of environmental sustainability and inclusive growth. Citizens must solve issues No doubt, electoral funding must be cleaned up, and democracy within political parties improved to make representative democracy work better. This will require big changes to entrenched systems, yet will not be sufficient for good, democratic governance. Citizens must appreciate that they have to be the source of solutions, and not become only the source of problems for governments and experts to solve for them. Citizens must learn to listen to each other’s perspectives in their villages and in their urban neighbourhoods. Those with the most needs in the community must be enabled to participate, alongside the most endowed, in finding solutions for all. Since India’s Independence 73 years ago when the power of government was transferred from a centre in London to a centre in Delhi, strong local governance remains the unfinished agenda to make India’s democracy strong and deep. Arun Maira is Former Member, Planning Commission and author of ‘Redesigning the Aeroplane While Flying: Reforming Institutions’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-case-for-down-to-earth-governance/article32556542.ece
09 September 2020||September 09 2020 00:00 IST,||The demonisation of dissent||The Allahabad High Court judgment setting aside the detention of Dr. Kafeel Khan under the National Security Act (NSA) goes beyond serving the interests of justice in the individual case it was dealing with. It also goes beyond the relief it brings to this much maligned and persecuted citizen of India. The judgment could be taken as a standard to look at judicial oversight in multiple cases of a similar nature. By coincidence, on the same day, the Delhi High Court granted bail to Pinjra Tod member, Devangana Kalita, who has been in a Delhi jail since May. Ms. Kalita is an accused in four cases connected to the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act/National Register of Citizens (CAA/NRC) protests and the riots in north-east Delhi. This was the third case in which she was granted bail, but she will remain in jail since she is charged in a fourth case under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). Normal judicial processes related to the rights of the accused get virtually suspended in the case of detenues under the UAPA and the NSA. Since the time given for filing of a charge sheet can also be extended, as was done by the Uttar Pradesh government in the case of Dr. Khan and in all the Bhima Koregaon-Elgar Parishad cases in Maharashtra, the accused can ‘legally’ be locked up indefinitely with no rights. Hate speech The court rulings in these two cases are different, but there are similarities in the goals and unscrupulous methods used by the Uttar Pradesh government in the case of Dr. Khan and the Delhi Police, directed by the Union Home Ministry, in the case of Ms. Kalita. In my interpretation of the two judgments, among the important issues dealt with, there are at least three which need to be highlighted. The first is hate speech and incitement to violence. In both cases, the accused were charged for commission of such crimes under the relevant sections of the law linked to the anti-CAA/NRC protests. The Allahabad order reproduces the entire speech made by Dr. Khan and says: “It does not disclose any effort to promote hatred or violence. It also nowhere threatens peace and tranquility of the city of Aligarh.” The Delhi High Court stated in its ruling that the Delhi Police “failed to produce any material that she in her speech instigated women of [a] particular community or gave hatred speech due to which precious life of a young man has been sacrificed and property damaged.” Further, the Allahabad High Court indicted the administration for “selective reading and selective mention for few phrases from the speech ignoring its true intent.” The Delhi High Court said granting of bail would prevent the accused “from suffering further unnecessary harassment, humiliation and unjustified detention.” This highlights the importance of understanding the context in which words are uttered. Yet, today, a number of activists are being vilified for their so-called hate speeches. They are subjected to harassment and humiliation on “selective readings” which seem to be accepted by some courts as “ serious charges”. Even in the Supreme Court, when Solicitor General Tushar Mehta opposed the hearing of a petition filed by human rights activist Harsh Mander on the grounds of a speech Mr. Mander made showing his “lack of belief in the Supreme Court,” the Bench not only accepted Mr. Mehta’s contention but made adverse comments against Mr. Mander without even hearing the speech. The full speech was later put out in the public domain. The comments made by the Allahabad High Court of “selective reading” in Khan’s case could be considered equally relevant in the context of what Mr. Mehta did. ‘Subjective satisfaction’ The second issue is of the “subjective satisfaction of the detaining authority”. In most of the cases filed against anti-CAA/NRC activists, the assessment of the authorities that law and order would be affected if the accused are released and that they are part of an ‘anti-national’ conspiracy are used as arguments to deny bail pleas. The “subjective satisfaction of the detaining authority” is all that is required. This was argued in Dr. Khan’s case too. The Allahabad High Court, while accepting this as a ground and judicial precedent, stated: “The expression “subjective satisfaction” means the satisfaction of a reasonable man that can be arrived at on the basis of some material which satisfies a rational man. It does not refer to whim or caprice of the authority concerned.” In the case of the Delhi arrests and also the Elgar Parishad cases, the same standards of “material which satisfies a rational man” so relevant for the protection of civil liberties and democratic rights should apply. At the least it would surely lead to the prosecution of Bharatiya Janata Party leaders who made hate speeches in the case of Delhi. And in the latter case, could activist Sudha Bharadwaj then be denied bail? Calling ‘witnesses’ The third issue is of witnesses. The Delhi High Court bail order specifically mentions that there is “no such evidence which establishes that the alleged offence has taken place on the act done by the petitioner [Devangana Kalita], except statements recorded under section 164 Cr.P.C. much belatedly...” Many such cases rely mainly on so-called witnesses. In Delhi, there are examples of how even those who attended solidarity meetings during the anti-CAA/NRC protests between December 2019 and February 2020 are being called in for questioning by the Special Branch and are being asked to specifically name activists on the police target list. Along with the courts, political parties in the Opposition should also take note of these judgments. Unfortunately, except for the Left parties, there has been an inexplicable silence from most parties on the unfair targeting and demonisation of anti-CAA/NRC protesters and their being blamed for communal violence. Investigating agencies under the Home Ministry are unashamedly protecting ruling regime leaders, while innocent citizens like Dr. Khan are being locked up. Is it not time for these Opposition parties to come together to demand the release of political detainees locked up under the UAPA and the NSA, and also demand the punishment and arrest of those in the ruling regime who incited violence through their hate speeches? Brinda Karat is a member of the CPI(M) Polit Bureau and a former Rajya Sabha MP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-demonisation-of-dissent/article32556549.ece
09 September 2020||September 09 2020 00:00 IST,||What is in a NAM and India’s alignment||India’s External Affairs Minister, S. Jaishankar, said recently that non-alignment was a concept of relevance in a specific era and a particular context, though the independence of action enshrined in it remains a factor of continuity in India’s foreign policy. This is about as explicit an assertion as one is likely to get from our political leadership of an obvious post-Cold War fact: that non-alignment, as a foreign policy concept, is dead. United by a campaign Non-alignment was a policy fashioned during the Cold War, to retain an autonomy of policy (not equidistance) between two politico-military blocs. The Non-Aligned Movement (NAM) provided a platform for newly independent developing nations to join together to protect this autonomy. It was a disparate group from many continents, with varying degrees of proximity to, and dependence on, one or the other bloc; and broadly united around NAM’s flagship campaigns for de-colonisation, universal nuclear disarmament and against apartheid. One of the blocs was disbanded at the end of the Cold War. De-colonisation was largely complete by then, the apartheid regime in South Africa was being dismantled and the campaign for universal nuclear disarmament was going nowhere. Freed from the shackles of the Cold War, the NAM countries were able to diversify their network of relationships across the erstwhile east-west divide. Non-alignment lost its relevance, and NAM its original raison d’être .  For a few years now, non-alignment has not been projected by our policymakers as a tenet of India’s foreign policy. However, we have not yet found a universally accepted successor as a signature tune for our foreign policy. Successive formulations have been coined and rejected. Strategic autonomy was one, which soon acquired a connotation similar to non-alignment, with an anti-U.S. tint. Multi-alignment has not found universal favour, since (as the External Affairs Minister said elsewhere) it may convey the impression of opportunism, whereas we seek strategic convergences. Seeking issue-based partnerships or coalitions is a description that has not stuck. “Advancing prosperity and influence” was a description Dr. Jaishankar settled for, to describe the aspirations that our network of international partnerships seeks to further. China factor In the wake of the current stand-off with China, there have been calls for India’s foreign policy to shed its inhibitions and make a decisive shift towards the United States, as the only viable option to counter China. The government has been more nuanced in its approach. The External Affairs Minister clarified that a rejection of non-alignment does not mean a rush to alignment: India will not join an alliance system. The fact is that ‘alliance’ is as much a Cold War concept as non-alignment. During the Cold War, the glue that held countries of an alliance together was composed (in varying proportions) of ideological convergence and an existential military threat. With the disintegration of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR) and the Warsaw Pact, this glue dissolved and the international options of alliance partners widened, just like those of NAM countries. The strategic interests of alliance partners are no longer congruent. This is evident in the Euro-Atlantic alliance. U.S. President Donald Trump’s words and deeds have highlighted divergences within the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), and even widened them, but strains have periodically surfaced even earlier — over the 2003 U.S. invasion of Iraq, for example, or on policy towards Russia or West Asia. Turkey is constantly exploring the limits of NATO discipline. Alliances in the Asia-Pacific face a bigger definitional dilemma. They were originally forged to deter the USSR. The threat to the alliance partners today is from an assertive China, which they are reluctant to define as a strategic adversary, because of their economic engagement with it and the huge military asymmetry. Geography link It is often overlooked that geostrategy derives from both geography and politics. While politics is dynamic, geography is immutable. Two major imperatives flow from India’s geography: economic and security interests in the Indo-Pacific space and the strategic importance of the continental landmass to its north and west. The former has inspired the Act East policy of bilateral and multilateral engagements in Southeast Asia and East Asia and the Pacific. Shared India-U.S. interests in dealing with the challenge from China in the maritime domain have been a strategic underpinning of the bilateral partnership since the early 2000s. In the immediate-term, Indian and U.S. perspectives are less convergent in India’s continental neighbourhood. Connectivity and cooperation with Afghanistan and Central Asia need engagement with Iran and Russia, as well as with the Russia-China dynamics in the region. Russia bestrides the Eurasian landmass bordering India’s near and extended neighbourhood. Seemingly paradoxically, a close Russia-China partnership should move India to broad-base relations with Russia (beyond the traditional defence and energy pillars). A strong stake in relations with India could reinforce Russia’s reluctance (which still persists) to be a junior partner of China. As the U.S. confronts the challenge to its dominance from China, classical balance of power considerations would dictate a modicum of accommodation with Russia. There was an analogous logic in the Richard Nixon-Henry Kissinger outreach to China in 1971, when the Soviet Union was the more formidable rival. The political lessons from the current pandemic could help reawaken that historical memory. Equally, the U.S. could acknowledge that India’s development of trade routes through Iran would also serve its strategic interest of finding routes to Afghanistan and Central Asia, bypassing Pakistan and Russia, respectively. A template and UNSC term Five years ago, a group of U.S. strategic analysts had suggested (in a report for the Council on Foreign Relations), that the U.S. should see ties with India as a joint venture (not an alliance), in which they could pursue shared objectives to mutual benefit and accept that differences of perspectives will have to be addressed. This template could have wider applicability for bilateral relations in today’s world order, which former National Security Adviser Shivshankar Menon has described as militarily unipolar, economically multipolar and politically confused. COVID-19 may scramble the economics and deepen the confusion further. India will acquire a larger global profile next year, when it commences a two-year term on the UN Security Council. The strategic choices that it makes in its bilateral partnerships will be closely watched. P.S. Raghavan, a former diplomat, is Chairman of the National Security Advisory Board. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/what-is-in-a-nam-and-indias-alignment/article32556544.ece
09 September 2020||September 09 2020 00:00 IST,||The aftershocks of Sterlite||The Madras High Court has refused to allow the reopening of the Sterlite copper plant at Thoothukudi in Tamil Nadu. As expected, the company has moved the Supreme Court against the order. The plant was closed in 2018 after 13 people were killed by the police. The police fired on protesters demonstrating outside the factory premises against environmental pollution. The merits and demerits of the Sterlite case have been extensively discussed in courts, and the issue will be further dissected when the Supreme Court takes it up again. Ultimately, the apex court will have the final say in the matter. The whole discussion, thus far, has been on the alleged environmental impact of the project in and around the region. In a blinkered horse-like focus, other key issues have been deliberately given a go-by. Finding refuge in Tamil Nadu The Sterlite copper unit has been in the eye of the storm right from day one. Even a casual dip into the past will reveal a clue or two about it. The project was driven out by Maharashtra and Goa for various reasons. Surprisingly, it found refuge in Tamil Nadu. Ipso facto, the initial culpability should rest with the State government of the day that allowed the project to come into the State in the first instance. The State has been under the dispensation of either of the two Dravidian parties – the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam – all through the development of the Sterlite plant. There were intermittent protests against the project all these years, no doubt. But the project went from strength to strength. With close to 4,000 direct and 20,000 indirect jobs, the project helped the region around the port to prosper. It also helped India become a copper-exporting nation. Today, India has been forced to become a net importer of copper after nearly 18 years. With the closure of the plant, the world has turned topsy-turvy for the people in the region. The COVID-19 pandemic has only worsened the misery. With the benefit of hindsight, one could safely surmise that political parties and leaders cutting across the canvas have shown little sagacity and statesmanship while handling the Sterlite imbroglio, right from the day the project was let into Tamil Nadu. Two States had shunned the project. Yet, Tamil Nadu preferred to be benign and rolled out the red carpet for Sterlite. Not just that, State leaderships of all hues let it continue all these years, notwithstanding the intermittent anti-Sterlite sentiments. All of a sudden, the problem assumed a magnified proportion when the company proposed an expansion. It took an ugly turn when police fired on protesters. The rest is history, as they say. Often, we act in haste and regret at leisure. In this instance, the government ordered immediate closure of the plant after the police firing outside the plant premises. It was like Abhimanyu’s entry into the Chakravyuh in the Mahabharat. He perished in the battlefield since he did not know how to exit. Had the authorities exhausted all other options before ordering closure of the plant? This will be debated endlessly. Sterlite has now become a reference point – unfortunately for all the wrong reasons – for any prospective manufacturers to set up plants in Tamil Nadu. Sterlite was the alibi when a rifle project was moved to Amethi by Russia. Playing to the gallery The saga reflects the propensity of Tamil Nadu’s ruling class, largely the Dravidian parties, to play to the gallery. As a class, the political leadership of various parties must shun this game, which often ends up hurting the progress of the State. This is where we sorely miss the healthy interface between the government and the Opposition. If political parties have come out poorly, government agencies such as the Pollution Control Board haven’t distinguished themselves well either, on issues of larger cause. Either they have not been professional, or they have allowed themselves to be subservient to political masters. In a socioeconomic context, a trade-off is an inevitable necessity in the debate between development and environment. With a population of over 130 crore, the issue of development cannot be wished away. This calls for a responsible political leadership. It also needs professionalism from assorted government agencies. In the Sterlite case, a solution was sought in ordering the closure. Unfortunately, no thought was given to the complete evaporation of livelihoods in the entire region due to this move. The fault certainly lies with the political leadership as a whole. The scars of the damage will persist for a long while. K.T. Jagannathan is a financial journalist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-aftershocks-of-sterlite/article32556551.ece
09 September 2020||September 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Mountains that sustain millions||The word Himalaya comes from two Sanskrit words: Him (snow) and Aalay (abode). The beauty of the Himalaya, which are one of the youngest chains of mountains in the world harbouring a diverse ecosystem, lies in its intriguing complexity. The region is among the 36 world biodiversity hotspots. According to a report by the International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development, the region encompassing the Hindu Kush Himalaya encompasses 240 million people. Several challenges The mountains are the most resilient; yet, ironically, their inhabitants are vulnerable. With few livelihood options, forests form an essential life support system for the locals. However, dwindling natural resources, unsustainable agricultural practices, lack of basic amenities and so on create a challenge for local sustenance. Demographic shifts, weak institutional capacity, poor infrastructure, and a paucity of adequate information on mountain-specific climate change pose challenges to capacity-building in the region. Studies have revealed low food availability and decreased self-sufficiency owing to the combined pressures of increasing wildlife attacks on crops and livestock and persistent youth out-migration. An increase in male out-migration has put the brunt of household responsibility on the women and the elderly, who tend to focus more labour on livestock production, often to the neglect of crop agriculture, further rendering the land unproductive and prone to wildlife foraging. Lack of irrigation sources and drying up of local gadhera (small river tributaries), dhara (spring), naula (aquifer) etc. amidst uneven precipitation and erratic rainfall have added to the water woes of the hills. With traditional crops being replaced by cash crops, agro-biodiversity of the region has declined and dietary patterns have altered. This has increased nutritional insecurity, and undermined long-term agricultural sustainability in the region. In the light of such events, what is the role of the government, policymakers, locals and outsiders? Mountain-specific policies to strengthen livelihood opportunities based on both farm and non-farm activities should be developed. Organic farming methods like use of biopesticides and botanicals and bio-composting should be promoted. Local food systems need to be revived and niche products of the mountain need to be developed. Marketing systems and infrastructure need to be strengthened. Healthy livestock management practices should be explored and the potential of medicinal plants harnessed. Region-specific water security and cleaner energy solutions should be sought by bringing key stakeholders in a synergistic partnership. In all this, people’s role, especially that of the women, should not be ignored. As custodians of important traditional knowledge on preparation of seeds, harvesting, the medicinal use of plant species, etc., their inclusion in policymaking and the decision-making process becomes all the more crucial. Sacred and sublime In 2014, the Uttarakhand government declared September 9 as Himalaya Diwas to spread the message of conservation of the Himalayan ecosystems. For those living in the mountain ranges, the word ‘Himalaya’ might not be what they associate themselves with. For them, it is their pahad (mountain) , jal (water), jungle, jameen (land), jeev-jantu (living beings) , jadi-booti (roots and herbs) , roji-roti (daily earnings). We as outsiders have dissociated the mountains from the people, the people from the resources, the resources from their livelihood. As we come across Himalaya Diwas posters and policy framework documents being released, rallies being carried out and slogans of ‘Himalaya Bachao’ lost amid the grunting of JCB excavators, we should take a moment to reflect on the importance of the mountain system in its entirety. As author Stephen Alter put it, we need to view the Himalaya as both the sacred and the sublime. Juno Negi is Junior Research Fellow at the Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/mountains-that-sustain-millions/article32556552.ece
09 September 2020||September 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Vaccine for all||The race to a vaccine is a relay — at every stage, there are people passing on the baton, and it’s the government’s responsibility to grasp it at the last mile. Whether or not a vaccine for COVID-19 is around the corner, it is imperative that a vaccine policy is formulated for India, ensuring parity of access for all. As several vaccine efforts are progressing at varying paces, globally, concerns about access to a vaccine in the future have crept into the narrative. WHO Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus recently spoke of the need to use a vaccine, when it becomes available, effectively. He also indicated the need to prioritise vaccination for some in the initial stages, while in time, as production increases, people everywhere should get it. In the initial stages, global health leaders have been advancing the vaccine for essential workers and those at risk including senior citizens and those with co-morbidities. As Dr. Tedros said, “some people in all countries, rather than all people in some countries”, should have access to the vaccine in the early phase. Even in this initial stage, the government should make the vaccine available free of cost to those who cannot pay, or at affordable rates. As production kicks off, initial production costs are likely to be high, even astronomical, and it is the duty of governments to cushion the cost. Once the economies of scale begin to kick in, it is likely that the prices are driven down and become more affordable. Besides being a moral and ethical imperative, it will also make economic sense to make sure the vaccine is eventually available to all. Leaving gaps in the delivery of the vaccine will only serve to allow the virus to survive, and continue to wreak further damage. India has a fairly reliable vaccine delivery system for children, as part of the universal immunisation programme. It may be assumed that the knowledge and wherewithal to run a full-scale vaccination programme rests with the health administration — both at the central and the State level. However, in terms of scope, this is far wider; in fact, a mammoth task. All people in the country must have access to the vaccine, and, if necessary, periodic doses of it. Indeed, the mobilisation for this task in India should be nothing short of heroic, as and when the vaccine is available here. Meanwhile, the government must get its act together on developing a policy specific to the COVID-19 vaccine; from preparing resources — both material and human — for the manufacture, storage, distribution and delivery. This includes taking sensitive, but firm, decisions guided by evidence, on who will receive the vaccine, how, when and where. Putting down a standard operating protocol for every stage of the vaccine will serve the government well when the baton is finally passed on to it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/vaccine-for-all/article32556538.ece
09 September 2020||September 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Safe session||The Parliament session, from September 14, will see many firsts. The Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha will alternate their sittings so that members can spread over both chambers to ensure physical distancing necessitated by the COVID-19 pandemic. Even the visitor galleries will be occupied by the MPs. There will be 18 sittings without any weekend break or holiday. The break, between 1 p.m. and 3 p.m., would be used to disinfect the chambers. The presiding officers of both Houses have had trial runs, but it will be a tough act for them and the MPs — who are used to huddling together and speaking aloud — to deliberate across two chambers and keeping a safe distance from one another. There will be no Question Hour, though members can get written answers to written questions. The Zero Hour, where any member can raise issues of urgent national importance, will not be an hour, but only 30 minutes. The Opposition has gone quiet on these changes in parliamentary modalities after some initial objections. Recently, the Assemblies of Opposition-ruled States, Kerala, Rajasthan, Punjab and West Bengal, met and none of them had a Question Hour. The executive branch has expanded its power globally, in the wake of the pandemic, and not rarely, using it as a facade for aggrandisement. The attenuation of Parliament, overshadowed by a strong executive, has been a concern in India even before the pandemic. In ensuring executive accountability and voicing people’s concerns, Parliament’s role was found wanting. In lawmaking, it was increasingly being railroaded by the executive. These unhealthy trends appear to have been accelerated by the pandemic. The government must be held accountable by Parliament on the management of the pandemic, but that is not all. There is a long list of issues that requires detailed attention and deliberation by people’s representatives, such as China’s aggression on the LAC, the challenges on the economic front, the Centre’s refusal to meet its commitment to States under the GST regime, the coming election in Bihar in the midst of the pandemic, the situation in Jammu and Kashmir, and worsening ties with India’s neighbours. The Congress has been combative on these issues while the government has not been very responsive. Regional parties in power appear too overwhelmed by the pandemic to pay attention to other issues. The government has 11 Bills to replace ordinances. The Bill to replace Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation of Certain Provisions) Ordinance, 2020, which will seek to amend the Income Tax Act to enable 100% deduction to donations made to the PM CARES Fund, is a controversial one among them. The Opposition and the government must work together to turn the session into an opportunity to share views on all these questions, and present a united, reassuring front before the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/safe-session/article32556537.ece
09 September 2020||September 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Labour demands (From an editorial)||Though Madras trade unionism has, in a comparatively short period succeeded in securing increased wages to the employees the labour problem does not after all merely centre around the question of wages. The general awakening after the war has had its own share of influence over the “labour world” and the labourers have now begun to realise their real position and to feel that their misery is not inevitable and that the remedy lies in their own hands. The labourers demand not only increased wages but also improved conditions of work and living. They also ask for an improvement in their status and a share in the control of industry. Unions are formed in all industrial centres to safeguard the interests of labourers and the success of these Unions largely depends upon the feasibility of their programme of work. Some people are disposed to think that the mere existence of Trade Unions in India is an “undesirable superfluity”. The prevalence of such pessimistic feelings is prejudicial to the spread and growth of such Unions in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/labour-demands-from-an-editorial/article32556545.ece
09 September 2020||September 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Relief for small princes considered||The Centre, which de-recognised the former rulers yesterday (September 8), through a presidential order, is considering the question of providing relief for the princes who were getting smaller amounts as privy purses. The idea is they may not find themselves in any difficulty till transitional arrangements are finalised. According to the statement made in the Rajya Sabha by Mr. Y.B. Chavan, Union Finance Minister on the de-recognition of former rulers, the payment of privy purses as well as princely privileges would cease forthwith. The original intention of the Government was to stop them with effect from October 15 and an amendment to this effect to Clause 1 of the Constitution 24 Amendment Bill was passed by the Lok Sabha on September 2. The effect of the presidential order is more drastic than the Bill. The privy purses are paid once in every quarter and if the Bill had come into effect from October 15, all the former rulers would have received by then their privy purses for the quarter beginning from October. Now that the President’s order has taken effect the Princes are yet to chalk out their programme of action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/relief-for-small-princes-considered/article32556546.ece
09 September 2020||Mumbai,||GDP to shrink 14.8%: Goldman||The Indian economy is the worst-hit among major economies, American brokerage Goldman Sachs said on Tuesday, sharply cutting its FY21 GDP forecast to a contraction of 14.8%. It had earlier estimated that the economy of the country, which is now home to the second-largest number of COVID-19 infections, to contract by 11.8%. The estimate comes days after official data said the economy contracted by 23.9% for the June 2020 quarter, as activity across all sectors barring agriculture contracted due to the lockdowns. The nearly two-month-long lockdowns chilled economy activity but was unable to contain the number of infections, which stands at 40 lakh. “India’s GDP hit from COVID-19 [is] the highest across major economies,” analysts at the brokerage wrote. They now believe that the economy will contract 13.7% for the September quarter and 9.8% for the December quarter, compared with the 10.7% and 6.7% contractions, respectively, estimated earlier. “Our estimates imply that real GDP falls by 11.1% in 2020, and by 14.8% in FY21,” they added. Most pessimistic The 14.8% contraction is among the most pessimistic of all the analyst estimates till now. Earlier, analysts at India Ratings and Research revised down their estimate to an 11.8% contraction for FY21, while economists at India’s largest lender SBI are now expecting a 10.9% contraction. The brokerage said there would be a sharp rebound in FY22 due to the low base. It estimated GDP growth of 15.7% in the next fiscal. Assuming 70% of the output lost in June is recovered in June 2021, they expect real GDP growth of 27.1% in the April-June 2021 quarter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gdp-to-shrink-148-goldman/article32556524.ece
09 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Global economy to contract 4.4%, China to grow at 2.7%’||Fitch Ratings on Tuesday projected global GDP to contract 4.4% in the current year, but revised upwards China’s growth estimate to 2.7% for 2020. In its September update to the Global Economic Outlook (GEO), Fitch Ratings cut its 2020 GDP forecast for emerging markets, excluding China, to (-)5.7%, from (-)4.7% estimated in June, mainly on account of a huge downward revision to India GDP forecast for the financial year ending March 2021. Fitch has slashed India’s growth projection to (-)10.5% from (-)5% estimated earlier after official data released last week showed the April-June 2020 quarter GDP contracted by 23.9%. ‘Limited fiscal support’ “India imposed one of the most stringent lockdowns worldwide in 2Q20 (April-June) and domestic demand fell massively. Limited fiscal support, fragilities in the financial system, and a continued rise in virus cases hamper a rapid normalisation in activity,” Fitch said. It projected the U.S. GDP to contract 4.6% in 2020, less than the 5.6% decline it had forecast in June. Fitch revised China’s GDP growth forecast to 2.7%, from 1.2% in June, following the stronger-than-expected April-June outturn and continuing recoveries in investment, housing and exports. “It is important not to underestimate the positive global spillovers that will flow from China’s recovery,” the ratings agency said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/global-economy-to-contract-44-china-to-grow-at-27/article32556530.ece
09 September 2020||Chennai,||Super Auto to re-enter defence||Super Auto Forge Pvt. Ltd., (SAF), among the largest manufacturers of cold and warm forged steel and aluminum parts in India, plans to re-enter the defence sector soon, said top officials. “The opening up of the sector provides a huge opportunity and we are planning to make a re-entry into it,” Chairman S. Seetharaman  said in an interaction. “We were supplying shells to ordnance factories till the Kargil war,” noted MD S. Muralishankar. “Later, we discontinued. We are making a re-entry bid as there is transparency in bidding and procurement process,” he said. SAF is setting up a Rs. 500-crore greenfield unit at Oragadam to cater to the needs of auto component and electrical transmission makers, besides the defence sector. Opportunity to invest “Every slowdown is a good opportunity to invest. Like we used the 2008 global recession to restructure our business model, this time, we are setting up a greenfield project and have started the civil works. “It would become operational by end of FY21 or first quarter of FY22,” said Mr. Muralishankar. SAF has units in five locations in Chennai and an assembly unit inAndhra Pradesh. The new plant is being built with a view to bring all its assembly lines under one roof and make products for the defence sector, according to Mr. Muralishankar. Currently, 95% of the output is for auto component makers and 5% for power transmission. Over 70% of products are exported to the U.S. and the Europe. Stating that SAF had returned to about 80% of last year’s production in August, Mr. Muralishankar said the firm ended FY20 with sales of Rs. 700 crore and plans to take it to Rs. 1,200 crore in the next couple of years. Overall, SAF employs about 1,500 people and the new unit will provide direct employment to 500 people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/super-auto-to-re-enter-defence/article32556526.ece
09 September 2020||Chennai,||Ram J. Shahaney: A man who had ‘the audacity to dream big’||When Ram J. Shahaney, who passed away in Chennai on Tuesday aged 89, took over as Ashok Leyland Ltd.’s (ALL) first Indian Managing Director in 1978, ‘control raj’ was in full flow in India. It was particularly difficult for ALL to expand as it was a foreign company by definition (British Leyland held the majority stake). One of Shahaney’s first moves was to expand the capacity to 40,000 trucks. As the parent firm was not ready to invest, he got it to cut its stake and found innovative ways to raise resources for the expansion. “He had the audacity to dream big,” recalled R. Seshasayee who followed in Shahaney’s footsteps to lead ALL. “It was not easy in those days to negotiate with the labyrinth of government without straying from the path of rectitude. He was adept at that,” he adds about his boss for 30 years. He took ALL into the defence sector as he saw it as an opportunity to de-risk the business. “Under his able leadership, we expanded our footprint,” said ALL Chairman Dheeraj Hinduja. At the same time, he put his foot down when proposals came for ALL’s entry into the car business. He never saw merit in it. “Ram Shahaney literally laid the foundation for modern Ashok Leyland. He completely changed the culture in terms of technology, processes, sales, etc.,” said Venu Srinivasan, Chairman, TVS Motor Company. “Ram has been a great champion for the industry,” said Suresh Krishna, Chairman, Sundram Fasteners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ram-j-shahaney-a-man-who-had-the-audacity-to-dream-big/article32556528.ece
09 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Life insurers’ August first premium income up 15%||Life insurers have posted an almost 15% rise in first-year premium in August thus building on the growth momentum of the previous month after a dismal first quarter this fiscal. Together, they mobilised Rs. 27,039.8 crore or 14.8% more than the year-earlier period, according to the new business statement of life insurance companies released the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI). Powering the performance was Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) with a 15.19% growth to Rs. 19,714 crore premium. It was the first month this fiscal when the public sector behemoth had posted a growth in the first year premium. The 23 private life insurers registered a first-year premium of Rs. 7,325.6 crore or 13.74% more compared with August 2019. However, the performance of all life insurers during the first five months of this fiscal is yet to recover from the reverses suffered during the lockdown. Up to August, the first year premium stands at Rs. 99,361 crore, a decline of 6%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/life-insurers-august-first-premium-income-up-15/article32556516.ece
09 September 2020||Mumbai,||Bharat Dynamics crashes 14% as govt. divests stake||Shares of public sector undertaking Bharat Dynamics Ltd. plunged 13.9% to Rs. 331.15 a share on the BSE as the Union government began the process of divesting a further 15% stake in the PSU through an offer-for-sale (OFS) at a floor price of Rs. 330 per share. Prior to the OFS, which will continue on Wednesday, the government had an 87.75% stake. The company went public in May 2018 at an offer price of Rs. 428. Aligned to OFS price “The current market price of [Rs. 331.15] is aligned to the OFS price. The drop in stock price was bound to happen, as the OFS is coming at a discount to CMP,” said Arjun Mahajan, head-Institutional at Reliance Securities. “For the retail investor, there is a further discount of Rs. 20 and thus it may be worth considering. Defence is a focus sector and such opportunities should be considered for investors who have a long-term investment horizon,” added Mr. Mahajan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bharat-dynamics-crashes-14-as-govt-divests-stake/article32556518.ece
09 September 2020||Bengaluru,||FM vows to address coffee sector’s issues||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday assured growers that she would address the coffee sector’s problems. “I know the coffee sector has been going through a bad phase for several years in succession,” she said. “The sector suffered three years of drought, followed by two years of floods and this year, the pandemic hit the industry badly,” she said during a virtual conference organised by coffee associations. The associations highlighted the severe financial distress in the industry. “To add to that, the pandemic hit us, disrupting almost all activities,” said Coffee Board chairman Boje Gowda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fm-vows-to-address-coffee-sectors-issues/article32556521.ece
09 September 2020||New delhi,||Reliance unveils O2C hive-off details||Reliance Industries Ltd.’s new oil-to-chemical (O2C) business unit will hold its oil refinery and petrochemical assets and retail fuel business but not upstream oil and gas producing fields such as KG-D6 and textiles business, the firm said . RIL has started work on hiving off the O2C into a separate unit for possible stake sale to firms. Reliance O2C Ltd. will house oil refining and petrochemical plants, manufacturing assets, bulk and wholesale fuel marketing and RIL’s 51% interest in retail fuel joint venture with BP, according to the Scheme of Arrangement. RIL values the O2C business at $75 billion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/reliance-unveils-o2c-hive-off-details/article32556533.ece
09 September 2020||Mumbai,||‘Borrowings by States soar 51% to Rs. 2.97 lakh cr.’||The pandemic-stricken States have borrowed a whopping Rs. 2.97 lakh crore so far this financial year, which is as much as 51% more than the corresponding period a year earlier. But, the massive spike is led by just three States — Karnataka, which borrowed Rs. 23,000 crore, 475% more than last year’s Rs. 4,000 crore; Maharashtra borrowed 200% more at Rs. 37,500 crore as against Rs. 12,500 crore last year; and Tamil Nadu borrowed Rs. 46,000 crore or 117% over Rs. 21,190 crore of last year. This means that these 3 States contributed as much as 38% of the total incremental borrowing by the States so far this fiscal, according to domestic rating agency CARE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/borrowings-by-states-soar-51-to-rs-297-lakh-cr/article32556534.ece
09 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Marelli awards multi-year global automotive software engineering contract to Wipro||Technology firm Wipro and Italian supplier to the auto sector, Marelli, have entered into a multi-year global agreement for automotive engineering services. Wipro said it would leverage its EngineeringNXT framework and automotive engineering expertise to establish a software engineering factory for Marelli. It would also help improve Marelli’s operational efficiency, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/marelli-awards-multi-year-global-automotive-software-engineering-contract-to-wipro/article32556520.ece
09 September 2020||Mumbai,||Piaggio India enters scooter leasing with OTO||Piaggio India, in a tie up with OTO Capital, has forayed into vehicle leasing for its Vespa and Aprilia range of scooters in Pune and Bengaluru. Diego Graffi, CMD, Piaggio India, said, “Now, customers can enjoy interesting ownership options across our premium offerings. We see flexible ownership to be a desirable trend among [Indian] youth and we believe Vespa and Aprilia would lead it to extend the premium experience to the aspirants”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/piaggio-india-enters-scooter-leasing-with-oto/article32556519.ece
09 September 2020||MUMBAI,||Stock Holding Corporation bags approval to set-up Custodial Services at GIFT IFSC||Stock Holding Corporation of India has received an approval from GIFT SEZ Authority to start its custody operations in the International Financial Services Centre (IFSC) at GIFT City, in Gujarat. Stock Holding has assets under custody to the tune of $540 billion with over 22% market share.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/stock-holding-corporation-bags-approval-to-set-up-custodial-services-at-gift-ifsc/article32556522.ece
09 September 2020||New Delhi,||Govt to sell 15-20 pc stake in IRCTC via OFS||The government plans to sell about 15-20% stake in IRCTC via offer-for-sale (OFS) and would like to complete the transaction in minimum number of tranches. “The indicative percentage is 15% to 20%. The exact details will be shared with the selected merchant bankers,” DIPAM said. The government currently holds 87.40% stake in IRCTC.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-to-sell-15-20-pc-stake-in-irctc-via-ofs/article32556532.ece
09 September 2020||New York,||Mertens ousts Kenin; Thiem advances||Serena Williams battled into the quarterfinals of the US Open on Monday as top men's seeds Dominic Thiem and Daniil Medvedev sailed through to the last eight at Flushing Meadows. After Serena kept her bid for a record-equalling 24th Grand Slam singles title alive, second seed Sofia Kenin was sent crashing out of the last 16 by Belgium’s Elise Mertens. Serena had to summon up every last ounce of strength to overcome 15th seed Maria Sakkari in three hard-fought sets. The 38-year-old American needed almost two-and-a-half hours to dislodge her 25-year-old Greek opponent 6-3, 6-7(6), 6-3. There was little separating the players throughout the energy-sapping contest, with Serena notching up 107 total points to Sakkari's 99. Serena won 72% of points off her first serve while Sakkari won 73%. Sakkari also outdid Serena on aces, 13 to 12. The American will play Tsvetana Pironkova for a place in the semifinals after the Bulgarian ousted France's Alize Cornet in another draining three-setter. Pironkova, playing her first tournament in three years after a lengthy break in which she gave birth to her son, prevailed 6-4, 6-7(5), 6-3. Mertens ousted Kenin, this year's Australian Open champion, 6-3, 6-3 in one hour and 14 minutes to set up a last-eight tie with former World No. 1 Victoria Azarenka. The Belarusian overcame 20th seed Karolina Muchova of the Czech Republic 5-7, 6-1, 6-4 in two hours and 30 minutes. Cruising home In the men's draw, second-seeded Thiem raced into the round of eight with a three-set demolition of Canadian Felix Auger-Aliassime. Thiem dismantled the 20-year-old 15th seed 7-6(4), 6-1, 6-1 in two hours and seven minutes. He will play Australia's 21st seed Alex de Minaur for a spot in the semifinals after the Australian breezed past unseeded Canadian Vasek Pospisil 7-6(6), 6-3, 6-2. Third seed Medvedev blew away unseeded American Frances Tiafoe 6-4, 6-1, 6-0 in only one hour and 38 minutes. Medvedev will face compatriot Andrey Rublev for a spot in the last four after the 10th seed stunned Italy's sixth seed Matteo Berrettini 4-6, 6-3, 6-3, 6-3.  Serena notched up 107 total points to Sakkari’s 99. She won 72% of points off her first serve while Sakkari won 73%. Sakkari also outdid Serena on aces, 13 to 12||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mertens-ousts-kenin-thiem-advances/article32556686.ece
09 September 2020||September 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Safety comes at a price, and we must pay it||Last week, a Bob Willis Trophy cricket match between Northamptonshire and Gloucestershire was abandoned in England after a Northants player (not playing in the match) returned a positive test for COVID-19. He had been in touch with two members of the squad. This is the price sport has to pay. Player safety is of the highest priority, and no team or tournament can afford to get it wrong. Crucial This is unlikely to be the first cricket match to be called off this season for this reason. It is crucial that every time such a situation occurs, a match, no matter how important or how exciting or how necessary for us to feel ‘normal’, is abandoned. The Willis Trophy matches are not played in a bio-secure environment, as the international series in England were, and the IPL will be, but if there is the slightest chance of the virus spreading, then tests, contact tracing and quarantine, painful as these are, have to be gone through. And the match itself will have to be stopped. Most organisers are aware of this. That is why tournaments have strict protocols, and no individual is seen as greater than either the game or COVID-19. Empty stadium scenario The other unusual price sport is paying – empty stadiums – is something sportsmen are getting used to. To watch an IPL match even on television, without its raucous noise-makers and over-excited fans and commentators, will be a new experience for the viewer. How will the quintessential IPL commentator, all shouts and screams, bulging eyes and mobile face, manage? It may be easier to play before empty stadiums than to create excitement through high-pitched commentary. Especially if the commentators call the game from a studio. But, as with everything else, we will get used to all this. I don’t know if the organisers are planning to telecast crowd noises and cheers, as has been attempted at matches before. But in T20, all noises are welcome, even necessary. Silence is the enemy of the well-struck six. That ear-splitting trumpet at the matches, so often so irritating, has become an integral part of the IPL. Signature tune It is the tournament’s signature tune. It might be unnerving to watch a telecast of an empty stadium making so much noise, but memory will fill in the details. When the sport itself is a new format of an established game, surely we can have a new format of an established audience? It will be interesting to see how such creative challenges are met. For that has been the essence of T20 cricket – its ability to absorb and popularise what would be out of place in the longer format.  The tournament has put in place extensive rules for dealing with COVID-19. The “if this, then that…” list is a step-by-step guide, and covers most situations. The success of the bio-secure bubble during the international series in England might be a cause for confidence, especially if those who break the bubble are dealt with unsentimentally. Too much is at stake. A third price sport may be paying is something that cannot be calculated immediately. Just how all the isolation, the bubble, the distancing – all antithetical to the sporting ethos – will affect a player psychologically will be known only much later. Sport is a social activity, both outside the self, as when a performance arouses other players and the audience, and within, when it enhances self-worth. A large part of it is communal celebration. Divorce sport from its social setting and something important goes missing. Safety norms Every aspect of our lives has changed owing to the pandemic – the numbers are rising faster in India than anywhere else – and cricketers can communicate the safety norms to their audience more effectively than politicians have been able to so far. The IPL has a large audience, and this year, with very few alternatives to it either on television or outside the homes, it might be larger still. Television should make use of this opportunity to emphasise the three most important weapons we have in the fight against COVID-19: mask-wearing, hand-washing and social distancing. Sending a message It would be a pity if the players functioned in their bubble, and the rest of us did in ours without the message that we are all in this together, that we owe it to ourselves to stay safe. Safety norms cannot be emphasised often enough. A Mahendra Singh Dhoni or a Rohit Sharma repeating them can only create greater awareness. And greater compliance. The IPL is not a testimony to what we once hoped it would be – a return to normalcy in our lives. But it might be a peep into the kind of routine we will have to learn to live with for a while: life goes on, but only if we allow it to.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/safety-comes-at-a-price-and-we-must-pay-it/article32556684.ece
09 September 2020||AMSTERDAM,||Barella does it for Italy||Italy returned to winning ways as Nicolo Barella’s header just before halftime secured a 1-0 victory away to a below-par Netherlands in their Nations League clash at an empty Johan Cruyff Arena on Monday. Italy showed the greater urgency and quality throughout and was full value for the win that follows Friday’s disappointing 1-1 home draw with Bosnia in which its 11-match winning run came to a surprise end. It was a first loss for Netherlands interim manager Dwight Lodeweges in his second game in charge after replacing Ronald Koeman and he will be concerned at the limp display from his side, which rarely threatened the visitors’ goal. In the other match in the pool, Poland claimed a 2-1 victory at Bosnia & Herzegovina. Italy heads the League A Group 1 standings with four points from two games, followed by Netherlands and Poland, which have three points each, and Bosnia with one.  The results:   League A: Group 1: Bosnia & Herzegovina 1 (Hajradinovic 24-pen) lost to Poland 2 (Glik 45, Grosicki 67), Netherlands 0 lost to Italy 1 (Barella 45+1).   League B: Group 1: Northern Ireland 1 (McNair 6) lost to Norway 5 (Elyounoussi 2, Haaland 7, 58, Sorloth 19, 47), Austria 2 (Baumgartner 17, Onisiwo 81) lost to Romania 3 (Alibec 3, Grigore 51, Maxim 70); Group 2: Israel 1 (Elmkies 90+1) drew with Slovakia 1 (Duris 14), Czech Republic 1 (Pesek 12) lost to Scotland 2 (Dykes 27, Christie 52-pen).   League C: Group 4: Kazakhstan 1 (Aimbetov 63) lost to Belarus 2 (Bordachev 54, Lisakovich 87); Albania 0 lost to Lithuania 1 (D. Kazlauskas 51) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/barella-does-it-for-italy/article32556668.ece
09 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Jeevan biding his time||Some of the leading Indian tennis players find themselves gainfully employed in tournaments in Europe and the US, but Jeevan Nedunchezhiyan is in no hurry to return to the circuit. “It became an easy decision for me personally as I know that I need to be here to give the family resort a stronger foundation in Pondicherry, to reopen post the lockdown,” said the 31-year-old. He was busy last year, competing in Challengers with Sriram Balaji and in the Davis Cup tie against Pakistan with Leander Paes. “I have been travelling for about 30 weeks every year since finishing college in the University of Washington in 2011. I learnt from the sport of tennis that sometimes we need to embrace the uncertainty and go with the flow,” he said. Jeevan’s wife, golfer Neha, will soon start training, after six months of spending time together. “Neha is preparing to train in Chandigarh to have a strong start once golf tournaments begin again at home. We are both very supportive about our career and decisions which helps us beyond what I can put in words. We are also very fitness-oriented by nature and have stayed fit through the long break,” he said. With a property spread over 30 acres in Puducherry, Jeevan is actually toying with the idea of having a tennis centre, hosting national and international tournaments. “It is something I would love to organise and bring into reality. This requires a lot of funding for the plan to work. If a tennis lover who wants to be the saviour of the Indian tournament structure can collaborate with me, I would be open to the idea of tennis at the resort,” said Jeevan. Till then, Jeevan is happy hosting ‘Gamenight with Jee’, the show on Instagram that binds the tennis and sporting community in a fun way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jeevan-biding-his-time/article32556831.ece
09 September 2020||CHENNAI,||ISL: Chennaiyin and Jeje to part ways||Chennaiyin FC on Tuesday announced that striker Jeje Lalpekhlua will leave the club after six successful years. Jeje departs as the most-capped Chennaiyin player, having made 76 appearances. The club announced that Lucian Goian too will leave the club. Fondly called the Mizo Sniper, Jeje leaves as Chennaiyin’s leading goal-scorer in all competitions with 25 goals to his name. He led the line to great effect at CFC and was pivotal to the club’s ISL triumphs in 2015 and 2017-18. “This is the club that gave me my first steps into the ISL nd it is because of this club that I am who I am today,” said Jeje on his Twitter handle. He received the 2015 ISL Emerging Player award in recognition of his talent. His best season was the 2017-18 ISL campaign where he scored nine goals and had an assist to help CFC clinch its second title. “Jeje will always be synonymous with Chennaiyin FC,” said the CFC co-owners in a joint statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/isl-chennaiyin-and-jeje-to-part-ways/article32556725.ece
09 September 2020||Dubai,||I feel quite strong: Rabada||A lengthy layoff has recharged his batteries and now, South African speedster Kagiso Rabada wants to log as many overs as possible in training to make sure that he hasn’t “forgotten how to bowl” ahead of the IPL starting this month. The Delhi Capitals pacer, who completed his quarantine on Monday, is happy to be up and running with his teammates with an aim to better the third place finish from the previous edition. Delhi will face Kings XI Punjab in its opening match here on September 20. “It feels good to be running in, and to be with some teammates as well. It is of course some old teammates and some new ones,” he said after his first nets session with the franchise this season. “I feel quite strong. I think I just need to bowl more, and make sure I haven’t forgotten how to bowl (laughs). I need to keep up with the bowling practice, but otherwise I feel healthy,” Rabada was quoted as saying in a media release issued by the franchise. Speaking on the prospect of playing after having been off competition for the last five months due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Rabada said it was a unique moment for everyone to be playing again now. “This (situation) is quite unique. We’re in the middle of a desert, playing cricket — it’s something that I didn’t think I would ever be able to do. So it’s a lot of fun also.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-feel-quite-strong-rabada/article32556682.ece
09 September 2020||Chennai,||Sharath and Sathiyan among WC reserves||India’s top paddlers Sharath Kamal and G. Sathiyan have been included as reserves in the men’s World Cup (November 13 to 15) and ITTF finals (Nov. 19 to 22) in the city of Weihai (Shandong province, China). Sharath and Sathiyan are ranked 31 and 32 in the world. “We got the official mail from TTFI (Table Tennis Federation of India) today [Sept. 8], but I am yet to take a decision. I will soon write to the world body (International Table Tennis Federation). I heard that they (ITTF) are creating a bio-bubble which means we have to be there well in advance. We have to get the visa first and the flights have to be available. Let’s hope for the best,” Sharath told The Hindu here on Tuesday. Unfair Sharath insisted that it is unfair on the part of ITTF to unfreeze the world rankings for top players (the top 20 in the world will take part in the World Cup with two from each country) in November as it will impact the lower-ranked players who haven’t got a chance to play thus far. “And what if we don’t get an opportunity to play at the World Cup and ITTF finals. Our health is also at risk given the pandemic,” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sharath-and-sathiyan-among-wc-reserves/article32556728.ece
09 September 2020||September 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Frames from the Gulf||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/frames-from-the-gulf/article32556667.ece
09 September 2020||September 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Getting rid of sins||Vishnu dharma consists of the advice and guidelines given to King Sataneeka by sage Saunaka. He describes different types of daana which can be given, how to give daana and who are deserving enough to be the recipients of daana. Why is daana important? There are many mistakes that we make in life, some of them knowingly and some unknowingly. And for each, naturally, there are consequences. How do we atone for our sins? One way is to recite the Purushasuktam forty times. Other ways to get rid of sins would be through observing mouna vrata, through daana, through fasting, through aradhana and through bathing in sacred rivers, said Velukkudi Krishnan in a discourse. When we do a wicked or wrong deed, it gets registered with Bhagavan. We earn His displeasure with such acts. But just as wrong actions lead to His anger, our good acts earn for us His anugraha. His anger is erased only by His mercy. So if one chooses daana as a means of atonement, how does one give daana? Let us suppose a man asks for daana, but we are fonder of another man who has not asked for anything. So instead of giving to the man in need, we give to the one we like, although he needs no help. This is a sin. It is all right for us to give to both. But to give to one and exclude the needy man is sinful. Suppose a Veda parayana is arranged in one’s house. It is possible that as the pandits are preparing to come, a poor pandit joins them in the hope of receiving some reward. We might have arranged only for a certain number of pandits. But if we turn away the extra man who has turned up, it would count as a sin. He has come along only because he has the need for the sambhavana. To deny him sambhavana ensures naraka for a person.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/getting-rid-of-sins/article32556619.ece
09 September 2020||September 09 2020 09:33 IST,||Sudoku - September 9, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-september-9-2020/article32558037.ece
09 September 2020||September 09 2020 00:00 IST,||A musical conglomerate||Environment activist and Grammy award winner Ricky Kej did not pause during the lockdown. He is releasing his music album EK of 12 songs that carry the message of environmental consciousness. Since the first song ‘Jaago’ released on August 5, six songs have been released. The songs have been sung by popular artistes like Grammy winners Wouter Kellerman, Baaba Maal, Senegal, Grammy nominee Lonnie Park, Shankar Mahadevan, Kailash Kher, Udit Narayan, Aditya Narayan, Salim Merchant, Benny Dayal, Jonita Gandhi, Neeti Mohan, Anushka Manchanda, Andrea Jeremiah, Khatija AR Rahman, and a few others. Excerpts from an interview: How did EK come about? I have always been a strong conservationist and environmentalist, along with being a musician. It was through music that I fell in love with our natural world and I find a deep connectionbetween music and Nature. I do all I can to create awareness about the environment and positive social impact through my music. All the songs in EK are entertaining, fun, and yet drive home an important message. Mainstream artistes have the power to make a massive difference through their immense talent and reach, and this album will bring the topic of environmental sustainability to the forefront. I am a huge fan of all of the artistes featured, and I was thrilled to have an opportunity to work with them. The experience of creating the album was definitely not what we are used to, all of us recorded our portions in our own homes and everything was done virtually because of the lockdown. However, the album has turned out much more beautiful than I could ever imagine, and I enjoyed this experience thoroughly. Twelve songs and nearly 25 artistes — how did the process happen?  All the vocalists on this album are on the top of their game; legends like Shankar Mahadevan, Udit Narayan and Kailash Kher have been in the industry for decades. Most of the songs were written in Hindi by my friend IP Singh and we wrote them keeping our ‘Dream Singers’ in mind. With the help of our artist manager Nazeef Mohamed and his production team BToS, we managed to get the exact same singers we had in mind to record the song! Although all the songs are about the environment, every one of the vocalists on this album have brought their unique artistry and emotions to powerfully convey what our planet means to us. It comes across beautifully in all of these songs. I actually did not have to do any guiding. Each of these artistes cares deeply about the environment and their fellow human beings. They were filled with talent and soul to convey these messages through their voice. Do you voice your thoughts on environment outside music as well?  My life is about the environment and sustainability, musically and otherwise. I work closely with global organisations and serve as an ambassador and supporter for UNCCD, UNESCO — MGIEP, UNICEF India, Earth Day Network etc. I am a strong advocate of the Sustainable Development Goals of the UN. I have worked with multiple State governments too like the Government of Andhra Pradesh. Only when people start acknowledging an issue and start a dialogue to solve it, will a solution come. My aim is to inspire this dialogue through my music and advocacy.  I do not own a car and use only public transportation, I do not subscribe to fast fashion and own only 11 sets of clothes at a time, and buy clothes that lasts a long time, I am a vegetarian and also have my carbon footprint audited every quarter and offset by planting trees and investing in renewable energy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-musical-conglomerate/article32557005.ece
09 September 2020||September 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Vishnu, Jwala get engaged||Badminton player Jwala Gutta got engaged to Kollywood actor Vishnu Vishal recently. The celebrity couple has been dating for a while now, and made their relationship public on social media around two years ago. The Kollywood actor proposed to the badminton player in Hyderabad on the occasion of her 37th birthday. Vishnu and Jwala are expected to hold a close-knit wedding soon. On the work front, Vishnu will be next seen in the thriller FIR, which is touted to revolve around a person whose life is derailed into confusion as he gets caught up in a series of unfortunate incidents. The film also stars Manjima Mohan, Raiza Wilson and Reba Monica John.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/vishnu-jwala-get-engaged/article32557003.ece
09 September 2020||New Delhi,||As testing crosses 40K, city records 3,609 cases||With the Capital reporting a record number of COVID-19 tests, 3,609 new cases were added to its tally in the past 24 hours — taking the total number of cases to 1,97,135 on Tuesday. This is the highest number of cases reported in the city in 77 days; but 45,797 tests were done in the past 24 hours, which is the highest since the virus outbreak. This is the first time the number of tests has crossed the 40,000 mark in the city. As Delhi was witnessing an uptick in the COVID-19 cases, the CM on August 26 had announced that the number of daily tests will be doubled from 20,000 to 40,000 in a week, to control the spike. In July, the average daily tests were around 20,000 and were even lesser in June when the highest number of cases, 3,947, was reported. Also, 19 more deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths to 4,618. Of the total cases, 1,70,140 people have recovered and there are 22,377 active cases. “Wherever there are about three-four COVID-19 cases, we are making it into a containment zone, so that a positive person is isolated and the area is also cordoned off. This is being done to help prevent the virus from spreading,” said Health Minister Satyendar Jain. He said there is a surge in the number of new cases as testing has gone up substantially. The government is conducting about 40,000 tests daily, he said, adding that the positivity rate (number of positive cases for every 100 tests) is still less compared with June and the figure stands at under 10. Out of the total 14,202 beds available for COVID-19 treatment, 8,788 (61.8%) were vacant, as per government data on Tuesday. Also, there were 1,166 containment zones in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/as-testing-crosses-40k-city-records-3609-cases/article32556865.ece
09 September 2020||New Delhi,||CM launches online portal for filing of consumer complaints||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday inaugurated the government’s online portal for e-filing of consumers’ complaints. He said Delhi is the first State to have this system. Accessible via delhistatecommission.nic.in, the software has been developed by National Informatic Centre (NIC) in coordination with State Bank of India, which is providing payment gateway for payment of fees digitally. The Delhi State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (DSCDRC) decided to launch the portal for the convenience of consumers especially due to the pandemic. Mr. Kejriwal said while the government is encouraging people to stay indoors during the pandemic, the online complaint filing system will prove to be an essential step towards supporting its efforts. “I am happy that the system of e-filing of consumer complaints is beginning today [Tuesday]. Delhi is the first State to have launched such a system to provide convenience to the citizens. In the last five years, the government has conducted many new experiments and taken many steps which have been discussed nationally and internationally,” he said. “This is a convenient step for the citizens, they do not need to visit offices, be it an advocate or an ordinary citizen, anyone can file their complaint at the comfort of their homes with 24x7 access and no time limits. The payments can be done online... ,” he added. According to the government, there are multi-fold benefits of this system, which include ensuring a transparent and hassle-free system for the consumers, enabling modes of digital payment for contactless transactions, ease of digitization of documents, easy tracking of consumer applications, and 24x7 access to the portal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cm-launches-online-portal-for-filing-of-consumer-complaints/article32556855.ece
09 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Prescription not a must for COVID-19 testing’||In wake of the rising number of COVID-19 cases here, the Delhi High Court on Tuesday said doctor’s prescription is not required for testing and asked private laboratories here to allow 2,000 tests per day. A Bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad also clarified that people need to carry Aadhaar card for Delhi address proof and fill a form as prescribed by the Indian Council of Medical Research for the testing. Till now, it was mandatory for a person to have a doctor’s prescription or symptoms to get tested for the virus. The Bench said doctor’s prescription is not mandatory from now for those who are voluntarily going for RT-PCR test to detect COVID-19 infection. The government, during the hearing, said it was mulling over the issue of allowing RT-PCR tests without prescription and needed a week to take a decision. The Bench, however, said it was of the opinion that the situation does not call for any delay. It said that private labs should prioritise the results of testing samples sent to them by the government and thereafter give reports. Testing camps The court was informed that two mobile vans are deputed in each district in Delhi for testing. The government said COVID-19 testing camps have been set up at ISBTs in Anand Vihar, Sarai Kale Khan and Kashmiri Gate and Hazrat Nizamuddin railway station and New Delhi railway station. The court also said the DMRC should advertise about nearby COVID-19 testing camps at prominent spots near the entry and exit area of the stations. It said this information should also be uploaded on the government’s website for the convenience of citizens. It also directed the government to place on record the third sero survey report along with a fresh status report before the next date of hearing on September 16. The court was hearing a petition by advocate Rakesh Malhotra seeking more testing and speedy results.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/prescription-not-a-must-for-covid-19-testing/article32556852.ece
09 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cat that went missing from aircraft at Delhi airport reunited with owner||A pet cat ‘Nala’, which was lost during transit at the Indira Gandhi International Airport, was found on Tuesday after a four-day search operation. The owner of the cat, Aastha Shah, was a passenger on board an Air India flight from Bengaluru to Delhi and had checked in her two pet cats that were being carried in pet carriers. The eight-month-old cat somehow managed to escape from the pet carrier in the cargo compartment of the aircraft and slipped out, sending airport officials on a search of the entire expanse of airport. Wildlife SOS, an NGO that was called in by the airport authorities to help find the cat, said that the passenger was inconsolable on learning about the loss of her pet cat and cancelled her onward travel to Ahmedabad and stayed back in Delhi. “We placed food bait at several locations across the airport to lure the missing cat. After four days of search, she was found hiding in a cargo hold area. It took several hours to ease out the terrified and hungry cat from its hiding place before being reunited with her owner,” a spokesperson from the NGO said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cat-that-went-missing-from-aircraft-at-delhi-airport-reunited-with-owner/article32556860.ece
09 September 2020||New Delhi,||HC rejects Khalid’s plea||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday rejected plea of Umar Khalid, held in connection with the north-east Delhi riots case, challenging a trial court’s order extending the time granted to complete investigation in the case. Mr. Khalid, a member of the campaign group United Against Hate, has been booked under the UAPA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-rejects-khalids-plea/article32556848.ece
09 September 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. begins outreach programme to sensitise people about safety measures||The Delhi government has begun an outreach programme aimed at sensitising citizens about precautionary measures to prevent the spread of the virus. The programme will feature Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal appealing to the people to wear masks and follow social distancing norms. Chief Minister calls The Chief Minister’s calls will be received by one crore people in Delhi, the government said. He will also reach out to the people on how to avoid the infection and take precautions through mediums such as radio, TV, outdoor hoardings and digital communication mediums. According to the government, the virus situation in Delhi was under control but cases had been increasing due to the increased testing and negligence of some people. Mr. Kejriwal wants Delhi to “remain an ideal model” to fight the pandemic, the government said. “Owing to this, an awareness campaign to establish a direct dialogue has been launched. Mr. Kejriwal said some people have become careless...they are not wearing masks while exiting their houses, not following social distancing, and are not even getting tested,” the government said. “Mr. Kejriwal has appealed to the people of Delhi to take an oath to wear masks whenever they step out of their houses and follow social distancing,” it also said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-begins-outreach-programme-to-sensitise-people-about-safety-measures/article32556863.ece
09 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab allows pvt. hospitals to conduct rapid testing||The Punjab government on Tuesday announced that it has decided to allow private hospitals, clinics and labs to conduct Rapid Antigen Testing (RAT) for COVID-19 after getting empanelled with district health authorities. Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said guidelines have been issued to all the Deputy Commissioners and civil surgeons regarding allowing RAT for COVID-19 by private health establishments. Free kits “RAT kits would be provided free of cost by the department. The civil surgeons will empanel those private hospitals, clinics and labs that are willing to get empanelled for offering testing by RAT kits,” he said. The Minister said private hospitals and labs can charge maximum Rs. 250 from the patients in case the kits have been provided by the health department. Punjab recorded 1,964 fresh COVID-19 cases on September 8 and reported 67 deaths, taking the tally to 1,990, according to an official statement. Eighty-seven patients are on ventilator while 633 on oxygen support, the bulletin said. A total of 12,41,120 samples have been collected for testing so far in the State, it said. The number of positive cases has reached 67,547. The major chunk of new cases, 311 and 265, were reported from Ludhiana and Jalandhar districts respectively. The health department said active cases are 16,230 and 49,327 patients have so far recovered. Tuesday’s figures are the second-highest daily count in the State, which had reported its highest 2,110 cases on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/punjab-allows-pvt-hospitals-to-conduct-rapid-testing/article32556841.ece
09 September 2020||New Delhi,||Salaries not paid in time to health workers: plea||A petition before Delhi High Court has alleged irregularity in timely payment of salaries to auxiliary nurse midwives, lady health visitors and public health nurses working in the dispensaries, maternity homes and child welfare centres run by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan, which the petition was listed on Tuesday, recused from hearing it and directed that it be listed before another Bench. Registered trade union — Hospital Employees’ Union — in its petition claimed that despite the nurses working on the frontlines ever since the virus outbreak, they have not been paid their salaries on time. The union has contended that many of the nurses, who have been working tirelessly, and their family members have been infected with COVID-19 and they have been facing difficulties in arranging funds for treatment. The plea also sought directions to the corporation and the Delhi government to pay the salaries for the months of May to August of the auxiliary nurse midwives, lady health visitors and public health nurses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/salaries-not-paid-in-time-to-health-workers-plea/article32556849.ece
09 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||No FIR filed against me, says lawyer||Advocate Mehmood Pracha, who has been appearing on behalf of accused and complainants in several Delhi riot cases, said on Tuesday that no First information report (FIR) had been registered against him. He was reacting to a report published in these columns on September 8. Delhi Police has registered an FIR on the direction of a court to probe allegations of forgery. “No FIR has been registered against me. The FIR, based on the orders of the honourable Judge, was registered against unknown persons,” said Mr. Pracha. “Even the order of the honourable Judge does not disclose any offence committed by me. Though my name is prominently mentioned in the order, the entire order does not disclose commission of any offence by me,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-fir-filed-against-me-says-lawyer/article32556857.ece
09 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Two held for abusing woman||Two persons have been arrested for allegedly outraging the modesty of a 26-year-old woman in a night shelter in south-east Delhi’s Hazrat Nizamuddin, police said on Tuesday. A senior police officer said that the accused have been identified as supervisor Rajesh and a security guard Abdul Gaffar. Police said that the woman approached them on September 2. She stated that she has been living in the night shelter for the last 10 months and the accused outraged her modesty after which a case was registered under Sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of the IPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-held-for-abusing-woman/article32556858.ece
09 September 2020||New Delhi,||Cong., AAP govts. used JJ residents as vote bank: BJP||The BJP on Tuesday accused the successive Congress and AAP governments of having used the people residing in the slums here “only as a vote bank” during their tenures. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta alleged the Congress had in 2008 initiated the Rajiv Ratna Awas Yojana under which 60,000 houses were to be given to slum-dwellers but were not. As many as 52,000 of these had been constructed but lying vacant and should be allotted to residents of slums, which will be cleared from Railways’ land, he said. “As many as 2,77,518 applications were submitted by the people living in slums and they also paid a fee of Rs. 100 for each application but the Congress did not fulfill its promise of allotment of the houses,” Mr. Gupta said. “In the past 6 years, the Delhi government had not taken any step in this direction,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cong-aap-govts-used-jj-residents-as-vote-bank-bjp/article32556862.ece
09 September 2020||GUWAHATI,||Meghalaya may get rail connectivity||Meghalaya may not want to remain the only State to miss out on the Railway Ministry’s plan for linking all State capitals with railway tracks by 2023. ‘No passenger train’ But political parties have a condition — only goods service will be allowed since the NGOs in the State think passenger trains will lead to an influx of outsiders. “We shall put pressure on the State government for a goods train to Shillong. But we honour the sentiments of the people against introduction of passenger trains,” BJP State president Ernest Mawrie said. However, United Democratic Party general secretary Jemino Mawthoh said, “Our stand is very clear, passenger trains are a no unless there is a proper mechanism in place to check influx of illegal migrants.” The UDP and the BJP are part of the Meghalaya Democratic Alliance government headed by the National People’s Party. The Khasi Students’ Union and other organisations have been opposing plans to connecting Meghalaya, specifically the western half leading to Shillong, with railways. Their contention has been that it would be difficult to check the inflow of “unwanted outsiders” by train unlike in vehicles on the highways.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/meghalaya-may-get-rail-connectivity/article32556840.ece
09 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man arrested for firing outside shop||A 40-year-old man was arrested for allegedly firing outside a shop in central Delhi’s Chandni Mahal area on Monday night, the police said on Tuesday. DCP (Central) Sanjay Bhatia said that the accused has been identified as Aarif, a resident of Kalyanpuri. Aslam who runs a shop stated that two rounds were fired outside his shop. The accused allegedly told the police that he wanted to intimidate the victim because they had an old rivalry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-arrested-for-firing-outside-shop/article32556851.ece
09 September 2020||New Delhi,||Amanatullah Khan elected unopposed as Delhi Waqf Board member||AAP legislator from Okhla constituency Amanatullah Khan was on Tuesday elected unopposed as a member of the Delhi Waqf Board. Mr. Khan was the only candidate in the election of member (MLA) post. With his election as a member of the Board, Mr. Khan is likely to return as chairman of the panel for the third time in a row.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/amanatullah-khan-elected-unopposed-as-delhi-waqf-board-member/article32556856.ece
09 September 2020||New Delhi,||Sidharth - SDMC||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation will allow the use of open spaces abutting restaurants and terraces as service areas, Standing Committee chairperson Raj Dutt Ghelot said on Tuesday. Permission for serving food in such a setting will be given following submission of structural safety certificates by the restaurants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sidharth-sdmc/article32556861.ece
09 September 2020||New Delhi,||Limited hearings to continue: HC||Delhi High Court Chief Justice D.N. Patel on Tuesday said the limited physical hearings started in the court recently would be continued till the pandemic situation normalises. The Chief Justice said: “Once things have started in this court, they are not going to be stopped. We will not start and close like the other High Courts...”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/limited-hearings-to-continue-hc/article32556850.ece
