14 September 2020||New Delhi,||Status quo on LAC after Jaishankar-Wang meet||There is a freeze on all movement and activities along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh after External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar met his Chinese counterpart, Wang Yi, in Moscow on September 10 and agreed on a five-point solution to ease the border tension. A senior government official told The Hindu that status quo is being maintained by the Indian and Chinese troops on the north and south banks of Pangong Tso (lake), which saw renewed mobilisation of troops, vehicles and weapons in the past few days. The south bank witnessed firing on August 30 and September 7, the first time since 1975 that shots were fired along the LAC. Here, Indian forces are dominating and are occupying the heights and ridges; at many spots, the two sides are just about 200 metres apart. There has been no additional deployment in the Finger area on the north bank after a massive build-up by China on September 8. “After the Foreign Ministers met, there has been a visible reduction in activity on north and south banks of Pangong. In the present context, when we say status quo is maintained, the point of reference is positions maintained in the past one week and no subsequent addition in the past 3-4 days. We have been demanding that China restore status quo ante before April,” the official said. The official said the future course of action would depend on the decision conveyed by New Delhi. More meetings The ground commanders have been meeting daily in all the disputed sectors to discuss confidence building measures. The dates and agenda for the resumption of the Corps Commander-level talks, the highest level of military-level dialogue between India and China, is yet to be decided. The Corps Commanders have met five times. India might insist on a change in the Chinese delegation for the talks. India and China have been engaged in a stand-off since April-May when China massed huge troops in Depsang, Gogra-Hotsprings, Galwan and Pangong Tso. On June 15, 20 Indian soldiers were killed in clashes in Galwan. The official said that in areas such as Depsang, Hot Springs or Galwan, no major activity or mobilisation has been seen since July. India has accused China of not adhering to the disengagement and de-escalation plan as agreed during the military and diplomatic-level talks. In many sectors, Chinese forces are within India’s perception of the LAC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/status-quo-on-lac-after-jaishankar-wang-meet/article32595977.ece
14 September 2020||Shiv Sahay Singh Kolkata,||Metro to resume services today||Kolkata Metro will resume commercial operations from Monday (September 14), more than five months after its services were suspended due to the lockdown following the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. Kolkata Metro, which is one of the primary modes of transport in the metropolis, will however, allow only those passengers who have smart cards to board the trains after booking an e-pass from the application of Kolkata Metro. Managing the crowd has emerged as a major challenge for the Metro authorities, who decided to have e-passes for real time management of the crowd. “In all 110 trains (55 Up and 55 Dn) will run after an interval of 10 minutes in pick up time. Only smart card passengers will be allowed to travel,” Kolkata Metro said in a press statement. The services will continue from Monday to Saturday. The East West Metro which is operating in the Salt Lake area of the city will also resume services and operate 36 pairs of trains. On Sunday, students appearing in the National Entrance cum Eligibility Test (NEET) were allowed to use Metro services along with their parents. Nearly 1,648 passengers used the Metro during the day. Dumdum station saw the highest foot fall of about 300 people. Students and their guardians were asked to sanitise their hands and follow physical distancing norms on the Metro which operated 74 trains during the day Kolkata has less road area compared to other metropolitan cities in the country, which puts more pressure on the Metro metwork and the suburban railways. Before the outbreak of the pandemic the Kolkata Metro saw a ridership of nearly five lakh people on a weekdays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/metro-to-resume-services-today/article32596199.ece
14 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Monsoon session set for stormy start||The monsoon session of Parliament, delayed due to the COVID-19 pandemic, will get under way on Monday with strict safety protocols in place. The 18-day session is expected to be stormy, with the Opposition eager to corner the government on its handling of the India-China border issue, the pandemic and the naming of senior Left leaders as co-conspirators in the Delhi riots case by the Delhi police. The session, with four-hour sittings for each House in shifts, including on weekends, will not only see the government lining up 11 ordinances, which were cleared during the lockdown, but also tabling up to 45 Bills in both Houses for approval. While Question Hour has been removed from the business of the day, questions that require written answers will be tabled, and a 30-minute Zero Hour for MPs to raise issues of importance has been added. Some ambiguity prevailed over whether the government would allow a full fledged discussion over the India-China face-off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/monsoon-session-set-for-stormy-start/article32595982.ece
14 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||85-90% attendance at NEET, says NTA||The National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for admission to undergraduate medical and dental courses recorded an attendance rate of “around 85%-90%” on Sunday, according to initial data from the National Testing Agency, which conducted the examination. Almost 16 lakh students had registered to write the examination, which was postponed twice from the initial May date due to the pandemic. “NTA informed me that around 85-90% students appeared in NEET today,” Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank tweeted. “I sincerely thank all Chief Ministers and the Director General of NTA for proper arrangements made to facilitate student participation. NEET participation reflects the tenacity and grit of young AtmaNirbhar Bharat.” Random sampling The attendance figure is based on random sampling at centres across States, said a senior NTA official, adding that more accurate data would be available on Monday. The percentage of registered students who appeared for the examination may be slightly lower than the 92.85% recorded in 2019. Students said the examination was of “moderate” difficulty, with several who attempted the examination for the second time noting that it was easier than last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/85-90-attendance-at-neet-says-nta/article32595979.ece
14 September 2020||GUWAHATI,||Gas well fire put out 110 days after blowout||The flame atop the Baghjan well no. 5 in Tinsukia district of eastern Assam has been tamed, 110 days after it had a disastrous blowout. A blowout is an uncontrolled escape of gas at great speeds, usually due to equipment failure. Oil India Ltd. (OIL) and foreign experts on Sunday managed to divert the gas to two controlled flare pits. This cut off the supply to the well head and the fire died out. ‘Complex process’ “This was a complex process for reducing the surface-level well head pressure. Simply put, the fire was doused by successfully diverting the gas coming out of the blowout well head. Because there is no fuel, there is no fire,” OIL spokesperson Tridiv Hazarika said from the exploration major’s headquarters at Duliajan in Dibrugarh district. “This is a temporary relief till we are able to kill the well,” he said. The gas was diverted to the flare pits at 8.40 a.m. after closing the blowout preventer — a device vital for killing a crude oil or gas well — that was placed on the well head on August 17 for a successful capping after a few failed attempts. “Well head pressures and related parameters are being monitored and once the whole system is stabilised, the next line of action will be undertaken for well-killing operation,” an expert engaged in disaster control said. The killing of the well entails injecting the killing fluid — a viscous cement mud — through the inlet of the blowout preventer to a depth of 3.5 km. The fluid is expected to plug subterranean perforations and block the surge of natural gas. Well no. 5, one of the 22 crude oil and natural gas wells in the Baghjan oilfield close to the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park, had a blowout on May 27. It burst into flames on June 9. Three deaths The accident has so far killed three OIL employees — two firemen who died fighting the flame and a 25-year-old electrical engineer who was electrocuted while checking cables at the site. Three of the six foreign experts engaged for disaster control had also sustained injuries during a failed capping operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gas-well-fire-put-out-110-days-after-blowout/article32596457.ece
14 September 2020||Mumbai,||Share responsibility in tackling COVID-19: CM||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Sunday his government was starting a door-to-door campaign — Majhe Kutumb, Majhi Jababdari (My Family, My Responsibility) — to control COVID-19. “I want citizens who love this State to share responsibility,” he said. “Starting September 15, our team will visit every house, at least twice next month, to keep a check on people’s health. I appeal to all MPs, MLAs, and corporators irrespective of political affiliation to join in this campaign in their respective wards,” he said. “I appeal to everyone who loves this land, considers it their own, regardless of caste, creed, party, and any form of politics, to participate and show their support to this campaign,” he said, adding that it is the responsibility of every citizen to keep their land and people safe. He stressed the need for all to wear masks in public spaces and follow physical distancing norms and personal hygiene, in light of the increasing number of cases in Mumbai, Pune and rural parts. “I expect each and every sector to contribute in this campaign,” Mr. Thackeray said. “This is a war to be fought by collective efforts. Why do we have to enforce a law to make people follow safety norms? Why can’t we do it on our own?”  Oxygen shortage “Yes, there is shortage of oxygen up to a certain extent. But we have decided to reserve 80% oxygen for the health sector,” the Chief Minister said. Maharashtra now has about 3.50 lakh beds. “It was 7,500 when the first corona patient was detected.” Every family will be checked at least twice in the coming month. The health check-up will monitor family members, senior citizens and their oxygen levels. In case of ailment, the government health officials will be informed. All MLAs, MPs, corporators and public representatives — irrespective of political affiliations — will take responsibility of their respective wards, Mr. Thackeray said, encouraging all party leaders to start the health surveys. Mr. Thackeray said the government will give free milk powder to 6.50 lakh malnourished tribal children. For farmers, he said, the government was adopting a ‘crop that will sell, will be harvested’ policy. The Agriculture Department will review the global market and encourage farmers to grow and harvest crops for which there is demand in the market, he said. “Instead of guaranteed price, we are are focusing on mandatory price.” Maratha reservation Speaking on the Maratha reservation issue, Mr. Thackeray said, “The State Assembly had unanimously passed the Maratha reservation. We had won in the High Court. We did not change the lawyers engaged by the previous government, we instead added more. The Supreme Court had accepted our plea of referring the issue to a bigger Bench. But it was unexpected that it brought a stay on the existing reservation. It was strange and unexpected.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/share-responsibility-in-tackling-covid-19-cm/article32596592.ece
14 September 2020||NAGLA VIDHICHAND,||Death and hunger stalk village in Agra||The death of five-year-old Sonia Kumari last month allegedly due to starvation has brought media attention and controversy to the village of Nagla Vidhichand in Agra district of Uttar Pradesh. “There was not a single grain of food for many days before my sister died. In the days before Sonia’s death, we were eating Parle-G biscuits with water,” says her elder sister, Pooja. Sonia’s father Pappu Singh suffers from respiratory illness and is unable to work, while her mother is a daily wage labourer at construction sites. Denying that Sonia was ill before she died, Pooja says Sonia was very weak. “The only time we had food was when our neighbours would give us something to eat,” she says. Till Sonia’s death last month, the family of five did not have a ration card nor did they get the rations promised by the government to the poor and vulnerable during the lockdown. While the district administration attributes Sonia’s death to vomiting and diarrhoea and denies any case of starvation in the village, the overall deprivation is hard to miss. Barely seven kilometres from the iconic Taj Mahal, the village of Jatavs, a caste of leatherworkers and shoemakers, with around 500 families lacks basic amenities and health facilities, including toilets and drinking water. Several other families that The Hindu spoke to talked of lack of access to work and food since the lockdown. With no takers for the shoes they make, many of the villagers have no source of income. A few doors from Sonia’s home, 16-year-old Aarti, is lying on bed with a glucose drip attached to her arm. Health workers from a private clinic had administered the drip after she complained of dysentery and dehydration. Aarti says her sister had also been administered a glucose drip for 48 hours just two days earlier. Their father Bharat Singh, a daily wager, attributes their condition to a lack of food. “The last time I brought some money home was a month back, when I was able to earn Rs. 300 to Rs. 400 over a few weeks. We buy a little dal for Rs. 2 and sometimes for Rs. 5 and use it with rice from PDS ration to prepare khichdi ,” Mr. Singh said. He added that the family has not had vegetables, fruits or milk in a long time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/death-and-hunger-stalk-village-in-agra/article32595975.ece
14 September 2020||Kolkata,||BJP worker’s death triggers fresh charges of political violence||The body of a BJP supporter was found at Goghat in West Bengal Hooghly district on Sunday triggering allegations of political murder by the party leadership. Senior party leaders like State BJP president Dilip Ghosh and party national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya described it as murder and blamed it on the Trinamool Congress. The family members and locals said Ganesh Roy was missing from home since Saturday evening and his body was discovered near the station in the morning. “Today our mandal secretary Ganesh Roy has been killed. His body was found hanging from a tree. Similar incidents have to come to the fore from different parts. Our MLA Debendra Nath Roy was also killed. Similar incidents have come from Purulia,” Mr. Ghosh said. Mr. Vijayvargiya launched a direct attack on the Trinamool and alleged that when “fear, goondaism and violence becomes the modus operandi of a party then we have to understand that its end is near”.  ‘Sense of guilt’ Urban Development Minister and TMC leader Firhad Hakim said BJP is indulging in “politics of the dead”. Mr. Hakim said those who are joining the BJP “suffer from a sense of guilt”. Later in the day, hundreds of people attacked the Sundarban coastal police in the Gosaba block of South 24 Parganas. According to locals, a number of BJP workers were attacked on Saturday and the police intervened and took some people into custody. On Sunday a mob attacked the police station to release the accused. A number of BJP leaders posted videos of the violence on social media. “The anti-socials are now attacking the police. Since the police are used by the ruling party to further its political interest, they have lost their credibility,” Mr. Ghosh said. The TMC leadership said the law will take its own course and whoever is guilty of attacking the police station won’t be spared.  Fear, goondaism and violence has become the modus operandi of a party  Kailash Vijayvargiya  BJP general secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-workers-death-triggers-fresh-charges-of-political-violence/article32596206.ece
14 September 2020||New Delhi,||Riots case: police echoing govt.’s position, says Apoorvanand||Delhi University professor Apoorvanand on Sunday said the government’s “political position” on those protesting against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) or the National Register of Citizens (NRC) was being parroted as legal offence in Delhi police’s chargesheet in the north-east Delhi riots cases. He cited an FIR registered in connection with the death of one Amaan, in which Mr. Apoorvanand’s name was mentioned in the supplementary chargesheet together with that of documentary filmmaker Rahul Roy, Umar Khalid, economist Jayati Ghosh, CPI (M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury and Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav. “The supplementary CS (chargesheet) proclaims that the accused persons were ‘continuously poisoning the minds of common people against the CAA/ NRC.’ This is the government’s political position, surprisingly being parroted in the supplementary CS as a legal offence,” his statement read. He said the investigation seemed to have focussed on “delegitimising the protests and in trying to make the protesters indirectly responsible for Amaan’s death”.  ‘Creating a controversy’ The Delhi police said in its response, “...Some are taking out few lines out of the chargesheets filed in the courts out of context in order to create a controversy... Their assertion is not true and instead, motivated...”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/riots-case-police-echoing-govts-position-says-apoorvanand/article32596456.ece
14 September 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra reports over 22,500 cases again||Maharashtra reported another massive spike of 22,543 COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking its tally to 10,60,308. With 416 deaths, its toll has risen to 29,531. Of these, 261 fatalities are from the last 48 hours, while 121 occurred last week. The remaining 34 deaths occurred in the period prior to last week, said State Health Department authorities. The number of active cases has now risen to 2,90,344. As many as 11,549 patients were discharged, taking the total recoveries to 7,40,061. “The State’s recovery rate stands at 69.8%, while its case fatality rate has marginally reduced to 2.79%,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Pune reported more than 4,000 cases to take its total case tally to 2,32,840. The district reported 59 deaths to push its death toll to 4,813. As per the district administration, the number of active cases has exceeded 41,000. Mumbai reported 2,085 cases to take its tally to 1,69,741, of which 30,316 are active. With 41 fatalities, the city’s death toll has risen to 8,150. Nagpur district reported more than 1,900 cases, taking the district’s case load to 50,885, of which 21,522 are active. A total of 73 deaths saw the district’s toll shoot up to 1,356. Sangli reported over 1,100 cases, its highest single-day so far, taking the district’s tally to 25,064, of which 10,361 are active. With 25 more deaths, the district’s toll has touched 740. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane reported 686 new cases as its total case tally crossed the 55,000 mark, while 12 new deaths saw its toll rise to 1,618. Raigad reported 682 cases and six fatalities to take its case load to 24,810 and toll to 583. Satara recorded 912 new cases to take its total case tally to 24,321, of which 8,890 are active, while 19 new deaths took its cumulative death toll to 596. Kolhapur reported 678 new cases, taking its total tally to 32,815, of which 9,468 are active. Eighteen deaths saw the district’s toll rise to 932. Nashik district reported 948 fresh cases as its tally reached 54,632, of which 12,860 are active. With 13 deaths, the district’s total death toll crossed the 1,000-mark to reach 1,058. Jalgaon reported a record-high spike of over 1,100 cases and 13 new deaths. The case load has risen to 37,121, of which 9,921 are active.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-reports-over-22500-cases-again/article32596589.ece
14 September 2020||Bengaluru,||NLSIU to conduct re-test for admissions today||The National Law School of India University (NLSIU) will hold a re-test of the National Law Aptitude Test (NLAT) 2020 on Monday for those students, who had alleged that Saturday’s test was marred by technical glitches resulting in many being unable to appear for it. A message communicating the same was sent to candidates on Sunday. According to many candidates, they received a message about the re-test around 9 p.m. on Sunday without it mentioning the date. However, they received a message around 9.45 p.m. saying that the re-test would be conducted on Monday. NLAT created controversy as the NLSIU decided to conduct a separate test and opt out of the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT). The message read , “A Technical Review Committee has received the queries and has recommended that candidates may be offered the opportunity to appear for another examination slot under the following condition: the final slot for the NLAT 2020 exam will begin at noon. After verification the examination will begin at 12.30 p.m. and will be extended till the allotted time”. It also stated that if one chooses to login for the exam, the previous exam score and the answers would be erased. While candidates who were unable to take the test or faced technical glitches welcomed the move, others said that a re-test would not be a level field. “We are worried that the difficult levels of the tests will be different and it will not be a level field,” a candidate who completed the test on Saturday said. Many candidates who faced technical glitches and who could not attempt the exam, said that they should have got more time for the re-test and that they are being informed at the last-minute creating panic and tension. University officials did not respond to calls by The Hindu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nlsiu-to-conduct-re-test-for-admissions-today/article32596007.ece
14 September 2020||Kolkata,||West Bengal records 3,215 cases, 58 deaths||West Bengal recorded 3,215 COVID-19 cases on Sunday taking the tally to 2,02,708. The State also recorded 58 deaths in the past 24 hours taking the toll to 3,945. Kolkata recorded 12 deaths taking its toll to 1,473. The adjoining North 24 Parganas district, the second-worst affected district, recorded 13 deaths taking the district’s toll to 889. Kolkata reported 541 cases and North 24 Parganas 527. Both Kolkata and the North 24 Parganas have recorded more than 40,000 cases. As on Sunday, the number of infections in Kolkata was 46,588 and 41,594 in North 24 Parganas. The State has added one lakh infections in the past 23 days. On August 21, the number had crossed one lakh. The first case was reported on March 17. While it took more than five months for the number to reach one lakh, it crossed two lakh in just another 23 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/west-bengal-records-3215-cases-58-deaths/article32596207.ece
14 September 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. COVID-19 case tally breaches five-lakh mark||Tamil Nadu crossed the five-lakh mark on Sunday, with 5,693 people testing positive for COVID-19. The State’s overall case tally stood at 5,02,759. The State recorded the first case on March 7, but August and September saw a rapid increase. A total of 5,717 persons were discharged after treatment from various health facilities. The State has 47,012 active cases. The State also recorded 74 deaths (39 at private hospitals and 35 at government hospitals), taking the toll to 8,381. Chennai reported 994 fresh cases. As many as 1,228 persons were discharged. The city reported 17 deaths, taking its toll to 2,976. The total number of positive cases stands at 1,48,584 in the city. While 1,35,215 persons have been discharged, the city has 10,393 active cases, according to public health officials. Among the western districts, Coimbatore reported 490 cases and Salem 309. In Tiruppur, 291 persons tested positive. Among the northern districts, Tiruvallur recorded 300 fresh cases and Chengalpattu 299. In 16 districts, the number of fresh cases was below hundred. Districts such as Ariyalur, Ramanathapuram, Perambalur and Tenkasi reported less than 30 cases. Eight of the 74 people whose deaths were recorded on Sunday had no co-morbid conditions, the Directorate of Public Health said in its bulletin. Health officials have attributed the death of a 35-year-old man from Salem to the infection. He was admitted to a private hospital on September 5 with complaints of cough. His RT-PCR test returned positive the next day. He died on September 10. A 47-year-old man from Chennai, who tested positive on September 5 and was admitted to a private hospital the same day with complaints of fever for three days and cough for a day, died on September 12. His death was due to acute respiratory distress syndrome/COVID-19 pneumonia. A 63-year-old man from Coimbatore, who tested positive on August 30, a day after he was admitted to a private hospital with complaints of fever and cough for two days, died on Sunday morning owing to COVID-19 pneumonia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-covid-19-case-tally-breaches-five-lakh-mark/article32596061.ece
14 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State reports 3,139 new cases, 1,855 recoveries||The State on Sunday reported 3,139 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,855 recoveries. The number of samples tested in the last 24 hours was 34,786. The cumulative case burden now stands at 1,08,278. With total recoveries reaching 77,699, the number of patients currently being treated is 30,072. Another 14 deaths were added to the “provisional” death list taking the toll to 439. These deaths occurred between August 17 and September 9. Eight of these deaths were reported from Thiruvananthapuram, two each from Kollam and Ernakulam and one each from Thrissur and Palakkad. Local transmission Of the new cases, 94% – 2,977 out of the new 3,139 cases – are locally acquired infections and these include infections reported in 56 health-care workers. Thiruvananthapuram reported 412 cases, Kozhikode 399, Malappuram 378, Ernakulam 326, Alappuzha 252, Kannur 234, Palakkad 233, Kollam 205, Kottayam 196, Thrissur 182, Kasaragod 124, Pathanamthitta 102, Wayanad 56 and Idukki 40.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-reports-3139-new-cases-1855-recoveries/article32596245.ece
14 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State reports 9,536 new cases and 66 deaths||The State, for the third day in a row, reported less than 10,000 COVID-19 infections and fewer number of deaths in the 24-hour period ending Sunday morning. Active cases With 66 more fatalities, the toll inched closer to the 5,000-mark and reached 4,912. On the other hand, the tally climbed to 5,67,123 with the registration of 9,536 new cases. A bulletin issued by the Health Department said that 10,131 patients recovered in the last 24 hours, increasing the recovery rate to 82.37%. While the recoveries stood at 4,67,139, the number of active cases was put at 95,072. The death rate continued to stay low at 0.87%. The positivity rate of the 45.99 lakh tests conducted so far was 12.33%. In the last one day, 72,233 samples were tested. The tests per million ratio stood at 86,139.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-reports-9536-new-cases-and-66-deaths/article32595972.ece
14 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Front-line workers will get vaccine first: Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday said front-line health workers, senior citizens and those with comorbidities would be administered the COVID-19 vaccine first when it becomes available. “The government is considering emergency authorisation of COVID-19 vaccination especially in the case of senior citizens & people working in high-risk settings. This shall be done after a consensus has been reached,” Mr. Vardhan said while interacting on the Sunday Samvad social media platform. He said while no date had been fixed for the vaccine launch, it may be ready by the first quarter of 2021. To allay fears regarding the safety of the vaccine, the Minister said he would volunteer to take the first shot if “people have a trust deficit”. The Minister answered queries concerning the situation, the government’s approach, the likely changes one expects to see in the post-pandemic world and the steps taken by the government in its facilitation. He said the government was taking full precautions in conducting human trials. The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19, under the chairmanship of Dr. V.K. Paul, member (Health), NITI Aayog, is drawing up a detailed strategy on how to immunise the majority of the population. “Issues like vaccine security, cost, equity, cold-chain requirements, production timelines, etc. are also being discussed intensely,” he said and assured that the vaccine will be first made available to those who need it the most, irrespective of their paying capacity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/front-line-workers-will-get-vaccine-first-vardhan/article32595980.ece
14 September 2020||Alok Deshpande Mumbai,||Kangana meets Governor||Actor Kangana Ranaut, who claims to be targeted by the Maharashtra government, especially by the Shiv Sena, held a meeting with Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari at Raj Bhavan on Sunday. “I held a meeting with Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari ji to apprise him about the injustice meted out to me. I told him how I was treated and that I hope I will get justice so that the faith of people, especially of women, in the system is restored,” Ms. Ranaut said. The meeting took place days after the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation demolished alleged illegal alterations at her bungalow at Bandra. Ms. Ranaut said she started her career from scratch in Mumbai, which she loves so much, and the treatment meted out to her was unfair. “He listened to me as a daughter. I am hopeful that I will get justice,” the actor said. Ms. Ranaut had courted controversy after she compared Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kangana-meets-governor/article32596590.ece
14 September 2020||New Delhi,||Former Union Minister Raghuvansh Prasad dead||Former Union Minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, 74, passed away on Sunday morning in New Delhi after a prolonged illness. He was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in New Delhi in the second week of August with post-COVID-19 complications. He was under treatment for a lung infection and was put on ventilator on September 6 after his condition worsened. He is survived by three children. The five-time Lok Sabha MP representing Vaishali was in the news recently for expressing his disenchantment with the way his party for 32 years, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), was being run.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/former-union-minister-raghuvansh-prasad-dead/article32596208.ece
14 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Former Union Minister Raghuvansh Singh dead||Former Union Minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, 74, passed away on Sunday in Delhi after a prolonged illness. He was admitted to AIIMS in the second week of August with post-COVID-19 complications. He was under treatment for a lung infection and was put on ventilator on September 6. He is survived by three children. The five-time Lok Sabha MP had been in the news recently for expressing his disenchantment with the way his party, the RJD, was being run for 32 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/former-union-minister-raghuvansh-singh-dead/article32596454.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,||‘PM owes an explanation’||The Congress expressed hope that PM Narendra Modi would be present in both Houses of Parliament. Senior leader Jairam Ramesh said Mr. Modi owed an explanation for his remarks on China.page 9||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pm-owes-an-explanation/article32595967.ece
14 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Rain worsens pothole-ridden and dug-up roads||Traffic on the city’s roads has increased since more relaxations came into place, but the condition of the roads are turning out to be a nightmare for those who are venturing out. As if potholes were not enough, the recent heavy rain has contributed to the further deterioration of many city roads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rain-worsens-pothole-ridden-and-dug-up-roads/article32596009.ece
14 September 2020||Belagavi,||‘Some BJP leaders are addicted to opium’||Amid the controversy over the network of drug mafia, Congress leader B.K. Hariprasad on Sunday alleged that some senior BJP leaders were “addicted to drugs like opium”. “They don’t step out of their house without getting a dose of opium every day,” he said on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/some-bjp-leaders-are-addicted-to-opium/article32596010.ece
14 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Study reveals loss of Shivamogga’s forest cover||A study of landscape dynamics and forest fragmentation of Shivamogga district by researchers between 1973 and 2018 has revealed a 10% net loss in forest cover and increased fragmentation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/study-reveals-loss-of-shivamoggas-forest-cover/article32596011.ece
14 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Virus cases cross 4K for fifth day in a row in Delhi||The number of new COVID-19 cases in Delhi crossed the 4,000 mark for the fifth day in a row, with 4,235 fresh infections reported on Sunday. The tally now stands at 2,18,304. In the past 24 hours, 29 fatalities have also been reported, taking the death toll to 4,744.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/virus-cases-cross-4k-for-fifth-day-in-a-row-in-delhi/article32596458.ece
14 September 2020||New Delhi,||33-year-old man shot dead in in east Delhi||A 33-year-old man was shot dead by three men on a bike in east Delhi’s Madhu Vihar on Sunday. The victim, Yogesh, was a resident of Dakshinpuri and was involved in a murder case in 2011. An eyewitness said three men on a bike fired at the victim while he was sitting in his car.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/33-year-old-man-shot-dead-in-in-east-delhi/article32596459.ece
14 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||SAD wants Centre to go-slow on ordinances||With the Centre set to table Bills replacing agriculture-related ordinances in the monsoon session of Parliament, the Shiromani Akali Dal, has appealed to the government not to present the Bills until all reservations of farmers are addressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sad-wants-centre-to-go-slow-on-ordinances/article32596460.ece
14 September 2020||Mumbai,||Focus on curbing crimes in Bihar: Pawar tells Paswan||Nationalist Congress Party MLA Rohit Pawar on Sunday asked Lok Janshakti Party’s national president Chirag Paswan to first improve the law and order situation in Bihar, which is witnessing a ‘rise in the number of crimes’ under the Nitish Kumar-led State government in which his party is an ally. Mr. Pawar’s comments came a day after Mr. Paswan demanded the imposition of President’s Rule in Maharashtra as its law and order situation was deteriorating. Mr. Pawar said he was using actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death to create ill will against Maharashtra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/focus-on-curbing-crimes-in-bihar-pawar-tells-paswan/article32596594.ece
14 September 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Main accused in sale of used gloves arrested||The Navi Mumbai Crime Branch’s Unit I has arrested the main accused in a case in which used gloves were being washed and resold. Dheeraj Rishikeshan (28), a supervisor of waste management at Amritha Institute of Medical Science and Research Centre in Kochi, was arrested on September 8. He has been remanded in police custody till Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/main-accused-in-sale-of-used-gloves-arrested/article32596595.ece
14 September 2020||Hassan,||501 more test positive||With 501 fresh COVID-19 positive cases, the number of confirmed cases reached 12,000 in Hassan on Sunday. Four more people died taking the toll to 247. So far, 8,730 have recovered and 3,023 are undergoing treatment. Among them, 55 are in intensive care unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/501-more-test-positive/article32596139.ece
14 September 2020||MANGALURU,||50 modern Tulu short stories in English||In a constant travel of Tulu literature to English in the last four years, its 50 modern short stories have been translated into the universal language. Now, Mangalore University has shown interest in publishing the latest work, the seventh in the series.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/50-modern-tulu-short-stories-in-english/article32596141.ece
14 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Govt. plans to expedite file clearance process||The flame atop the Baghjan well no. 5 in Tinsukia district of eastern Assam has been tamed, 110 days after it had a disastrous blowout. A blowout is an uncontrolled escape of gas at great speeds, usually due to equipment failure. Oil India Ltd. (OIL) and foreign experts on Sunday managed to divert the gas to two controlled flare pits. This cut off the supply to the well head and the fire died out. “Simply put, the fire was doused by successfully diverting the gas coming out of the well head,” said OIL spokesperson Tridiv Hazarika.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-plans-to-expedite-file-clearance-process/article32596058.ece
14 September 2020||CHENNAI,||CAG puts State’s fiscal deficit at Rs. 19,228.14 cr.||The State’s fiscal deficit was Rs. 19,228.14 crore in the first quarter of 2020-21, according to provisional figures released by the CAG. The deficit is 32.4% of the Rs. 59,346 crore projected in the budget estimates for 2020-21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cag-puts-states-fiscal-deficit-at-rs-1922814-cr/article32596059.ece
14 September 2020||TIRUCHI,||AIADMK rivals clash in Minister’s presence||Gurmeet Singh was tasked with driving a truckload of essentials to a warehouse in Mizoram almost a month ago. He instead ended up being driven as a COVID-19 patient to the Zoram Medical College in Aizawl. When he came to his senses after a few days in the ICU, Mr. Singh found that he had rammed a language barrier; no one understood his Punjabi-laced Hindi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aiadmk-rivals-clash-in-ministers-presence/article32596060.ece
14 September 2020||Hyderabad,||At 9,894 cases, Karnataka witnesses new high||Crossing the five-lakh mark on Sunday, Tamil Nadu recorded 5,02,759 positive cases, with 5,693 more people testing positive for COVID-19. Tamil Nadu recorded the first case on March 7, but the months of August and September resulted in a rapid rise. The State reported 47,012 active cases on Sunday. Meanwhile, the State also recorded 74 deaths, 39 in private hospitals and 35 in government facilities, taking the tally to 8,381. For the third day in a row, Andhra Pradesh reported less than 10,000 COVID-19 infections and fewer deaths on Sunday. There were 66 more fatalities, and the toll was close to the 5,000-mark at 4,912. New cases registered stood at 9,536. A Health Department bulletin said the number of active cases was 95,072. The positivity rate of the 45.99 lakh tests done was 12.33%. In the last one day, 72,233 samples were tested, achieving a tests per million ratio of 86,139. Confirmed cases per million were 10,629. The daily positivity rate dropped to 13.82% from about 17% a fortnight ago. New cases and deaths were as follows: East Godavari (1,414, 5), West Godavari (1,076, 3), Chittoor (957, 5), Nellore (844, 7), Guntur (792, 4), Prakasam (788, 7), Srikakulam (733, 2), Kadapa (585, 6), Vizianagaram (573, 4), Anantapur (521, 7), Kurnool (441, 5), Visakhapatnam (415, 6) and Krishna (397, 5). On Saturday, 2,216 more cases were detected in Telangana. The death toll so far stood at 961 with 11 more fatalities recorded. While 56,217 samples were tested on September 12, the results of 2,345 samples were awaited. New infections included 341 from Greater Hyderabad, 210 from Rangareddy, 148 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 119 from Karimnagar, 126 from Nalgonda, 105 from Khammam and 102 from Warangal Urban. In the overall tally, 31,607 were active cases. Kerala on Sunday reported 3,139 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,855 recoveries; samples tested in 24 hours came to 34,786. The number of patients being treated was 30,072. Another 14 deaths were added to the “provisional” death list, taking the toll to 439. Eight of these deaths were reported from Thiruvananthapuram, two each from Kollam and Ernakulam and one each from Thrissur and Palakkad. Of the new cases, 94% were locally acquired infections and included infections reported among 56 health-care workers. Thiruvananthapuram reported 412 cases, Kozhikode 399, Malappuram 378, Ernakulam 326, Alappuzha 252, Kannur 234, Palakkad 233, Kollam 205, Kottayam 196, Thrissur 182, Kasaragod 124, Pathanamthitta 102, Wayanad 56 and Idukki 40 cases.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Chennai, and Thiruvananthapuram bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/at-9894-cases-karnataka-witnesses-new-high/article32595932.ece
14 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Congress to raise LAC row, farm reforms||Expressing hope that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be present in both the Houses of Parliament as the monsoon session gets under way on Monday, senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said on Sunday that Mr. Modi’s statement to political parties that there was no Chinese incursion had weakened India’s position. “The greatest damage to our cause has been caused by the Prime Minister’s own statement. He owes an explanation why he made that statement. It has single-handedly weakened India’s case and the status quo ante on LAC has not been restored,” he said. During the session, the Congress plans to raise issues related to COVID-19, economy, job losses, poverty and airport privatisation. The party will oppose the Bills for replacing three agriculture-related ordinances and one that brought cooperative banks under RBI supervision. Mr. Ramesh said two of the ordinances pertained to agri-marketing and the third was linked to the Essential Commodities Act. Mr. Ramesh said the ordinances, to the disadvantage of farmers, promoted contract and corporate farming, and would hit the revenues of the States, apart from destroying the mechanisms of the minimum support price and public procurement, thereby weakening food security. On the Banking Regulation Act, he said the Congress had five specific objections. “Cooperative banks are part of the structure of cooperatives and ought to be regulated by the State governments and not by the Central government. If the ordinance becomes law, all key financial intermediaries will come under the control of the Central government, there will be more centralisation. The Congress stands for decentralisation and empowering the States,” he said. Mr. Ramesh said the ordinance gave power to the Centre to change the membership structure of a cooperative. For instance, a farmer-promoted district cooperative bank could be transferred to the hands of non-farmers. “The RBI is being vested with more regulatory responsibilities. Its record of regulating banks in some NBFCs [non-banking finance companies] is mixed,” he said. Two other ordinances were for a 30% deduction in the salaries of MPs and Ministers. The Congress would not oppose them, but would raise questions on the proposed spending of about Rs. 25,000 crore on the Central Vista project at a time when the economy was in disarray. The party would also oppose the two-year freeze on MPLADs. PM CARES Mr. Ramesh said the PM CARES Fund had no transparency as it did not come under the jurisdiction of the Comptroller and Auditor-General and the Right to Information Act. Some news reports suggested that certain Chinese firms had also contributed to the fund. Mr. Ramesh said the six-month relief from payments provided through the proposed amendment to the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, which could be extended to a year, was not in the interest of the MSMEs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-to-raise-lac-row-farm-reforms/article32595940.ece
14 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Recovered patients facing difficulties||After acute COVID-19 illness, recovered patients may continue to report a wide variety of signs and symptoms, including fatigue, body ache, cough, sore throat, and difficulty in breathing, the Union Health Ministry has said, admitting that as of now, there is limited evidence of post-COVID-19 sequelae and further research is required. It adds that the recovery period is likely to be longer for patients who suffered from a more severe form of the disease and those with pre-existing illness. In its post-COVID-19 management protocol released here on Sunday, the Ministry says that the first follow-up visit (physical/telephonic) for a recovered patient should be within seven days after discharge, preferably at the hospital where treatment was taken. ‘Avoid multiple drugs’ Subsequent treatment/follow-up visits may be with the nearest qualified allopathic/AYUSH practitioner/medical facility of other systems of medicine. Poly-therapy (use of multiple medications) is to be avoided due to potential for unknown drug-drug interaction, which may lead to serious adverse events or adverse effects. The patients who have undergone home isolation, if they complain of persisting symptoms, will have to visit the nearest health facility, and severe cases requiring critical care support will require more stringent follow-up. Holistic approach It has also advocated a holistic approach for follow-up care and well-being of all post-COVID-19 recovering patients. Offering an integrated holistic approach for managing patients who have recovered enough from COVID-19 or care at home, the Ministry notes that “It is also suggested by the Ministry of AYUSH that the use of Chyawanprash in the morning (1 teaspoonful) with lukewarm water/milk is highly recommended (under the direction of registered ayurveda physician) as in the clinical practice, Chyawanprash is believed to be effective in post-recovery period.” “Immunity promoting AYUSH medicine (to be prescribed only by practitioners permitted under law for prescribing the medicine/therapy under specific stream) including Ayush Kwath, Samshamani vati, or Giloy powder, Ashwagandha, amla fruit one daily/amla powder etc., have also been recommended,” the Ministry says. COVID-19 caused by SARS-CoV-2 is a relatively new disease, with fresh information being known on a dynamic basis about the natural history of the disease, especially in terms of post-recovery events, it says. “This latest document is not meant to be used as preventive/curative therapy. Post-COVID, continue using mask, hand & respiratory hygiene, physical distancing, drink adequate amount of warm water (if not contra-indicated) and if health permits, regular household work to be done. Professional work to be resumed in graded manner,” notes the document. Recovered patients should look for early warning signs such as high-grade fever, breathlessness, drop in oxygen levels, unexplained chest pain, new onset of confusion and focal weakness, it said. Mental health support The Ministry has also added that at a community level, recovered individuals should share their positive experiences with their friends and relatives through social media, community leaders, opinion leaders, religious leaders for creating awareness, dispelling myths and stigma. “Take support of community-based self-help groups, civil society organisations, and qualified professionals for recovery and rehabilitation process (medical, social, occupational, livelihood). Seek psycho-social support from peers, community health workers, counsellors. If required, seek mental health support service and participate in group sessions of yoga, meditation etc. while taking all due precautions like physical distancing,’’ said the Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/recovered-patients-facing-difficulties/article32595961.ece
14 September 2020||K.S. Sudhi,||My hands are clean, says Jaleel||The distribution of Korans provided by the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate in the State needs to be viewed as a cultural and religious transaction and there is nothing more to it, says Minister K.T. Jaleel, who was questioned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) here last week in connection with the controversy surrounding the diplomatic baggage imports. The Opposition parties had mounted pressure for the resignation of Dr. Jaleel after the interrogation. Several youth organisations too took to streets raising the demand. ‘My hands are clean’ “They sought to know about the distribution of Korans made available by the UAE consulate and whether I accepted any gift or money from them. I did not take any favours from them and no financial transactions were involved in the distribution of Ramzan kits or Koran. My hands are clean,” Mr. Jaleel told The Hindu in a telephonic interview. “The ED also sought my personal asset details, which were duly submitted. All that I own is a 19.5 cent holding in which my house is located. Neither me nor my family members own gold or any other assets. I do not have any valuables stacked in any bank vaults,” he said. Dr. Jaleel said he went to the ED office in a friend’s car as he did not own one. The ED’s summons and interrogation were not publicised by the agency which kept it under wraps. Moreover, presenting oneself before the agency was not something to be done with all the official paraphernalia. That information also need not be shared with the media. It was the legal duty of a public servant to share the information which was sought by a government agency, he said. ‘Goodwill not affected’ While maintaining that he being questioned has not lowered the goodwill of the ruling LDF government, Dr. Jaleel said neither the CPI(M) nor the Chief Minister had sought any explanations from him. “If your hands are clean, the Chief Minister will stand by you like a rock and protect you at any cost. If you are at fault, you can never expect any help from him,” he said. “While being in the Indian Union Muslim League, I could have followed its leaders like M.C. Kamarudheen, MLA, and minted money by engaging in all sorts of business deals and land transactions. I never engaged in such activities even during those times. No one can ever allege that I have done anything in return for money or other favours,” Dr. Jaleel asserted. “I have never done anything wrong and it is the basis of my confidence,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/my-hands-are-clean-says-jaleel/article32595918.ece
14 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Salaries held up at MoD think tank||The premier think tank functioning under the Ministry of Defence (MoD), the Manohar Parrikar Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses (MP-IDSA), has informed its faculty that they “will be unable to disburse salary and pension for August and September 2020”. This is due to fund constraints after the MoD has sanctioned two instalments of grant-in-aid to MP-IDSA at only 15% of the sanctioned budget instead of 25% as per the regular practice, director general (DG) Sujan R. Chinoy informed faculty in an email dated August 31. “In view of the above, there is a significant shortfall in the availability of funds with the institute,” the email said. One official at the institute said the DG has already taken up release of additional funds with the MoD. Since then a small tranche came in which was disbursed for salaries of Group C employees and pensioners, the official said. The issue has also been discussed by the Executive Council (EC), it is learnt. The MP-IDSA was established in 1965 as a registered society and is funded by the MoD. It is governed by the EC with Defence Minister as the President and Defence and Foreign Secretaries as ex-officio members. Some questions have been raised by Defence Finance, two officials with knowledge of the matter said. It has raised questions on the pay scales for contractual employees, said one of them. A committee was set up with MP-IDSA last week to respond to the questions from the Ministry. The institute moved to contractual system in 1995 and that has since been institutionalised through the fellowship system, the official said. No Finance Ministry guideline says contractual staff can’t have pay scale, the official said adding that without pay scale, talent cannot be retained. All decisions related to the institute are taken by the EC with the approval of the MoD, another official said. As a full grant institution, the MP-IDSA is eligible for all Central Pay Commissions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/salaries-held-up-at-mod-think-tank/article32595963.ece
14 September 2020||S.R. Praveen,||KSDP to open outlets for medicines||The Kerala State Drugs and Pharmaceuticals (KSDP) is set to launch retail outlets for direct sales of its medicines and products, including hand sanitisers, at reduced rates. The first outlet is being set up adjacent to its plant in Alappuzha. More outlets will be opened in other districts based on the response. KSDP’s medicines are usually marketed through the Kerala Medical Services Corporation. “The Drugs Controller has completed one inspection. One more is scheduled this week, after which the licence is expected to be granted. The KSDP manufactures around 60 medicines, syrups, and injection medicines. We plan to sell these at a price 20% lower than the usual price of our products in the market. For instance, Amoxicillin 500mg which has a market price of Rs. 40 will be sold at Rs. 30 while a packet of 10 paracetamols sold at Rs. 8 will be available for Rs. 5,” S. Shyamala, Managing Director, KSDP, told The Hindu . The medicines are much sought after in other south Indian States too, especially Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Its hand sanitisers, available at Rs. 125 for 500 ml, had addressed the shortage of the product in the initial days of COVID-19. During the pandemic period, the KSDP has developed swab-collection booths and a face mask disposal and disinfecting bin. These have been developed as part of an agreement with the Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology, which has transferred the technology. UV rays to disinfect “The Alappuzha district panchayat had placed an order for 23 swab-collection booths. The face mask disposal bin uses ultraviolet rays to disinfect used masks,” says Ms. Shyamala. After years of operating in losses, the KSDP had returned record profits of Rs. 7.13 crore last financial year, mainly owing to the State government’s fund infusion, and a thrust on diversification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ksdp-to-open-outlets-for-medicines/article32596251.ece
14 September 2020||New Delhi,||CPI(M) flays ‘blatant abuse’ of police, Central agencies||Several political parties, activists and organisations on Sunday issued statements protesting against the alleged attempts by the Delhi police to implicate prominent political leadership, academics, cultural personalities and activists in connection with the February violence in northeast Delhi. The Polit Bureau of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) said it was shocked by the “brazenness” with which the Delhi police tried to implicate prominent political leadership. “The Delhi police have dragged in CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury, economist Jayati Ghosh, Delhi University professor Apoorvanand, Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav and documentary filmmaker Rahul Roy, among other prominent personalities, as persons who had encouraged the protesters as part of a ‘plan’,” the party said in a statement. It added that this action was in line with the growing pattern of the most blatant abuse of the police and other Central agencies such as the CBI, the NIA and the ED to frame prominent opponents and demonise them. The CPI(M) said it condemned this “obnoxious action” by the Delhi police to further the narrative of their political masters, and urged the government to desist from such acts of criminalising peaceful political protests CPI(ML) Liberation general secretary, Dipankar Bhattacharya said the Delhi police’s investigation is becoming more vindictive and farcical. He added that in all their chargesheets, the police had refused to act on evidence that Kapil Mishra, Anurag Thakur and other BJP leaders instigated violence against anti-CAA protesters. “It was reported yesterday that a supplementary chargesheet filed by the Delhi police comprises largely of ‘disclosure’ statements attributed to feminist student activists of Pinjra Tod. These so called ‘disclosure’ statements amount to custodial confessions, and are inadmissible as evidence in court,” the CPI(ML) said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cpim-flays-blatant-abuse-of-police-central-agencies/article32595953.ece
14 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Former Union Minister Raghuvansh Prasad dead||Former Union Minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, 74, passed away on Sunday morning in New Delhi after a prolonged illness. He was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in New Delhi in the second week of August with post-COVID-19 complications. He was under treatment for a lung infection and was put on ventilator on September 6 after his condition worsened. He is survived by three children. The five-time Lok Sabha MP representing Vaishali was in the news recently for expressing his disenchantment with the way his party for 32 years, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), was being run, and handwritten letters, attributed to him, were being circulated as his resignation from the party. Former Bihar Chief Minister Lalu Prasad, whose trusted lieutenant Mr. Singh had been since the late 1980s, referred to those letters in a heartfelt tweet: “I said just day before that you were not going anywhere, but you have gone so far away! I am speechless at this loss, I am upset, you will be missed.” Many who knew Mr. Singh recall his earthy good nature and simplicity as the hallmark of his character. Mr. Singh, a Ph.D. in mathematics, was one of the few Rajput leaders in the RJD who entered politics as part of the socialist ideological school and was made Minister of State for Energy in the Karpoori Thakur government in Bihar in 1977. He remained active in the Bihar Assembly till he fought his first Lok Sabha election in 1996, when he was made a Minister of State in the Union government. Support of Lalu Prasad His political fame grew parallel to his electoral victories, the biggest part of it being his support of the then largely unknown Mr. Lalu Prasad for the post of Bihar Chief Minister in 1989. While then Prime Minister V.P. Singh supported Ramsundar Das, Deputy Prime Minister Devi Lal supported Mr. Lalu Prasad, who carried the day with the promise of a new politics of social justice. Mr. Singh stuck with Mr. Yadav through thick and thin, even when the latter was incarcerated in the fodder scam. In his Delhi avatar, Mr. Singh was most known for steering the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), the UPA government’s flagship programme, as the Minister for Rural Development (2004-09). In striking a balancing act between reform-minded Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and Deputy Chairman of the Planning Commission Montek Singh Ahluwalia, and the more rights-based NGO approach of the Sonia Gandhi-led National Advisory Council, it was Mr. Singh’s sincerity and ability to reel off relevant statistics that managed to land the Bill into the statute books. “You are anti-rural, anti-poor,” would be his refrain towards North Block while struggling with financing the MGNREGA. In 2016, when the Congress marked 10 years of the scheme, Mr. Singh was absent from the festivities. However, he did not hold a grudge, as he was satisfied that he had seen the law through to implementation. “ Haani, laabh, yash, apyash, vidhi haath (profit, loss, fame, notoriety are all in the hands of fate),” he told The Hindu at that time  . Despite losing the 2014 and the 2019 polls, Mr. Singh was active in helping out during the 2016 Nepal blockade. His sanguine approach to not getting enough credit for the MGNREGA did not extend to the way his own party was behaving lately, and he had been raising the banner of revolt. In the middle of this revolt, however, fate intervened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/former-union-minister-raghuvansh-prasad-dead/article32595949.ece
14 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Dining out raises risk of infection, reports U.S. study||Restaurant and pub exposure were cited as important risk factors associated with SARS-CoV-2 infection, according to an analysis by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (U.S. CDC). The study published last week cautioned that while it is well established that community and close contact exposures contribute to the spread of COVID-19, close contact with persons with known COVID-19 or going to locations that offer on-site eating and drinking options were associated with COVID-19 positivity. The study is significant as India eases restrictions including on restaurants, dining out and weddings. Adults with positive SARS-CoV-2 test results were approximately twice as likely to have reported dining at a restaurant 14 days prior to getting the infection than were those with negative results, says the study. Crucial factors “This investigation highlights differences in community and close contact exposures between adults who received a positive SARS-CoV-2 test result and those who received a negative SARS-CoV-2 test result. Continued assessment of various activities and exposures as communities, schools, and workplaces reopen is important. Exposures and activities where mask use and social distancing are difficult to maintain, including going to locations that offer on-site eating and drinking, might be important risk factors for COVID,” said the study. The study suggests that efforts should be made to reduce possible exposure to situations where mask use and social distancing are difficult to maintain, such as when eating and drinking. This should be considered to protect customers, employees, and communities. The CDC report states that reports of exposures in restaurants have been linked to air circulation too.“Direction, ventilation, and intensity of airflow might affect virus transmission, even if social distancing measures and mask use are implemented according to current guidance. Masks cannot be effectively worn while eating and drinking, whereas shopping and numerous other indoor activities do not preclude mask use,” it says. The study was conducted by researchers from the CDC’s Epidemic Intelligence Service, along with those from Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Wake Forest University Baptist Medical Center, and Hennepin County Medical Center, among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dining-out-raises-risk-of-infection-reports-us-study/article32595957.ece
14 September 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam Baghjan well fire put out 110 days after blowout||The flame atop the Baghjan well no. 5 in Tinsukia district of eastern Assam has been tamed, 110 days after it had a disastrous blowout. A blowout is an uncontrolled escape of gas at great speeds, usually due to equipment failure. Oil India Ltd. (OIL) and foreign experts on Sunday managed to divert the gas to two controlled flare pits. This cut off the supply to the well head and the fire died out. “This was a complex process for reducing the surface-level well head pressure. Simply put, the fire was doused by successfully diverting the gas coming out of the blowout well head. Because there is no fuel, there is no fire,” OIL spokesperson Tridiv Hazarika said from the exploration major’s headquarters at Duliajan in Dibrugarh district. “This is a temporary relief till we are able to kill the well,” he said. The gas was diverted to the flare pits at 8.40 a.m. after closing the blowout preventer — a device vital for killing a crude oil or gas well — that was placed on the well head on August 17 for a successful capping after a few failed attempts. “Well head pressures and related parameters are being monitored and once the whole system is stabilised, the next line of action will be undertaken for well-killing operation,” an expert engaged in disaster control said. The killing of the well entails injecting the killing fluid — a viscous cement mud — through the inlet of the blowout preventer to a depth of 3.5 km. The fluid is expected to plug subterranean perforations and block the surge of natural gas. Well no. 5, one of the 22 crude oil and natural gas wells in the Baghjan oilfield close to the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park, had a blowout on May 27. It burst into flames on June 9. The accident has so far killed three OIL employees — two firemen who died fighting the flame and a 25-year-old electrical engineer who was electrocuted while checking cables at the site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-baghjan-well-fire-put-out-110-days-after-blowout/article32595966.ece
14 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rajya Sabha to take up LAC, economy||Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu chaired a meeting of the Business Advisory Committee on Sunday evening ahead of the 18-day monsoon session beginning on Monday. Congress leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad and Jairam Ramesh, Trinamool Congress leader Derek O’Brien, and DMK leader Tiruchi Siva and others attended the meeting. From the BJP, Bhupender Yadav and Shiv Pratap Shukla participated. According to sources, the Chairman agreed on having a debate on contentious issues of the state of the economy post-COVID-19 and the stand-off on the LAC. A detailed debate on the pandemic and health infrastructure will be taken up. Eleven ordinances are on the agenda. The three agricultural ordinances, which the Congress and even the NDA ally Akali Dal are opposed to, have been allotted seven hours. Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said the “government was ready to discuss all issues”, and “appealed to all parties for cooperation”. “Considering the sensitivities of the Indo-China matter, a meeting of leaders from both Houses will be held on Tuesday,” he said. A second Business Advisory Committee meeting for the Lok Sabha will also be held on Tuesday to decide the time allocation for various debates. Opposition lawmakers, already at loggerheads with the government over scrapping of Question Hour, said they would be pushing for discussions on the economy, the plight of migrant workers, and unemployment. Among the ordinances coming up before both Houses would be what the government had termed its trio of Bills for agricultural reform — the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and the amendments to the Essential Commodities Act. The election of the Deputy Chairperson of the Rajya Sabha will take place on September 14, with the NDA renominating Harivansh of the Janata Dal (U) and the Opposition putting up Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Manoj Jha. Seating changes Many COVID-19-induced changes have been made to the conduct of business. The Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha will sit alternately in four-hour shifts (9 a.m. to 2 p.m. and 3 p.m. to 7p.m.), apart from a host of measures to ensure that physical distancing is maintained. Each seat in the Lok Sabha and individual rows have been separated by polycarbonate sheets. Only 257 members will be allowed inside the Lok Sabha chambers, with another 172 allowed in other galleries. A total of 111 Lok Sabha members will be seated in the Rajya Sabha and participate via electronic communication. LED screens in both Houses will display real time transmission from the other House.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajya-sabha-to-take-up-lac-economy/article32595951.ece
14 September 2020||New Delhi,||Click without causing chaos, says DGCA||Aviation regulator DGCA ‘clarified’ on Sunday passengers can take photos and videos inside flights but can’t use any recording equipment that creates chaos, disrupts flight operations, violates safety norms or is banned by the crew members. On Saturday, it said a scheduled flight will be suspended for two weeks if anyone is found taking photographs inside the plane. Two days back, it asked IndiGo to take “appropriate action” after it found alleged violation of safety and social-distancing protocols by mediapersons in the airline’s Chandigarh-Mumbai flight that had actor Kangana Ranaut as a passenger. According to a video of the incident on September 9, reporters and cameramen were jostling and bunching up to get a comment from Ms. Ranaut, who was sitting in one of the front rows. The DGCA on Sunday “clarified that a bona fide passenger travelling in an aircraft engaged in scheduled air transport services may do still and video photography in flight”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/click-without-causing-chaos-says-dgca/article32595954.ece
14 September 2020||GUWAHATI,||Graft pits BJP against ally NPP in Meghalaya||After friction in Manipur, the alliance between the BJP and the National People’s Party (NPP) seems to have hit turbulence in Meghalaya. The BJP has threatened to pull out of the NPP-led, multi-party alliance in Meghalaya over alleged misappropriation of central funds allocated to the Garo Hills Autonomous District Council and the Jaintia Hills Autonomous District Council. Two MLAs The NPP heads both the councils. The BJP has two MLAs in Meghalaya and one of them, Alexander Laloo Hek is the Health and Family Welfare Minster. The BJP’s State unit president Ernest Mawrie had a few days ago demanded a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into “corrupt practices” in the two NPP-led councils. He said funds provided to the two councils under the Special Assistance Grant for transforming underdeveloped areas had been misused on “ghost bridges, footpaths” and repair works of official buildings and guesthouses. “If the State government fails to take cognisance of the corrupt practices, we will be left with no choice but to pull out our support,” Mr. Mawrie said. The NPP retaliated by daring the BJP to withdraw from the coalition. “The BJP appears to be headed for a tin-pot dictatorship. If he (Mr. Mawrie) is so convinced that we are corrupt, they should pull out of the alliance. The matter could have been discussed within the alliance,” said NPP’s State unit president W.R. Kharlukhi. The NPP has been one of the oldest allies of the BJP in the northeast. Ties between the two parties soured in Manipur in June after all four NPP legislators pulled out of the BJP-led government in the State there following differences with Chief Minister Nongthombam Biren Singh. The four returned to the government when Union Home Minister Amit Shah, assured them that their grievances would be addressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/graft-pits-bjp-against-ally-npp-in-meghalaya/article32596464.ece
14 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,||Now, take a virtual tour of water lily fields in Kottayam||The pink vista that covers the backwater villages of Kottayam every monsoon is now going online. With just a few weeks left for the water lily blooms to fade, tourism authorities are now capturing the flowers in peak season for online tours. The initiative is part of the efforts by the authorities to make sure that people around the world are connected to these destinations despite the existing travel restrictions. As part of it, agencies including the India Tourism, Kerala Tourism and the Malarikkal Tourism Society have filmed guided tours of the flowering locations and other activities in the region. These videos will be streamed online through official websites of these agencies over the coming days. e-festival Plans are also afoot to host an e-festival of water lily along the lines of the online Onam celebrations organised by the Kerala Tourism last month. “At this moment, the mode is plain survival. But, in the longer run, a better framework is needed to ensure local cooperation to draw more visitors to these destinations,” said an official associated with the project. Besides the flowers, the tourism departments are shooting videos on the village life experience and backwater tourism potentials of the region covering Kumarakom, Vaikom, Murinjapuzha and Amballur. The water lily fields of Kottayam, especially Malarikkal, became one of the most-photographed tourist attractions of Kerala during the previous monsoon. These locations were expecting a jump in tourist arrivals when the raging COVID-19 made the destination out of bounds for visitors. Still hopeful Only a couple of weeks are left for these flowers to be replaced with paddy saplings. “Depending on the government plans to lift the restrictions from September 21, we are looking to bring in a limited number of tourists through the Pazhukkanila water route,” said K. Anil Kumar, convener, Meenachil-Meenanthara-Kodoor river re-linking programme. As long as there were flowers in bloom, the Malarikkal tourism society planned to keep making videos to share through its social media page, he added. Earnings of Rs. 12 lakh As per estimates, around 80,000 people visited Malarikkal during the flowering season last year and the 120 boat rowers, who ferried these visitors, together earned Rs. 12 lakh. The State government too announced plans to organise a pink water lily festival on the lines of the Tulip Festival in Amsterdam and identified 15 locations for tourism promotion. However, tourists have not arrived since then.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/now-take-a-virtual-tour-of-water-lily-fields-in-kottayam/article32595920.ece
14 September 2020||Bengaluru,||CCB questions Congress leader in drug racket case||Central Crime Branch (CCB) officials in Karnataka on Sunday questioned a Congress leader in Hubballi after they allegedly found him linked with actor Ragini Dwivedi, who was arrested in a drug racket case. A team visited Girish Gadigeppa’s residence and recorded his statement. This is the first time the CCB has questioned a politician in the case so far. According to sources, Mr. Gadigeppa’s name cropped up during the course of investigation. Police found his photographs with Ragini. Mr. Gadigeppa had accompanied Ragini on a trip to Goa, and the police suspect that he may have links with Ragini’s dealings. The CCB has intensified questioning of the accused in the alleged drug racket linked to the Kannada film industry as their custody is nearing an end. Meanwhile, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said the probe into the drug case would get good leads next week even as former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah defended his former Cabinet colleague B.Z. Zameer Ahmed Khan against whom allegations of association with drug peddlers were being made. Mr. Bommai indicated that the CCB probe was likely to be expanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ccb-questions-congress-leader-in-drug-racket-case/article32595915.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Death and hunger stalk village in Agra||Circumstances were only marginally better before the lockdown when he could find work for upto three days in a week. “I sometimes drive a cycle rickshaw or work at construction sites. But increasingly, I have no energy to pull a rickshaw,” he says. Mr. Singh’s family has seven members, but only six are mentioned in the ration card. While they are entitled to 2 kilos of wheat and 3 kilos of rice per person, or 12 kilos of wheat and 18 kilos of rice overall, they receive only a meagre 9 kg of wheat and 4 kg rice. According to the Divisional Commissioner Anil Kumar, Nagla Vidhichand village is part of the gram panchayat of Nainana Jat, with a population of 12,900, or 3,698 families. There are 1,918 ration cards issued covering 8,400 beneficiaries. According to Mr Kumar, during the lockdown, 1,153 free ration kits were distributed by the district administration. 159 Ayushman Bharat cards have been distributed across the gram panchayat. Journalist and Dalit activist Chandra Bhan Prasad says artisanal communities are among the most vulnerable and have been hard hit by the lockdown. “Dalits are usually the last to be addressed. Those living near cities have lost touch with farming and go to cities for work. Artisans like shoemakers, weavers, and locksmiths, depend entirely on daily wages. Unlike migrant labourers who can return to their villages and rely on their agriculture land for subsistence, these artisans have no fall back. Moreover, due to their artisan status, they are not entitled to MNREGA work. No one in the government has thought of the impact that the lockdown will have on such category of people. Lockdown is a man-made disaster, and the government must urgently devise ways to rescue people from it like it does during floods and earthquakes.” 52-year-old Radhey Lal and his wife, survive on 6 kilos of wheat and 3 kilos of rice a month from PDS ration. A typical meal consists of chapattis with chilli paste. Mr Lal suffers from paralysis in his right shoulder and is unable to work. The wife is a ragpicker. None of the families The Hindu spoke to had an Ayushman Bharat card, which covers medical expenses upto Rs. 5 lakh for poor families. “The situation depicts the abject failure of the State government to ensure the right to food, health and more broadly, the right to life with dignity,” says development economist and social scientist Reetika Khera. “When hunger-related deaths occur, governments often evade responsibility by saying that the death was due to an illness, as if ensuring the right to health is not their responsibility. Watchdogs such as the NHRC or the National Commission for SC/STs should seek an explanation and hold district and State functionaries accountable,” she says. “These people look to be sub-optimally fed over a sustained period of time. Their poor dietary intake, coupled with illnesses and lack of sanitation has slowly but steadily pushed them across the boundary of hunger and semi-starvation,” said a leading public health expert who wanted to remain anonymous because he advises top government bodies on nutrition and healthcare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/death-and-hunger-stalk-village-in-agra/article32595925.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Front-line workers to get vaccine first: Vardhan||The Minister answered queries concerning the situation, the government’s approach, the likely changes one expects to see in the post-pandemic world and the steps taken by the government in its facilitation. He said the government was taking full precautions in conducting human trials. The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19, under the chairmanship of Dr. V.K. Paul, member (Health), NITI Aayog, is drawing up a detailed strategy on how to immunise the majority of the population. “Issues like vaccine security, cost, equity, cold-chain requirements, production timelines, etc. are also being discussed intensely,” he said and assured that the vaccine will be first made available to those who need it the most, irrespective of their paying capacity. Elaborating on the vaccine candidates and their development in India, the Minister said the Department of Biotechnology and the Indian Council of Medical Research have been pro-active in responding to the emerging situation to support the advancement of the candidates. The Minister said India is actively partnering with the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) and trials at different phases are ongoing with respect to several vaccines in Indian laboratories (private and public) and hospitals. He said a safe and effective vaccine would help in establishing immunity at a much faster pace as compared to the natural infection. “It is hoped that a consensus will emerge in the next few months over the desired level of protective herd immunity in any community.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/front-line-workers-to-get-vaccine-first-vardhan/article32595928.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,||85-90% attendance at NEET, says NTA||They are competing for about one lakh MBBS and BDS seats in government and private institutions across the country. Although students who showed symptoms such as an elevated temperature or coughing at the examination centres were allowed to write the test in a separate isolated room, those who had actually tested positive for COVID-19 were barred from appearing. Such candidates will be allowed to take the test at a later date, said the NTA. Last minute changes in the allocation of some centres, especially in Assam, Gujarat and Maharashtra, caused a few students to miss the examination although information was provided ahead of time. It is not clear whether such students will also be given an alternative date to write the test. A section of students and parents had demanded further postponement of NEET due to the spike in COVID-19 cases and difficulties in transportation following local lockdown. Despite widespread social media protests, court cases and objections by several State governments, the examination was held as scheduled. The number of centres was expanded to 3,843 this year, in order to prevent crowding and allow the number of students per room to be halved to just 12, and an exhaustive safety protocol, with disposable masks, gloves and sanitisers, was put in place to protect students from infection. Students across the country reported that these norms were largely followed within the examination hall, although distancing in many places was two feet rather than the recommended six feet. However, it was a different story outside, with images and videos from a number of cities showing crowding and jostling of parents and students outside venues. The tragic death by suicide of three NEET aspirants in Tamil Nadu before the examination led to protests by political parties within the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/85-90-attendance-at-neet-says-nta/article32595927.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Honouring sages||Garuda’s mother Vinata has been enslaved by Kadru, the latter having resorted to deception, to make Vinata her slave. Kadru stipulates that the only way for Vinata to be liberated is for Garuda to get the pot of nectar which Indra keeps in his kingdom. The nectar is safeguarded carefully by Indra. But Garuda deals with all the barriers easily, and also defeats every celestial who stands in his way. Lord Mahavishnu then tells Garuda that He will grant him a boon. But Garuda says, “Instead, I will give You a boon!” Vishnu takes up Garuda’s offer and says, “I want you to be my vahana.” Garuda then asks the Lord if he (Garuda) can have his boon from the Lord now. He says he wants to be above the Lord always. This was a strange request, for he had just agreed to be the Lord’s vahana. How can a vehicle be above the passenger? The Lord finds a way out of this impossible situation, elaborated V.S. Karunakarachariar, in a discourse. He says in addition to being His vahana, Garuda will also be on His flag, and thus will be above Him. In the meanwhile, Indra, alarmed at Garuda’s progress, flings the vajra at him. But the vajra does not harm Garuda, and the celestials are amazed, for the vajra is fashioned with the bone of Dadichi, a great sage. When Garuda hears this, he sheds a feather, in honour of the sage. Those who see the feather remark on its beauty. Garuda is known as Suparna (one with a lovely feather). The Vedas refer to Garuda as Suparna. Garuda’s act of shedding a feather was to honour Dadichi, a great tapasvi. He did not want it to be said that a weapon made with his bone had lost its power. Garuda’s feather appeared beautiful, because his dropping the feather was an act of respect towards a sage. It is imperative that sages be honoured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/honouring-sages/article32595964.ece
14 September 2020||Bhopal,||Centre agrees to supply oxygen to M.P.||The Centre had agreed to supply 50 tonne of oxygen a day to Madhya Pradesh on its request, said Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. The State has been facing a shortage of medical oxygen even as COVID-19 cases surge. “Today on my request, the Centre has agreed to supply 50 tonne oxygen a day after which our availability has increased to 180 tonne a day,” Mr. Chouhan tweeted on Saturday, while thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the assistance. Earlier, Maharashtra banned out-of-State supply of oxygen, which affected its supply from a Nagpur firm to parts of M.P., especially Jabalpur. Mr. Chouhan had requested his counterpart Uddhav Thackeray to ensure that the supply continued. The present need of oxygen was 110 tonne a day in M.P., which had been receiving 130 tonne earlier. Mr. Chouhan said the State now had enough oxygen, according to the Public Relations Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-agrees-to-supply-oxygen-to-mp/article32596465.ece
14 September 2020||Patna,||A void in political sphere: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the death of former Union Minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh had created “a void in the political sphere of Bihar and the country as well”. Mr. Modi requested Chief Minister Nitish Kumar to fulfil the demands Mr. Singh had made in a letter written a few days ago to Mr. Kumar. President Ram Nath Kovind said: “The passing away of Raghuvansh Prasad Singh is tragic…an outstanding leader rooted to the ground, he was a stalwart with a phenomenal understanding of rural India.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-void-in-political-sphere-pm/article32595946.ece
14 September 2020||Srinagar,||FIR lodged over ‘Hizb threat letter’||The J&K police on Sunday lodged an FIR over a letter received by Congress leader Raman Bhalla, purportedly from the Hizbul Mujahideen, in which top BJP leaders were also named. A DSP rank officer has been appointed for the case. “We received the envelope on September 12 at the Congress headquarters at Shaheedi Chowk. It was a threatening letter in Urdu language on the letter pad of Hizbul Mujahideen,” Mr. Bhalla said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fir-lodged-over-hizb-threat-letter/article32595942.ece
14 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Amit Shah re-admitted to AIIMS||Union Home Minister Amit Shah was re-admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, on Saturday night almost two weeks after he was discharged from there after post-COVID-19 care. The AIIMS has not released any statement on the health status of the Minister. Mr. Shah tested positive for COVID-19 in August and later tested negative. The Minister was admitted to the AIIMS on August 18 after he complained of “fatigue and body ache”. He left the hospital after 13 days on August 31. The doctors then said the Home Minister had “recovered”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amit-shah-re-admitted-to-aiims/article32595959.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Trash threat||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trash-threat/article32595924.ece
14 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Police echoing government’s position’||Delhi University professor Apoorvanand on Sunday said the government’s “political position” against those protesting against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) or National Register of Citizens (NRC) was being parroted as legal offence in Delhi police’s chargesheet in northeast Delhi riots cases. “The supplementary CS (chargesheet) proclaims that the accused persons were ‘continuously poisoning the minds of common people against the CAA/ NRC.’ This is the government’s political position, surprisingly being parroted in the supplementary CS as a legal offence,” his statement read. The Delhi police said in its response, “...Some are taking out few lines out of the chargesheets filed in the courts out of context in order to create a controversy... Their assertion is not true and instead, motivated...”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-echoing-governments-position/article32595944.ece
14 September 2020||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,||‘Don’t hurry through Yadadri works’||Chief Minister and Yadadri Temple Development Authority (YTDA) Chairman K. Chandrasekhar Rao inspected the main temple, which was almost ready, on Yadagirigutta on Sunday. Spending close to six hours on the hill top, starting with the darshan and prayers in Balalayam around 12.30 p.m, Mr. Rao inspected works around the sanctum sanctorum and the premises. He also inspected concepts of developing the temple city. Restrictions were imposed on coverage of the CM’s visit-cum-review and media personnel were stopped at a distance. According to a statement from the Chief Minister’s Office, Mr. Rao expressed satisfaction at the quality of works and instructed officials not to hurry, but ensure that the works were carried out in strict adherence to rules of the Agama Sastras. On beautification of the area, he suggested that the ring road to the temple convey a necklace-like design, surrounded by lush greenery amid well-lit ways, with separate provision for walking and bicycle tracks. The Gandipeta tank adjoining the temple needed to be filled with water from the Kaleswaram project every two months. An architect should be roped in to develop it into a theme-based tourist spot, the Chief Minister said. In addition to the present construction of 365 quarters, Mr. Rao suggested that cottages be built on 200 more acres. Construction of the kalyana katta, pushkarni railing and roads needed to be completed on priority. For finishing and gold-plating works on the temple tower and the main gates, Mr Rao said expert goldsmiths from Pembarthy should be engaged. During the post-lunch review with YTDA and Roads and Buildings officials at Haritha Bhavan, he instructed the Finance Department to release Rs. 75 crore in the next three weeks for temple works. Although kept at a distance, photojournalists zoomed in their lens when Mr. Rao alighted from his vehicle and fed bananas to hillside monkeys. A brief video of the scenes later went viral. Around 6 p.m., Mr. Rao’s convoy took the road to Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dont-hurry-through-yadadri-works-cm/article32596504.ece
14 September 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha proposes to repeal 699 redundant laws||The Odisha government has proposed to come up with a Bill to repeal 699 redundant Acts and amendments. Departments have been asked to offer their views on the Odisha Repealing Bill, 2020, for repealing redundant Acts and amendments enacted between 1974 and 2016. The highest were identified in the Revenue and Disaster Management department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-proposes-to-repeal-699-redundant-laws/article32596462.ece
14 September 2020||Lucknow,||Yogi gives Rs. 15 lakh to road mishap victim's kin||Family members of Sudiksha Bhati, who died in a road accident, met U.P. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath at his official residence here on Sunday. Bhati, who hailed from Gautam Buddh Nagar’s Dadri, died on August 10 in a road crash in Bulandshahr district while she was pillion riding a motorcycle with her cousin. Mr. Adityanath gave a financial assistance of Rs. 15 lakh to the family and also announced that a library and a memorial will be built in the memory of Bhati.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/yogi-gives-rs-15-lakh-to-road-mishap-victims-kin/article32596213.ece
14 September 2020||KALPETTA,||Tuskers fight inside forest in Wyanad, one dead||A male elephant was found dead by Forest Department officials in the Begur forest range of the North Wayanad forest division on Sunday. Officials attached to the forest division and veterinarians performed a necropsy in the evening. Forest Department officials said they found the carcass on Sunday morning at the Alathur reserve forest, near Kattikulam in the district. They traced the elephant based on inputs from villagers about a fight between two elephants. Alathur hamlet in Thirunelly grama panchayat is known for the highest number of man-animal conflicts in the district and a huge tract of rice field in the area was destroyed by a herd of elephants two days ago, villagers said. Estimated to be around 45 years old, the elephant died owing to the serious injuries caused by a fight with another one, according to the officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tuskers-fight-inside-forest-in-wyanad-one-dead/article32595922.ece
14 September 2020||Bengaluru,||GP polls likely to be after Deepavali||Elections to nearly 6,000 gram panchayats across Karnataka are likely to be held after Deepavali, in November-end or early December. Official sources said that Deputy Commissioners have already notified the reservation list for various categories and the State Election Commission (SEC) has prepared the electoral rolls of all GPs. With increase in COVID-19 cases, the SEC is expected to once again seek suggestions from the DCs on their readiness to conduct the polls. The SEC had postponed the polls, scheduled in June and July, based on suggestions by the DCs. Following the end of the term, administrators have been appointed for GPs. COVID-19 duty Presently, the district-level administrations are busy handling COVID-19 and floods. With a huge manpower required for conducting the polls, the district administrations’ preparedness to conduct polls was essential, sources said. Meanwhile, the State government has issued the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for conducting polls to rural local bodies. The SOP prescribes use of postal ballot for all those who tested positive for COVID-19 and are unable to cast their vote. The SOP also directs candidates not to have public gatherings or use loudspeakers during the campaign, but they can undertake door-to door campaign with the least number of people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gp-polls-likely-to-be-after-deepavali/article32595911.ece
14 September 2020||New Delhi,||Economy in ruins, democracy in peril: Left parties||The CPI has called for a protest on Monday while the CPI(M) will hold a nationwide campaign from September 17 to 22. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said issues such as growing communal polarisation, attacks on democratic rights and civil liberties, ‘loot’ of national assets through privatisation and scrapping of labour laws will be highlighted. The CPI is demanding the resignation of Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/economy-in-ruins-democracy-in-peril-left-parties/article32595945.ece
14 September 2020||GUWAHATI,||Corruption pits BJP against ally NPP in Meghalaya||The alliance between the BJP and the National People’s Party (NPP) seems to have hit turbulence in Meghalaya. The BJP has threatened to pull out of the NPP-led alliance over alleged misappropriation of central funds allocated to the Garo Hills Autonomous District Council and the Jaintia Hills Autonomous District Council, both headed by the NPP. The BJP’s State president, Ernest Mawrie, had recently demanded a CBI probe into “corrupt practices” in the two councils.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/corruption-pits-bjp-against-ally-npp-in-meghalaya/article32595941.ece
14 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Three airlines to UAE resume||The Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) has re-connected, under the Central government’s air bubble arrangements, with the United Arab Emirates (UAE) with as many as three airlines resuming their services connecting Hyderabad with Dubai and Sharjah on Saturday. Passengers travelling to Dubai or flying back to Hyderabad can opt for airline carriers - Emirates and Fly Dubai. Those willing to travel between Sharjah and Hyderabad can do so with Air Arabia, said an official spokesperson. Emirates and Fly Dubai airlines have resumed their operations between Hyderabad and Dubai thrice a week. While Emirates is operating on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Sundays; Fly Dubai is available on Mondays, Wednesdays and Saturdays. Air Arabia has also resumed a similar service thrice a week between Hyderabad and Sharjah: Wednesday, Friday and Sunday. Air Arabia resumed its Hyderabad-Sharjah services from September 8; while Emirates and Fly Dubai recommenced Hyderabad-Dubai services from September 10. Passengers can book a ticket through the respective airline from Hyderabad to Dubai and Sharjah as per guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs. All passengers will have to adhere to COVID guidelines. Arrival and departure passengers of international flights are handled as per the safety protocol through the fully sanitised IIDT.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/three-airlines-to-uae-resume/article32596491.ece
14 September 2020||Belagavi,||Soldier with bullet held at Sambra airport||Air Force security personnel held an in-service soldier of the Indian Army who was carrying one round of a live bullet of AK 47 and one fired empty case of INSAS rifle before boarding a flight at the Sambra airport in Belagavi on Saturday. Karnataka State Industrial Security Force personnel, who frisked Arun Bhosle of Sankeshwar, found that he was carrying in his luggage, these material that are banned on airport premises. After preliminary interrogation, it was found that the resident of Belagavi was going from Belagavi to Bengaluru in an Alliance Air flight in the evening. From Bengaluru he was planning to go to New Delhi and from there to Jammu and Kashmir where he has been posted as Naik Subedar. He had come home in Sankeshwar for a vacation nearly a month ago. Security personnel spotted the metal objects when his luggage was screened by the AIRINDIA/AITSL X-BIS Screening Board. KSISF officers, who belong to the State police, discussed the issue with the airport security officers and decided to hand over the solider to the jurisdictional police station in Marihal. The local staff, after consulting with senior officers, handed him over to the Maratha Light Infantry Regiment Centre Police in the military camp area in Belagavi. However, a case was not registered in the Marihal Police Station. “We will wait for the military police inquiry report before registering a case,” a city police officer said. Mr. Bhosle had carried the live bullet and the fired empty case along with him from Jammu to Sankeshwar, but the airport staff in Delhi, Bengaluru and Belagavi had not noticed that during his arrival. “That is, probably, because check-out security is not as strict as check-in security,” he said. Airport director Rajesh Kumar Mourya has congratulated Irappa Wali, security in-charge, and personnel of the Airport Security Unit, KSISF, the screener and other wings for detecting the prohibited luggage and for detaining the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/soldier-with-bullet-held-at-sambra-airport/article32595913.ece
14 September 2020||Mumbai,||Kangana meets Governor, seeks justice||Actor Kangana Ranaut, who claims to be targeted by the Maharashtra government, especially by the Shiv Sena, held a meeting with Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari at Raj Bhavan on Sunday. “I held a meeting with Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari ji to apprise him about the injustice meted out to me. I told him how I was treated and that I hope I will get justice so that the faith of people, especially of women, in the system is restored,” Ms. Ranaut said. The meeting took place days after the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation demolished alleged illegal alterations at her bungalow at Bandra. Claiming she has nothing to do with politics as she is not a politician, Ms. Ranaut said she started her career from scratch in Mumbai, which she loves so much, and the treatment meted out to her was unfair. “He listened to me as a daughter. I am hopeful that I will get justice,” she said. Ms. Ranaut courted controversy after she compared Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) during a war of words with Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut. Though she backtracked after facing criticism for her ‘PoK’ remark, she engaged in a Twitter spat with the Sena. She compared Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to Mughal king Babur and termed that the party was run by Ravana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kangana-meets-governor-seeks-justice/article32595937.ece
14 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Chidambaram pulls up Delhi police for mentioning Yechury in chargesheet||Former Union Finance Minister P. Chidambaram said on Sunday that the Delhi police had brought the criminal justice system to ridicule by naming CPI(M) leader Sitaram Yechury and other scholars and activists in a supplementary chargesheet in the Delhi riots case. “The law cannot be such an ass that, if an accused mentions a name in her statement, that person will be named as an accused in the chargesheet. Has the Delhi Police forgotten that between information and chargesheet there are important steps called investigation and corroboration?” tweeted Mr. Chidambaram. He said: “I am glad that Mr. Julio Ribeiro has upbraided the Delhi Police for its biased handling of the Delhi riots case. Will the Delhi Police listen to this iconic police officer?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chidambaram-pulls-up-delhi-police-for-mentioning-yechury-in-chargesheet/article32595950.ece
14 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fiscal deficit stands at Rs. 19,228 cr. in first quarter||Tamil Nadu’s fiscal deficit (the difference between total revenue and expenditure excluding borrowings) stood at Rs. 19,228.14 crore in the first quarter of 2020-21 (April-June), according to the provisional figures from the Comptroller and Auditor-General (CAG). The first quarter fiscal deficit is about 32.4% of the Rs. 59,346 crore projected in the budget estimates for 2020-21. The State’s total receipts, excluding borrowings, in the first quarter stood at Rs. 29,322.25 crore, which is about 13.04% of the estimated Rs. 2,24,739 crore. Total revenue receipts was Rs. 29,214.51 crore, down about 23.2% from Rs. 38,053.01 crore in the same period last year. The State’s Own Tax Revenue, which comprises the State GST, Stamp Duty and Registration Fees, liquor revenues and the VAT on sale of petrol and diesel, was Rs. 11,755.24 crore, down nearly 49% from Rs. 23,000.22 crore in the same period last year. Interestingly, one component of the revenue receipt which has seen a jump is grants-in-aid from the Union government. The grants-in-aid increased to Rs. 10,918.67 crore in the first quarter of 2020-21 from Rs. 4,186.58 crore in the same period last year. The State’s share of union taxes declined to Rs. 4,446.35 crore from Rs. 5,979.39 crore in the same period last year. The revenue expenditure increased 2.41% to Rs. 46,486.76 crore from Rs. 45,391.21 crore in the same period last year. However, expenditure on account of salaries and wages and subsidy are still being compiled for the first quarter of this year, the CAG said. The revenue deficit for the first quarter stood at Rs. 17,272.75 crore. In the last week of June, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had said the State’s fiscal deficit could touch Rs. 85,000 crore this year, if the fall in revenues continued. The Finance Department’s estimate had put the revenue shortfall at Rs. 35,000 crore, compared with the budget estimates, he had said. “I peg the fiscal deficit at Rs. 1lakh crore in 2020-21, and these figures point to that trend. The early release of grants-of-aid by the Centre has helped contain the fiscal deficit to some extent. But it will be difficult for tax revenue to get back to the previous year levels,” DMK IT wing head and MLA Palanivel Thiagarajan said. He said the State had to cut expenditure to manage the situation, mainly the capital expenditure that went into infrastructure projects.The capital expenditure in the first quarter of 2020-21 declined nearly 37% to Rs. 1,874.64 crore from Rs. 2,964.55 crore in the same period last year. Tamil Nadu has been the biggest borrower from the market so far during 2020-21. The borrowings have jumped 117% to Rs. 46,000 crore from Rs. 21,190 crore in the same period last year. This week, Deputy Chief Minister and Finance Minister O. Panneerselvam will present supplementary budget estimates, which will shed more light on the State’s finances.  The grants-in-aid increased to Rs. 10,918.67 crore in the first quarter of 2020-21 from Rs. 4,186.58 crore in the same period last year||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fiscal-deficit-stands-at-rs-19228-cr-in-first-quarter/article32596092.ece
14 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three-day Assembly session to begin today; likely to be stormy||Issues relating to the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), the National Education Policy (NEP), 2020, and measures taken by the State government to contain the spread of COVID-19 are among the topics likely to be raised for debate by Opposition parties during the three-day session of the Legislative Assembly, commencing on September 14. The House is meeting in the backdrop of Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) president M.K. Stalin and 17 of his party MLAs moving the Madras High Court, challenging the fresh breach of privilege notices to them last week for having displayed gutkha (chewing tobacco) sachets in the Assembly on July 19, 2017, in an attempt to prove that the banned substance was available across the State. This will also be the first session since sitting legislator Ku.Ka. Selvam of the Thousand Lights Assembly constituency was expelled from the DMK by Mr. Stalin. The DMK suspended and eventually dismissed him “for bringing disrepute to the party and violating party discipline”, days after Mr. Selvam called on BJP president J.P. Nadda and hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi. DMK general secretary and Deputy Floor Leader Duraimurugan had told reporters soon after the Business Advisory Committee meeting last week that three days was not sufficient for the session, as there were several pressing issues facing the people of Tamil Nadu. For the first time in the recent decades, the House will not sit in the usual Assembly Hall at the historic Fort St. George campus, but in the relatively new Kalaivanar Arangam, on Wallajah Salai, to ensure adherence to physical distancing norms among those attending the House proceedings, as part of precautions against COVID-19. Arrangements have already been made to test all legislators, Assembly officials, officers and journalists for COVID-19, before they come to the multi-purpose hall at the third-floor of Kalaivanar Arangam on Monday. Only those testing negative for the infection will be allowed on the third floor where the House is scheduled to meet. The first day of the session is likely to be adjourned soon after paying tributes to former President Pranab Mukherjee, DMK MLA J. Anbazhagan, Congress MP H. Vasanthakumar and those who died due to COVID-19. The House will also condole the death of former legislators of the Assembly before adjourning for the day. The first supplementary budget for 2020-21 will be presented to the House on the last day of the session on September 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-day-assembly-session-to-begin-today-likely-to-be-stormy/article32596100.ece
14 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NEET held without glitch||The National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) went off peacefully in Tamil Nadu on Sunday with more than 80% of the registered candidates sitting for it. A total of 1,17,990 candidates had registered for the test that was held in 238 centres. Candidates were required to come to the centres from 11 a.m. for the three-hour test that started at 2 p.m. All centres had a strong police presence to prevent crowding. Candidates were admitted in batches to the centres and allowed to carry only their hall tickets, Aadhaar cards, a passport-size photo, a transparent bottle of water and a small bottle of hand sanitiser. They were required to wear gloves and masks. Their temperature was measured at the entrance. Many candidates were seen removing their ‘dupattas’ or wrist watches or jewellery, indicating that they had not read the instructions issued by the National Testing Agency. In Madurai, 12,240 of the 15,036 candidates took the test at 35 centres and two centres in Theni district. S. Saran, a government school student from Ayyanarkulam in Usilampatti block, who had travelled to an exam centre at Keelamathur, said he was extremely anxious before the test started. “But once I started writing the exam, I became more confident. With the postponement of the examination, I had time to prepare well,” he said.  ‘Severe stress’ R. Kalaivani, a parent from Chokkikulam, said students as well as parents had to endure severe stress because of the uncertainty over the conduct of the exam. “The recent suicides due to the NEET caused additional anxiety. But we repeatedly told our daughter that there was no need to worry about the results,” she said. Around 10,000 candidates took the test from 16 centres in Coimbatore district. At a centre near Sulur, the examination was delayed by nearly two hours as the candidates were given the English question booklet instead of Tamil. In Tiruppur, which was included as a centre for the first time, 921 candidates took the test. In Salem, members of the All India Youth Front staged a protest at one of the 30 centres, demanding cancellation of the NEET. Namakkal had nine test centres.  Across the State, candidates followed the rules assiduously. But the parents did not follow physical distancing norms. They crowded near the gates of the venue and had to be repeatedly told to move away. Long hours Many parents were worried that their children had to sit for long hours without food. A parent from Chennai said the test-providers could have communicated it clearly or arranged snacks for children before the exam started. “My son had early breakfast and went in at 11 a.m. He may feel exhausted during the exam without lunch,” he said. Some parents complained that children were not allowed to carry water bottles despite carrying transparent bottles. W. Malini, another parent, said, “I searched in four shops for a bottle that even had a transparent cap. Yet it was not allowed because the bottle’s colour had a tinge of yellow. They may have made an arrangement for drinking water inside the hall. However, it may consume more time to use that facility and it is not safe either owing to COVID-19 risks,” she said. Parents and relatives had to wait in the open as no provision was made for them. Those who travelled from other districts had to endure a long wait. A candidate from Tiruvannamalai had sought Chennai as centre as he was undergoing coaching in the city. His father and brother waited in the school playground. In Vellore, of the 8,370 registered candidates, 6,958 took the test. In Tiruvallur which had eight centres, 3,254 of the 3,947 registered candidates took the test, officials said. In Kancheepuram, which has three centres, around 80% of the candidates sat for the test. Around 82% of the registered candidates took the test in 22 centres in Tiruchi district. The students were allotted specific timings and allowed in batches of 90 each from 11 a.m. In Puducherry, where over 7,000 took the test at 15 centres, many had to make their way from neighbouring Cuddalore and Villupuram districts as there was no public transport. Candidates had to commute by two-wheelers to the test centres.  Some parents complained that children were not allowed to carry water bottles||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-80-attendance-for-neet/article32596083.ece
14 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Electric autos that can double up as shops launched||Chennai-based Mauto Electric Mobility Pvt. Ltd. will soon launch a series of electric three-wheelers catering to business and hospitality segment. Incorporated in 2019, the company has come out with over 13 variants and is targeting the domestic as well as export market. “These vehicles are proper three-wheelers and will look like an autorickshaw but can be customised according to the business needs,” Yasmeen Jawahar Ali, Chief Executive Officer of Mauto Electric Mobility, said. Ms. Yasmeen said: “For instance, we have m-veggies which has racks where fruits and vegetables can be displayed and delivered at customer’s doorstep. “We have m-garbage (an alternative to the huge garbage vehicles) which can collect wet waste and dry waste separately. There is another segment called Business on Wheels for entrepreneurs,” she said. “The ideation for this venture started in 2019. But during the lockdown due to COVID-19 pandemic, I came across so many auto drivers using their vehicles to sell vegetables, meat and other products. Some even used their vehicles to sell tea and meat. That’s when we thought of creating space in the three-wheeler segment for such businesses,” said Mansoor Alikhan, Chairman of Mauto Group. “If anyone wants to start a business and does not want to invest on a huge rental space, they can buy this vehicle,” he added. Huge order The companies believes that this would encourage more people to get into entrepreneurship. It has bagged a huge order from the Republic of Benin and Republic of Togo (both in West Africa). Mauto Electric Mobility hopes to work closely with the Tamil Nadu government for these projects. “There are rural pockets where huge vehicles cannot go. These vehicles can be used in such places and we have an m-ambulance that can be utilised in rural areas,” Ms. Yasmeen said. These vehicles were priced Rs. 3 lakh and above and the firm has tied-up with nationalised banks to help buyers get finance. In 2019, the group unveiled a retrofit electric auto that was launched by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. The firm had inked a deal with Dubai-based KMC Group to convert petrol autorickshaws into electric vehicles. An MoU worth Rs. 100 crore was signed during the Chief Minister’s stopover in Dubai last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/electric-autos-that-can-double-up-as-shops-launched/article32596067.ece
14 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pleasant weather to prevail for two days||What started as a quiet, gloomy and pleasant Sunday morning, dominated by dark clouds and drizzles, turned even better when rains descended on the city in the afternoon and continued through the evening, providing much-needed cheer to residents. This rainy and cool weather is here to stay in the city for another two days, Meteorological department officials said. As of 5.30 p.m. Sunday, Nungambakkam weather station recorded 0.14 cm and Meenambakkam 0.18 cm respectively. “The city and its suburbs have been receiving this rainfall because a low-pressure area has been formed in the west-central Bay of Bengal, off the Andhra Pradesh Coast,” an official said. “The sky is likely to be generally cloudy. Light to moderate rain is likely to occur in some areas. Maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be around 30 degrees Celsius and 26 degrees Celsius respectively,” the department said. In rest of the State, there is likely to be heavy rainfall in areas including the Nilgiris, Vellore, Tirupattur, Ranipettai, Salem, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri and Tiruvannamalai districts. Also, there may be thunderstorm with lightning in isolated areas of the State. In the last 24 hours, Avalanche in the Nilgiris district and Chinnakalar in Coimbatore district received the maximum of 5 cm rainfall and followed by Valparai and Sholaiyar in Coimbatore district with 4 cm rainfall respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pleasant-weather-to-prevail-for-two-days/article32596069.ece
14 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||First private seabass hatchery to be set up||Even though 23 years have passed since the Chennai-based Central Institute of Brackishwater Aquaculture (CIBA) succeeded in the captive-breeding of Asian seabass ( Koduva ), a fish with high commercial value, hatcheries have remained only with government research institutions. The private sector has been more interested in shrimp farming. Now, for the first time in the country, CIBA has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to set up a seabass hatchery in the private sector, on start-up mode, in Karnataka. The MoU was signed with Canares Aquaculture, owned by young entrepreneurs Karthik Gowda V.S., Kaushik Alike and Sachin V. Savan, from Kumta in Karnataka, to ensure the transfer of CIBA’s technology. They were students at the Mangalore Fisheries College, and during a visit to CIBA’s seabass hatchery at the Muttukadu Experimental Station, their interest was kindled, and the idea of setting up their own aquaculture start up was born. When they approached CIBA authorities to set up a hatchery, the institute provided them technical guidance and field training in seabass nursery rearing. The institute also followed up, enabling the start-up to obtain funding support to start the firm. “It is a significant development in the country’s aquaculture sector, as youngsters coming to the field with start-up ventures will pave way for resurgence and growth in brackishwater aquaculture, especially Asian seabass farming in the country,” said K.K. Vijayan, director, CIBA. Reluctance of pvt. sector He explained that the private sector was largely reluctant to enter marine fish seed production because of the relatively longer production cycle and the need for a unique skill set to rear marine fish larvae. M. Kailasam, principal scientist of CIBA, said eggs would be collected by inserting a small tube in the genital opening of the fish. “We will then analyse the eggs to ascertain their maturity. If they have reached the perfect stage, we will give the fish hormone injections to facilitate the release of eggs,” he said. Hatchlings will be supplied to farmers after 25 days, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/first-private-seabass-hatchery-to-be-set-up/article32596088.ece
14 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||How students prepared for the examination||For candidates who took up the NEET this year, the postponement of the exam from May to September meant that they had an extra four months following their public exams. This was welcomed by some students but was also a cause of uncertainty for several others. For N.S. Sherin, the last four months gave her ample time to prepare on her own. “I had attended an intense coaching programme through my school earlier and stuck to revising what I had learnt there,” she said. K.Harshitha, a candidate who attempted the exam for the second time, said that the chemistry and biology components were direct and simple. “The overall paper too was a lot less challenging than the previous years,” she said. While Tamil Nadu has an annual residential crash course ahead of NEET for nearly 9,000 government school students, the shutdown of educational institutions this year meant that students only had access to a free online coaching programme. “I attended the coaching programme for a few weeks, but found it more productive to prepare on my own for the last one month,” said Sumana, a student from Thirupattur. She said that she found the exam easier than expected but that the physics component was challenging. “Many of us began full fledged preparations only after the new date for the exam was announced since we were not sure of whether the exam would be conducted,” she said. Since coaching institutes remained shut since march, classes were held online for students through the last four months. S. Thyagarajan, the parent of a candidate from Alwarthirunagar, said he had paid Rs. 65,000 for a year’s coaching with a centre in Porur. “The course was supposed to start after the Class 12 exams but then the lockdown happened. My son had to attend only online classes which were erratic. How can you learn if you cannot meet with your teacher?,” he asked. Many other candidates chose to prepare on their own. Suba Balamurugan, whose daughter Nehashri took the test in Kendriya Vidyalaya island grounds, said the girl did not take up private coaching. “We bought old materials, downloaded online tests and the free tests offered online by coaching centres and the National Testing Agency. We decided to allow her to take a break this year and prepare for the test next year if she does well this time,” she said. As has been the case for the last few years, most students found physics to be most challenging. “The exam this year, however, was easier than the last few years and the paper largely stuck to the NCERT textbook except for very few questions,” said Anurag Tiwari, National Academic Director (Medical), Aakash Educational Services. Mr. Tiwari said that the additional challenge they had on hand was to orient students towards sitting for longer hours with a mask on and shading OMR sheets while wearing gloves. “We encouraged all students to practice this while attempting mock tests at home,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/how-students-prepared-for-the-exam-amid-pandemic/article32596075.ece
14 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Serving of court notices and summons all set to go digital in State||Serving of court notices and summons is all set to go digital across Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, as the Madras High Court has decided to extend the facility to all subordinate courts. It has procured smartphones to be distributed to bailiffs and process servers, who will henceforth use a mobile app to capture photographs of people on whom notices are served upon. The bailiffs will be using the National Service and Tracking of Electronic Processes (NSTEP), an Android-based application developed at the insistence of the Supreme Court for delivery of processes. The app will be connected to Case Information System (CIS), a software used by courts across the country for digitalisation of judicial services. The CIS provides facility to generate electronic processes in PDF format. Once the electronic processes are generated, the process administrator of the respective court will assign the delivery to the bailiffs. The latter, in turn, can log into the mobile app using a password and view the list of processes allocated to him for service. After reaching the destination where the processes are to be served, the bailiffs will have to handover a hard copy to the party concerned, click a photograph of the person on whom the process has been served and also obtain his/her a signature on the app before capturing the mobile device location to make sure that it was delivered at the right address. In a circular issued to all subordinate courts, the High Court’s Registrar General C. Kumarappan has issued elaborate instructions to be followed by the bailiffs/process servers. He has asked them to keep in mind that the smartphones as well as SIM cards are the properties of the High Court and so they must be handled with utmost care and attention. The smartphones must be used only for official purpose and no third party applications or games should be installed on them. Bailiffs will be personally responsible for the devices’ security and hence they must choose a strong password. The court will not take any liability for loss, damage or misuse. Disciplinary action “Uploading of any illegal or obscene material using the official mobile will attract disciplinary proceedings and if it is believed that the mobile phone is being used for anything besides the official purpose, the Principal District Judge or District Judge concerned can ensure that the process server returns the mobile device at once,” the circular read. It also added that in case of theft or loss of the smart phone, the Principal District Judge or District Judge concerned should recover the prevailing cost from the process server concerned and intimate it to the High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/serving-of-court-notices-and-summons-all-set-to-go-digital-in-state/article32596090.ece
14 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vacancies delay disposal of files at Secretariat||With a large number of Under-Secretary posts remaining vacant in various government departments and the resultant delay in the clearance of files at the Secretariat, the State government has decided to implement a ‘level-jumping system’ where important files will now go directly to senior officers. A total of 133 Under-Secretary posts of the total sanctioned strength of 218 has not been filled due to the status quo ordered by the Madras High Court in a case relating to the fixation of seniority between direct-recruit Assistants and typist-promotee Assistants. The litigation has been going on since 2010, said officials. “Due to the non-filling of these posts, the existing Under-Secretaries are entrusted to look after more sections, resulting in a delay in disposal of files,” said a communication from Personnel and Administrative Reforms Department Secretary S. Swarna on Saturday. The Hindu has a copy of the communication sent to all Secretaries. The communication also requested all Department Secretaries “to identify the subjects for level jumping and issue orders accordingly in the request of your departments as per para 78 of the Tamil Nadu Secretariat Office Manual (SOM). Para 78 of the SOM states that the Secretary is the official head of his/her department and that it is his/her duty to take efficient steps for the prompt despatch of business in his/her department.” Under-Secretaries are placed above Section Officers, Assistant Section Officers and Assistants, and are placed below Secretaries, Special Secretaries, Additional Secretaries, Joint Secretaries and Deputy Secretaries. Supervising sections Functions of the Under-Secretary are to control and supervise the sections placed under his/her charge, instruct them how to deal with papers and to check delay, superfluous noting and prolixity of language, whether in notes or drafts and enforce the rigid observance of all rules. Under-Secretaries may pass final orders approving proposals, which are of a routine nature or require only the formal sanction of the government, according to the manual.  The Hindu had on March 9 reported that about half the post of Under-Secretaries in various departments at the Secretariat were vacant. While pending litigation in the Madras High Court has often been cited as a reason behind the delay in appointing the Under-Secretaries, a section of the staff point out that appointment orders have previously been issued, promoting staff to the post with a caveat that it will be subject to the outcome of the litigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vacancies-delay-disposal-of-files-at-secretariat/article32596094.ece
14 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police come to the rescue of NEET aspirant who forgets Aadhaar||Mounika and her sister, NEET aspirants, live in Purasawalkam. Mounika’s exam centre was allotted at Kavarapettai in Tiruvallur district. So, along with her mother she goes to Tiruvallur on Saturday itself. She reaches the centre —TGS College — at 11 a.m. on Sunday. All seems fine for her, but it’s not really so -- she forgets to bring her Aadhaar card from home. She and her mother Sheela look perplexed as the exam is to going to begin in a couple of hours. Luckily for Mounika help comes in the form of policemen. “We saw the mother and daughter standing perplexed and D. Ramesh, DSP, Gummidipoondi enquired what had happened. The two told him that they had left the Aadhaar card at home. We thought of taking a print-out, but since they were not using the mobile number registered in the card, it was impossible to get the OTP necessary to log in,” said A.G.Chandrasekharan, Sub-Inspector, Arambakkam. The SI then called police constable S. Maheshwaran attached to Arambakkam police station and asked him to go to Poonamallee and get Mounika’s Aadhaar card. “Sheela also went with the policeman and handed over Mounika’s card to Maheshwaran. He rode back to Tiruvallur and Sheela took her other daughter’s Aadhaar card and went to the centre where she was waiting to enter the hall,” added Mr. Chandrasekharan. Mr. Maheshwaran reached Kavarapettai around 1.20 p.m and gave the document to Mounika. “When I went to her house, I realised that they were from a poor background and that the girl had studied hard to appear for the exams. The only thing that was in my mind was to reach on time with the Aadhar card and ensure that the girl writes the exam,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/neet-student-forgets-aadhaar-police-come-to-her-rescue/article32596080.ece
14 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Trial run of Metro phase I extension likely to be conducted in November||Metro is likely to conduct the trial run for the phase I extension project in November this year, a month ahead of the opening of this 9-km stretch. The project has been under construction for the last four years, with an estimated cost of Rs. 3,770 crore. Nearly 3,000 workers were involved in building a 9-km network that will connect Washermenpet with Wimco Nagar. But all this came to a grinding halt this March when the lockdown induced by COVID-19 came into effect. As a result, the project, which was supposed to be finished in June and become operational, had been delayed. Now, the opening of this stretch has been pushed to December. Sources in Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL) said it was likely that a trial run for this stretch may be carried out in November first with the diesel loco and then using the trains. Nearly 10 trains for the phase I extension project had been manufactured in Sri City, near Chennai, and had arrived in the city last year. “The construction of the stations had been in various stages and we hope to finish it on time. Earlier, we had severe manpower shortage as workers had gone home. But now hundreds of them have returned and the pace of work is picking up well,” an official said. Trial run should be on at least for a month, sources said and added that this was required to ascertain the glitches that need to be rectified before the operations start. The telecommunication and other equipment had reached the city and installation work was likely to be taken up in a few weeks, sources said. The construction of Wimco Nagar depot is also on and this is where the trains for this project would be maintained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trial-run-of-metro-phase-i-extension-likely-in-november/article32596065.ece
14 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai-Kanniyakumari Industrial Corridor work to begin soon||Work to widen the first batch of roads under the Chennai-Kanniyakumari Industrial Corridor (CKIC) project is expected to commence by November. The total length of these roads under the project will be 203 km. Four roads connecting various towns including Vriddhachalam, Ulundurpet, Perambalur, Cheyyur and Polur are to be widened as part of efforts to to strengthen and widen 15 more roads to aid industrial development. Sources in the Highways Department said these roads, which are of 7 m width would become 10 m wide and have hard shoulders to allow smoother movement of traffic, including heavy vehicles. The works are slated to be completed in 2-3 years. As regards the actual construction on 15 corridors, the tenders are in various stages. “Presently four bids are under scrutiny, five are to be opened in October and tenders are to be floated soon for another five,” the source explained. For land acquisition, of the 430 proposals the first notification is done for 419. Awards are being passed for 190 proposals. The CKIC is being implemented in partnership with the Asian Development Bank as the second phase of the East Coast Economic Corridor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kanniyakumari-corridor-work-to-begin-soon/article32596073.ece
14 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No surge in Chennai after resumption of public transport||A week after public transport services resumed, Greater Chennai Corporation officials have pointed to the possibility of a high level of immunity among residents to explain the absence of any spurt in COVID-19 cases. The Greater Chennai Corporation is expected to start another serosurvey to assess the exposure of residents to COVID-19. A senior official said over 50% of the city residents were likely to have developed immunity against SARS-CoV-2, the virus that is causing COVID-19. “We have to start another serosurvey to assess the condition in the city. We have not found any major change after the relaxation of the lockdown. We will have to wait for 28 days to know the actual impact of the relaxation,” said an official of Chennai Corporation. Crowding has been increasing in commercial areas like George Town. Residents were found thronging shops without any regulation in major commercial establishments. However, the number of cases has not increased among traders in these areas, officials said. Zonal officials said the number of cases had not increased in most of the neighbourhoods even after the lockdown was eased. “The surveillance has remained the same. But the cases have not increased after the relaxation. There are a few local eruptions,” said an official. Officials at the COVID-19 care centres in the city said a few senior citizens and persons with obesity had been admitted with unusual symptoms in the past few days. The city has registered a negative growth rate of cases in the past seven days in 10 of the 15 zones. However, the zones of Adyar, Kodambakkam, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, Teynampet and Sholinganallur have registered an increase in the number of cases. Kodambakkam has reported the largest number of cases, with over 1,100 residents testing positive. The growth rate of cases in the past seven days in this zone is 0.5%. Sholinganallur has reported the highest rate of growth. Manali has reported the lowest number of cases and a negative growth rate of cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-surge-in-chennai-after-resumption-of-public-transport/article32596086.ece
14 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Judge wants Suriya to be hauled up for contempt||Justice S.M. Subramaniam of the Madras High Court has written to Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi, insisting on the need to initiate suo motu criminal contempt of court proceedings against actor Suriya. The judge took exception to a statement issued by the actor on Sunday, claiming that courts were ordering students to write NEET, when the judges were holding only virtual courts due to COVID-19. “The said statement in my considered opinion amounts to contempt of court as the integrity and devotion of the honourable judges as well as the judicial system of our great nation are not only undermined, but criticised in bad taste, wherein there is threat to the public confidence on the judiciary,” the communication read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/judge-wants-suriya-to-be-hauled-up-for-contempt/article32596089.ece
14 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||58 private teacher education colleges lose recognition||The Tamil Nadu Teachers Education University has issued a circular saying that colleges whose recognition has been revoked by the National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE) and institutions that have not sought affiliation shall not admit students in the academic year 2020-21. The circular listed the colleges whose recognition had been withdrawn by the Southern Regional Committee of the NCTE. Fifty-eight colleges lost their recognition whereas 13 colleges, found to be functioning with many defects, decided not to admit any student this academic year. At its meeting in August, the Southern Regional Committee of the NCTE provided a list of colleges that did not fulfil basic requirements, including staff strength and infrastructure. However, a member of the Association for Self-Financing Teacher Education Colleges said most complaints were insignificant. Some complaints listed in the minutes of the meeting were on illegible writing and failure to provide translation of documents or details of land. In some cases, the colleges had not responded to the show cause notice or “institution has failed in submission of written representation along with all required documents in response to final show cause notice,” the minutes read. Some institutions required to submit certified copies of land documents issued by the Tehsildar/Revenue Officer concerned did not submit the notorised copies of the English version of the land documents, besides the building completion certificates, the member said. The minutes of the meeting cited deficiencies in five government-run colleges. In Chennai, the N.K.T. National College of Education for Women and the Institute of Advanced Study in Education, known popularly as Teachers’ College at Saidapet, are among the colleges with deficiencies. The Government College, Vellore, the College of Education for Women, Coimbatore, and the college at Orathanadu are also on the list. No government college has lost recognition. According to V. Balakrishnan, Registrar, Tamil Nadu Teachers Education University, the lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic had prevented the government from appointing faculty members in these colleges. The government was taking steps to rectify the problems. The Directorate of Collegiate Education was acting on the complaints. Qualified candidates from arts and science colleges were being transferred to the teacher education colleges, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/58-private-teacher-education-colleges-lose-recognition/article32596586.ece
14 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DYFI, SFI members protest against NEET||Members of the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) and the Students’ Federation of India (SFI) courted arrest in Chennai after staging protests against the National Eligibility-Cum-Entrance Test (NEET) on Sunday. DYFI and SFI members staged protests in different parts of the city, including Ayanavaram, Vepery, R.K. Nagar and Aminjikarai. In some places, they attempted to block roads, and were picked up by the police. “We have been demanding for long that the government scrap the NEET. Especially during COVID-19, when students have been struggling with their regular classes, they would have found it hard to prepare for such a tough entrance examination,” said L. Vignesh, district secretary, Central Chennai, SFI, who was arrested near Aminjikarai. K. Manikandan, district president, Central Chennai, DYFI, said the Tamil Nadu government should ban the NEET. “Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami should demand that the Centre cancel the exam,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dyfi-sfi-members-protest-against-neet-court-arrest/article32596084.ece
14 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police bust SIM card racket||The police on Sunday busted a gang that acquired SIM cards using identity proof of other people without their knowledge. A special team attached to Joint Commissioner of Police (North) V. Balakrishnan learnt of the racket while investigating the kidnap of Diwan Akbar, 45, by a gang posing as an NIA team in Muthialpet police station limits. The special team found that the accused had purchased SIM cards using other people’s documents. Hence a special team headed by sub-inspector S. Vijay, head constable Murugeswaran and constable Vimal was formed to bust the SIM card racket. At this juncture, a woman lodged a complaint with the Kasimedu police station stating that someone had purchased a SIM card using her documents without her knowledge. The modus operandi “We found that the SIM cards used by the kidnappers were purchased through a network. Further investigation revealed that the card was activated by Arjun, a SIM card salesman of a mobile service provider’s distribution company. He would collect the identity and address proof documents submitted by customers of roadside SIM card sellers and those who sell weight reduction products. He would procure documents from photocopy shops. He would then get the SIM cards using these credentials and activate them,” said Mr. Vijay. Arjun would hand them over to agents — Kasim, Amar Jain, Premanathan and Hassan — who would pass them on to Syed, who then sold it to the end user. The police said the kidnappers got the SIM cards from this network and all the six have been arrested. “Even when you hand over documents in a photocopying shop, be careful. Ensure that a second copy is not made. This is a dangerous trend. These SIM cards can be acquired by anti-social elements and terrorists and misused,” said Mr. Vijay. Mr. Balakrishnan said: “If anyone violates the procedure prescribed by TRAI in selling SIM cards and its activation resulting in crime, criminal action will be initiated, including other action like steps to cancel their licence.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-bust-sim-card-racket-while-probing-kidnap-case/article32596070.ece
14 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Case against 10 persons||The Tiruvallur district administration has detected close to 3,000 ineligible accounts/non-farmer beneficiaries under the PM-Kisan Nidhi scheme and have recovered close to over Rs. 1 crore so far. The Tiruvallur police have registered a case against 10 persons and it has been transferred to CB-CID. "In Tiruvallur district, out of the 6,500 beneficiaries, 3,500 were from the district and 3,000 were found to be from outside the district and ineligible,” said an official from the Tiruvallur district administration. The district administration with the help of banks, agriculture department and police have managed to track down 2,800 ineligible accounts and have recovered over Rs. 1 crore. “Some have got two instalments and some only one. They have not received the entire Rs. 6,000 under the scheme” said an official. A case has been registered against 10 persons, including middle men. “The case has been transferred to the CB-CID,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-against-10-persons-in-pm-kisan-scheme-scam/article32596097.ece
14 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vijayakant’s appeal to cadre||Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK) founder Vijayakant on Sunday said that the economic relief and charity work done by the party during the pandemic and the lockdown has been recognised by the people. “We have a place in people’s hearts in Tamil Nadu,” he said. He urged the cadres to work for the party’s victory in the Assembly elections next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vijayakants-appeal-to-cadre/article32596102.ece
14 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||BU Syndicate decision on course approval worries academics||Bharathiar University Syndicate has decided to provisionally accord approval for four self-financing colleges to start new courses, which concerned academics say is a violation of the institution’s Acts and Statutes. In the Syndicate meeting held online a few days ago, the members present, including Higher Education Secretary, decided to allow Nehru Arts and Science College to start B.Sc. Digital Cyber Forensic Science, Park’s College, Tiruppur, to start B.Sc. Interior Design, Hindusthan College of Arts and Science to start B.Com. Cost and Management Accounting and convert B.Sc. Computer Science to B.Sc. Computer Science with Cognitive System and Rathinam College of Arts and Science to offer M.B.A. in Innovation Entrepreneurship and Venture Development. The minutes placed before the Syndicate and the recommendation of the statutory body, Career Development Council, showed that all the four colleges had applied well past the deadline and therefore were ineligible for starting new courses in the current academic year. Sources said as per the University’s Acts and Statues colleges could apply for starting new course or conversion of one course to another before October 31 and apply with Rs. 5,000 till November 30, with Rs. 10,000 fine till December 30 and Rs. 25,000 fine till January 28 to offer courses in the next academic year. But the aforementioned colleges had applied well past the deadline in March – July this year to start the courses and therefore their application ought not to be have been considered. Process An academic privy to the developments wondered how would the colleges start the courses when a lot more process remained before they could actually start teaching the courses – like the visit of inspection committee and approval of syllabus. Formalities Another academic wondered how could the colleges complete all the formalities with the deadline to admit students for the current academic year only a fortnight away. On condition of anonymity, he said that it appeared that the colleges readied infrastructure and even admitted students provisionally before seeking the University’s approval as their urgency for the approval made one suspect so. Several academic said this would set a bad precedent and would only pave the way for deterioration of higher education and bring disrepute to the University as the interest of the colleges concerned and not that of students seemed to be at the core of Syndicate approval. Vice-Chancellor P. Kaliraj could not be reached for his comments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bu-syndicate-decision-on-course-approval-worries-academics/article32596137.ece
14 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Hindu Munnani supporter hacked to death in Coimbatore||A 40-year-old man, an alleged Hindu Munnani supporter, was hacked to death by a group at Ram Nagar in Coimbatore on Sunday. C. Biju, a resident of Dhanalakshmi Nagar near Avarampalayam, was running a soda shop and finance company on Gokhale Street in Ram Nagar. He was murdered by a seven-member gang on Sunday afternoon, police said. According to Coimbatore City Police, the deceased had tried to arrive at a compromise between two groups and that could have led to the murder. Police said that Hindu Munnani workers, including one Anandh, used to spend time at his shop. Nithish Kumar (20), a resident of Narasimhanaickenpalayam, whose father runs a belt store at Ram Nagar, also used to visit the shop. Anandh and Kumar had differences of opinion, which led to a clash between them. Biju had held talks with the families of Anandh and Kumar. On Saturday, Anandh’s friends Rahul from Ram Nagar and Vishnu from Kannappa Nagar followed Kumar and stabbed him. He was admitted to a private hospital. Police said the attack on Biju happened when the Saibaba Colony police were investigating the attack on Kumar. Coimbatore City Police Commissioner Sumit Sharan said four special teams were formed to nab the assailants. “We have information about the accused. We expect to nab them by Monday,” he said. Following the death of Biju at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, his wife Saranya allegedly attempted to end her life. Her condition was stable.  We have information about the accused and expect to nab them by Monday  Sumit Sharan  City Police Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hindu-munnani-supporter-hacked-to-death-in-coimbatore/article32596122.ece
14 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Students even from Andaman take TNAU semester examination online||Animesh Sarkar, a final year B.Sc. Agriculture student of Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU), has been busy for the last few days, visiting his friend’s house for a few hours. He would go to his friend’s house, stay there between 9.30 a.m. and 12.30 p.m., remain glued to his mobile phone and then return home. He would do so again on Monday, travel from his home in Shaheed Dweep, an islet in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, to take his last semester examination that the TNAU has been conducting online. Mr. Sarkar travels to his friend’s home to access internet. “My friend’s house near the market is the place in the islet where the broadband connectivity is relatively better,” he says. There are 2,364 students like him who are taking the examination online, says Controller of Examination K. Soorianathasundaram. “While most students are from within the State, a few like Mr. Sarkar are from outside.” Though he has difficulty in accessing internet to take the examination, the Andaman student is happy in a way. “I’m happy because I’ll get my degree certificate sometime soon and that will help me get a job at the earliest.” S. Atchaya, a final year B.Sc. Horticulture student at the Horticultural College and Research Institute for Women in Musuri, is also happy that the University has started conducting the end-semester examination. The University asked the students to download a mobile application if they want to write using an android phone or visit a web application to take the examination. Thereafter, it guided them through the steps to help them write the examination, recalls the Controller. “The University conducted a few webinars to familiarise the students with the application – right from installation to signing of the exam paper at the end of the stipulated hours. And, then it also conducted two mock tests.” After the mock tests, the University took feedback from students, sent those to the third-party software developer who provided the web application platform to incorporate changes. Not stopping with that the University also sensitised its faculty who set question papers. “After the faculty concerned set question papers, senior faculty reviewed those to ensure that they had framed the questions to test the students’ understanding and was in tune with the new reality – that the students were answering using laptop or mobile phone,” explains the Controller. To avoid malpractice, the University released the question paper 15 minutes before the start of the exam, asked students to answer using the pen colour mentioned in the question and scan and upload descriptive answers once they finished. In the backend the University using the application also live recorded the students writing the examination to prevent any malpractice. And, for those students who used mobile phones for three hours at a stretch, battery was not an issue either. Ms. Atchaya says the drain varied between 10% and 20%. Though the University will complete the examination in a few days, it is giving the final year students the option to opt for pen and paper examination but only after reviewing their examination log, the Controller adds. A release issued a few days ago from the University said Vice Chancellor N. Kumar also assigned faculty coordinators for proctoring the students and asked the software service provider to share phone number and e-mail ids to help students to overcome difficulties at the time of writing the examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-even-from-andaman-take-tnau-semester-examination-online/article32596107.ece
14 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||BU to hold end-semester theory exams from Sept. 21||Bharathiar University will hold the end-semester theory examination for students of all undergraduate and post-graduate courses from September 21 to 30. Online exam A release said based on directions from the State Higher Education Department, the University would hold theory papers for students of all affiliated colleges, University department and study centres. And, it would conduct the examination online. Exclusive portal The University was in the process of creating an exclusive portal for students to download question papers and upload answer sheets in PDF on every day of the examination. The University had finalised the examination modalities after discussions with principals of affiliated colleges and heads of departments. In the run-up to the semester examination, the University would conduct a mock test on September 16, the release said. Final semester The University had asked all students who had registered for the final semester examination to contact their college principal or heads of departments for further details. They would also do well to visitwww.b-u.ac.into learn about the University’s modalities, the release added.  The University had finalised the examination modalities after discussions with principals of affiliated colleges and heads of departments||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bu-to-hold-end-semester-theory-exams-from-sept-21/article32596105.ece
14 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Former MLA dies||Member of the State secretariat of CPI (M) and former MLA of Tiruppur South, K. Thangavel (69) died of COVID-19 here on Sunday. He was admitted to a private hospital in Coimbatore 15 days ago. According to S. Muthukannan, Tiruppur district secretary of the party, he was the Tiruppur south MLA from 2011 to 2016. Coimbatore MP P.R. Natarajan said that Mr. Thangavel had worked for the rights of workers and to strengthen the trade union. In his condolence message, V.S. Sundaram, Coimbatore district secretary of CPI, said Mr. Thangavel was first involved in the CITU banian workers union and went on to hold several posts in CPI (M) and CITU. According to A. Sakthivel, chairman of Apparel Export Promotion Council, Mr. Thangavel had worked with the exporters to strengthen garment exports from Tiruppur. He is survived by wife T. Shanthamani and two daughters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-mla-dies-of-covid-19/article32596109.ece
14 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Smart home project launched||Casa Grand has launched CasaGrand Cosmos, a smart home project, on Mettupalayam Road. A release from the company said the residential community on 4.7 acre had 41 three and four bedroom villas ranging from 2,505 to 3,441 sq.ft each. The project also had 60 two-bedroom and three-bedroom apartment units of 655 sq.ft to 1,636 sq.ft each. The project had over 50 amenities. The smart home features included Google Home/Alexa enabled at the villas, video door phone, digital door look system and mobile phone application controlled fan and light switches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/smart-home-project-launched/article32596115.ece
14 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Virtual training on trade and investment||Supporting Indian Trade and Investment for Africa (SITA), a project implemented by the International Trade Centre (ITC) and funded by the UK Department for International Development, will facilitate a virtual training on trade, investment and market analysis capacity building services for Business Support Organisations (BSOs) for the economic recovery post COVID-19. A release from SITA said that the one-month online programme, starting September 22, was to enable BSOs to carry out targeted market analysis and would have eight modules on different topics. For details, mail to avalla@intracen.org or vprakash@intracen.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/virtual-training-on-trade-and-investment/article32596116.ece
14 September 2020||Cuddalore,TAMIL NADU||Annamalai’s exams online||Annamalai University has decided to conduct the On Campus and Distance Education examinations for final year/final semester students through online mode. The final year/final semester examinations will be held from September 21 to 30. The exam schedule and necessary instructions for online examinations will be uploaded in the university website www. annamalaiuniversity.ac.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/annamalai-varsity-exams-go-online/article32596096.ece
14 September 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||4 held for sale of country guns||A four-member gang, including a TNSTC mechanic, has been arrested here on charges of trespass into reserve forest area and sale of country-made guns. On Saturday, Yovan, 41, of Retallapaarai was spotted in the forest area. Inquiry showed that he was in possession of a country-made gun. He owned a lathe, and along with his brother Aaron, 45, and two others Krishnan, 52, of Thavasimalai and Bharatan, 48, of Nochi Odaipatti, reportedly sold country-made guns. The probe also indicated that Bharatan was a TNSTC employee. The four men sold country-made guns fabricated at Yovan's lathe. Further investigation was on. Following a complaint from forest department officials in Sirumalai, Dindigul Taluk police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/4-held-for-sale-of-country-guns/article32596583.ece
14 September 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Former DMK Minister attends function with Ministers||Former DMK Minister N.K.K.P. Raja participated in a function along with School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan and Minister for Environment K.C. Karuppannan in Bhavani block on Sunday. The foundation was laid for construction of additional classrooms and laboratory at a cost of Rs. 1.27 crore at Ayyampalayam Government Higher Secondary School at the event in which Mr. Raja was seen with the Ministers. He was the Minister for Handlooms and Textiles till 2008 during the DMK regime (from 2006 to 2011) and lost his ministership after a land grabbing case was registered against him. He was expelled from the party and re-inducted after two years. He was arrested on land grabbing charges and later a court acquitted him of the charges. He unsuccessfully contested from the Anthiyur Assembly constituency in 2011. Thereafter, he could not be seen in any of the party functions except during M.K. Stalin’s visit to Erode. Earlier in the day, Mr. Karuppannan garlanded Mr. Raja and welcomed him at the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-dmk-minister-attends-function-with-ministers/article32596138.ece
14 September 2020||Karur,TAMIL NADU||COVID positive candidate refused permission||A COVID-19 positive candidate was refused permission to appear for NEET at a centre in Karur. The candidate belonging to Vellakovil in Tiruppur district had tested positive on Friday. The 19-year-old was subjected for the test after the death of his father a few days ago. As he had no lung infection, he was asked to be in home quarantine. Since he was asymptomatic, he decided to go to V.S.B Engineering College at Karudayampalayam, one of the three centres in Karur district for NEET examination. Accompanied by his relative, the candidate came to the centre. However, the officials at the centre cited a circular which stated that COVID-19 patients would be given a separate chance to write the test. Following this, the candidate returned home. The candidate’s relative told The Hindu that the staff at the centre were polite and responsive, and acted with promptness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/denied-entry/article32596306.ece
14 September 2020||Karur,TAMIL NADU||One killed in accident||Forty-one-year-old C. Moses Amalraj, who was working with The Hindu as a Senior Packing Assistant, posted in Tiruchi, died on Sunday in a accident. Mr. Moses along with his brother’s family after visiting Mukkombu had stopped their car at Mahathanapuram for a break. Just as they were about to resume their journey, a Tiruchi-bound parcel service lorry from Bengaluru hit the car. Mr. Amalraj suffered critical injuries and died on the way to a hospital. Three others were admitted to a private hospital in Karur. The deceased is survived by his wife and two daughters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-killed-in-accident/article32596622.ece
14 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Final year students to write semester exams online||Madurai Kamaraj University will conduct semester examinations online for final year students, said Vice-Chancellor M. Krishnan. Speaking to The Hindu on Sunday, he said about 48,000 students from the university and its affiliated and autonomous colleges would write the exam. Around 80% of them had access to Internet connection. A meeting with college Principals would be held on Monday in this regard. “The students will be sent questions by 9.45 a.m. They will complete the exams by 1 p.m. and sign their answer scripts along with either their parent or guardian. Those who can scan and upload the answer script can mail it to their Principal. Those who cannot do so can drop them at their college after intimating the college in advance. Others who cannot do both can send the answer scripts by post before 2 p.m. Those posted later will not be evaluated,” he said. “We thought of conducting the exams at the colleges. But we did not want the students or teachers to contract COVID-19, the reason why we dropped the plan,” he said. Those who found it inconvenient to write the exam could convey it to the university and opt to sit for supplementary exams later, Mr. Krishnan said. Principal of Saraswathi Narayanan College M. Kannan said conducting exams online could pose a great deal of challenge and confusion. Since the University Grants Commission had instructed colleges to complete semester exams by September 30, they should start by September 16. “The sudden announcement may lead to hundreds of students standing in line to buy expensive smart phones to ensure that they do well in the exams which cannot be termed ‘open book test’ too,” he said. Member of MKU Syndicate S. Theenathayalan said many students were nervous about attempting an exam online. “Since it is their final year, many feel their future depends on their performance. The decision should have been taken after the Principals consulted their students,” he said. Mr. Kannan said Principals should have been offered a choice based on availability and accessibility for their students. “We want our students to do well as many of them come from rural areas,” he said. Student Federation of India’s urban district secretary S. Veldeva said, “The exams can be conducted when colleges start functioning. Many students cannot afford to buy smart phones and may not have a separate room to write the exams in an undisturbed manner. So many of them are juggling jobs and online classes due to the financial strain caused by COVID-19 lockdown. Writing exams online will add to their mental stress.”  The sudden announcement may lead to hundreds of students standing in line to buy expensive smart phones  M. KannanPrincipal, Saraswathi Narayanan College||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/final-year-students-to-write-semester-exams-online/article32596296.ece
14 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘There is no level-playing field’||Around 30 members of left parties staged a demonstration against National Eligibility-cum-Entrance test (NEET), near a centre in Narimedu here on Sunday. The protesters held placards and raised slogans before the commencement of the examination. A.Veera of Aadhi Tamizhar Katchi, who took part in the protest, said it was unfair to conduct the NEET exam in the wake of three medical aspirants ending their lives on Saturday. “There is no level-playing field in NEET. The students from underprivileged families, who do not have access to private coaching centres, lose the opportunity to secure a medical seat,” he said. Students from poor and socially backward families have been subjected to severe mental stress due to the test, he said. The government must ensure education is brought under the State list, said T. Dileepan Senthil, another protester. The protesters were arrested and kept in a marriage hall. Rajapalayam Members of All India Youth Federation staged a demonstration at Seithur. Seeking scrapping of NEET, the agitators said the suicides by NEET aspirants in the State due to anxiety only proved that it remained an obstacle for them to realise their dream of pursuing medicine. Besides scrapping the entrance examination, the State and Centre should provide adequate compensation to the parents who lost their children. Communist Party of India Virudhunagar district secretary, P. Lingam, AIYF Virudhunagar district secretary Ganesamoorthy and treasurer Bhagat Singh took part in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/there-is-no-level-playing-field/article32596302.ece
14 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Surgery performed||A 55-year-old man from Madurai, who was initially tested positive for COVID-19 and later found to have pneumothorax (collapsed lungs), was successfully treated at Devadoss Hospital. The hospital’s Senior General Manager, A. K. Sivakumar, said it was a rare condition and very few survived when both the lungs collapsed. “The man tested positive for COVID-19 in July. He was in a critical condition and was on ventilator support for a while but recuperated. Although his COVID-19 test was negative, he had breathlessness again. When we did tests, we found both his lungs had collapsed. We had never seen such a case before,” he said. Mr. Sivakumar said a surgery lasting hours was performed on him. “Now he is healthy. Our people have been visiting his house to give home treatment and follow-up,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/surgery-performed/article32596294.ece
14 September 2020||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Collector assures of providing amenities to devotees||District Collector K. Megraj, who recently visited Thalamalai hills, assured the villagers and trustees of Thalamalai Seva Trust members of providing amenities requested by villagers and devotees. Mr. Megraj paid a visit to the Sanjeevarayar Temple in Thalamalai and enquired with the public regarding the amenities in the hills and improvement of facilities at the temple. According to officials, there are five routes to reach the hilltop and the length of these routes varies between 2.5-5 km.. Members of the Trust requested the Collector to take measures to set up a girivalam path of 27 km. with basic amenities here. They also requested the district administration to set up motorable road to the hilltop and drinking water facilities in the hills. The trustees also requested with Collector to provide solar lamps, toilet facilities and community hall to conduct annadhanam . “The road has to be readied and small sheds have to be constructed for elderly persons to take rest. The district administration would take all measures to fulfil their demands”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-assures-of-providing-amenities-to-devotees/article32596117.ece
14 September 2020||P.A. NarayaniMadurai,TAMIL NADU||Students need emotional support, say experts||Focussing on suicide prevention, mental health professionals stress the need for parents and teachers to engage with students and provide emotional support to those who are undergoing a range of psycho-social distresses. “Every suicide is a cry for help,” says C. Ramasubramanian, a renowned psychologist and founder of M.S. Chellamuthu Trust and Research Foundation. “Suicide is a culmination of psychological turmoil. The victims often do not have anyone to listen to their grievances,” he says. He says teachers and parents are important stakeholders who must be sensitised to identify any behavioural change in their students at the earliest. “Suicide victims often display clear signs of unhappiness. Every suicide can be prevented if symptoms are identified and treatment is initiated at an early stage,” he says. G. Gurubharathy of M.S. Chellamuthu Trust, says parents must stop thrusting unrealistic expectations on their children, as it leads to anxiety among students. “It is important to understand that marks do not determine the capability of a student. Parents must rather provide emotional support to their children,” he adds. Dr. Ramasubramanian says teachers must identify the strength of each student and help them to excel in them. “There must be a separate curriculum on stress management for students. Every school must have counsellors to provide mental support to those students who are suffering from psycho-social distress,” he says. Nandhini Murali, director of SPEAK and a survivor of suicide loss, says the media must refrain from sharing personal details of suicide victims and avoid sensationalism. The resilience of students must be improved to ensure that they can handle any failure in life. It is important to undertake a psychological autopsy of every suicide, says Dr. Ramasubramanian. “It is crucial to understand the circumstances and sequences of events that led a person to take the extreme step,” he adds. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline ‘104’ and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044 24640050.  Points to ponder Every suicide is a cry for help  Marks do not determine the capability of a student  Media should not share personal details of suicide victims||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-need-emotional-support-say-experts/article32596313.ece
14 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 toll rises to 385 in U.T.||The COVID-19 toll in Puducherry rose to 385 with 15 deaths recorded on Sunday, even as 388 fresh cases took the overall tally to 19,821. All the fatalities were reported in the capital where the number of deaths now stands at 331. The case fatality rate was 1.94%, while recovery rate was 73.56%. Puducherry accounted for 291 fresh cases, Karaikal 58, Yanam 38 and Mahe one. The Union Territory has 4,856 active cases, including 3,160 patients in home quarantine. In the last 24 hours, 342 patients were discharged after treatment. While Puducherry has 1,403 active cases at hospital and 2,805 patients at home, the respective numbers are 85 and 240 for Karaikal, 188 and 108 for Yanam and 20 and nine for Mahe. Cuddalore district reported four deaths and 251 fresh cases. The total number of cases in the district stands at 16,262.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-toll-rises-to-385-in-ut/article32596095.ece
14 September 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Health Minister inaugurates new Tangedco office||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Sunday inaugurated a new Tangedco office building, the 25th branch of the Pudukottai District Central Cooperative Bank and a part time ration shop at different places in the district. The new section office building of the Tangedco inaugurated by the Minister at Vayalogam village in Annavasal block was constructed at a cost of Rs. 24 lakh. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Vijayabaskar said Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had been implementing various developmental schemes aimed at the welfare of the people. Various schemes had been executed at Vayalogam village and the residents provided with COVID-19 relief materials. He said steps would be taken to establish a new Primary Health Centre at the village. The 25th branch of the Pudukottai District Central Cooperative Bank was inaugurated by Mr. Vijayabaskar at Mathur for the benefit of the people. The bank's branch would disburse farm-related loans and provide other services to the general public residing in 16 panchayats in Mathur area. The Minister said the bank's branch would also provide loans to those planning to start small business units, provide financial assistance to self help groups, housing loans and loans to persons with disabilities, he said exhorting the public to make use of the services to be offered by the bank's branch. The District Central Cooperative Bank had been playing a vital role in improving the livelihood of the farmers and general public by providing them loan and financial assistance, the Minister said. The new part time ration shop established through the Cooperative department was inaugurated by the Minister at Kulavaipatti village in Annavasal block. The part time ration shop had been established heeding the long pending demand of the locals. The shop with 201 card holders would function on Wednesday and Saturday and supply essential commodities including rice, sugar and palm oil, the Minister said. The part-time shop has spared the residents of Kulavaipatti of the difficulty of travelling for four kilometres to the nearest ration shop at Pudur to buy essential commodities. The Minister said approval had been obtained for construction of a women self help group building at Kulavaipatti where kudimaramathu works had been executed and roads have been laid. Necessary steps would be taken for implementing other demands of the people including construction of a bridge. Pudukottai Collector P. Uma Maheswari and officials of various departments were present on the occasion, an official release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-minister-inaugurates-new-tangedco-office/article32596625.ece
14 September 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Pudukottai gears up for northeast monsoon||The district administration has geared up for the northeast monsoon by making preparatory arrangements involving officials of various government departments. As part of this measure, medical teams have been constituted to prevent outbreak of communicable diseases during rainy season. Collector P. Uma Maheswari said health department officials had been instructed to ensure that there was adequate stock of medicines in government hospitals. Besides, officials have also been asked to spray bleaching powder at suitable places. Clean and protected drinking water supply had to be ensured to prevent outbreak of diseases and its spread. Revenue department officials have been asked to convey information to the disaster management wing and the district administration in case places were affected by heavy rains. Public Works department officials have been asked to keep sandbags ready in case of breach in tanks and ooranis. Tangedco officials have been asked to carry out power-related repair works and remove the uprooted trees from the roads involving the highways department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pudukottai-gears-up-for-northeast-monsoon/article32596618.ece
14 September 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||34 bags of turmeric seized, three arrested||Three persons were arrested on Sunday on charges of attempting to smuggle turmeric to Sri Lanka. Following a tip-off, Marine Police intercepted a van and a search revealed 1,020 kg of turmeric packed in 34 bags and covered with a tarpaulin sheet. The arrested were identified as Venkatesh, 33, of Erode, Riyaz, 36, and Shafiullah, 40, of Vedalai. A fortnight ago, police seized about 600 kg of turmeric, with the accused claiming that they were promised gold bars from their counterparts in Colombo. Police said turmeric was in high demand in Sri Lanka as people consumed it part of anti-Covid treatment prescribed by doctors in the island nation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/34-bags-of-turmeric-seized-three-arrested/article32596584.ece
14 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Reopening of libraries brings cheer to competitive exam aspirants||If nothing else, the preparation by various government job aspirants has at least returned to the old ‘normal’ after libraries have been reopened this month. The Government libraries are the main place for competitive exam aspirants for their preparations. Mohan Raj, a candidate preparing for RRB examinations here, said, “we are dependent on the libraries as the atmosphere here plays a major role. At home, we do not even feel like preparing for the exams.” M. Mukundan, another government job aspirant, said authorities should consider extending the working hours till 8 p.m. as the libraries would close by 2 p.m. now. R. Gokilavani, District Library Officer, said all precautionary measures were being taken at the libraries. The ‘Own Books’ section was functioning at 17 libraries in the district and the seating arrangements were made keeping in mind the physical distancing norms. She said sanitiser was provided to the visitors and their temperature was checked before they entered the library. The daily journals section had not been opened yet. Officials said though branch and village libraries had been opened, only lending of books was allowed. The books were disinfected before they were replaced in the racks. At the District Central Library, 60-70 persons visited every day, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reopening-of-libraries-brings-cheer-to-competitive-exam-aspirants/article32596113.ece
14 September 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Tourists flock Yercaud following relaxation of restrictions||Various parks in Yercaud saw a steady flow of tourists on Sunday after the district administration offered relaxations in COVID-19 restrictions. Anna park, lake park, Rose garden, two government botanical gardens and genetic heritage garden that was reopened on Wednesday saw a steady flow of tourists over the weekend. According to officials, temperature of visitors were screened before entering the park and they were provided with hand sanitisers. Staff were deployed at various points to prevent crowding. Officials said that on Saturday, Anna park, the major park in the hill station, saw close to 200 visitors and about Rs. 2,825 were collected as ticket collections. The boating services in Yercaud lake, one of the major attractions in the hill station, has not yet resumed. A.P. Manoharan, a tour operator in Yercaud, said that though tourists have started flocking the hill station tour operators would benefit only if bus operations are resumed as most visitors now come in personal vehicles. Kalpanna Sivaraj, Joint Secretary, Tamil Nadu Tour Travel and Hospitality Association, said that hotels have reopened for business in the hill station and all safety measures are followed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tourists-flock-yercaud-following-relaxation-of-restrictions/article32596111.ece
14 September 2020||SALEM/ DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Ministers visit students’ kin, condole deaths||Ministers visited the families of students who allegedly died by suicide on Saturday and condoled their death. Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam condoled the death of the students on Twitter. In the tweet, he said the State government’s stand had always been against conducting NEET, and it would always stand by the students. Mr. Panneerselvam said that there were numerous opportunities for students to come up in life and requested them not to take wrong decisions. Minister for Electricity P. Thangamani visited the house of M. Motilal, 21, in Tiruchengode, and condoled the death of the student who was preparing to take NEET on Sunday. Namakkal Collector K. Megraj, Superintendent of Police S. Sakthi Ganesan and other senior officials accompanied the Minister. Talking to mediapersons, Mr. Thangamani said, “The Chief Minister advised me to pay condolences on behalf of the State government. This is a sad incident. We condole the death and such incidents should not happen in the future.” He added, “Since former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s period, the State government’s stand has been against the conduct of NEET.” On solatium for the family of the deceased, he said that it would be announced by the Chief Minister. In Dharmapuri, Minister for Higher Education K. Anbalagan, District Collector S. Malarvizhi and other senior officials paid respects to the body of Adithya, 20. Talking to reporters, Ms. Malarvizhi said the parents told her that the candidate had scored good marks in his previous attempts and that they were not aware of the reason behind his suicide. Adithya’s mortal remains were brought to his native Poosaripatti in Salem for the funeral. DMK youth-wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin paid respects to the student’s mortal remains. Actor Suriya launched a scathing attack against NEET, following the death of the students. In a statement, he compared NEET to the religious text, Manusmriti, and said it did not just deny opportunities to students but also took their lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ministers-visit-kin-of-students-who-committed-suicide/article32596076.ece
14 September 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Gold jewellery, silver articles stolen from pawn shop||Gold jewellery weighing about 31 sovereigns and 18 kilograms of silver articles were reportedly stolen from a jewellery-cum-pawn shop at Thirulogi village near Thiruppananthal in Thanjavur district. The crime could have been committed by miscreants between the late hours of Saturday and early hours of Sunday, police sources said, based on a complaint lodged by shop owner Shanthilal of Mayiladuthurai. Police sources said unidentified persons gained entry into the shop after breaking the locks and decamped with the valuables. The Thiruppananthal Police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-jewellery-silver-articles-stolen-from-pawn-shop/article32596626.ece
14 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Spike in COVID-19 cases in central districts, six die||The central region on Sunday recorded 750 new COVID-19 cases, registering a sharp increase from 675 on Saturday. Three deaths were reported in Pudukottai, and one each in Karur, Tiruvarur and Tiruchi districts. In Pudukottai, a 57-year-old man who had recently undergone a coronary artery bypass grafting, a 67-year-old man with no pre-existing conditions and a 70-year-old woman with comorbidity of hypertension succumbed to COVID-19. A 69-year-old man from Ariyalur and a 56-year-old man from Tiruvarur, both suffering from chronic kidney disease and a 69-year-old man from Tiruchi suffering from diabetes and hypertension died of the viral infection. Meanwhile, Nagapttinam recorded the highest number of COVID-19 cases in the region on Sunday with 154 new cases. Among the patients who tested positive were contacts of those who tested positive and local cases whose contact and travel history was yet to be traced. Thanjavur recorded 151 new cases, among which were a village health nurse in Patteshwaram, two employees of a private bank in Kallukulam, two doctors at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital, five office assistants at the Superintendent of Police's office, an armed reserve policeman, a regional reporter of a Tamil daily were among those who tested positive. Tiruvarur recorded 143 new cases, while Pudukottai recorded 134 cases for the viral infection on Sunday. Patients who tested positive in both districts were primary contacts of those who tested positive and patients with a history of Influenza-Like Illnesses. Meanwhile, Tiruchi recorded 86 cases for the viral infection among which many were from existing containment zones. Meanwhile, 35 patients from the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital and eight from the COVID Care Centre in Khajamalai were discharged and sent home after recovering from the infection. Karur recorded 48 cases of COVID-19, mostly from Panjapatti, Naganur, Kulithalai and Kadavur. In Perambalur, 23 patients tested positive, accounting for primary contacts, interdistrict travellers and local cases. Patients with Influenza-Like Illnesses also tested positive. A total of 11 patients tested positive in Ariyalur, among which three patients from Ariyalur block, two from Sendurai, one from Andimadam and five from Jayankondam. Meanwhile, 177 new throat swabs were lifted and sent for testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spike-in-covid-19-cases-in-central-districts-six-die/article32596617.ece
14 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||NEET held with safety protocol in place||NEET 2020 (National Eligibility cum Entrance Test) for entry into medical colleges was conducted in compliance with safety protocol at 22 locations in Tiruchi district on Sunday. Students started assembling at the centres hours in advance making it easy for the support staff to facilitate staggered entry of students to the exam halls. Support staff were enlisted in large numbers for conduct of the exam by the National Testing Agency. At the Samadh Higher Secondary School in Khaja Nagar in the city, for instance, there were about 220 staff deployed for facilitating 780 candidates, who had appeared for the examination. Out of 9,499 candidates allotted for Tiruchi centre, 7,797 students turned up well in time for the three-hour exam. There were 1,702 absentees, and 82% attendance was registered for the NEET examination in the centres in the district, Tiruchi Coordinator of NTA C. J. Chacko said.  Thanjavur In all, 5,682 candidates appeared for NEET at 10 centres. There were 1,452 absentees. Students started assembling at the exam centres from 11 a.m. onwards. Four students could not write the exam at a centre in Kumbakonam as they reached 20 minutes late. They had mistakenly gone to a centre in Thanjavur and could not reach the assigned centre in time, sources said. The confusion was caused as the two centres were schools with a common name under a private management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/neet-held-with-safety-protocol-in-place/article32596629.ece
14 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Shame and rejection play a key role in influencing sucidical thoughts||In the backdrop of suicides committed by students in the State, psychiatrists perceived shame and rejection as two primary factors influencing the decision, at a webinar organised by the Indian Psychiatric Society in observance of International Suicide Prevention Day “Shame might be caused by low marks, peer pressure, and parental pressure that go on to create a sense of rejection. Such treatment from parents from whom the students look for support triggers the thought of committing suicide,” Lakshmi Vijayakumar, Consultant Psychiatrist and Founder, Sneha Suicide Prevention Centre, in her address. Dr. Lakshmi Vijayakumar went on to explain that while suicidal thoughts might be simmering in a depressed individual’s mind, the maximum suicidal instinct surfaces within a period of two to three weeks. “If emotional empathetic listening is provided during this period, it could prevent suicide,” she said at a programme organised by the Indian Psychiatric Society – South Zonal Branch along with Athma Hospitals And Research, Tiruchi. She also detailed the influence of social media in students’ lives. “The students are used to instant gratification and getting what they want with a single click. However, they must understand that in real life, relationships, career require time and effort and help is always available,” Dr. Lakshmi Vijayakumar said. In his inaugural address, P. Kishan Consultant Psychiatrist, president- Indian Psychiatric Society – South Zonal Branch, cited National Crime Records Bureau Data to inform that at least 1,50,000 suicides were recorded every year in India. Maharashtra recorded the highest number of suicides, while Tamil Nadu stood second. “A series of suicide awareness programmes would be conducted across the State until there is a drop in the numbers in the south zone,” he said. V. Balakrishnan, Joint Commissioner of Police, Chennai North, dwelt on relaxation and contemplation techniques in his talk. He informed the attendees, mostly consisting of students from across Tamil Nadu that they must learn to accept defeat and failures. “There are grey areas in life, which are usually turning points and your decision on how to handle those turning points will change the course of your life,” he said. Breathing techniques, contemplation and understanding of the situation would help in handling it better, he added. Mr. Balakrishnan highlighted that suicides are caused by psychological reasons- a problem in one’s cognitive capacity and must be treated as an illness. (Those who require assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts may contact the State’s health helpline 104 or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050. Athma Hospitals also runs a round-the-clock helpline on 984242121).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shame-and-rejection-play-a-key-role-in-influencing-sucidical-thoughts/article32596623.ece
14 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK meeting disrupted||Rival groups of AIADMK members disrupted a party meeting here on Sunday as they clashed with each other in the presence of Backward Classes and Minority Welfare Minister S. Valarmathi. According to an eyewitness, commotion was caused by a group of about 50 carrying flags of a “Mutharaiyar” outfit after entering a private marriage hall in Srirangam where the meeting of “Ilaigner and Ilampengal Pasarai” of AIADMK’s Tiruchi district (rural north) was under way to take stock of the party’s preparedness for the upcoming Assembly elections. The police did not prevent the group as the members claimed that they had come to enrol in the party. Members of the group rushed the dais and raised slogans that loyalists and those who had worked hard for the party had not been given due recognition. They indulged in vandalism and verbally abused those present. Ms. Valarmathi, Paramasivam, State secretary of “Ilaigner and Ilampengal Pasarai” and M. Paramjothi, former Minister and AIADMK district secretary, attempted to pacify them. But they did not relent for nearly 20 minutes before leaving the hall. Complaint lodged AIADMK sources told The Hindu that a functionary of the party, who was disappointed with the district unit for refusing to name him as a union secretary, had instigated the ruckus. He had mobilised the group in the garb of the Mutharaiyar outfit. Diamond G. Thirupathi, Srirangam zonal secretary of AIADMK, thereafter lodged a complaint against Kannadasan, district secretary of fishermen wing and his supporters, with the Srirangam police in connection with the incident. The party meeting resumed after the commotion subsided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rival-groups-clash-at-aiadmk-meeting/article32596098.ece
14 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Planetarium goes virtual||Like schools and colleges, the Anna Science Centre - Planetarium has also switched over to virtual platforms to sustain its interface with the student community. The Centre started off its online activities through a monthly ‘Meet the Scientist’ programme earlier this week. A lecture on the topic ‘Laser and it's Applications’, handled by Jamal Mohammed Jaffer, Head, Department of Physics, Jamal Mohamed College, had about 400 participants comprising college students and teachers. Those among the students who had given their observations in the comment section of the hour-long webinar video uploaded on Youtube, were given e-certificates. “Nearly 130 students received e-certificates. It was a way of encouraging active participation,” R. Ahilan, Project Director, Anna Science Centre, Tiruchi, said, adding that the Planetarium has reached out to the Regional Joint Directorate of Collegiate Education with a request for facilitating interactions with colleges. For the next few months, the Planetarium will also be conducting ‘Meet the Medical Expert’ programmes online, with a specific focus on the COVID 19 pandemic. M.A. Aleem, senior neurologist and former vice-principal of K.A.P. Viswanatham Government Medical College, will be interacting with the student community later this month, Mr. Ahilan said. Prior to the pandemic, not less than 3,000 students, mostly from schools, used to visit the Planetarium every month. The Environment Gallery, with exhibits on the themes of Eco Systems, Bio-geochemical cycles, Biodiversity and Conservation, Pollution and Sustainable Energy sources and the science movie shows were the main attractions at the Planetarium. “Due to the uncertainties over the abatement of the pandemic, we at the Planetarium decided to conduct awareness programmes of relevance to the prevailing pandemic situation. We intend to raise awareness among the public on the need to take precautions against the novel coronavirus through virtual programmes in the coming months," Mr. Ahilan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/planetarium-goes-virtual/article32596613.ece
14 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||State Highways may take over repair of Fort Station Road||The State Highways is likely to take over the Fort Station Road soon from the Tiruchi City Corporation for repair and maintenance. The road with a road overbridge across the Tiruchi-Karur railway line connects Salai Road with the Main Guard Gate. A portion of the approach road suffered extensive damage due to heavy rain recently. While the span of the bridge over the track is being maintained by Southern Railway, the Tiruchi City Corporation maintains the approach road on east and west sides. The RoB is said to have been built with brick and lime mortar before Independence. It still serves its purpose, helped by frequent maintenance works. Considering the age of the RoB, the Southern Railway and Tiruchi City Corporation had planned to rebuild the RoB and the approach roads. The civic body decided to develop the approach roads under the Smart City Mission in 2019. But, due to administrative reasons, it changed its plan and decided to seek funds from the State government for the project. But, the Corporation reversed its decision and sent a proposal to the State Highways Department to hand over the road for rebuilding a few months ago. Considering the urgency of the project, Collector S. Sivarasu took up the matter with the State government for transfer of the control of the Fort Station Road from the civic body to the State Highways as early as possible. The matter was also brought to the knowledge of Chief Minster Edappadi K. Palaniswami when he visited Tiruchi recently. As a prelude to the transfer, it is learnt that Divisional Engineer for the Project, U. Velraj inspected the road recently. Besides measuring the road, he was understood to have collected details on RoB and the role of Southern Railway and the State Highways in rebuilding it. Sources told The Hindu that the proposal was in the active consideration of the State government. Chief Engineer, Projects, Chennai, had initiated steps to formally take over the road from the Corporation. The process would be completed within a few weeks. The detailed project report would be prepared after the formal transfer, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-highways-may-take-over-repair-of-fort-station-road/article32596616.ece
14 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Appointment of consultant for corporatisation of OFB angers trade union federations||Slamming the Central Government for having selected a consultant for corporatisation of ordnance factories, trade union federations of defence employees have termed the act by the Defence Ministry as wastage of tax payers money. The All India Defence Employees Federation, Indian National Defence Workers Federation, and Bharatiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh have reiterated their resolve to intensify their indefinite strike from October 12, opposing the corporatisation move. The 80,000 defence civilian employees of 41 ordnance factories were shocked to learn that the Ministry of Defence has selected M/s. KPMG Advisory Services Pvt Ltd., as consultancy agency for corporatisation of ordnance factories. The ‘arbitrary decision’ was taken by the Ministry of Defence despite complaints of public interest lodged with the Central Vigilance Commission, PMO and the Ministry alleging serious lapses of standard norms for contracting of OFB for corporatisation through consultancy, C. Srikumar, General Secretary of AIDEF, said. “The Federations have already challenged how the so-called corporatisation will make the Ordnance Factories more efficient and serve the cause of self-reliance better, especially when the armed forces have stopped placing orders at the Ordnance Factories. This will result in all the Ordnance Factories becoming sick and will lead to their closure. So far the Ministry of Defence is silent on this”, Mr. Srikumar said. “Defence preparedness will be at stake, as the Ordnance Factories with more than 219 years legacy will be destroyed. Assets worth Rs. 1 lakh crore and 65,000 acres land will be the casualty”, Mr. Srikumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/appointment-of-consultant-for-corporatisation-of-ofb-angers-trade-union-federations/article32596632.ece
14 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Smoke holds up freight train||A freight train carrying coal from Karaikal to Mettur dam suffered detention at Tiruverumbur railway station here after smoke was noticed billowing out from a couple of wagons on Sunday. Railway sources said the station master of Tiruverumbur noticed the smoke and an alert was sounded to the loco pilot. The freight train was stopped at Tiruverumbur. The station master alerted the Fire and Rescue Services Department. A team from Navalpat fire station rushed to Tiruverumbur and the overhead power supply was disconnected. Water was sprayed to cool the temperature in a operation lasting for over an hour. The train suffered detention for over two hours at Tiruverumbur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/smoke-holds-up-goods-train/article32596582.ece
14 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||In view of maintenance work to be undertaken at Vazhavandankottai sub-station on September 15, there will be a power shutdown from 9.45 a.m. to 2 p.m. at Jai Nagar, Tiruvankata Nagar, Ganesapuram, Ganapathi Nagar, parts of C-Sector in BHEL Township, Sokkalingapuram, Immanuel Nagar, VOC Nagar, Ezhil Nagar, Ayyampatti, Vazhavandankottai, Vazhavandankottai SIDCO Industrial Estate, Tirunedunkulam, Thondaimanpatti, Periyar Nagar, Reddiyarthottam, Eechankadu, Burma Nagar, and Mangalyam Nagar, according to a TANGEDCO press release. Another release said there will be power shutdown in the following areas served by Vengaimandalam Sub-Station from 9.45 a.m. to 5 p.m. on September 15 in view of maintenance works: Moovalur, Venkaimandalam, Thaneerpandal, Melakannukulam, Keezhakannukulam, Parvathipuram, Kuruvampatti, Kallur, Veppanthurai, Sholanganallur, Senthamaraikan, Sirukambur, No.2 Kariamanickam, Sennakarai, Ramagiripatti, Sengudi, Vazhamalpalayam, Settimangalam, Neyveli, Kiliyanallur, Vathalai, V. Maniampatti, Silayathi, Thudakyur, Pandiapuram, Sunaipukanallur, Eechampatti, Mannachanallur North and Mannachanallur Town, Moovarayampalayam, Kavundampatti, Kuruvikarankulam, Kattukulam, Keerampalayam, Thillampatti, Pazhayur, Senkuzhipatti, Udayampatti, Tiruppanjali, Tiruvarangapatti and Peramangalam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article32596630.ece
14 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 92.27 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 3,190 cusecs and the discharge was 6,000 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article32596627.ece
14 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Tirunelveli’s COVID-19 tally up by 114||A total of 114 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Tirunelveli on Sunday, with which the district’s tally rose to 11,131. There were 142 discharges from hospitals. Kanniyakumari recorded 111 fresh cases, which took its total number of cases to 10,958. Hospitals discharged 119 people. Thoothukudi’s tally went up to 12,300, with the addition of 49 cases. There were 62 discharges in the district. There were 36 fresh cases and 89 discharges in Tenkasi. The total number of COVID-19 positive cases in the district rose to 6,260. Ninety people tested positive in Theni, taking its tally to 13,775. The district marked the discharge of 85 people. Dindigul had 67 new cases to have a total case count of 7,863. Hospitals discharged 95 people. Sixteen fresh cases were registered in Ramanathapuram, which now has a tally of 5,181. There were 73 discharges in the district. Sivaganga added 46 new cases to record the number of total positive cases at 4,521. Thirty-one people were discharged from hospitals. Seventy-eight people – all indigenous cases – tested positive for COVID-19 in Madurai, taking the district’s tally to 15,310. A total of 84 people were discharged from hospitals, and four persons died in the district, taking its toll to 375. There are 892 active cases. Virudhunagar reported 35 fresh cases, which took the case count up to 13,683. With the discharge of 17 people from various hospitals, the number of active cases stands at 436. Death toll in the district remains at 202.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tirunelvelis-covid-19-tally-up-by-114/article32596578.ece
14 September 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘Stalin politicises suicides of students’||Tamil Nadu BJP president L. Murugan on Sunday accused DMK president M.K. Stalin of politicising the deaths of the three students in the State, just ahead of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) on Sunday. Mr. Murugan told mediapersons here that the State government and the Opposition must ensure that students get counselling to prevent them from taking the extreme step. “Parents and politicians should alleviate the fear of examinations faced by students. Mr. Stalin should not politicise the issue to induce fear among the students,” Mr. Murugan said. With the Central government approving the establishment of 11 medical colleges in the State, the chances of admissions for students from Tamil Nadu are high, he claimed. To a question on the difficulties faced by candidates who studied in the government schools in clearing NEET, Mr. Murugan said the State government must implement the 7.5% horizontal reservation in the government quota of MBBS/BDS seats. An ordinance was approved for the same in June, he added. Mr. Murugan said that talks regarding alliances will occur only at the time of elections and the AIADMK-BJP alliance will continue for now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-politicising-suicides-of-students/article32596081.ece
14 September 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Animal clinic inaugurated in the Nilgiris||An animal clinic has been set up at Khandal in Udhagamandalam by the Department of Animal Husbandry and the Nilgiris Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (NSPCA). Nagina Reddy, nodal officer for NSPCA, said that the inauguration of the pet clinic was the culmination of a joint effort by the NSPCA, the district administration and the Udhagamandalam municipality, which have provided the land for the facility to be set up. The clinic will treat any domestic animal in need of medical help during the mornings. “We have plans to also have facilities set up to house sick animals through the night, if required,” said Ms. Reddy. The clinic currently has a staff room, a store room, a treatment room and other facilities, and will be staffed by a veterinarian from the Department of Animal Husbandry. Funds for renovating the building were donated by Karthik Davey, a dog lover from Bandipur in Karnataka, who contributed Rs. 7 lakh for the facility to be constructed in memory of his two dogs. Ms. Reddy said that people can bring their animals for treatment to the clinic and treatment will be free of cost to the owners of animals who can’t afford it, while they will charge a nominal fee for others. On Saturday, the clinic was officially inaugurated by Udhagamandalam Sub-Collector Monikha Rana. The clinic will be opened to the public in the coming days. “We thank the District Collector, who has been very supportive of our efforts to start this clinic, as well as the Department of Animal Husbandry and the municipality,” said Ms. Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/animal-clinic-inaugurated-in-the-nilgiris/article32596125.ece
14 September 2020||Villupuram,TAMIL NADU||90,000 ineligible beneficiaries of PM-Kisan scheme identified||The Department of Agriculture has identified as many as 90,000 ineligible beneficiaries under the PM-Kisan Nidhi scheme in the district and recovered Rs. 7.5 crore so far. A senior official on anonymity said that out of the 90,000 ineligible beneficiaries, as many as 38,000 were from Villupuram district, while 60,000 were from other districts. The scheme conceived in 2018 aims to give Rs. 6,000 a year in three instalments to farmers who own up to two hectares of cultivable land. Preliminary investigations revealed that the ineligible beneficiaries from other districts had misused the user ID and password of officials and registered their names under the scheme in Villupuram district. Further recoveries were under way and the total cash subsidy transferred into the bank accounts of ineligible beneficiaries was expected to be recovered in the next 10 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/90000-ineligible-beneficiaries-of-pm-kisan-scheme-identified/article32596101.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore dist. sees 78.63% attendance for NEET||Coimbatore district witnessed 78.63% attendance in the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) held at 16 centres here on Sunday. As per the details given by the coordinators of the examination in the district, 9,206 candidates from various districts wrote the examination here. While 11,708 candidates had enrolled to write the test, 2,502 did not appear. Exam delayed At one centre near Sulur in Coimbatore, the examination for a section of students was delayed for nearly two hours after they were given question booklets in English though they had chosen to write the test in Tamil. Koushik, a candidate from Anthiyur, said that he and other candidates who had chosen Tamil medium were shocked when they got question booklets in English. He told mediapersons that Tamil question booklet was given around 4 p.m., two hours after the scheduled time. Candidates were given varied timings to undergo screening before entering examination centres in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. They were admitted to halls before 2 p.m. The test ended at 5 p.m. P. Sunitha, a candidate from Erode, said that questions from biology and chemistry were easy. Many candidates found questions from physics moderately difficult. A few candidates, who had taken the test last year felt that Sunday’s examination was comparatively easy. M. Venkatesh, parent of a candidate from Dharmapuri, said that he hired a cab to bring his son to the examination centre in time. P.S. Martin, principal of Nava Bharath National School on Sathyamangalam Road, and Nimitha P., principal of SSVM World School at Pattanam, were the coordinators for NEET in Coimbatore district. A maximum of 12 candidates were admitted to a hall for the test where two invigilators were present. Despite efforts made by the police, physical distancing was not followed by candidates and attenders outside most of the centres. Coimbatore City and Rural Police deployed adequate number of personnel at the examination centres for crowd management. The exam was held for the first time in Tiruppur district on Sunday. Official sources said that while NEET has been regularly held in Coimbatore district in the past, this was the first time that examination centres were set up in Tiruppur. There were two examination centres, with 720 and 360 candidates allotted respectively. Of the total 1,080 candidates allotted, 921 wrote the examination. A total of 90 rooms were arranged in both the centres. To ensure personal distancing as part of the COVID-19 precautionary measures, only 12 tables with a distance of three feet between two tables were arranged for each room. Candidates entered the school with masks and their body temperatures were checked at the entrance. In Salem, the examination was held at 30 centres. A total of 15,138 students had applied for the examination. Members of All India Youth Front protested in front of one of the centres in Salem demanding cancellation of examination. In Namakkal, arrangements were made for 4,839 students to attend the examination at nine centres, and according to officials, 86.79% candidates attended the examination. Special buses were operated by TNSTC between districts and within cities to examination centres. Democratic Youth Federation of India had set up help desk at the new bus stand premises to assist students coming from other places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-dist-sees-7863-attendance-for-neet/article32596134.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Forest Department to tranquillise, treat injured elephant||The Forest Department has decided to tranquillise and treat a male elephant that has been roaming with multiple wounds within the limits of Mettupalayam forest range of Coimbatore Forest Division since March this year. From the multiple wounds that are scattered over one side of its body, nature enthusiasts suspect that the tusker, aged around 25, could have been injured by pellets fired from a rifle. As part of arrangements to tranquillise the tusker, the department brought two kumkis - Suyambu and Venkatesh from Chadivayal elephant camp - to a reserve forest area of Mettupalayam forest range on Sunday. According to District Forest Officer (DFO) D. Venkatesh, the ailing elephant moved to interior forests and went uphill on Saturday. The field staff, who tracked the elephant reported that the animal was healthy and it was showing signs of improvement as assessed from its comfort and ease of movement. Oral medication The veterinary team of the department has advised officials to continue oral medication for the elephant by giving fruits stuffed with drugs. According to the DFO, the elephant will be tranquillised only when it comes to a much more accessible area of forest. I. Anwardeen, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Coimbatore Circle, said that the cause of the wounds on the elephant, whether caused by pellets fired from a rifle or from the attack of another animal, can only be ascertained after examining the animal in restrained condition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-department-to-tranquillise-treat-injured-elephant/article32596131.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||11,475 students write NEET at 35 centres in Madurai district||A total of 11,475 students wrote the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) at 35 centres in Madurai district on Sunday. P. Hamsapriya, the Academic Director of Mahatma Group of Schools and NEET coordinator, said the centres followed the protocol issued by the National Testing Agency. In each exam hall only 12 students and two invigilators were present, she said.  S. Joshna from Rameswaram said initially it was difficult to write the exam wearing face mask and hand gloves. “But I got used to it after a while,” she said. S. Vennila Devi, the district coordinator for government-sponsored NEET coaching, said most of the government school students gave a positive feedback and said that the examination was relatively easier than last year. The students said Biology was easier and many questions had appeared from the textbook, she said. Parents and relatives, who had accompanied the students, stood out in the open for hours. The problem was more pronounced for parents who had travelled from other districts. “But, fortunately, the sky was overcast,” said I. Velankanni, a parent from Batlagundu in Dindigul district. No masks But, across most centres, many parents did not wear face masks and were standing in groups without following personal distancing norms. Though students were disbursed in batches from exam centres with adequate personal distance, parents crowded outside most of the centres with total disregard to personal distancing norms. Traffic movement was severely affected for some time outside the centres when the test was over. R. Kalaivani, a parent from Chokkikulam, said the students and parents were stressed due to the uncertainty over the conduct of the exam. “The recent suicides caused more anxiety. But we repeatedly told our daughter that there was no need to worry about the results,” she said. In other districts A girl student, who arrived at the centre at 1.35 p.m, in Sivaganga district was not permitted to write the test as she was late by five minutes. A boy who did not bring his Aadhaar card for verification faced some difficulty. In Theni district, 765 students took the test. In Tirunelveli district, 6,233 students took the test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/11475-students-write-neet-at-35-centres-in-madurai-district/article32596301.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore SP, Krishnagiri MP test positive||Coimbatore District (Rural) Superintendent of Police Ara Arularasu tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday. According to a senior police officer, the SP was under self-quarantine for the last three days. Krishnagiri MP A. Chellakumar tweeted that he had tested positive for the disease. The western region recorded 1,523 cases and 11 deaths on Sunday. Coimbatore district reported 490 cases and four deaths, according to the Health Department bulletin. As many as 554 persons were discharged from various hospitals in the district. While three patients aged 52, 40 and 74 died in the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Friday, one died in a private hospital on Sunday, said the Department. The total number of persons who died of the disease in the district increased to 353. A trainee Sub Inspector (53) and a 54-year-old man died in Salem. The trainee officer is survived by wife and two children. Erode reported three deaths taking the district’s tally to 59. One death was reported from Tiruppur. The toll in the district increased to 85. One death was reported from the Nilgiris, taking the toll to 17. In number of cases, Tiruppur district witnessed 291 cases, registering the highest single-day spike. The total number of positive cases reported in the district stood at 4,748 on Sunday. In Salem 309 cases were reported, all indigenous including 191 in Salem Corporation limits. Eight patients returned from Namakkal, Dharmapuri, Tiruvallur, Chennai and Villupuram. In Namakkal, 124 cases were reported. Close to 30 patients returned from Coimbatore, Erode, Tiruvannamalai, Salem, Madurai and one patient from Karnataka. Those infected include three health workers and two police personnel. Krishnagiri reported 67 cases and all were indigenous. Dharmapuri recorded 39 cases. In the Nilgiris, 70 people tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stood at 2,349, with 1,783 recoveries so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-sp-krishnagiri-mp-test-positive/article32596120.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||PT man murder: road blockade continues for second day||Scores of residents of Mudugudi on Sunday continued the road blockade demanding immediate arrest of all 11 accused in the murder of former Puthiya Tamilagam Virudhunagar district secretary K. Rajalingam, 53. The protest, which started on Saturday, continued even after the arrest of three accused and assurance of prompt action by officials. Vehicles on Sankarankoil-Rajapalayam highway were diverted via Dhalavaipuram in view of the protest. District Revenue Officer R. Mangalaramasubramanian, who held talks with the protestors, sought time till evening for the police to track the accused. According to the protesters, when Thangavel, a local resident, was murdered in January, Rajalingam was arraigned as an accused. The body of Thangavel was accepted by his kin only after a video clipping of Rajalingam’s arrest was shown to them. “Now, these protesters too are making a similar demand,” the District Revenue Officer said. The body of Rajalingam was brought to Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai for postmortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pt-man-murder-road-blockade-continues-for-second-day/article32596580.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Immanuel anniversary: violators booked||The district police have booked cases and arrested violators who disobeyed and caused disruptions to the peaceful conduct of freedom fighter and Dalit leader Immanuel Sekaran’s death anniversary at Paramakudi on Friday. After a video showing a group of youth intercepting a patrol jeep and dancing atop the vehicle went viral, police booked them under IPC Sections 147, 341, 353, 504, 269 and 3 of Epidemic Act and 51 b of Disaster Management Act 2005. Superintendent of Police E. Karthik directed Paramakudi DSP Velmurugan to arrest and book cases against those who attempted to visit the memorial without valid passes. It was found that 140 cars and other four-wheelers and 60 two-wheelers had no valid passes. Similarly, people from six villages in and around the district were booked for not possessing valid permission from the Collector, officials said. Police registered 27 cases on Friday. Further, videos and other evidence gathered by police would be examined and violators would be arrested as per the law, the SP said. The district administration had appealed to the public to get passes from the Collectorate to pay tributes on the death anniversary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/immanuel-anniversary-violators-booked/article32596581.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. COVID-19 case tally breaches five-lakh mark||Among the western districts, Coimbatore reported 490 cases and Salem 309. In Tiruppur, 291 persons tested positive. Among the northern districts, Tiruvallur recorded 300 fresh cases and Chengalpattu 299. In 16 districts, the number of fresh cases was below hundred. Districts such as Ariyalur, Ramanathapuram, Perambalur and Tenkasi reported less than 30 cases. Eight of the 74 people whose deaths were recorded on Sunday had no co-morbid conditions, the Directorate of Public Health said in its bulletin. Health officials have attributed the death of a 35-year-old man from Salem to the infection. He was admitted to a private hospital on September 5 with complaints of cough. His RT-PCR test returned positive the next day. He died on September 10. A 47-year-old man from Chennai, who tested positive on September 5 and was admitted to a private hospital the same day with complaints of fever for three days and cough for a day, died on September 12. His death was due to acute respiratory distress syndrome/COVID-19 pneumonia. A 63-year-old man from Coimbatore, who tested positive on August 30, a day after he was admitted to a private hospital with complaints of fever and cough for two days, died on Sunday morning owing to COVID-19 pneumonia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-covid-19-case-tally-breaches-five-lakh-mark/article32596085.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested for fraud||Salem City Crime Branch on Sunday arrested two persons for duping the public to the tune of Rs. 21 lakh. According to the police, Praveen Kumar and Goutham Ramesh, both residents of Coimbatore, have allegedly duped investors in their company United Trading Enterprises by promising money doubling. The accused duped four persons of Rs. 21 lakh, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested-for-fraud/article32596127.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Slow pace of subway work irks residents||Slow pace of work to construct a Limited Use Subway at Vendipalayam has caused inconvenience to the people, who wanted the work to be expedited and opened it for public use. As part of eliminating unmanned and manned level crossings in the Salem Railway Division, Construction Organisation of the Southern Railway began works in October last year to construct a subway at Vendipalayam at the Chennai – Erode section. Pre-cast concrete slabs were placed under the tracks and approach roads were laid on both the sides of the subway. Currently, work is on to concrete floor the subway while retaining walls are yet to be constructed. Residents said that the road was closed a year ago and they had to take an additional five km to reach Karur Bypass Road to proceed towards the town. “Less than 10 persons are working on the project”, said a resident. Since two buses that were earlier operated through Vendipalayam to reach the city were diverted, most of them had to depend on two-wheelers and other vehicles to reach their workplace. Residents said when their earnings had dropped, they were forced to spend more for travel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/slow-pace-of-subway-work-irks-residents/article32596123.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sunday splash||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sunday-splash/article32596311.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Divine togetherness||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/divine-togetherness/article32596620.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Murder case solved within 24 hours||The City Police on Sunday nabbed a youth in connection with the murder of a woman that occurred during the late hours of Saturday. According to the police, the deceased was identified as Malarselvi (49). On Saturday evening, Malarselvi’s son Venkatesh found his mother dead at their rented house near Eswaran Temple and alerted the police. Salem Town police visited the spot the conducted inquiries. A special team including Assistant Commissioner T. Manikandan, Inspector Kumar and Sub-Inspector Sathyamoorthy was formed to investigate the case. During investigation, police found that the deceased was attacked by a 21-year-old youth named Manoharan for her jewellery. Police said Manoharan’s father was into finance business. The deceased had reportedly taken money from Manoharan’s father and the accused used to visit the house for collecting the EMI payments. Police officials said that Manoharan had taken several lakhs as loan without the knowledge of his father from other places and in order to repay his debt, he attacked Malarselvi and snatched her jewellery. However, the ornaments were found to be fake gold. Police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/murder-case-solved-within-24-hours/article32596126.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Chain snatched||Motorcycle-borne miscreants snatched the gold chain of a 57-year-old woman from Narasimhanaickenpalayam on Saturday evening. The police said that the 5.5 sovereign gold chain belonging to K. Prema, a resident of Puthupalayam Road near Narasimhanaickenpalayam, was snatched by two men when she was walking to a departmental store in the neighbourhood. The woman told the police that the accused wore helmets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chain-snatched/article32596129.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Contest winners given awards||Salem Rural Police on Friday awarded winners of drawing contest organised by the force through social media platforms. Superintendent of Police S. Deepa Ganiger awarded winners of the contest held on the theme ‘Road Safety’ through social media platforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contest-winners-given-awards/article32596128.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||covid-19 update||Till September 13   Coimbatore distric t No. of cases on Sunday: 490 No. of persons tested +ve so far: 22,156 Indigenous cases: 22,112 Imported cases: 44 No. of active cases: 3,495 Persons recovered: 18,308 No. of persons died: 353  Tiruppur district  No. of cases on Sunday: 291 No. of persons tested +ve so far: 4,748 Indigenous cases: 4,738 Imported cases: 10 No. of active cases: 1,717 Persons recovered: 2,946||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-update/article32596121.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail||Construction of the underpass near Karupatti railway station is progressing at a snail’s pace. Villagers going to the Vadipatti taluk office and vegetable market are put to hardship as the alternative route is unpaved, putting the lives of commuters at risk. Also the presence ofseemai karuvelamtrees along the stretch spells more trouble. So, authorities must expedite the construction work and remove the trees. M. Sainithii,  Madurai   The Madurai Corporation is doing a commendable job in these times of COVID-19 pandemic by not only conducting regular health camps, but also promptly removing garbage from households. Even the grievance redressal is prompt as the Corporation provided new street lights in Gomathipuram and Thendral Nagar. D. Raghavan,  Madurai    The Pothaiadi-Kovilvilai stretch of Kottai Road near Agastheeswaram in Kanniyakumari district is battered and riddled with many potholes. The potholes have rendered the road unfit for use by vehicle users. Hence, I request the authorities to take immediate steps to relay the road.  K. Chelliah,   Nagercoil||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article32596579.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Readers Mail||Relaxation of restrictions on travel and other activities as per Unlock 4 guidelines has increased the risk of rapid spread of COVID-19 infection. The second wave of COVID-19 spread takes place in such conditions. It is now all the more important to intensify the momentum of beat the resurgence of the pandemic through personal hygiene. M.A. Aleem, Tiruchi.     Now that the buses have started plying, physically challenged people have also started using the public transport. The two toilets for physically challenged men and women at the Central Bus Stand are in a dirty condition. Though named 'Namma Toilets', they are kept locked most of the time. Proper maintenance of these toilets will be of immense relief to physically challenged people. M. Raja, Tiruchi.    It is strange that the lockdown was fully enforced when the Covid-19 cases were low, but relaxed substantially in the unlock phases when the cases started rising. The government has apparently relaxed the restrictions to put the economy back on track and restoring normal life, but it could turn counterproductive as people tend to flout the safety protocol. Since vaccines are yet to be found, the Central and State Governments have to enforce strict measures to ensure complete adherence of people to wearing of face masks, maintaining personal hygiene and following other safety guidelines to prevent spread of the pandemic. R. Pichumani, Thippirajapuram.    At long last, a section of Gandhi market traders seem to have occupied the newly-allotted stalls in Kallikudi market constructed at a huge expenditure. The accumulation of vegetable waste must be treated in a bio-digester. The biogas generated there must be used for producing electricity for captive use, and excess power, if any, should be routed to the TANGEDCO grid. This system is already in vogue in farmers markets abroad. T.M. Ranganathan, Srirangam.    There is a need for speed-breakers at three locations from Palpannai to Gandhi Market, considering the presence of localities like Mahalakshmi Nagar, Viswas Nagar and Dhanarathinam Nagar. There are chances of accidents when two-wheelers and cars approach the main road from these localities. Dimple R. Mohan, Sangiliyandapuram.     Only eight street lights are functioning at the Thuraiyur Anna Bus Stand, where the passenger movement is high due to the plying of several mofussil and town buses. Though 17 poles were erected, only eight had provision for lights. But, only five lights are functional. Even inside the bus stand, the lighting is poor. The municipal authorities have not responded so far though the travelling public have been conveying their difficulties. Saravanan Natesan, Puthanampatti.    Packs of street dogs have been attacking livestock and cattle in Karattampatti area for the last few months. The rising number of dogs has also reflected in the animals hunting rabbit, peacock and deer in the adjoining forest area. Residents expect the district administration to solve the problem. M. Periyamalayan, Karattampatti.    Presence of snakes due to thick vegetation and presence of a drain near the middle school on Car Street in Thiruppanandal in Thanjavur district has exposed students to danger. Suitable steps should be taken to address the problem with the local area development funds of the people’s representatives before the schools reopen. V. Srinivasan, Thiruppanadal.    This is the right time for Government schools in the State to step up student enrolment. Parents must be made to realise that the State has assured 7.5% quota in medical admissions for government school students. Government should avoid deputing government school teachers for other duties, and allow them to focus attention on teaching. S. Krishnan,  Thippirajapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article32596614.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Girl murdered near T. Kallupatti||A minor girl, who was married off one year back and was subsequently living with her parents following a dispute with her husband, was found murdered in V. Ammapatti under T. Kallupatti police station limits on Saturday morning. Police said when the couple went to a police station in Virudhunagar district, where the couple lived, following a dispute, the police found that both had not attained the minimum legal age for marriage, Peraiyur Deputy Superintendent of Police T. Mathiazhagan, said.. With the intervention of the Child Welfare Committee, the girl was sent back to the parents’ house in V. Ammapatti. Meanwhile, the girl, Jayasakthibala, went missing on Friday night and the parents and relatives launched a search for her. She was found dead with stab injuries in a secluded place. T. Kallupatti police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/girl-murdered-near-t-kallupatti/article32596305.ece
14 September 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Bidar’s Gurukul students fare well in JEE (Main)||Students of Dr. Channabasaveshwar Gurukul Residential PU Science College in Kardyal near Bhalki in Bidar have performed well in the Joint Entrance Examination (Main). A total of 131 students had secured eligibility for JEE Advanced Examination 2020. Among these, 31 students have scored more than 90 percentile points. Maheshwar Somayya with a score of 98.91 and Pooja Gayathri Kanala, both from rural areas, have secured the I and II ranks in the college, respectively. The others who have done well are — Vishal Shridhar 98.46, Zerakunthe Amit 98.40, Kale Sachin Basavaraj 98.09, Sainath Vithalrao 96.77, Siddhu Jagannath 96.45, Sarvagnya Sadanand 96.41, Rohini Bhimanna 96.29, Abhay Tamasange 96.19, Prajwal Nagayya 96.10, Raghavendra Raju 95.83, Rudresh Mallikarjun 95.66, Vaishnavi Vardish 95.58, Harish Gopalrao 95.21, Sathvik Kumar Omprakash 94.43, Harshad Balajirao 94.10, Apoorva Sachin 93.86, Vaishnavi Veershetty 93.80, Kanakraj Tippanna 93.77, Sweta Sanjay 93.69, Akshay Bharat 93.46, Abhishek Vishwanath 93.46, Praveen Basavaraj 93.29, Saikrishna Reddy 93.08, Shivshankar Mallinath 92.24, Karan Ravindra 90.99, Sangamesh Chandrashekhar 90.77, Sachin Basavaraj 90.69, Basavakiran Shivkumar 90.21 and Dilipkumar Nashe 90.13. Founder-president of the school committee and seer of Bhalki Hiremath Basavalinga Pattaddevaru, seer Gurubasava Pattaddevaru and Mahalinga Mahaswamigalu have congratulated the administrator, principal, teachers, staff and students for the performance. In Hubballi As many as 69 students of KLE Society’s Prerana PU College, Hubballi, have qualified for JEE Advanced 2020 Exams. Along with the college topper Vinaykumar Kitli who has achieved 97.5694 NTA score, seven others have scored above 90 and 26 have scored above 80, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bidars-gurukul-students-fare-well-in-jee-main/article32596156.ece
14 September 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Some BJP leaders are addicted to opium: Hariprasad||Amid the raging controversy over the network of drug mafia, Congress leader B.K. Hariprasad on Sunday alleged that some senior BJP leaders were “addicted to drugs like opium”. “They don’t step out of their house without getting a dose of opium every day,” he alleged in Belagavi on Sunday. “It is not just celebrities and film actors and businessmen who are into drugs. Several BJP leaders are addicted too,” he told journalists. He, however, said that he would not reveal their names and that he would let the investigating agencies to dotheir job. “The BJP has raised this bogey of drug menace only to cover up its failures in managing the economy and the COVID -19 epidemic. The only intention behind the media playing up the whole issue is to divert the attention of the public from the government’s mismanagement,” he said. “If the focus is on Rhea Chakraborty and Kangana Ranaut to hide the failures of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, in Karnataka it is Ragini and Sanjjanaa to hide the failures of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and his Ministers,” he alleged. He also complained against the investigating agencies and the media for targeting only women as drug abusers. “Are there no men who are addicts? Why is the focus on the women only? If the police are serious, then they have to arrest the men who are kingpins and peddlers,” he said. “BJP leaders find various ways to target the minorities. It has become a fashion for its leaders to accuse Muslims of being involved in all kinds of illegal activities. Now they are targeting Zameer Ahmed Khan by tying him up with film actors, but forget that the drug peddler from Kalaburagi is associated with the BJP. If Mr. Yediyurappa is sincere, then he should publicly declare the political affiliations of the drug peddler,” he said. Later, Mr. Hariprasad visited the All-India Congress Seva Dal training academy that is nearing completion in Ghataprabha, near Gokak.To a question, he said it would be wrong to say the Seva Dal training would be similar to RSS cadre training. “We have nothing to do with the RSS. These are two completely different organisations. We have nothing to learn from them. Their lathi is to beat others, while ours is to support others,” he said. The academy was planned 20 years ago. Though some training activities were going on in Ghataprabha, the building was not completed. It has picked up pace after D.K. Shivakumar became KPCC president. The academy will be inaugurated on October 2, Mr. Hariprasad said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/some-bjp-leaders-are-addicted-to-opium-hariprasad/article32596039.ece
14 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rain worsens pothole-ridden and dug-up roads||Traffic on the city’s roads has increased since more relaxations came into place, but the condition of the roads are turning out to be a nightmare for those who are venturing out. As if potholes were not enough, the recent heavy rain has contributed to the further deterioration of many city roads. Mysuru Road, Dinnur Main Road, Serpentine Road, Seshadripuram 1st Main Road, Margosa Road, Banaswadi Main Road, K. Narayanapura Main Road, Hennur Road, and Kasavanahalli Road are only some of those that have been rendered unmotorable. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) officials claimed that heavy rain had affected the road surface in many places. Several bad reaches in the city were the result of digging by various utility agencies, including the Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB). Senior officials of the road infrastructure division claimed that nearly 70% of the city roads were pothole free, while over 20% had been dug up by various utility agencies and remaining were bad reaches where road works were under progress. Citizens, however, do not want to buy that argument. D. Ranganath, an autorickshaw driver, said that roads in Nagawara, Hegdenagar, and Chamarajpet were particularly bad. “We have to exercise a lot of caution while driving. Due to poor condition of roads, mechanical components get worn out often and need to be replaced,” he said. Concurring, Litta Jacob, a resident of K. Narayanapura Main Road, said it takes more than 15 minutes to cover a two-km stretch. “First, the road was dug up to lay optic fibre cables and then BWSSB dug it up to lay pipeline. The roads are unmotorable with ditches on either side. These ditches have not even been barricaded, which poses a danger to pedestrians and motorists alike,” she said. Residents of many localities in Bellandur are at their wits end. For more than two years, the roads here have been dug up for laying drinking water and underground drainage pipelines. Vishnu Prasad from Bellandur Development Forum said even the roads recently restored have worn out again and need repairs. “We have been complaining to the BBMP about the poor condition of roads in the area,” he said. The situation in Kalyan Nagar and Banaswadi is not very different. According to Ashok Betraj, a resident, white topping work that is in progress and ongoing pipeline work by BWSSB had inconvenienced motorists and residents. This was resulting in water logging following even a small spell of rain. But BBMP’s Engineer-in-Chief M.R. Venkatesh told The Hindu that most bad reaches on 474 roads measuring nearly 1,400-km, mainly arterial and sub-arterial roads, had been attended to. He also said that the major roads division had floated tenders for labour contract for each Assembly constituency in the city. “The technical bid will be opened shortly. Once work orders are issued, the hot mix from the plant will be sent to the zones from where the contractors can pick it up to repair stretches in the respective Assembly segments,” he said and added that around 1,300 km of roads were under the defect liability period. This meant that contractors will be responsible to maintain the roads until the end of the DLP. Court direction The Karnataka High Court has, on several occasions, castigated the civic body over the poor condition of roads. Earlier this year, the court directed the BBMP to survey all roads, identify potholes and fill them by March 31. More recently, BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad, after visiting the hot mix plant at Kannur, said all potholes would be filled within 15 days. Though the deadline is now long past, the potholes and bad reaches remain across the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rain-worsens-pothole-ridden-and-dug-up-roads/article32596017.ece
14 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Scope of CCB probe may stretch beyond film industry: Bommai||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said the investigation into the drug racket case would get a further boost this week with some good leads, even as former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah defended his former Cabinet colleague B.Z. Zameer Ahmed Khan, against whom allegations of association with drug peddlers are being made. Indicating that the Central Crime Branch (CCB) probe was likely to be expanded to cover people from other than the film industry, Mr. Bommai said that he was not going to reveal the names of those people under the scanner now as that would likely affect the probe. The government will not spare anyone involved in drugs and will take strict action, he told reporters. “The names of those involved will come out on their own,” he said. While the various wings of the Police Department are being strengthened to achieve effective cooperation, he said the police in border districts have been asked to increase vigil on inter-State movement of drugs. Meanwhile, Mr. Siddaramaiah called for a fair investigation in the matter. Speaking to reporters, he said that whether Mr. Zameer Ahmed Khan went to Colombo or with whom he went to Colombo did not establish his involvement. Even those who are speaking about Mr. Khan are not saying that he is involved with the drug mafia, the former Chief Minister said. “This probe is being conducted to shift attention from the government’s failure,” he said. Mr. Siddaramaiah said that action should be taken against whomever there is evidence against, but it should not be politically motivated. Another former Chief Minister, H.D. Kumaraswamy, also said that efforts should not be to divert attention, which could affect the probe. Speaking on the references being made to a 2014 trip to Colombo by Janata Dal (Secular) legislators and leaders, he said that the trip was made in public knowledge and Colombo was chosen as the destination to discuss party issues as it was cheaper than destinations such as Goa. “There is no connection between our trip with the drug scandal. Why should the issue be mixed and attention diverted?” he asked, adding that he would not answer or clarify about allegations. “I do not know why the 2014 Colombo trip has been referred to now.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/scope-of-ccb-probe-may-stretch-beyond-film-industry-bommai/article32596042.ece
14 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Shivamogga saw 10% loss in forest cover from 1973 to 2018: Study||An analysis of landscape dynamics and forest fragmentation of Shivamogga district by researchers between 1973 and 2018 has revealed a 10% net loss in forest cover and increased fragmentation. The study, Insights of Forest Dynamics for the Regional Ecological Fragility Assessment, published in August in the Journal of the Indian Society of Remote Sensing, shows how unplanned development activities have been affecting the ecological integrity. Forests have been undergoing major transitions with the breaking of contiguous native forests into small parcels of land, restricting the movement of species, and limiting the potential of species for dispersal and colonisation. Conducted by researchers from the Indian Institute of Science (IISc.) and the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, with a focus on ecologically sensitive regions (ESR) at the village levels, the study reveals that in Shivamogga, which is in the Central Western Ghats, the forest cover decreased from 43.83% in 1973 to 34.02% in 2018. This, the study says, was primarily caused by the expansion of agriculture, horticulture, and forest plantations.   “The forest fragmentation has increased, evident from the decline of the interior forest to an extent of 11% from 26% [1973 to 2018],” the study says, pointing out that vegetation cover declined from 96.57% to 86.55%, whereas paved or built-up surfaces have increased from 0.63% to 2.35% in the same period. “The results highlight that the conversion of forests to commercial agriculture, industrial and cascaded development activities acted as major driving forces of degradation. Forest fragmentation analysis highlights that the domination of forests receded during the post-1990s with the formation of non-forest patches. The unauthorised land holdings are another major issue faced by the forests of Shivamogga,” the study adds, alleging that “political, social, and religious pressures are threatening forests and troubling regulatory agencies in management.” T.V. Ramachandra from IISc., one of the authors of the study, told The Hindu that many projects are coming up in the district, including in the ESR.  Measures The researchers have emphasised on the need for an immediate “eco-restoration measure” to arrest fragmentation, human–animal conflicts, and the consequent reduction in goods and services. Among the recommendations the researchers have made are not to allow any river diversion or stream alternations even in the name of drinking water projects as the region is already facing a severe water crisis, and not allowing monoculture plantations. “In the case of fragmented forests, especially in Sorab, Sagar, and Bhadravati taluks, connectivity between forest patches should be established by enriching the native forest cover [biological corridors to ensure food and fodder] that allow species to move and genes to flow from one region to other,” the study adds.  Small-scale tourism The study also maintains that no new major roads or railway lines should be allowed, except when highly essential and subject to an environmental impact assessment, by imposing strict regulations and social audits, while small-scale tourism should be encouraged by adopting benefit-sharing with local communities, such as homestays and spice farms.  The forest fragmentation has increased, evident from the decline of the interior forest to an extent of 11% from 26% [1973 to 2018].||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shivamogga-saw-10-loss-in-forest-cover-from-1973-to-2018-study/article32596050.ece
14 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Severe shortage of ICU beds with ventilators under govt. quota||For the last week, critical COVID-19 patients are finding it hard to get ICU beds with ventilators under government quota in Bengaluru. Although the BBMP’s website on COVID-19 hospital bed status shows there is an availability of 34 ICU beds with ventilators in government hospitals, one in a government medical colleges, 156 in private hospitals, and five in private medical colleges in the city as on Sunday, BBMP nodal officers who facilitate bed allotment for needy patients through the central allotment system said they were unable to get ventilator beds blocked for patients under their jurisdiction since Saturday. Besides, volunteers engaged in facilitating bed allotment under government quota through the BBMP said they were helpless as almost all hospitals they contacted directly said they did not have any ventilator beds. Ameen Muddasar, a volunteer from Emergency Response Team (ERT), a group that is working to help and guide patients get government quota beds, free ambulance and free medicine in the city, said his group could not get a single ventilator bed for patients since Saturday. Site not updated Mohammed Mohsin, one of the IAS officials in charge of facilitating admission of COVID-19 patients in private hospitals of Bengaluru Central, said the situation was grim as almost all the hospitals in his jurisdiction had zero availability of ventilator beds. When pointed out that the BBMP website showed availability, the official said that was because the hospitals had not updated the numbers on the website. A senior BBMP official from South Zone said the demand for ventilator beds was on the rise since the last week as several patients who were under home isolation were turning up at hospitals after their symptoms aggravated. “Patients who would be asymptomatic when they test positive and opt for home isolation are not following proper medical advice and are turning critical. Several are reporting with aggravated symptoms and are now requiring ventilators,” he said. Admitting that the website did not have updated numbers, the official said: “Most private hospitals are hoodwinking the BBMP. Although on paper they show bed allocation, when we actually call and check (which we do compulsorily before sending a critical patient), they say ventilators are occupied as other patients turned critical. And, that the numbers are yet to be updated.” 807 patients in ICU K.V. Trilok Chandra, who heads the State’s Critical Care Support Unit (CCSU), said the number of patients being monitored in ICUs across the State has been constant over the last one week. The ICU admissions that were below 700 till August 10, started increasing after that and hovered around 750 till August end. Subsequently, the numbers started increasing and as on Sunday 807 patients were being monitored in ICUs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/severe-shortage-of-icu-beds-with-ventilators-under-govt-quota/article32596029.ece
14 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||BJP sets its sights on Sira seat||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is trying to make inroads into the constituencies of its political opponents, has now set its sights on Sira Assembly seat, which has fallen vacant following the death of JD(S) legislator B. Sathyanarayana. The party sees the forthcoming byelection as an opportunity to expand its hold in this region. Though the bypoll is yet to be announced, the party has begun groundwork in the constituency, where it is yet to win an election. The seat has previously been won by either the Congress or the JD(S). The BJP began its preparations by appointing MLC and party leader N. Ravikumar as in-charge of Sira constituency about a week ago. “We strongly feel that we have a good potential this time because of the changed political scenario,” Mr. Ravikumar said. The party has so far completed the process of constituting 95 booth-level committees of the total 264 in the constituency. “The remaining committees will be formed within this month,” he said. According to him, development is going to be the main plank of the BJP in the forthcoming byelection. “The parties that have won in the constituency so far have not focussed much on development here. This has opened up opportunities for us,” Mr. Ravikumar said. Accusing the BJP’s opponentsof not fulfilling their long-term assurances of filling up the Modaluru tank in the constituency, he said the government would fill the tank by using Hemavati waters. Advantage BJP? Political observers feel there is a likelihood of senior Ministers and party leaders visiting the constituency with promises of development. They are of the view that the ruling party will have a natural advantage in bypoll and cite the example of the party winning the byelections to 12 of 15 Assembly constituencies so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-sets-its-sights-on-sira-seat/article32596034.ece
14 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Each ward to get a nodal officer||With the tenure of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahangara Palike (BBMP) coming to an end recently, a senior official of the BBMP will be appointed as nodal officer for each ward to attend to grievances of people and build a strong response team at the ward level. BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad said in a letter: “As the tenure of the council is over, the councillors are no longer in place and it is necessary to ensure that there should not be any vacuum created due to their absence. As long as the councillors were in place, they used to be available to citizens and very responsive to the needs and problems of the citizens. In their absence, it is imperative to create a strong responsive system in each and every ward. Hence, it is proposed to appoint a senior officer as a nodal officer for each ward,” states the letter issued by Mr. Prasad addressed to his subordinates. The letter further states that the ward in which the officer is residing will be the nodal ward for that officer. The Commissioner will be the nodal officer for Vasanthnagar Ward. He directed the officials, including Special Commissioners, Joint Commissioners, CEs of Zones, and other senior officials, to furnish details about their home address and ward details. RWA committee The letter also states that a committee consisting of all active RWAs of the ward will be formed under the chairmanship of the nodal officer. “The committee will meet twice a month , preferably first and third Saturday. The nodal officer will be responsible for overseeing all activities of the corporation in their respective wards such as SWM, SWD, road maintenance, parks and playgrounds, revenue collection, attending to public grievances and others,” states the letter.  As the tenure of the council is over, the councillors are no longer in place and it is necessary to ensure that there should not be any vacuum created due to their absence.N. Manjunath PrasadBBMP Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/each-ward-to-get-a-nodal-officer/article32596020.ece
14 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State sees another record rise in cases||The State on Sunday reported 9,894 new cases, the highest so far on a single day, breaking its previous record of 9,860 cases recorded on September 2. With this the total number of cases touched 4,59,445. With 104 new deaths, the toll rose to 7,265. This includes 19 non-COVID-19 deaths. 8,402 discharged As many as 8,402 persons were discharged on Sunday taking the total number of recoveries to 3,52,958. Of the remaining 99,203 active cases, 807 are being monitored in the ICUs of various hospitals. Bengaluru Urban Bengaluru Urban reported 3,479 cases taking the total tally to 1,70,662. With 45 of the 104 deaths from Bengaluru alone, the toll in this district rose to 2,436. 67,955 tests in a day As many as 67,955 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours including 31,657 rapid antigen tests. With this the total number of tests rose to 38,00,976.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-sees-another-record-rise-in-cases/article32596031.ece
14 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Fix responsibility of curbing drug menace on legislators’||Bharatiya Janata Party MLC Lahar Singh has suggested that Karnataka should become a model to other States by making the MLAs responsible, along with the police officers concerned, for any operation of drug mafia in their jurisdiction. “Such a system is the need of the hour as political will can help put an end to the drug menace,” he told The Hindu . He maintained that it was possible to eradicate the drug menace if MLAs made up their mind and displayed strong political will in their jurisdiction. Mr. Singh, who has also written a letter to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, has appealed to him to convene a meeting of MLAs, MLCs, and MPs, as well as police officers from Bengaluru city, to discuss the drug issue. Referring to the modus operandi of the drug mafia, he said they were targeting children of powerful and influential people, including various professionals, in order to get away. “We all must introspect and commit to non-interference in such investigations,” he said. He suggested that educational institutions, hotels, bars, pubs, and other places where drug-related activities are noticed should be made criminally accountable and stringent action should be initiated against offenders. He also called for amending legislation, including the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, to make it more effective so that the guilty do not go scot-free. My. Singh further urged the government to appoint efficient prosecutors to ensure the case is not diluted. He maintained that generally, the drug mafia would be controlled by terrorist groups. “A few arrests and detention of suspects in the heat of the moment will not do much to rid the city of drugs,” the MLC said, stressing the need for taking the issue to the logical end by getting to the crux of the problem. Expressing concern over the increasing drug operations in Bengaluru, he pointed out that NCB officials had said that Bengaluru had become the transit hub and headquarters for drug cartels in South India. “If we do not act sternly now, then the image of Bengaluru as the country’s IT capital and commercial hub will get affected,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fix-responsibility-of-curbing-drug-menace-on-legislators/article32596046.ece
14 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||City’s terrace gardening movement turns 25||Entrepreneur Ashwini Gajendran, a resident of Vidyaranyapura, steps out to the market only to buy onion, garlic, potatoes and fruits such as apples. For the rest, her rooftop garden spread across around 900 sq.ft. provides enough for her family of four. “I started gardening in August 2017 when I moved out of Malleswaram. It initially started with composting as waste collection was irregular, and starting a vegetable garden went hand-in-hand. I started growing basic vegetables like tomatoes. During the lockdown, for Ugadi, I didn't have to step out. We had all supplies at home,” she says. Farm to plate was a dream for urban dwellers, but a steady movement has made ‘oota from your thota’ a reality for thousands of Bengalureans in the last two decades. That movement has now stepped into its 25th year. Rajendra Hegde, trustee of Garden City Farmers, an NGO formed under B.N. Vishwanath, considered the pioneer of organic terrace gardening in the city, said Dr. Vishwanath had started the movement around August 1995. However, with his passing away in August, urban farmers decided to celebrate the milestone with what they've come to be known for – inspiring new gardeners while handholding the existing ones. “We are organising 25 one-hour sessions on food gardening every Sunday from 10.30 a.m. to 11.30 a.m. We held the first one this week. We want to expose urbanites to different gardens. As those inspired by the movement are in different parts of the world today, we will try and organise sessions in the evening too if, for example, someone in America wants to showcase their garden. We want to show the journey of 25 years of urban foodscape and see how we can sustain this for the next 25 years,” he said. Today, there are around 50,000 food gardens in the city. “When I started in 2005, Dr. Vishwanath had said around 60 people had started food gardens. But when we started handholding people and organising ‘oota from your thota’ events, more people began adopting the concept. Today, there are around 20 groups on organic terrace gardening on WhatsApp, which organise meets and seed sharing,” Mr. Hegde added. The COVID effect The COVID-19 outbreak and subsequent lockdown, forced work from home and online classes have caused a spike in interest. “We can see increased interest based on enquiries. We are getting around five enquiries a day from people calling to learn more about manure, seed sharing, as they have more time now as they are at home. Apart from new gardeners, there are gardeners who were disappointed midway and want to give gardening another try. Even colleges are organising sessions through us,” Mr. Hegde added. Srivatsa Seshagiri, a resident of Rajajinagar and financial planner, set up a garden two months back spread over two floors. “It was a part of the design of the house when we built it, but we got around to doing it now as we found time. In the food garden, we have around 15 varieties,” he said. The decision, he said, has had a positive impact on his family. “We are learning about how long it takes to grow different food. The greenery makes us happy and it has a positive influence on the children. I’m trying to influence my friends and family to take it up, as this would contribute to the city's greenery,” he added. What happens once their routines go back to normal? “We have hired help to visit once a week. We are also using drip irrigation,” he said. For the sessions:https://www.youtube.com/c/OrganicTerraceGardening/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/citys-terrace-gardening-movement-turns-25/article32596015.ece
14 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Patronage picking up gradually: Pub owners||A fortnight after pubs and bars resumed alcohol service on September 1 under Unlock 4 guidelines, pub owners say the response from patrons has been good but, of course, nowhere close to pre-COVID-19 times. This was borne out by the sight of usually buzzing areas such as 12th Main Indiranagar still looking subdued on a Saturday night. According to an Excise Department order, up to 50% seating capacity is allowed. Ajay Nagarajan, CEO of Total Environment Hospitality, runs Windmills at the international airport and in Whitefield spread over three floors and with nearly 120 seats outdoors. He said: “We’re at 30% of normal sales in both locations. In Whitefield, we are very corporate heavy – 60% to 70% of our revenue came from corporate dining and entertainment but that doesn’t exist any more because nobody is coming in to work. That’s why we are suffering right now. At the airport, usually we would record a footfall of 1 lakh passengers in a day. Now, it’s about 30,000. But sales are improving there by the day as more and more international flights get added on.” Stating that many of the patrons are regulars, he said: “Our loyal customers are coming back. They trust us and they’re familiar with the beers and the ambiance.” While saying that filling the Hennur venue to full capacity (the venue has a seating capacity of nearly 2,000) is definitely not going to happen any time soon, Pravesh Pandey, director-partner, Byg Brewski Brewing Company, says: “It will take a minimum of one year to get back to pre-COVID-19 numbers. As of now we have seen green shoots coming up in terms of footfall. We are operating at an overall capacity of 30%.” Agreeing there are more regulars coming in than new customers, Mr. Pandey said: “It clearly shows that brand trust has been the major pull in this scenario. We haven’t even done any marketing. In fact, now, after seeing the footfall, we are soon going to have two new festivals: one a Chowmein festival and the other is season two of our cocktail festival called Gin Revival.” Abhishek Gidwani, who visited Bob’s Bar in Indiranagar and Sanchez in UB City, says that there was a difference in experience between the two, referring to the former as packed. On being asked if he would step out to a pub again, he says, “Only if all adequate safety precautions are taken.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/patronage-picking-up-gradually-pub-owners/article32596019.ece
14 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Questioning of accused intensified as custody period is nearing completion||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) intensified its questioning of the accused in the alleged drug racket linked to the Kannada film industry as their custody is nearing an end. The CCB had, on Friday, obtained custody of actors Ragini Dwivedi and Sanjjanaa Galrani along with four others for three more days (till Monday). On Sunday, the CCB continued questioning the two actors at the FSL office in Madiwala to find out more about the messages and data retrieved from their mobile phones. Police inspector Anjumala Nayak, along with other officials, questioned them for three hours. Both Sanjjanaa and Ragini refused to admit their involvement in the drug peddling and refused to give confessional statements, officials said. However, CCB officials are questioning them with the the technical evidence obtained from the call record details. Sources said the CCB had a tough time questioning them as they were not cooperating with the investigation. “Though the police have recovered the exchange of messages and phone calls between the peddlers and them, it is very difficult to prove that they are part of the network. The case so far is not strong as the police have not made any important seizures, and the accused are using this in their favour,” a senior police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/questioning-of-accused-intensified-as-custody-period-is-nearing-completion/article32596040.ece
14 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BSY to visit Delhi on September 17 or 18||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa is likely to visit New Delhi on September 17 or 18 to confabulate on Cabinet expansion/reshuffle and to discuss the State’s issues with Union Ministers. Sources in the Chief Minister’s Office said the issue of Cabinet expansion/reshuffle would figure in talks when he meets Bharatiya Janata Party president J.P. Nadda. Among other appointments being sought is with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss party matters and State issues. The sources, however, said that whether it will be a Cabinet expansion or reshuffle would be decided based on what the national leaders decide. “It is most likely that the Cabinet may not be expanded/reshuffled before the start of the legislature session on September 21, as the Chief Minister is expected to be in Delhi for three days,” a source said. Meanwhile, appointments with several Union Ministers have been sought to discuss issues pertaining the railways, road transport, and water resources in Karnataka, among other things.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bsy-to-visit-delhi-on-september-17-or-18/article32596044.ece
14 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Santosh’s Arsikere interest triggers speculation||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s political secretary N.R. Santosh’s special interest in the BJP’s affairs in Arsikere Assembly constituency has given rise to speculation that he will be one of the aspirants for the party’s ticket in the forthcoming election. A faction within the party has already expressed displeasure over his interference in the party’s affairs in the taluk. Mr. Santosh, a relative of Mr. Yediyurappa, has been in touch with the party’s workers in the constituency in recent days. A group, identifying themselves as Mr. Santosh’s supporters, has been active on social media with posts suggesting that he would be the BJP’s candidate in the next elections. In addition to this, Mr. Santosh held a press conference in Arsikere on Friday, where he said he was committed to the development of the constituency. Asked whether he would contest on BJP ticket from Arsikere in the next election, he said he does not wish to identify himself as a ticket aspirant. “I am only a party worker. And workers are free to work anywhere in the State in the interest of the party,” he said. When it was pointed out that many workers of the party have been vocal about his contesting, Mr. Santosh said the BJP’s senior leaders would be observing all the developments and would choose someone who enjoyed the support of party workers. A day later, on Saturday, local leader G. Mariswamy spoke to the media expressing displeasure over Mr. Santosh’s activities. “I have been working in Arsikere for the past few years and have actively been involved in struggles in the interest of the constituency. If he wishes to enter electoral politics, he should go to any other constituency in the State. He should not create confusion among the workers and the people of the constituency,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/santoshs-arsikere-interest-triggers-speculation/article32596047.ece
14 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Panchayat officers seek apology from Minister||Panchayat Development Officers (PDOs) have demanded that Housing Minister V.Somanna seek an apology for calling them “demons” at a recent meeting in Hassan. The PDOs have resolved to stage a protest against the Minister in front of the respective offices of the Deputy Commissioners in all the districts in the State on Monday. Hassan district unit of the Panchayat Development Officers Association president J.M. Nataraj told media in Hassan that the Minister could have taken action against officers who had not discharged their duties, instead of branding them all as “demons”. “There are 6,500 PDOs across the State. All are not corrupt. We are all working hard, giving attention to all schemes, besides combating the spread of COVID-19,” he said. In a review meeting in Hassan on Friday, the Minister took serious exception to PDOs and blamed them for the poor implementation of housing schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/panchayat-officers-seek-apology-from-minister/article32596151.ece
14 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Couple found murdered in Sagar taluk||An aged couple was found murdered at their residence at Byakodu near Tumari in Sagar taluk of Shivamogga district on Saturday evening. The police gave the names of the deceased as Sundaresh Sait (88) and his wife Sulochana (75). They were living by themselves in the village, while their three children are living in Kundapur of Udupi district. The incident came to light on Saturday evening when a milkman reached their house for delivery. When there was no response from inside, he alerted people nearby and opened the windows. They could see the couple in a pool of blood. Later, Kargal Police were informed. Senior police officers visited the spot. A dog squad was pressed into service. It is suspected to be a case of murder for gain. The police have expressed doubts that the people familiar to the victims might have committed the crime. Superintendent of Police of Shivamogga K.M. Shantharaj told The Hindu , “We are investigating the murder case. It is not yet clear what was the reason for the crime,” he said. Kargal Police have registered the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/couple-found-murdered-in-sagar-taluk/article32596152.ece
14 September 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||17,000 students write NEET in Kalaburagi||As many as 17,000 students aspiring for medical and dental courses wrote the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) at 47 centres in Kalaburagi district and two centres in Yadgir district on Sunday. As the day broke, students from different places in Bidar, Raichur, Koppal, Kalaburagi and Yadgir districts began arriving at the designated centres. Because of the COVID-19 pandemic, every student was examined with a forehead thermometer, apart from being provided with hand sanitizers, before being allowed inside the examination halls.  Distance ensured An official said that proper arrangements were made to ensure the physical distance between the candidates while entering and exiting the examination hall was maintained in a strict fashion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/17000-students-write-neet-in-kalaburagi/article32596170.ece
14 September 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||645 poor meritorious students get free college seats in Bidar district||An initiative by the Bidar district administration has helped poor meritorious SSLC students to get free admission to pre university courses in private institutions in the district. Bidar Deputy commissioner R. Ramachandran has said that a mass counselling session was organised and students were allowed to select colleges according to their marks and ranks. As many as 645 students who passed SSLC examination with the highest marks got free admission in 63 pre university colleges in the district. As many as 1,267 applications had been received. The district administration conducted counselling and selected colleges based on their scores. Of the 645 students who got free admission in private institutions, 385 students were from Bidar taluk, 91 from Basavakalyan, 73 from Bhalki, 62 in Bhalki and 34 students from Aurad taluk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/645-poor-meritorious-students-get-free-college-seats-in-bidar-district/article32596154.ece
14 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||50 modern Tulu short stories make it to English||In a constant travel of Tulu literature to English in the last four years, its 50 modern short stories have been translated into the universal language. B. Surendra Rao, a scholar and a retired professor of History at Mangalore University, who passed away last year, and K. Chinnappa Gowda, a former Vice-Chancellor of Karnataka Folklore University and a scholar, have translated them. Incidentally, when Mr. Rao breathed his last in Mangaluru on December 10, 2019, these two had completed their translation. Now, Mangalore University has shown interest in publishing the latest work, the seventh in the series, of the two scholars. With their latest work named as Heartbeats, the two former professors have translated approximately 2,000 pages of Tulu literature into English continuously since 2017. Earlier, they had translated 114 modern Tulu poems, Ladle in a Golden Bowl (2017), A Tale of a Landlord’s Household, which was a modern Tulu novel, “Mittabail Yamunakka”, by late D.K. Chowta (2017), an anthology of 60 Tulu folktales, The Rainboy (2018), and an anthology of 22 Tulu work-songs and 53 dance-songs, When the Moonlight is very Hot (2018). Later, they translated the first Tulu novel, Sati Kamale, by late S.U. Paniyadi (2018) and also a short story in Tulu by late Polali Sheenappa Hegde as Tale of Narayana the Impostor (2019). Incidentally, the first sentence in the draft of the introduction to their latest work written before the demise of Mr. Rao read: “This anthology of modern Tulu short stories, which we have chosen to name Heartbeats, is, perhaps, the last of the genres of the Tulu riches which we have been trying to introduce to non-Tuluva readers through English translation.” Prof. Chinnappa Gowda told The Hindu that the choice of short stories made in the seventh work was governed by their own aesthetic dictates. The stories in Heartbeats have complex responses to the ideas of change — some radical, others more guarded. “We have merely taken them as the heartbeats of our society, as so many responses to living,” he said. According to the translators, the anthology documented the socio-cultural changes that have come about in the lives of the Tulu-speaking people in the coastal region over a period of 100 years and the ways in which sensitive minds have responded to them. The stories selected have addressed the prevailing problems, including poverty, untouchability, illiteracy, dowry, drunken bouts, exploitation and such other social evils and the ways in which people fought them. Its authors (original writers) have upheld the dignity of women, the need for socio-economic equality, the dignity of individuals irrespective of their caste and creed and peaceful co-existence. In addition to five short stories selected from the first phase of developments in the 1930s, they have selected 17 stories by 13 women writers and some stories by four Muslim writers whose works become important for understanding the cultural uniqueness that exists among the people speaking Tulu and Beary languages. Vice-Chancellor of Mangalore University P.S. Yadapadithaya has said that the university will publish this latest work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/50-modern-tulu-short-stories-make-it-to-english/article32596148.ece
14 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Mangaluru Goods Shed to be shifted to Ullal from Bunder||Southern Railway has drawn up plans to shift the Railway Goods Shed at Old Bunder here to a spacious location at Ullal to decongest the city as well as provide more facilities for freight train users. “This should happen in about a year,” said General Manager, Southern Railway, John Thomas, at a virtual press conference from Chennai last week. Responding to a query on the hardships being faced by residents as well as lack of facilities at the Goods Shed, he said that Southern Railway was working on the proposal to shift the facility to a spacious location. He said that space at the Goods Shed would be later used to augment coaching facilities, meaning to handle/ stable passenger train rakes. He was told that the Goods Shed’s location was relevant when the Old Bunder was a hub of activities decades ago. But, at present, it has become a source of inconvenience. Many trucks plying to and from the Goods Shed to transport goods were choking the already congested roads, he was told. The Ullal Railway Station is located at Someshwar and the Southern Railway has abundant space around the station. Focus on freight, parcel Stating that the zone has augmented its freight handling capacity and infrastructure during the COVID-19 lockdown, Mr. Thomas said that business development units were set up to drive freight and parcel business at the zonal and divisional levels. The zone operated over a 1,000 parcel trains during the lockdown out of which over 600 were from within the zone, he said. To a query, he said that the New Mangalore Port could exponentially drive Southern Railway’s freight operations and the zone was contemplating suitable action plans to divert traffic from road to rail. Besides exploiting the potential for coal, the zone was working on wooing container and edible oil traffic to the Railways. Principal Chief Operations Manager Neenu Itteyerah said that Southern Railway could handle 60 rakes of coal, 10 rakes of fertilizers and two rakes of edible oil a month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mangaluru-goods-shed-to-be-shifted-to-ullal-from-bunder/article32596144.ece
14 September 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||5,564 students write NEET in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi||While 3,706 students wrote the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET) in Dakshina Kannada, 1,858 wrote the test in Udupi on Sunday. According to official sources, 5,023 students had registered for the NEET that was held in 10 centres in Dakshina Kannada. As many as 1,317 remained absent. The examination was held between 2 p.m. and 5 p.m. With staggered entry time, students were given different time slots, starting from 11 a.m., to enter the examination hall. Students were allowed inside after thermal scanning and giving a self-declaration about their health status. They were allowed to carry a transparent water bottle, an identity proof, a50 ml hand sanitizer bottle, mask and gloves. Staggered exit was followed at the end of the examination. Some of the parents were anguished over the failure of the authorities to allow students to have food before NEET. “Authorities neither allowed tiffin boxes brought by us nor did they arrange food for our children. My daughter had headache and she could not answer questions properly,” said parent of a student from Kendriya Vidyalaya-2, Yekkur. In Udupi Of the 2,860 students registered for NEET at eight centres, 1,002 remained absent in Udupi district The highest number of absentees was 171 in G.M. Vidyaniketan Public School, Brahmavar and Poornaprajna Pre University College, Udupi; followed by 140 in Don Bosco English Medium School, Shirva; 120 each in SMS English Medium School, Brahmavar, and Vidyodaya Pre University College, Udupi; 118 in Madhava Kripa English Higher Primary School, Manipal; 117 in N. Shankara Adhyanthaya Memorial English Medium High School, Nitte; and 45 in Little Rock Indian School, Brahmavar, according to official sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/5564-students-write-neet-in-dakshina-kannada-udupi/article32596168.ece
14 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Three teachers felicitated for their contribution to nation building||Rotary Club of Mangalore recently facilitated three eminent teachers for their contribution to nation building on the occasion of Teachers Day. A release from the club here said that C.N. Shankar Rao, who started service as a lecturer in the Government PU College and later moved to Canara PU College, was presented the Excellence Award 2020 by R.L. Kamath. Prof. Rao has also been a popular writer and has authored 115 books in Sociology. Anita M.G. Gomes, who began her career as a teacher at St. Agnes English Primary School and later joined St. Mary’s High School, Falnir, was presented the Excellence Award by Vidyadhar Shetty. Shekhar Kadthala was presented the Excellence Award by Radhakrishna and Oswald D’Silva. He has served in the field of Yoga and Physical Education for the last 22 years and is now working as Physical Education and Yoga Teacher in Government HPS, Vamanjoor. Club president Archibald Menezes, president-elect Sudhir Jalan and others were present.  15 feted Meanwhile, in Udupi, Nittur High School, which is observing its golden jubilee, felicitated 15 teachers who are alumni of the school with Suvarna Shikshak Puraskar on Sunday. Udupi MLA K. Raghupati Bhat felicitated the teachers. Nagarjuna Poojary, an alumnus of the school and who as COVID warrior helped in the cremation of 124 bodies, was also honoured on the occasion with Rs. 10,000 in cash. Greeshma, a student of the school, who stood first in this year’s SSLC examination, was felicitated and also presented with Rs. 5,000 in cash. A retired principal of MGM College, Udupi, M.L. Samaga, who spoke on the occasion, recalled his student days in the school. Headmaster of the school Murali Kadekar spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-teachers-felicitated-for-their-contribution-to-nation-building/article32596146.ece
14 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||We will highlight failure of govt. in the coming session: Saleem Ahmed||A meeting of Congress MLAs to be chaired by senior party leader Siddaramaiah on September 16 will discuss ways to corner the B.S. Yediyurappa government in the forthcoming legislature session by highlighting issues like the alleged corruption in the procurement of COVID-19 care appliances and failure in containing sale and consumption of drugs, Saleem Ahmed, president, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee, said here on Sunday. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Ahmed said Congress legislators will take part in the legislature session. There was no question of abstaining for fear of COVID-19. So far, 1,336 questions were submitted to the Speaker and the Chairman of Karnataka Legislative Assembly and the Council. The State government has failed to answer questions raised by the Congress on alleged corrupt practices in the procurement of material for COVID-19 care. The violence in D.J. Halli police station limits has shown the poor state of law and order situation. The government has failed in getting assistance from the Centre to compensate losses sustained by floods. “The CLP will discuss these issues and come out with a strategy to highlight the faults of the State government,” he said. Taking exception to a statement by MLC Ravi Kumar about the likely arrest of some legislators for their alleged links with drug peddlers, Mr. Ahmed said politicians should excise restraint when police are inquiring in the issue. The Congress does not support anybody involved in the peddling of narcotic drugs and will take action against MLA B.Z. Zameer Ahmed Khan if the inquiry shows the latter’s alleged links with drugs, he said. He said core committees will be formed in Dakshina Kannada and in other district party units to address organizational issues within and prepare the party to face the coming elections to the gram panchayats and the 2023 State Assembly elections. The core committees will be headed by the District Congress presidents and will not supersede the District Congress Committee, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/we-will-highlight-failure-of-govt-in-the-coming-session-saleem-ahmed/article32596163.ece
14 September 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Police file cases against five for using ganja||The Police have registered cases against five youths on the charge of using ganja. The police, in a release, gave the names of the accused as Misba (22), Mohammed Asif (30), and Izaz Ahmed (19) from Navunda village in Byndoor taluk, Gururaj Kharvi (22) of Talluru village and Prasanna (23) of Hemmadi village in Kundapur taluk. It said that the three youths from Navunda village had attacked Alfaq (20) of Kirimanjeshwara village at Arehole Bypass in Kirimanjeshwara village under the influence of drugs on August 30. Following this, they had been summoned to the Byndoor Police Station on September 1 and had been medically tested at the forensic division of Kasturba Medical College Hospital in Manipal. After the medical reports confirmed that they had used ganja, Byndoor Police registered cases against them under Section 28 (B) of NDPS Act 1985. The release said that the accused from Talluru village and the other youth from Hemmadi village were found using ganja at Talluru Junction and Hemmadi Junction, respectively, on September 9. Cases were registered against them at the Kundapur Police Station after the medical reports confirmed the consumption.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-file-cases-against-five-for-using-ganja/article32596150.ece
14 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Anthropogenic activities enhanced severity of Kodagu landslips: Expert||Anthropogenic activities [human intervention] have enhanced the severity of high intensity rain-induced landslips in the Talacauvery-Bhagamandala belt of Western Ghats in Kodagu district last month, said a geologist, after a physical inspection of the region and collating satellite imagery data. Hejmady Gangadhara Bhat, professor of marine geology at Mangalore University, said that about 500 mm rain for 24 hours preceding the landslip triggerred the activity, while saturated thick soil layer [about 20m] in the region compounded the intensity. Prof. Bhat told The Hindu that human interventions such as cutting hill slopes for development activities, including roads and buildings, as well as digging trenches on hill slopes for rainwater harvesting, intensified the impact of the landslips. While Kodagu witnessed massive landslips in 2018, not many incidents were seen in 2019. He said that routine landslips on the steep slopes of the Western Ghats in Kodagu, Hassan, Dakshina Kannada, and Chikkamagaluru districts are aggravated by anthropogenic activities. There was no doubt that high-intensity rains within a short duration had triggered the Bhagamandala landslips. The region received over 65 cm rain in August first week. Rainwater infiltration into the soil has changed the soil’s absorption and moisture levels. Upon examination of the rocks in the debris, he found two to three sets of joints and the weathering of rocks. The soil got saturated following heavy rains thereby gaining weight and slipped fast as the steepness of the hillock was nearly 55 degree, Prof. Bhat said. Though there were reports of digging trenches on Gajagiri at Talacauvery, Prof. Bhat said he could not trek the mountain owing to heavy rains. However, there were vertical trenches that were dug up behind the residence of priests, which naturally amplified soil weight, he said. Indiscriminate digging of trenches on hillocks would prove hazardous, he cautioned. The government should immediately undertake risk assessment in the Ghats region and undertake hazard zonation mapping. It was also necessary to shift residents on the foot of hillocks to safer places. The government should exploit all the advanced systems of geo mapping for the same, he suggested.  ‘The government should immediately undertake risk assessment in the ghats region and undertake hazard zonation mapping’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/anthropogenic-activities-enhanced-severity-of-kodagu-landslips-expert/article32596048.ece
14 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘More trains can be run if works are completed’||General Manager of Southern Railway John Thomas has said that the Mangaluru Railway Area should be able to handle more number of passenger trains once various infrastructure augmentation works taken up, are completed in about a year. Speaking from Chennai through a virtual press conference last week, Mr. Thomas dismissed suggestions that Southern Railway was not catering to passenger train facilities from Mangaluru to other parts of the State and Mumbai in Maharashtra. “No new trains were introduced in the recent past towards the South (Kerala-Tamil Nadu) and the existing ones are old ones. Southern Railway was coordinating with South Western Railway on introduction/operation of intra-State passenger trains,” he said. Southern Railway has taken up infrastructure augmentation works at Mangaluru Central, including yard remodelling, construction of a new pitline and two additional platforms and doubling of the 1.5-km line between Netravathi Cabin and Central. These works, along with ongoing tunnel work between Padil and Jokatte (Kulashekara tunnel), upon their completion, would offer additional space to operate more trains, Mr. Thomas said. To a suggestion that residents of coastal Karnataka were not getting their due insofar as railway facilities are concerned due to lack of coordination between Southern Railway, South Western Railway and Konkan Railway, Principal Chief Operations Manager Neenu Itteyerah said: “We are in constant touch with officials of the other two zones and have been working towards ensuring smooth operation of trains to and from Mangaluru.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/more-trains-can-be-run-if-works-are-completed/article32596142.ece
14 September 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Call for ban on Chinese silk: Can qualitative shortfall be made up by indigenous silk?||Amid calls for a ban on the import of Chinese silk, questions have arisen over the indigenous sericulture industry’s capability to make up the shortfall in the superior quality of Chinese silk. The exquisiteness of Indian garments has relied on a good mixture of Chinese and Indian silk. “Chinese silk is comparatively smoother. Though South Indian silk sari varieties [like the Kancheevaram, the Dharmavaram, and the Mysore silk] are made purely out of indigenous silk, the manufacture of Georgette fabrics is dependent on Chinese silk,” said N.Y. Chigari, retired Sericulture Department official, who now heads the Koppa Sericulture Farmers’ Producer Company Ltd., Maddur, a Government of India enterprise. The Chinese silk yarn is long and smooth and considered ideal for warps [length-wise thread]. The relatively coarse indigenous silk is saved for wefts [transverse threads], according to industry sources. Any move to ban Chinese silk will hit the weaving industry hard, confirms Vinod from the Mysore Power Loom Silk Manufacturers’ Co-operative Society in Bengaluru. After Sericulture Minister K. Narayana Gowda wrote to the Centre seeking the ban, the Silk Association of India (SAI), Bengaluru, also wrote to Union Textiles Minister Smriti Irani seeking the same. But industry experts are wondering if India can make up the qualitative shortfall from a possible ban on Chinese silk. Duty levied Presently, an anti-dumping duty of $1.85 is levied on every kg of Chinese silk imported, which makes it more expensive. Incidentally, the call for a ban comes just before the anti-dumping duty is scheduled for a review this December. India presently imports about 2,500 to 3,500 tonnes from China every year. India, during 2019-20, produced 25,239 tonnes of mulberry raw silk. Though Chinese silk accounts for barely 10 to 12% of India’s requirement, it plays a crucial role in the operations of the quality-conscious weaving industry. Even if India makes up the shortfall by increasing its production , it remains to be seen if the indigenous silk is improved qualitatively. Out of the 25,239 tonnes of mulberry raw silk produced in India last year, barely 7,000 tonnes were of the superior quality, internationally gradable bivoltine silk, according to SAI. If Chinese silk is banned, a huge responsibility lies on India to boost the quality of its silk, which is only as good as its raw material. Good reeling practices are also essential, but automatic reeling machines (ARM) will yield good quality silk only if the quality of cocoons is good. One of the major reasons attributed for the better quality of Chinese silk is the climatic conditions. “India is tropical, while parts of China where sericulture is practised is temperate,” Mr. Chigari said. Though sericulture research institutes in India had produced enough hybrid races, which are equally superior to the Chinese or the Japanese varieties, the rearing practices of Indian sericulture farmers leave much to be desired, he said. “The quality of mulberry leaves should improve, besides other techniques like the use of disinfectants,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/call-for-ban-on-chinese-silk-can-qualitative-shortfall-be-made-up-by-indigenous-silk/article32596053.ece
14 September 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 impact: Govt. schools survive, reopening after a two-year closure||Four Kannada medium government schools in Mysuru and Kodagu districts that had been closed for the last two years for want of students and were on the verge of permanent closure in view of ‘zero’ admissions are reopening this year. The schools have recorded admissions for the first time after a gap of two academic years as a result of COVID-19 pandemic, which has severely impacted the education system. Another reason for attracting children was Vidyagama, a programme launched by the Department of Public Instruction to ensure continuous learning, especially in rural areas with schools shut for long over the pandemic scare. In a way, the programme has helped to stop children dropping out of schools over the break in normal schooling resulting from COVID-19 and engage those who lacked digital aids by keeping in touch with online learning systems. The government higher primary school in Chandrawadi village in Nanjangud taluk of Mysuru district, which was closed in 2018, is reopening this academic year as it received 12 admissions and is expecting a few more in the days ahead. Interestingly, seven admissions are from those who shifted from private schools. Mysuru DDPI Panduranga said COVID-19 has caused financial stress and many parents are not in a position to pay private school fees. Moreover, the scare has made them rethink on sending their wards to schools outside their villages. All these factors are working in favour of government schools, some of which have been saved. A school in H.D. Kote taluk, which was also on the verge of closure, has surprisingly got admissions of 150 students, including 135 from private schools. The government higher primary school in Sonahalli of H.D. Kote taluk had just 15 students last year and efforts to get more students went in vain as students of the village were pursuing education in private schools outside their village, the DDPI said. In Kodagu, which is returning to normal from last month’s heavy rain, floods and landslips, three government schools have survived from being shut permanently for want of students as parents have reposed faith in them and are getting their children admitted in various classes. Besides the financial aspects, the safety of children is now taking priority since they had to rely on private transport to reach private schools outside villages. With uncertainty looming over normal functioning of schools, parents are finding the local government schools safer and therefore shifting them out of private schools. Kodagu DDPI P.S. Machado said people who had migrated to other cities for livelihoods are returning to their respective villages unable to bear the impact of COVID-19. These instances are also resulting in admissions. The children of migrants are taking admissions and the department has made arrangements for the smooth admission procedure. Kannada schools in Madenadu in Madikeri taluk, and Chettahalli and Kundalli in Somwarpet taluk in the district that had been closed for two years are reopening this year. The Madenadu school received 15 admissions while admissions are under way in the two schools of Somwarpet taluk. The department would provide all facilities the schools needed to continue to function in future, he added. Mr. Machado said impressive SSLC results in government high schools in Kodagu this year boosted their reputation and proved to be one of the reasons to regain admissions. Kodagu government schools recorded 81% results in SSLC exam this year. The staff who had been shifted to other schools over zero admissions in these schools would also return.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-impact-govt-schools-survive-reopening-after-a-two-year-closure/article32596025.ece
14 September 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Post relaxation of lockdown norms, cocoon prices go up marginally||With the relaxation in the COVID-19 lockdown norms, allowing marriages and other functions with limited gathering, the sale of silk saris and other garments has picked up, leading to a marginal increase in the price of silk cocoons. Silk piled up Huge quantities of raw silk had piled up with reelers across the State after operations were suspended since April, bringing down the price of cocoons. But, the weavers have begun buying raw silk from reelers over the last few days after the demand for silk saris and garments became visible in markets, according to sources in the Silk Association of India (SAI), Bengaluru. According to the Central Silk Board (CSB), the average price of cross-breed cocoon was Rs. 417 per kg and Rs. 452 per kg in January and February respectively, while the price of the superior quality bivoltine cocoon was Rs. 481 per kg and Rs. 534 per kg during the same period. By May, the average price of bivoltine plummeted to Rs. 213 per kg and the cross-breed’s to Rs. 171 per kg. However, CSB’s statistics for August showed a marginal improvement. The average price of bivoltine inched up to Rs. 284 per kg and that of the cross-breed wa Rs. 237. The prices improved further in September with the bivoltine touching almost Rs. 400 per kg and the cross-breed nearing Rs. 280 per kg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/post-relaxation-of-lockdown-norms-cocoon-prices-go-up-marginally/article32596055.ece
14 September 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Supermarket fined for selling item past its expiry date||The Mandya District Consumer Disputes’ Redressal Commission has ordered a supermarket in Mandya to pay compensation of Rs. 5,000 to a consumer for selling him a snack after its expiry date. H.D. Keshavamurthy, resident of T. Valligere village in Mandya, bought the item on January 16, 2018. However, he then realised that the item’s date of manufacture was mentioned as November 22, 2017, and the label said that it was best before 45 days from the date of packing. The date on which Mr. Keshavamurthy purchased the snack was past its expiry date, He approached the commission in July 2018 against the “negligent” and “careless” service by the supermarket. Compensation The commission delivered an order on September 7, 2020, allowing, in part, the complaint under Section 12 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986. It also held the supermarket liable for paying compensation of Rs. 5,000 to the complainant within 30 days from the date of the order along with interest at a rate of 8% per annum from January 16, 2018, till the payment is made. Further, the commission said the supermarket representatives should also pay Rs. 2,000 for deficiency in service and Rs. 1,000 towards expenses to the complainant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/supermarket-fined-for-selling-item-past-its-expiry-date/article32596051.ece
14 September 2020||Staff Reporter,KARNATAKA||NEET conducted with preventive measures in place||The National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) was conducted across the State on Sunday, much to the relief of over a lakh students hoping to get into a college for undergraduate medical courses including MBBS and BDS. Relieved faces after writing the exams and hundreds of parents eagerly waiting was a common sight at many centres in the city on Sunday evening. This year’s exam was held amidst surging COVID-19 cases, presenting a challenge to all stakeholders. A pen-and-paper based exam, NEET was conducted in over 80 centres in Bengaluru and around 298 centres across the State. According to the National Testing Agency (NTA), the body that conducted the exam, around 1,19,587 candidates had applied for the exam. Speaking to The Hindu, a coordinator from NTA, said that the exam was conducted successfully and the NTA had taken all COVID-19 preventive measures, including ensuring social distancing, crowd management and staggered entry. “The exam began at 2 p.m. but the entry to the exam centres began at 11 a.m itself and there was staggered entry,” the coordinator said. Students, who finally got to write the exam after it was postponed twice, said that they were all relieved and were waiting for results. “We are finally done with the exam. It was scheduled to be held on May 3 but was postponed to July 26 and again to September 13. Due to this, there was a lot pressure and tension. Now that the exam is over, I can breathe easy,” a student said. Inder K. (name changed), a candidate from Kolar, who attempted the exam in the city, said that the biology paper was easy and physics and chemistry papers were moderately difficult. “I think the cut off might be quite high. Though we had plenty of time to prepare, uncertainty over the dates of the exam and the general fear of COVID-19 around made it difficult to focus,” he said. Students at all the centres were provided with masks while writing the exam and at some centres even water bottles and biscuit packets were provided. The NTA has also increased the number of centres in the State from 194 in 2019 to 298 this year. As many as 1,15,882 candidates had registered for NEET in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/neet-conducted-with-preventive-measures-in-place/article32596027.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘A film city at Hesaraghatta will cause irrevocable damage’||Hesaraghatta has played a major part in the development of Bengaluru since the latter half of the 19th century. The bund across Arkavathy was built in 1895, making way for the 1,500-acre reservoir. It provided drinking water to the city for over 100 years. The reservoir was a picnic spot for citizens, and a boating and wind surfing arena for adventure seekers. It nourished the ground water for over a century. In 1989, Hesaraghatta reservoir overflowed for the last time. Population increased and so did the need for water. Nobody thought about groundwater reserves, recharging or preserving the catchment, except for one man, Lakshmi Sagar. He was the urban development minister in Ramakrishna Hegde’s cabinet. When a township was proposed on the banks of Arkavathy, he did not give permission. Catchment of Hesaraghatta reservoir/Arkavathy at Hesaraghatta is over 5,000 acres, most of which is owned by the government of Karnataka. A parcel of this land – measuring 345 acres is a grassland. In fact, it is the last remaining piece of grassland around Bengaluru. If you went back in time to about 200 years ago, most of the area that now is the city was grassland/scrub jungle. This piece of land was sold to the Department of Animal Husbandry by the Maharaja of Mysore in 1942 for Rs. 10,000. The State government had leased this land to Mysore Film Development Corporation (MFDC) in 1972 to build a film city. However, it didn’t materialise. MFDC was renamed Karnataka Film Development Corporation (KFDC) later on and sometime in the early 21st century, it closed down. The rights of this land were temporarily vested with Kanteerava studios, which used to rent out the area for Kannada film shootings. Almost all the units used to shoot in the area, and destroy and damage the area. We the local people had to go and clean up their mess. By 2012, few people in the Kannada film industry started clamouring for a film city again. The Karnataka government opened tenders for the detailed project report on developing the area as a film city. The Arkavathy & Kumdvathy Nadi Punaschethana Samithi filed a PIL against the project in the High Court of Karnataka (WP 45759/2012). GoK did not submit it’s objections and the HC dismissed the petition when the advocate general said in open court that the government will maintain the status quo till it took a decision on the status of the land. While closing the PIL, the honourable court also said, “It is needless to clarify that the petitioner or any other person having a genuine public interest in mind will have the liberty to approach the court as and when a decision in respect of utilization of the land in question is taken” Subsequent to the PIL, the government decided to give the land back the department of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services. Apart from being the last remaining grassland and catchment of Arkavathy, the area is also the wintering ground for the birds of prey from northern India and Central Asia. A survey commissioned by the Karnataka Biodiversity Board had found it was home to over 130 species of birds, many mammals, and butterflies. And millions of insects, of course. Some of the birds, mammals and insects found in the area are on the verge of extinction or critically endangered. This area is a large carbon sink for our city, and can be a powerful tool to mitigate climate change and counter the rapid urbanisation of Bengaluru. It is as fragile as the Roerich estate where the government wanted to establish the film city and then said they wouldn't because of environmental concerns. Sometime in 2012, I also started seeing the entire catchment as a unique habitat and that it needed to be protected from ‘development’. In collaboration with conservationist Ramki Srinivasan, biologist K.S. Sheshadri and ornithologist M.B. Krishna, a detailed proposal to declare 5,000 acres, including the lake bed as ‘Conservation Reserve’ under Section 36A of the Wildlife Protection Act of 1972, was drafted. We submitted it to the Karnataka Forest Department some time in 2013/4. The department carried out a survey and fixed the boundaries of the proposed reserve. It needs to go to the State Wildlife Board for approval. This step hasn’t happened. The proposal has remained a proposal till today. The reason is that the Animal Husbandry Department hasn’t given it’s consent to this notification. In fact, they have given their objections in writing. Ironically, if the government intends to go ahead with a film city, the department will not object. A film city will irrevocably change the land use and landscape of the area. It will systematically destroy the ecosystem and the water security – whatever is left of it. It will congest the area as traffic will increase.  Mahesh Bhat is a photographer and filmmaker who has been working on preserving the Arkavathy catchment for over 15 years||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-film-city-at-hesaraghatta-will-cause-irrevocable-damage/article32596023.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||COP||The proposed train service to Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) often comes under scrutiny from people, especially when politicians and officials make tall claims. Recently, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal(in picture)termed the halt station coming up near the airport “the Railways’ gift to Bengaluru flyers”. However, the Minister taking all the credit riled many, who reminded him on social media that the halt station was being built by Bengaluru International Airport Ltd. at a cost of Rs. 3 crore. People also expressed disappointment with the Minister for releasing a video on the halt station in Hindi, ignoring Kannada. Further-more, they reminded him about the inordinate delay in clearing suburban railway for the city. After this episode, on September 8, the Divisional Railway Manager signed an MoU with BIAL on operations of the halt station. On the same day, he posted a message on Twitter saying that the KIA would probably be the first major airport in the country with direct train connectivity. This too created a stir, with many people saying that Bengaluru airport was not the first to have railway link. Some even tagged the Chennai airport, asking the authorities to come out with a reply. The next day, in a prompt reply, Chennai airport informed that it had multi-modal transport connectivity, including a railway link for which the cost was just Rs. 5. It also shared a map.   A social media post on Teachers’ Day by an assistant professor of Sociology at Mangalore University landed him in trouble. The post, by Govindaraju B.M. Konaje, read, “I am proud to be a teacher because [I’m] drawing a good salary without work, risk.” He was clearly referring to the lockdown phase. After a screenshot of the post went viral, inviting the wrath of other teachers and students, the university issued him a memo and asked him to reply within seven days. According to P.S. Yadapadithaya, the Vice-Chancellor, the teacher expressed unconditional regret by meeting him in person and deleted the post later.   Congress MLA Lakshmi Hebbalkar(in picture)is known for her riddle-laden speeches. Two days ago, she blamed “invisible hands” for trying to block the development of her constituency. “Some forces are blocking the release of even Rs. 5 lakh to my constituency. I will not name them. You know who they are,” she said at Sulebavi village. “I never knew I had to suffer such hardships after getting elected to the Legislative Assembly. But now I face obstacles everywhere. Some forces are trying to scuttle the development of my constituency,” she said. However, in the same breath, she went on to also say she was getting more allocation than many senior MLAs and nothing could stop her from striving to get the best for her constituency. Back in 2018, she had made an impromptu speech on the steps of a bank and blamed “invisible hands” for blocking her nominees from getting elected in a cooperative bank election. Suchith Kidiyoor Raviprasad Kamila Rishikesh Bahadur Desai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cop/article32596037.ece
14 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Alappuzha has 252 new cases||The district’s COVID-19 graph continues on an upward trajectory with 252 people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. Of the fresh cases, 229 patients contracted the disease through local transmission. Twelve people who came from other States, nine from abroad, and two health staff were also diagnosed with the disease. Among the 229 locally transmitted cases, 38 cases were reported from Purakkad, 23 from Alappuzha, and 19 from Chennithala. After a period of lull, Kayamkulam is witnessing a rapid surge in COVID-19 cases. On Sunday, it recorded 16 cases. Several policemen were among those contracted the disease in Kayamkulam in recent days. Rest of the contact cases were from Ambalappuzha North (15), Pattanakkad (14), Mulakuzha (10), Aroor (9), Cherthala South (9), Venmony (7), Bharanikavu (5), Thiruvanvandoor (5), Ambalappuzha South (4), Pathiyoor (4), Mannar (4), Thazhakara (3), Neelamperoor (3), Krishnapuram (3), Chettikkad (3), Cherthala (3), two cases each from Arattuppuzha, Ala, Chettikulangara, Ezhupunna, Mavelikara, Ramankary, Thrikkunnapuzha and Thamarakulam and one case each from Arookutty, Champakulam, Cheriyanad, Devikulangara, Edathua, Kodamthuruth, Kavalam, Mannancherry, Puliyoor, Punnapra North, Punnapra South, Pallippuram, Palamel and Vayalar. Meanwhile, 46 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease tested negative. At present, the district has 2,150 active COVID-19 cases. Ward 15 in Mulakuzha, parts of ward 5 in Chennithala, 9 in Edathua, 11 in Muthukulam, 3 and 17 in Punnapra South were declared as containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzha-has-252-new-cases/article32596601.ece
14 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Alappuzha to soon be an adventure hub||Alappuzha known for its backwaters and lagoons will soon be offering a host of adventure activities. Much to the delight of adventure junkies, work on an adventure tourism centre at Krishnapuram, near Kayamkulam, has commenced. The facility, being set up close to the Krishnapuram cultural centre, will offer activities including sky cycling, jumaring, zip line, free fall, and climbing wall. Earlier, the State government sanctioned Rs. 93.91 lakh for the centre. The project implemented under the aegis of District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC) is expected to be completed in a year. Officials said that the project would add more vigour to tourism activities in the district. “Kayamkulam, which has attractions including Krishnapuram Palace and Shankar Memorial National Cartoon Museum and Art Gallery, will become a major tourism hub once the adventure tourism facility is opened. As it is situated close to the National Highway, it will attract travellers in good numbers,” said an official. As part of the project, two towers having a height of 10.5 metres among other constructions will be carried out. Construction works are being done by WAPCOS Limited, Kochi. The State government sanctioned funds for the centre based on a request made by Kayamkulam MLA U. Prathibha. “The project will enhance the tourism potential of Kayamkulam. It will help attract adventure-loving youths. Our aim is to complete the centre including the construction of the compound wall and allied facilities within a year,” Ms. Prathibha said. Construction of the adventure tourism centre was inaugurated by A.M. Ariff, MP, the other day.  The facility will offer activities including sky cycling, jumaring, zip line, free fall, and climbing wall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzha-to-soon-be-an-adventure-hub/article32596599.ece
14 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Child goes missing in sea||A two-and-a-half-year-old child was swept out into the sea while his mother was trying to take a selfie with the boy and two other children on the Alappuzha beach on Sunday. The missing child was identified as Adhikrishna, son of Lakshmanan and Anitha, of Palakkad. According to the police, Anitha, her two children, and her brother’s son reached their relative’s house in Alappuzha two days ago after attending a wedding ceremony. Permission denied On Sunday afternoon, Anitha and the three children were taken to the beach by their relative Binu. After the police denied them permission to go to the beach in view of the rough sea, they came to the beach near the ESI Hospital, evading security personnel. Selfie Anitha and the children who were trying to take a selfie on the beach got trapped in strong waves. Binu, who was parking the vehicle, rushed to the spot, but could only save the woman and two children, aged six and seven. Officials said that a search for the missing child was hampered by the rough sea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/child-goes-missing-in-sea/article32596602.ece
14 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Subash Vasu to meet BJP president||Bharat Dharma Jana Sena (BDJS) faction leader Subash Vasu, who was removed from the post of chairman of Spices Board India, has said talks are on with the BJP central leadership to induct his faction into the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). Mr. Vasu told reporters here on Sunday that he would hold talks with BJP president J.P. Nadda and other leaders later this week as part of becoming an NDA constituent. Mr. Vasu, who is leading a rebellion against Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana Yogam general secretary Vellappally Natesan and his son Thushar Vellappally, was expelled from the BDJS for anti-party activities earlier this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/subash-vasu-to-meet-bjp-president/article32596558.ece
14 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||CRAR facilities inaugurated||The renovated community training centre and a state-of-the-art research lab of the Centre for Research on Aquatic Resources (CRAR) at SD College in Alappuzha district was inaugurated on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crar-facilities-inaugurated/article32596597.ece
14 September 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Protest brewing against eco-sensitive zone notification||Protest is brewing against a draft notification of the Ministry of Forest and Environment to declare an eco-sensitive zone around Malabar and Aralam Wildlife sanctuaries, which share borders with many villages in Wayanad district. According to the draft notification issued on August 15, the eco-sensitive zone will be to an extent of up to 1 km around the boundary of the sanctuaries. “If the draft is implemented, it will adversely affect the lives of close to 50,000 farmers living on the fringes of the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary which is spread over 13 villages under the Thamarassery and Koyilandy taluks in Kozhikode district and Vythiri taluk in Wayanad district,” P.M. Joy, chairman, Karshika Purogamana Samiti (KPS), said. All development projects in the eco-sensitive zone, including construction of roads, will be hit, and farmers will not be able to cut the trees they had planted without the permission of forest officials, he added. Farmers in five villages sharing border with the Aralam Wildlife Sanctuary in Thirunelly grama panchayat in Wayanad have to travel nearly 70 km to reach the Aralam divisional forest office in Kannur district for submitting applications for their needs, said T.C. Joseph, chairman, Wayanad Action Committee to Prevent Wildlife Attack. The lives of farmers on the forest fringes are miserable owing to the increasing attacks from wild animals, he added. Several farmer organisations and political parties have launched protests against the Union government’s move. Members of the Thirunelly grama panchayat board observed black day on Saturday against the notification. They also organised protest meet in each ward. Meanwhile, a meeting of UDF leaders from Kozhikode and Wayanad districts decided to intensify agitation against the move. They held agitation declaration conventions in 10 panchayats of the two districts on Sunday. The CPI(M) has also decided to launch protests against the move. KPS will stage a dharna in front of the telephone exchange at Vythiri on Wednesday demanding withdrawal of the draft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protest-brewing-against-eco-sensitive-zone-notification/article32596533.ece
14 September 2020||Kannur,KERALA||CM to inaugurate new facilities at cancer centre||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate on Monday new facilities built as part of developing the Malabar Cancer Centre (MCC) into a Postgraduate Institute of Oncology Science and Research. The institute with new Paediatric Haematology and Oncology Block (Rs. 11.39 crore); Nuclear Medicine and Radiology Extension (Rs. 9 crore); Clinical Lab Services and Translational Research Block (Rs. 9.5 crore); and Interventional Radiology Section (Rs. 9.5 crore) is all set for the inauguration. It will be followed by the expansion of Rs. 81.69-crore Radiotherapy block, renovation of the OP block and the laying of foundation stone for new projects worth Rs. 32 crore. Health Minister K.K. Shylaja said cancer patients in the Malabar region were increasingly depending on MCC instead of going to the Regional Cancer Centre in Thiruvananthapuram. Even during the COVID period, more than 6,000 patients visited MCC every month. MCC was the only institution in the government sector to perform bone marrow transplants in children, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-to-inaugurate-new-facilities-at-cancer-centre/article32596543.ece
14 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Patients opting for home isolation on the rise||Along with the rise in COVID-19 cases, the number of asymptomatic patients choosing to remain in isolation at home has been climbing in about three weeks since patients in the district were given the option. About 1,035 people out of the 3,133 total active cases in the district are currently in isolation at home. Only asymptomatic people without any co-morbidities are given the option of remaining at home. With an increase in the number of people taking the option, pressure on first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) could be reduced, said District Medical Officer N.K. Kuttappan. There are 13 FLTCs currently functioning in the district. If several more are required to begin operations with positive cases steadily increasing, deploying sufficient staff could be difficult, he added. Familiar surroundings Besides, at home, people who tested positive could remain in familiar surroundings and know that their families were close by, which would be a relief psychologically, he said. “The number of people opting to stay at home has nearly doubled compared to the figure earlier this month, which was less than 500,” he added. COVID-19 patients are required to sign an undertaking that says that they will follow necessary protocol. They are also required to have rooms to themselves and the elderly living in the same house are to be protected. The rapid response teams constituted in each ward with ASHA workers and local body officials monitor them, and if required, the district administration’s telemedicine unit, working with about 20 doctors, is available for consultation round-the-clock. Consistent monitoring The idea was to keep asymptomatic people isolated at home, mildly symptomatic people at FLTCs and critically ill patients at hospitals, said Mathews Numpeli, district programme manager, National Health Mission. “About 58% of the active cases in the district are currently asymptomatic. For asymptomatic people remaining at home, consistent monitoring for symptoms is key. The doctor at the nearest primary health centre will keep a case sheet of the patient,” he said. If they show symptoms, they will have to be shifted to a care facility. Family quarantined Recently, when members of a family in Eloor, including a child, tested positive, they chose to remain at home. In such situations being able to remain at home has been a relief to families, according to a health official from the area. They were being monitored twice daily via phone or video calls by doctors at the district’s telemedicine facility, said the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/patients-opting-for-home-isolation-on-the-rise/article32596549.ece
14 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Jazzing up of vehicles may invite hefty fine||Automobile junkies prone to illegally jazzing up their vehicles may better watch out. Gone are the days when they could alter vehicles as they fancied and get away with just a fine of Rs. 500 after restoring original factory settings only to indulge in it again, since the fine was not deterrent enough. An incident in which the Muvattupuzha Regional Transport Office slapped a vehicle owner with a fine of nearly Rs. 50,000 and suspended the registration of the vehicle for six months for serious alterations changing the “total height, ground clearance, wheel track, and other basic measurements of the vehicle” serves as timely reminder of the scaled-up fine regime in place now under the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act. Separate fines “Now, alterations to each unit draws a separate fine of Rs. 5,000 unlike in the past when the fine amount was same irrespective of the number of alterations. This heavy fine will be a deterrent for a majority, while those prepared to splurge on jazzing up vehicles may still continue with that,” said P.M. Shabeer, Regional Transport Officer, Muvattupuzha.  Mr. Shabeer said a highly popular motorcycle with 350 CC and 500 CC variants remained one of the most jazzed-up vehicles on the road with alterations done mainly to their handle and silencer. Jazzed-up bumper and crash guards, oversized tyres and high-intensity lights remain the favoured alterations in four-wheelers. Prior to the pandemic, shops dealing in these largely illegal extra fittings were doing a booming business. While sporadic drives were conducted against jazzed-up vehicles, these shops enjoyed a free run. Lack of specific laws “As of now, there are no specific laws governing them, and action against alterations can be only confined to the vehicle owner concerned. Maybe, they will come under the scanner once the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act come into force in its entirety,” said Mr. Shabeer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jazzing-up-of-vehicles-may-invite-hefty-fine/article32596553.ece
14 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Prosecution moves court to cancel Dileep’s bail||The prosecution in the actor rape case has moved the trial court to cancel the bail granted to actor Dileep for allegedly influencing some of the witnesses in the case. The prosecution is also understood to have submitted that there had been several instances when Dileep, the 8th accused in the case, had directly and indirectly influenced some of the witnesses. Yielding to the pressure, some witnesses had also backtracked from their earlier statements in the case, sources said. The prosecution has also opposed to the reported practice of “witness vakalath,” where some lawyers engage themselves for the prosecution witnesses in the sensitive case. The proceedings in the case are being held in-camera. Lacks legal sanctity Earlier, a few lawyers had walked in to the court room along with some of the important witnesses, who were examined by the prosecution. There is no legal sanctity for the witness vakalath as all the prosecution witnesses in the case are brought in by the State, who is represented by the public prosecutor. The witness vakalath was one way of influencing the witnesses in the case, which was illegal, sources said. The prosecution is also understood to have taken objection to the behaviour of some “star witnesses” in the case who walked in to the proceedings on their own and without consulting the prosecution. It can only be with the knowledge and consent of the prosecution that the witnesses who come for examination in the trial of the case appear before the court, sources said. If a witness walks in to the proceedings on his own, the prosecution need not examine him/her, sources said. When contacted, both the Special Public Prosecutor and the defence lawyer B. Raman Pillai refused to comment. The application will be considered by the court on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prosecution-moves-court-to-cancel-dileeps-bail/article32596013.ece
14 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||At Koovappady, a haven for birds||Living on the banks of the Periyar river, close to the renowned Thattekkad bird sanctuary, the people of Koovappady block panchayat have realised their long-time dream of creating a haven for birds. Thattekkad is one of the richest habitats for birds in South India and the block panchayat has taken efforts to create a garden of fruit trees to attract birds on about seven hectares of land. The area chosen by the block panchayat had lost a lot of vegetation, including trees, over the years. The block panchayat took upon itself the task of creating a natural environment. The work began more than four years ago in collaboration with the Forest Department, and the results are visible. More than a hundred species of birds are constant visitors to the area or are residents there. They include the Malabar grey hornbill, Nilgiri flycatcher, grey-breasted laughingthrush, grey-headed bulbul, blue-winged parakeet, white-bellied treepie, Oriental white eye, mountain hawk, Asian fairy-bluebird, Great Indian hornbill and the Malabar pied hornbill. Forest Department sources said the entire belt was full of birds. The Abhayaranyam area near Kodanad within Koovappady is a rich site. Birds have been spotted in large numbers in the area. Natural settings Ornithologist R. Sugathan lauded the efforts of the local people in creating a haven for birds. However, he called for a more scientific understanding of the natural settings so that more birds could be drawn to the area. “It has been our efforts to create a habitat for birds and to grow fruit-bearing trees for them,” said M.P. Prakash, a member of the block panchayat. He said he was not an expert on bird behaviour but wanted to give them a place to rest without being disturbed, to feed and to breed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/at-koovappady-a-haven-for-birds/article32596555.ece
14 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Amballoor tries to strike gold through PEPPER||Close on the heels of Vaikom striking gold through responsible tourism, Amballoor, located in the immediate suburbs of Kochi, is preparing to take the plunge, after readying stakeholders at the grassroots level. “We did not know the tourism potential of our region and its potential to support the rural economy, until the onset of Responsible Tourism (RT) Mission’s People’s Participation for Participatory Planning and Empowerment Through RT (PEPPER) scheme. The location of Amballoor is unique, since it had the erstwhile Travancore State on one side and the Cochin State on the other. “It is also home to backwaters, hilly areas, and 1,000 acres of ‘karinilams’, where canals, paddy fields, coconut farming, and fishing co-exist,” said K.A. Mukundan, vice chairman of planning committee, Amballoor panchayat. Revival of canal He explained how the panchayat made waves after it utilised Rs. 2-crore tourism funds to revive a kilometre-long canal which had turned into a garbage dump. “A park, a restaurant [now operated by Indian Coffee House], and a toilet block were built in its precincts. Steps were also taken to protect water resources using coir geo textiles and rubble to reinforce their banks.” Amballoor also has tiny islands, where guests can opt to do angling and relish cooked fish. Country boats are available for cruising through a network of pristine canals. Guests can also see toddy tapping, manufacture of handicrafts from coconut shells, and weaving, besides partaking in the making of hand-made pappad. RT Mission State coordinator K. Rupesh Kumar spoke of how Kerala’s tourism policy of 2017 provided the base for the PEPPER project and the formation of special tourism grama sabhas at the grassroots level. “It was a resounding success in Vaikom, and Amballoor is set to follow suit, despite a lull in the arrival of tourists due to the pandemic situation,” he said.  The location of Amballoor is unique, since it had the erstwhile Travancore State on one side and the Cochin State on the other K.A. Mukundan Vice chairman, panchayat planning committee||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/amballoor-tries-to-strike-gold-through-pepper/article32596545.ece
14 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Cusat, ISRO lab ink deal||The department of physics at Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) and Laboratory for Electro-Optics Systems (LEOS), a key wing of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) in Bengaluru, have inked a deal for research collaboration. A Letter of Intent on the responsibilities of the two institutions was signed between teams led by Cusat Registrar Meera V. and LEOS-ISRO Director K.V. Sriram. LEOS will provide qualitatively analysed spectra and data sets to Cusat team for abundance estimation of elements using newly evolved approaches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cusat-isro-lab-ink-deal/article32596546.ece
14 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Highest single-day spike in Ernakulam||The district has recorded the highest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases so far with 326 people testing positive on Sunday. This is the second time that the number of cases in the district has crossed the 300-mark in the past week. Of those who tested positive on Sunday, 22 people arrived from outside the State. Cases of infection among health workers continue unabated with five health workers and two staff members at private hospitals, and a health worker from the Thrissur General Hospital testing positive here on Sunday. Other positive cases were reported from areas including Kottuvally, Alangad, Thripunithura, Udayamperoor, Eroor, Vyttila, Maradu, Kadavanthra, Kadungalloor, Rayamangalam, North Paravur, Mattancherry and Palarivattom. A total of 232 people recovered and tested negative for the disease, and 21,437 people remain in quarantine. For testing, 1,076 samples were sent from government facilities, while 1,258 samples were collected at private hospitals and laboratories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/highest-single-day-spike-in-ernakulam/article32596551.ece
14 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Standoff between MVD, lorry owners worsens||The standoff between Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) personnel and operators of Taurus tipper lorries has turned worse, with a section of officials complaining to the Chief Minister, State Police Chief, and Women’s Commission, alleging that an office-bearer of lorry operators association is hampering their work. “He even takes photographs and videos of officials and post them on social media to pressurise them. Women employees had earlier petitioned the police, fed up with his antics. We have sought the installation of CCTVs in regional transport offices to curtail his undue intervention in the department’s functioning. “Even worse, there have been instances of a section of lorry and bus operators pasting posters at bus depots and other public spaces to pressurise officials against penalising them for overloading of vehicles and other offences,” said a senior MVD official. ‘Facing threats’ A couple of years ago, personnel of the MVD enforcement wing had sought gun licence, saying that they faced various kinds of threats from unscrupulous operators and drivers of tipper lorries and other goods carriers. Meanwhile, an office-bearer of the lorry operators association said the complaint had more to do with ego clashes than anything substantial. “We are often penalised, even if there is a minor increase in load. We thus end up paying Rs. 3,000 for a tonne of overload, and Rs. 1,000 for each additional tonne. Most lorries are issued fitness certificates by the very same MVD personnel, knowing that they can carry this much load,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/standoff-between-mvd-lorry-owners-worsens/article32596550.ece
14 September 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam reports 205 more cases||The district reported 205 new cases of COVID-19, two deaths, and 140 recoveries on Sunday. Among the patients are 188 local contact cases, four NRIs, five health workers, and eight others who had travelled from other States. Contact cases While Kollam Corporation once again reported highest number contact cases, Alappad, Pathanapuram and Sooranadu are among areas where several persons tested positive. The Health Department on Sunday also confirmed that the deaths of a 55-year-old Vilangara resident and a 71-year-old Mukundapuram resident were due to COVID-19. While the first patient died on September 3, the other one passed away on September 4. The health workers who tested positive include a 37-year-old Perumpuzha resident and an employee of Government Victoria Hospital, Kollam. All the others, aged 26, 45, 48 and 35, have been working at Kollam District Hospital. The district currently has 19,975 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 1,45,147. While 1,179 persons completed home quarantine on Sunday, the Health Department has traced 27,617 primary and 6,245 secondary contacts of the positive cases. Currently, 15 COVID-19 first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) are functioning in Kollam and the total number of active cases is 2,351. Harbour closed With many cases being reported from the fishing sector, Azheekkal harbour was closed. The district administration has issued strict directions to take action against those who violate COVID-19 guidelines and weather warnings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-reports-205-more-cases/article32596604.ece
14 September 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Phase II of Mylam-Thalavoor drinking water project launched||The second phase of the Mylam-Thalavoor drinking water project seeks to provide drinking water to all households in the locality and address the water scarcity in the eastern parts of the district, said Water Resources Minister K. Krishnankutty while inaugurating the work through videoconferencing on Friday. Mr. Krishnankutty said that around 16 lakh new water connections would be provided in the State as part of the government’s 100-day action plan. Water-borne diseases “According to recent studies in the field, shortage of safe drinking water can cause nearly 13 water-borne diseases. This project is being implemented to ensure that the public has access to potable water,” he said. Rs. 18 crore from KIIFB Works on laying pipelines would be completed first, for which Rs. 18 crore sanctioned by the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB), by including the project in the National Rural Drinking Water Programme (NRDWP), will be used. The Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM ) has allotted Rs. 16 crore for further works and the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) will supervise the construction. Water tank A water tank with a capacity of 6.4 million litres has already installed at Thettikuzhy in Mylam and Rs. 9 crore has been spent for setting up the tank, well and associated works. Panchayat Kudumbashree had raised Rs. 6.4 lakh for purchasing 8 cents for land for installing the tank. Twenty wards in the panchayat that are currently facing severe drinking water shortage are expected to benefit from the project. P. Aisha Potty, MLA, presided over the function. Mylam grama grama panchayat president Girija Muraleedharan and KWA superintending engineer S. Santhosh Kumar also attended the inauguration of the work.     Beneficiaries  Twenty wards in the panchayat are currently facing drinking water shortage  They are expected to benefit from the water project||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/phase-ii-of-mylam-thalavoor-drinking-water-project-launched/article32596596.ece
14 September 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||KIIFB funds for taluk hospitals, says Minister||The district has achieved incredible progress in the health sector, said Health Minister K.K. Shailaja after laying the foundation stone for the new building of Karunagappally taluk hospital through videoconferencing. Pointing out that Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) funding was made available to all taluk hospitals, she added that Rs. 250 crore was allocated for Kollam Government Medical College Hospital alone. “We could upgrade all the public health centres in Kerala to the best such facilities in India,” she said. The current outpatient block would be converted into a trauma-care unit. A modern operation theatre with all latest facilitates would be built as part of the project in the new building.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kiifb-funds-for-taluk-hospitals-says-minister/article32596603.ece
14 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||196 cases in Kottayam||As many as 196 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Sunday. Of the fresh cases, 191 persons contracted the virus through local transmission with Kottayam municipality continuing report the highest number of cases. As many as 28 persons in the civic body tested positive for the virus while Manarcad, with 16 cases, came second. Panachikkad followed closely with 11 cases. Cases were also reported from Ettmanur, Elikkulam, Erumely, Pampady, Athirampuzha and Changanassery. Among those tested positive during the day also included a doctor attached to the Alappuzha general Hospital. With 1,309 recoveries during the day, the number of active cases in Kottayam has become 2,149.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/196-cases-in-kottayam/article32596605.ece
14 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Enzyme replacement therapy begins||Around a month after a Division Bench of the Kerala High Court called for raising funds for the treatment of children suffering from rare diseases, an enzyme replacement therapy for Pompe disease has begun at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kozhikode. According to sources, a two-year-old child from Kannur attended the first session of the therapy on September 11. Another child from Mannarkkad in Palakkad will receive the treatment in mid-November. She is right now undergoing another bridge therapy at a private hospital in Kochi. Medical college sources claimed that this is for the first time a government hospital is offering this treatment. Life-threatening diseases which afflict only 100 in a lakh population is called a rare disease. Primary immune deficiency disorders, inborn errors of metabolism and Lysosomal Storage Disorders (LSD) such as Pompe disease and Gaucher disease are some of the rare diseases reported in Kerala.  High cost People with LSD will have enzyme deficiencies, which affect the functioning of lysosome, the structure in cells that breaks down proteins, carbohydrates and old cell parts to help the body recycle them. This leads to an abnormal build-up of toxic materials in the cells. Treatment, however, is available only for some of them and the cost is very high.  Every fortnight The bench led by Chief Justice S. Manikumar intervened in the issue following a petition filed by the Kerala chapter of the Lysosomal Storage Disorders Support Society. The Central government allocated Rs. 1.5 crore, the State government Rs. 50 lakh and the Kerala High Court Advocates’ Association pooled in Rs. 5 lakh. Manoj Manghat, functionary of the society, said that the therapy would have to be done every fortnight. The State government allocated the fund through the Kerala Social Security Mission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/enzyme-replacement-therapy-begins/article32596569.ece
14 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Cases peak in Kozhikode||Kozhikode reported the second highest number of fresh COVID-19 cases in the State on Sunday when 399 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district. The number of active cases from Kozhikode crossed the 2,500-mark to reach 2,509. Three deaths were reported at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on Sunday. They are, a 53-year-old man from Edakkad in Kannur, a 79-year-old man from Chalakkara, and a 63-year-old man from Puthuppanam in Kozhikode.  According to a release by the District Medical Officer, 358 of the new cases were through local transmission of the infection. Among them, 136 people are reported to be from within Kozhikode Corporation limits. Three of them are health workers and 27 cases are from Beypore alone. At the same time, Vadakara and Kadalundi reported 34 cases each and Olavanna and Feroke 20 and 18 cases, respectively. The source of infection was unknown in 24 cases. Thirteen people had returned from other States and three from abroad. As many as 128 people recovered from the infection. A total of 166 people from other districts are undergoing treatment at various facilities in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cases-peak-in-kozhikode/article32596540.ece
14 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Tourism stakeholders plead for unlocking sector||From taxi drivers to tourist bus operators, the lockdown of the tourism sector across the country for more than six months has taken a toll on the livelihood of many. With huge debts piling on them day by day, the stakeholders in this sector have made a desperate plea to the governments to find a solution to their predicament. The Karuna Taxi Drivers’ Association, with members across the State, said that the six-month moratorium on bank loans was creating more apprehensions than the lack of jobs. “At the end of the moratorium, huge interests have piled up over our vehicle loans. And if we default on our payments, civil cases await us. Many of us are facing severe depressions and on the verge of suicide”, Vineeth Thalasseri, president of the association said in a press release. The taxi and tourist bus sector depended hugely on tourism packages and wedding-related trips, besides other party and festival trips, for their survival. With neither happening these days, the sector is in a huge financial crisis. Taxi cars being used for road side vending of fruits, vegetables, and other local produce is a routine sight in the State these days. The association also complained about the State’s decision to make GPS mandatory for tourist vehicles. “This is to serve some vested interests who are to benefit from the order. If it is the safety of the passengers that the State is concerned about, it should have taken steps to develop its own application for the purpose instead of promoting the private manufacturing companies”, Mr.Vineeth said. The association has demanded the government to unlock the tourism sector at least partially and to find a solution to their issues at the earliest. They plan to stage protests across the State soon, if the government failed to respond at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tourism-stakeholders-plead-for-unlocking-sector/article32596532.ece
14 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Rs. 50-crore sanctioned for land acquisition||The State government has sanctioned Rs. 50 crore for the Mananchira-Vellimadukunnu road development project in Kozhikode city. This is the second instalment of the Rs. 100 crore allotted just before the parliamentary polls in 2019. A. Pradeep Kumar, MLA, in a press release stated that the amount would be sufficient to acquire land of those who had expressed their consent for acquisition. The project, being implemented by the Kerala Road Fund Board, was part of the Kozhikode City Road Development project, but could not be taken forward due to land acquisition issues. The total length of the road is 8.4 km and is expected to be 24-metres wide when the widening is completed. The government has to acquire land from 480 people for the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-50-crore-sanctioned-for-land-acquisition/article32596539.ece
14 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Senior journalist dead||N. Rajesh, 56, senior news editor with Madhyamam daily, passed away due to liver ailments at a private hospital here on Sunday. He is known for his reportage of national and international sporting events such as the Asian Football Championship, Afro-Asian Games, and the National Games. Mr. Rajesh has bagged the Kerala Sports Council Award in 1992 and the Swadeshabhimani Award. He was a member of the State Media Accreditation Committee, executive committee member of the Kerala Media Academy, and the State committee member of the Kerala Union of Working Journalists. He was also a faculty member at the Institute of Communication and Journalism under the Calicut Press Club. Mr. Rajesh is survived by wife Sreekala and son Harikrishnan. His mortal remains were consigned to flames at the corporation crematorium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/senior-journalist-dead/article32596535.ece
14 September 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||Surge continues in Malappuram with 378 new cases||SARS-CoV-2 infections continued to surge in Malappuram as 378 more people tested positive for the virus on Sunday. The number of active cases currently under treatment shot up to 2,811. While 347 of the fresh cases were found to have been infected through local transmission, the source of infection in 18 cases could not be traced. District administration officials said that while five cases came from abroad, three came from other States. There were five health workers among the newly confirmed cases. As many as 202 infected persons recovered from the disease in the district on Sunday. However, the number of people in quarantine came down to 33,795. In Palakkad Palakkad district too witnessed a surge in COVID-19 cases as 233 more people tested positive for the virus on Sunday. District officials said that 174 of them were infected through local contacts. While 10 cases came from other States, three came from abroad. The source of infection could not be identified in 45 cases. There were 63 recoveries in the district on Sunday. In Kannur Kannur district reported 234 more COVID-19 cases on Sunday. Of these, 203 are local transmission cases. While three people arrived from abroad, 14 came from other States. The other 14 are health workers. As many as 86 people recovered from the disease. The district has so far reported 6,062 cases. Of these, 3,846 were discharged from the hospital. There are now 13,908 people under observation. In Thrissur As many as 182 people, including 10 health workers, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Thrissur on Sunday. Of the total cases, 179 people were infected through contact. A total of 115 people recovered from the disease. There are now 2,090 active cases in the district. In Kasaragod Kasaragod district reported 124 COVID-19 cases on Sunday. As many as 120 people contracted the disease through contact. The district also reported 182 recoveries. There are now 5,243 people under observation. The district has so far reported 7,194 COVID-19 cases. Out of which, 6,116 were local transmission cases. In Wayanad As many as 56 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Sunday. Of the total cases, 52 were infected through contact. While two persons came from other States, two had returned from abroad. The district also reported 33 recoveries. The district has so far reported 2,066 COVID-19 cases. Of these, 1,591 have recovered from the disease. As many as 2,940 persons are under observation.  (With inputs from Palakkad, Kannur, Thrissur, Kasaragod, and Wayanad bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/surge-continues-in-malappuram-with-378-new-cases/article32596542.ece
14 September 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Protests against Jaleel continue||Protests against Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel continued on Sunday with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its student wing Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) taking out marches to Dr. Jaleel’s house at Valanchery. The police used force to remove the protesters who tried to break through the police barricade. The police resorted to caning when the protesters turned violent. The protesters who staged a sit-in later were arrested and removed. The ABVP leaders said some of their activists were injured in the police action. BJP district president Ravi Thelath warned of intensifying the agitation if Dr. Jaleel did not step down. Youth Congress and Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha protesters waved black flags at different parts as Dr. Jaleel proceeded to Thiruvananthapuram in his official car. A large number of police personnel escorted the Minister in jeeps and vans. Meanwhile, Youth Congress activists took out a protest march holding torches in Palakkad on Sunday evening demanding the resignation of Ministers E.P. Jayarajan and Dr. Jaleel. In Kozhikode Staff Reporter writes from Kozhikode: Several ABVP activists sustained minor injuries in a scuffle with the police here on Sunday. The activists were taking out a protest march to the office of the District Police Chief at Mananchira demanding the resignation of Dr. Jaleel. The march started from the ABVP district committee office and culminated at the police headquarters at Mananchira. The police erected barricades on the road and used water cannons on the protesters. Reaches capital Staff Reporter writes from Thiruvananthapuram: The Minister reached his official residence in the capital late on Sunday night. Black flags were waved at the Minister’s car at Changaramkulam, Angamaly, Parippally and in the capital. At Parippally, a group of Youth Congress workers allegedly tried to block his vehicle. In the capital, Youth Congress and Yuva Morcha staged protests in front of the Minister’s official residence. The police had to resort to caning to disperse the protesters who got into altercations with the police. Later, the protesters were arrested and removed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protests-against-jaleel-continue/article32596566.ece
14 September 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Brahmana Sabha launches 6th phase of relief work||The Kerala Brahmana Sabha (KBS) launched the sixth phase of its relief programme titled ‘Athijeevanathinte Kaithangu’ at a function held at Chathapuram near here on Sunday. KBS State president and Kerala State Welfare Corporation for Forward Communities (KSWCFC) director Karimpuzha Raman inaugurated the programme by giving away 10 kg rice each to deserving families. The relief programme is being implemented in association with Hyderabad-based Planchery Foundation to tide over challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Raman said KBS had spent around Rs. 4 crore for relief work in the last six months across the State. He added that 25 tonnes of rice was being distributed in the sixth phase of the programme. Planchery Foundation officials N.A. Venkiteswaran and P.A. Kasi Viswanathan, KBS State general secretary N.V. Sivaramakrishnan, treasurer K.V. Vasudevan, north zone president N.S. Sundararaman, M.R. Krishnan, T. Santhana Gopalakrishnan, K.P.S. Sasthrikal, P.K. Raman, P.H. Natarajan, K.B. Jayakumar, N.A. Ganesan, A.G.V. Sarma, P.M. Eswaran, and N.S. Sankar took part in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/brahmana-sabha-launches-6th-phase-of-relief-work/article32596538.ece
14 September 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Balan blames Oppn. for COVID spread||Minister for Welfare of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes A.K. Balan has accused the Opposition parties, including the BJP, of spreading COVID-19 in the State. He said the agitations conducted by the Opposition parties had caused the spread of the virus, reminiscent of the uncontrollable situation that prevailed in Maharashtra and Gujarat. Accusing the Opposition of spearheading “illegal agitations,” Mr. Balan said the government would not protect Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel if he was found guilty by any court. He said being questioned by a Central agency was no crime to quit a ministership.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/balan-blames-oppn-for-covid-spread/article32596559.ece
14 September 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||IUML condemns action against Yechury||Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) national organising secretary E.T. Mohammed Basheer, MP, has condemned the conspiracy charges slapped on secular leaders, including CPI(M) national general secretary Sitaram Yechury, in the Delhi riots. “No action has been taken against BJP leaders Kapil Mishra and Anurag Thakur, whose incendiary speeches had triggered the riots,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iuml-condemns-action-against-yechury/article32596567.ece
14 September 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||102 cases in Pathanamthitta||Pathanamthitta on Sunday reported 102 fresh cases and 108 recoveries. Of the fresh cases, 74 persons contracted the virus through local transmission while six cases came from abroad. The COVID-19 cluster in Kadakkad has reported four cases while two cases are linked to the Chittar market cluster. The contact source of at least 16 patients are yet to be ascertained. Of the 1,790 active cases reported so far in the district, 3147 are local contact cases. With 108 recoveries during the day, the number of active cases in the district currently stands at 1,054. The test positivity rate in Pathanamthitta on Sunday stands at 5.14%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/102-cases-in-pathanamthitta/article32596606.ece
14 September 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||International Physics colloquia concludes||The five-day long International Physics Colloquia, organised by the Department of Physics, Mar Thoma College, Thiruvalla, concluded here in Pathanamthitta on September 12. The event, which began on September 7, was inaugurated by Sabu Thomas, Vice Chancellor, Mahatma Gandhi University. Nitin Mohan from IIT Kanpur, Reju Sam John from the University of Auckland, Sreenath of the National Institute of Technology, Surathkal, Alex Schechter of Ariel University in Israel and Sandeep S., IIT Delhi were among those who spoke during the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/international-physics-colloquia-concludes/article32596598.ece
14 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital sees dip in cases||Thiruvananthapuram recorded a considerable dip in COVID-19 cases on Sunday when the daily caseload stood at 412, down from 566 cases reported a day ago. However, the death toll continued to mount in the district with eight more people succumbing to the disease, taking the figure to 146. They include natives of Mudavanmugal (69 years), Thycaud (75), Kakkamoola (73), Vithura (66), Vallakadavu (74), Kanjiramkulam (56), Parassala (62) and Varkala (42). 16 health workers Barring a 30-year old man who is suspected to have contracted the disease from another State, as many as 411 cases are been attributed to local transmission of the SARS-CoV-2 infection. These included 16 health workers. The sources of infection of 55 cases that were reported from areas including Manacaud, Sreekaryam, Karakkamandapam, Vellayam, Palayam, Thycaud, Mannanthala, Peroorkada, Karamana, Manikyavilakam, Ooruttambalam, Kodunganoor, Chirayinkeezhu, Karumam, Pozhiyoor, Mudakkal, Anavoor, Vizhinjam, Tholicode, Vembayam, Vithura and Venjaramoodu were unknown. The highest number among the fresh cases were reported from Venpakkal, Thycaud (nine each), Mylam (eight), Peroorkada (seven), Naruvamoodu, Balaramapuram, Kalliyoor and Payattuvila (six each). The recovery rate also remained the highest in the State with as many as 291 people testing negative for the infection and getting discharged from various hospitals and COVID-19 first line treatment centres (CFLTCs) in the district where there are 5,207 active cases at present. As many as 24,170 people were currently quarantined in the district. These included 3,950 people who were being monitored in hospitals. While 580 swab samples were collected and sent for examination, the results of 658 samples were obtained on the day. Cases registered The Thiruvananthapuram City police registered 184 cases in connection with violation of the COVID-19 guidelines. Twenty one were arrested and four vehicles confiscated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-sees-dip-in-cases/article32596255.ece
14 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Mini-train to chug along Veli tourist village from Oct. 7||The solar-powered mini-train, with an engine modelled on the exterior of a yesteryear steam engine, will chug along the idyllic Veli tourist village from next month. The mini-train will be available for tourists from October 7, Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran said on Saturday after having a ride on the train along with Rani George, Secretary, Tourism, and others. It is part of the 100 projects of the LDF government. Artificial fumes as from a steam locomotive, a traditionally modelled station, tunnel, and rail bridge await tourists during the 1.76-km ride. Track-changing points, additional tracks for facilitating train crossings, and old-fashioned ‘arm signals’ provided along the route add aestheticism with safety to the 40-minute ride. Turntables at one end to turn the locomotive engines around the old-fashioned way are another attraction. 48 passengers To be operated by the Kerala State Cooperative Tourism Federation (Tourfed), the 10-ft locomotive with three coaches will accommodate 48 passengers, including two crew members. Each sleekly designed coach will have rooftop solar panels to draw power directly. The train will begin its journey from the mini-railway station, named Veli Village, near the main entrance of the tourist village, and traverse the artificial lake. It will go to the other side of the village across a 60-m new railway bridge constructed parallel to the present floating bridge and go around the artificial mound and tunnel, and stop at the Pozhikara station, before returning. The technical assistance for the maiden narrow-gauge project in this part of the country has been extended by Quilon Miniature Railway. Linking the rail and the work on the 60-m bridge that will link the village and Pozhikkara is in the final lap, Tourfed managing director Shaji Madhavan said. The ticket is priced at Rs. 60. The Uralungal Labour Contract Society has executed the Rs. 9-crore miniature rail project for Kerala Tourism and the project is part of the ongoing Rs. 30-crore development works at the tourist village.  The 10-ft locomotive with three coaches will accommodate 48 passengers, including two crew members.   The 10-ft locomotive with three coaches will accommodate 48 passengers, including two crew members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mini-train-to-chug-along-veli-tourist-village-from-oct-7/article32596608.ece
14 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||NEET aspirants shrug off COVID blues||Close to a lakh candidates appeared for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET – UG) 2020 for undergraduate medical and dental courses in the State on Sunday. Despite heavy downpour posing hurdles for candidates in various parts, meticulous planning ensured the smooth conduct of the examination amid the COVID-19 protocol. Arrangements for staggered entry and exit ensured minimal crowding outside examination centres. Candidates were permitted to enter the centres after thermal screening from 11 a.m. within the time slots they were allotted to prevent gatherings. Masks were mandatory, and candidates were permitted to carry gloves, face shields, water bottles and sanitisers in addition to their admit cards and identification documents. Going by preliminary estimates, around 75% of the 1,15,959 registered students appeared for the examination. The final count of candidates across the 322 centres in the State was yet to be tallied, official sources said.  Only 12 students were permitted in each examination hall to ensure physical distancing. Centres were arranged in CBSE schools and engineering colleges in 11 districts (except Pathanamthitta, Wayanad and Idukki) and in Angamaly. In Thiruvananthapuram, 12,575 appeared for the NEET examination out of the 16,400 candidates who had registered. While 38 examination centres were arranged in the district, a majority of them were in the suburbs of the Thiruvananthapuram city and in rural areas. Highest number According to Gouri Nayar, principal of New Jyothi Central School, Udiyankulangara, who coordinated the examination in Thiruvananthapuram, Sree Chithira Thirunal Residential Central School in Kunnathukal had the highest number of attendees in the district. Here, close to 800 students took the examination from 90 classrooms. As many as 960 candidates were allotted the examination centre. Many candidates found the examination moderately easy, with most terming biology questions fairly simple. However, physics was challenging as some questions were time-consuming, prompting many students to skip the lot to answer the easier ones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/neet-aspirants-shrug-off-covid-blues/article32596571.ece
14 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Street vending zone coming up near Napier Museum||The first of the street vending zones under the Smart City Project of the city Corporation is expected to come up along the Napier Museum-Suryakanthi road. The tender for the project, meant to rehabilitate existing street vendors in the surrounding regions, has already been awarded. The Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act which came into force in 2014, had stipulated local bodies to issue licenses to street vendors and set up designated vending zones. “The project is aimed at providing proper rehabilitation for the street vendors in vending zones which do not alter the look of the heritage zone or impede the traffic. We had already listed the street vendors who are to be accommodated in these vending zones. Some have set up shop here after we prepared the list. Though a few people have set up shop here after we prepared the list, they cannot be accommodated in the zone,” said Palayam Rajan, Chairman of the city Corporation's Town Planning Standing Committee. According to an official of the Smart City project, the road will also be developed as a smart road with the utility cables being shifted underground. Although the vending zone will take up a little more space than that occupied by the current line of shops, much of the existing parking area will be preserved. Another vending zone is also being planned near the Chithira Thirunal Park at East Fort. A heritage street is also part of the plan. A total of 10 vending zones were identified in different parts of the city as part of a plan prepared by the Corporation two years back. A survey of the street vendors in the city as part of rehabilitating them under the National Urban Livelihoods Mission (NULM) programme began in 2015. List of vendors Early in 2017, a draft list of street vendors in the city, based on their locations and the nature of items sold was prepared. The list also classified them according to the type of vending, on whether it was on land, a temporarily raised platform or cart. But the plan for vending zones and identification card for vendors has been beset with delays at every stage.  A total of 10 vending zones were identified in different parts of the city as part of a plan prepared by the Corporation two years back.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/street-vending-zone-coming-up-near-napier-museum/article32596257.ece
14 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Work on 75 mld plant enters final phase||Work on the 75 mld (million litres a day) water treatment plant at Aruvikkara, which is expected to significantly improve water supply to the capital city, has entered the final phase. While the facility is tipped to be commissioned ahead of the 2021 summer, fund shortage is, however, threatening further delays. The Rs. 56 crore plant was originally scheduled for commissioning in March 2020, but the COVID-19 outbreak and the consequent lockdown had thrown a spanner in the works. Ninety per cent of work on the project - implemented under the centrally-sponsored Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) - has been completed after work resumed on a limited scale after the lockdown was lifted. Civil works over The civil works are mostly over and the electro-mechanical works are nearing completion. SCADA and electrification-related work and tests are pending, an official of the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) said. The contractor for the project, Chicago Constructions Pvt Ltd, has drawn the attention of the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation to the ‘undue delay’ in releasing payments for the work which has affected the work. In a letter to Mayor K. Sreekumar, the contractor noted that the delay has slowed down the pace of work. The firm has requested the Corporation to urgently release Rs. 11.12 crore, as the payment has been pending for several months, adding that its resources have been exhausted. Being an AMRUT project, the cost is shared by the Centre and the State (through the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation). The 75 mld plant is being equipped with a lamella clarifier (inclined plate settler) for removing particulates from the raw water. It will complement the existing 72 mld, 86 mld and the 74 mld water treatment facilities in Aruvikkara. Once the plant is commissioned, water will be pumped from Aruvikkara to the KWA tanks at PTP Nagar and Peroorkada for distribution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/work-on-75-mld-plant-enters-final-phase/article32596259.ece
14 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||IFMA forms its Kerala chapter||The International Facility Management Association (IFMA), which empowers facility professionals to bring a heightened level of excellence to the management of their facilities, teams and workplace projects, has formed its Kerala chapter. The Thiruvananthapuram-based State chapter is the fifth in the country after Bengaluru, Chennai, Delhi and Mumbai. The IFMA has 24,000 member in over 103 countries. Harikrishnan Mohankumar, director REFM & operations at UST Global, Thiruvananthapuram, has been elected as the president and Rana T. as secretary and treasurer of the Kerala chapter. The chapter will play a significant role in enhancing the workplace service and solutions in the Kerala IT Industry. The IFMA will work with various industry experts and leaders to elevate various facility and corporate real estate industries to bring a change in the way it functions. “With the way the build environment and management of infrastructure is pacing up in the country and the amount of advancement has happened and is innovating itself with the global markets, there has to be a professional approach to the subject,” said Mr. Harikrishnan.  As the three major IT Parks in Kerala together hosts over 800 companies and more than one-lakh professionals, the IFMA is expected to bring notable improvements in enhancing productivity and operational efficiency of IT companies and FM professionals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ifma-forms-its-kerala-chapter/article32596565.ece
14 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Twin murder accused taken to crime scene||The police team investigating the murder of two Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) activists in Venjaramoodu on August 30 took two of the prime accused to the crime scene as part of collecting evidence early Sunday. Anticipating tension in the region, the investigating team led by Attingal Dy.SP S.Y. Suresh took Sajeev and Unni, who allegedly were directly involved in the murder, to Thembamoodu by 2 a.m. under tight security. A large police posse was stationed in the area as the crime scene was reconstructed by the police team investigating the murder. The duo was also taken to other places including a rubber estate in Muthukavu and Mankuzhi where the gang had allegedly hatched the conspiracy to attack DYFI activists Haq Mohammed and Mithilaj. Besides Sajeev and Unni, another key accused Ansar is also in police custody. Nine persons, including a woman, were arrested by the Venjaramoodu police in connection with the twin murder case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/twin-murder-accused-taken-to-crime-scene/article32596256.ece
14 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Plus One admission begins today||The first allotment for admission to Plus One in higher secondary schools under the single window system has been published. Allotment was held to 2,22,522 of the 2,80,212 merit seats available. A total of 4,76,046 students had applied for Plus One admission. The vacant seats come to 57,878. Admission as per the allotment received will get under way at 9 a.m. on Monday. The admission will go on till Saturday. In Malappuram, where 80,862 students had applied for admission, allotment was held to 30,927 of the 41,525 seats. In Kozhikode, 21,410 of the 27,738 seats were allotted, and in Palakkad, 19,840 of the 24,355 seats. In Thrissur, allotment was made to 19,353 of the 23,595 seats. The capital district saw 19,783 of the 22,868 seats allotted. Various categories In the General category, allotment was held to 1,36,417 of the 1,36,420 seats. In the Scheduled Caste category, 31,316 of the 42,250 total seats were allotted, and in the Scheduled Tribe category, 4,089 of the 27,916 seats have been allotted. In the economically weaker section category, allotment has been made to 7,744 seats. Students who have received allotment should get the allotment letter from the First Allot Results link onwww.hscap.kerala.gov.inand as per the time and date mentioned in it, reach the school to which allotment has been made along with certificates. Those who have received the first option in this allotment should remit fee and take permanent admission. Students receiving option against other options can take temporary or permanent admission. Students who have received allotment but fail to take temporary admission will not be considered for subsequent allotments. Students can check the last rank details of each category in each school too. Those who have not been able to apply can submit applications for supplementary allotment after the second allotment concludes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plus-one-admission-begins-today/article32596561.ece
14 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Neglect’ of Malayalam by PSC criticised||Filmmaker Adoor Gopalakrishnan signed an online representation on Sunday to signal the launch of a protest against the alleged neglect of Malayalam by the State Public Service Commission. The protest has been launched by a committee under the Aikya Malayala Prasthanam to raise its voice against the non-inclusion of Malayalam in the syllabus for examinations conducted by the PSC for selection of lower primary teachers for teaching in Malayalam medium schools. The mass memorandum seeks the intervention of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the matter. Mr. Gopalakrishnan, at the inauguration, said the PSC’s continual language discrimination was regrettable. Bodies such as the PSC that have been created by the Constitution are not above the government. The filmmaker clarified that some PSC members could have a love for Malayalam. However, they should not continue in the face of the anti-Malayalam sentiment, and rather should quit. Should not teachers who teach young children know Malayalam? The State government, he said, was committed to Malayalam. The Chief Minister should therefore intervene in the matter, Mr. Gopalakrishnan said. Protest committee convener R. Nandakumar, Aikya Malayala Prasthanam chairperson Subair Arikkulam and writer R.P. Sivakumar spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/neglect-of-malayalam-by-psc-criticised/article32596253.ece
14 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Congress to raise gold smuggling case in LS||The agitation by the Congress to put the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government in the dock in connection with the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case is set to resonate in the Parliament. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala told The Hindu that Congress MPs from Kerala would move an adjournment motion in the House to discuss the various national security implications of the offence. The Lok Sabha (LS) is convening on Monday. The MPs will table the motion at the earliest date. Overlapping inquiries by Central agencies into the smuggling of gold in air freight addressed to foreign officials at the UAE consulate here had opened a Pandora’s box of wrongdoing by the State government, he said. Protocol violation The probe blew the lid off the instances of protocol violation and illegal acceptance of foreign aid by Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel. It exposed the corruption in the UAE Red Crescent-Life Mission deal in which the son of a Cabinet Minister and gold smuggling case accused are implicated. Of late, a drug bust in Karnataka led enforcers to the doorstep of the close kin of a top CPI(M) leader. A person charged in the gold smuggling case is also a suspect in the drug bust. Mr. Chennithala said the government had lost its right to continue in office. CPI State secretary Kanam Rajendran appeared to have lost his voice in the face of the allegations and set off on a pilgrimage, he said. UDF stir on Sept. 22 Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullappally Ramachandran said the UDF would launch a Statewide agitation on September 22 against the government seeking the Minister’s ouster from the Cabinet. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is also set to raise the issue in Parliament. A party official said BJP Karnataka State president Nalin Kumar Kateel, MP from Dakshina Kannada constituency, would highlight the matter in the Lok Sabha. He said the BJP parliamentary party leadership was not opposed to a detailed national debate on the accusations of repeated protocol violation, illegal acceptance of foreign aid, abetment to gold smuggling and drug links of kin of CPI(M) leaders. Support to Jaleel Meanwhile, the CPI(M) has dug its heels in on the issue of support to Dr. Jaleel. Law Minister A.K. Balan and Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran said the CPI(M) State secretariat had rejected the demand for Dr. Jaleel’s ouster and termed it politicking ahead of the local body polls.  Cong. MPs to move adjournment motion to discuss national security implications of case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/congress-to-raise-gold-smuggling-case-in-ls/article32596560.ece
14 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Media awards announced||The media awards for 2018 instituted by the Kerala Media Academy have been announced. Anu Abraham, sub editor, Mathrubhumi , won the Chowara Parameswaran award for investigative reporting for his series on the dearth of research in the health sector. Shiju Cheruthazham, sub editor, Deepika, has won the N.N. Sathyavrathan Award for the best human interest story for his report on a differently abled girl who has overcome great odds. Kolaveli Muraleedharan of Kerala Pranamam won the Dr. Moorkannur Narayanan Award for regional correspondents for his series on vanishing Pokkali fields. K.C. Riyas of Tatsamayam daily won the V. Karunakaran Nambiar Award for the best editorial. Sofia Bind K.P., senior producer of Media One, won the academy’s award in the visual media category. Rijo Joseph, chief photographer,Malayala Manorama, won the award in the news photography category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/media-awards-announced/article32596572.ece
14 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Yellow alert in 10 districts||A low-pressure area formed over the west-central part of the Bay of Bengal off the north Andhra Pradesh coast on Sunday. It is likely to become more marked by Monday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD), which is monitoring the situation, said. The low pressure area is expected to move west-northwestwards during the next four days, IMD said. Meanwhile, a heavy rainfall warning issued by the weather agency for Kerala is valid till Thursday. Yellow alerts, given the possibility of heavy rainfall, have been issued for all districts except Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, and Kottayam for Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/yellow-alert-in-10-districts/article32596573.ece
14 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSRTC runs more buses||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) operated 921 schedules, including additional services, on Sunday for students appearing for the NEET. The schedules were increased to ensure hassle-free travel to the students and their parents. There were only few takers for the Buses on Demand (BonD). The four BonD services operated were from Sulthan Bathery.The KSRTC authorities are worried over the poor patronage to the morning and evening premium services commenced in the Thiruvananthapuram- Ernakulam sector. The move was amidst Railway Board’s decision to cancel special trains. But, the decision was withdrawn on Friday night following protests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-runs-more-buses/article32596574.ece
14 September 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||KSSP opposes waste-to-energy plant project||The district conference of the Kerala Sasthra Sahitya Parishad (KSSP) has demanded that the Thrissur Corporation drop its proposed waste-to-energy (WTE) plant project at Nadathara. In a resolution at the online conference, the Parishad pointed out that the project was against the State government’s policy of decentralised waste management. The WTE project, under which waste will be collected at one place, will lead to severe environmental issues. Moreover, burning of waste for power generation is harmful to nature, it noted. The WTE project, which is against the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, should be dropped by the corporation, the KSSP said. Dr. T.S. Aneesh, public health expert, inaugurated the conference. He spoke on the topic ‘COVID - a Litmus Test of Public Health System’. KSSP district president K.S. Jaya presided over the meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kssp-opposes-waste-to-energy-plant-project/article32596534.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Safety first||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/safety-first/article32596537.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Fitness test||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fitness-test/article32596610.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Agitation mode||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/agitation-mode/article32596576.ece
14 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anupama Nadella donates Rs. 2 crore to Anantapur NGO||Anupama V. Nadella, wife of Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella, donated Rs. 2 crore to Anantapur-based Accion Fraterna Ecology Centre on Sunday. The NGO has been promoting alternative and additional means of livelihood for women for the past several years. The women who the NGO works with are mostly from families of rainfed farmers and farm labourers. Ms. Nadella chose 3,000 women from eight mandals in the district to be benefited by the grant. Ms. Nadella designed the project in association with her father K.R. Venugopal, a retired IAS officer who served as secretary to the Prime Minister. The project was launched online in the presence of Collector Gandham Chandrudu. Mr. Venugopal, interacting with the women beneficiaries online, hoped that this activity would be kept apolitical, He hoped that migration from the arid regions would be stopped with this help getting added to the support being provided by AF Ecology Centre run by the Rural Development Trust.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anupama-nadella-donates-rs-2-crore-to-anantapur-ngo/article32596012.ece
14 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||AMC finds lapses in land acquisition for road project||Even as the 80-foot-road project is hanging fire owing to the delay in acquisition of a small stretch for confusion over its title deed, the Anantapur Municipal Corporation (AMC) has found glaring irregularities in ascertaining the land value, an exercise undertaken to work out the compensation to those who have parted with their land. The AMC has found that the value fixed for some land was doubled than what was fixed in 2017 and the process of identifying the genuine owners is still in progress. On September 27, 2017, Anantapur RDO enumerated the value of land in Survey No.179/1 as Rs. 17,000 per square yard and the AMC estimated the total compensation value to be Rs. 9.63 crore. Anantapur Sub-registrar fixed the land value after the Collector approved the draft preliminary notification on December 13, 2017. Final award However, when the final award on the land value was issued on May 31, 2019, by the RDO, he considered the land value as Rs. 33,000 per square yard as indicated by the Sub-registrar. Later, the price was reduced by Rs. 3,000 per square yard following an inspection of then Joint Collector. With the revised value, the total compensation value went up to Rs. 17 crore when compared to the initial estimate of Rs. 9.63 crore. The RDO while issuing the final award allegedly did not take the signature of the Joint Collector or the Collector as required. Recently, Municipal Commissioner P.V.V. Murthy, on a closer look at the final award, reportedly found some contradictions in the land value and the procedure adopted while ascertaining it.  Sources say a report has been sent to the Collector. Joint Collector too found lapses and the government has been informed about it, they say. In the final award, the RDO claimed that the values of the nearby land were considered while finalising the transaction value, but the details revealed that the market value of apartment buildings all over the city (4,539 sale deeds) was taken into account during the exercise. Section 26 of the A.P. Land Acquisition Act mandates that values of the land in the vicinity need to be considered while finalising the transaction rate. The land in question is in Anantapur rural village, but the sale prices of apartment complexes in the urban area were shown as the land value (Rs. 33,000 per square yard) in the records, sources say. “The present land value in the door numbers 18-1-439-1 or 17-922-44 close to the land in question is Rs. 18,000 per square yard,” the sources add.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amc-finds-lapses-in-land-acquisition-for-road-project/article32596653.ece
14 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Registration of partners with Tourism Dept. to begin today||The Tourism Department held a video conference recently with all stakeholders like hoteliers, tour operators, adventure sports organisers, and resort owners, with government prevailing upon them to get themselves registered on the new portal created for the purpose. According to Regional Director B. Eswaraiah, the process will begin on Monday and currently the trial run is going on. After all the tour operators, hotel owners, and resort owners register themselves with the department at the district level, the District Tourism Officers will validate the entries cross-checking with the GST, other certificates and a Registration Certificate will be generated at the State level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/registration-of-partners-with-tourism-dept-to-begin-today/article32596634.ece
14 September 2020||Eluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Spoorthi’ helps students shine in JEE Mains||Students who cleared the JEE Mains after training under the ‘Spoorthi’ programme won plaudits from Collector Revu Mutyala Raju here on Sunday. Spoorthi, a government training institute that offers coaching to students appearing for IIT, JEE, NEET and other competitive examinations, provided training to the students of different colleges. Mr. Mutyala Raju said that a group of 250 students of Andhra Pradesh Social Welfare Residential Junior Colleges and AP Tribal Welfare Junior Colleges underwent training. Of these, 216 students appeared for JEE Mains out of which 87 cleared the exam. The students will now appear for JEE Advanced Exam which is scheduled to be held on September 27. Students of AP Social Welfare Residential Junior Colleges of Polasanipalli, Dwaraka Tirumala, Kovvur, Narsapuram, Pedavegi, Gopalapuram, Arugolanu, Vatluru and the students of Tribal Welfare Colleges are preparing for the Advanced Exam, Mr. Mutyala Raju told reporters. Joint Collector (Welfare) N. Tej Bharat, Social Welfare Joint Director Madhusudhan, Zilla Parishad CEO P. Srinivasulu, parents, principals of various colleges and students participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spoorthi-helps-students-shine-in-jee-mains/article32596638.ece
14 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Former adviser denies role in APSFL scam||Former Adviser, IT, in the TDP government Vemuru Hari Prasad, has denied the allegations levelled against him by the Cabinet Sub Committee that probed the “irregularities” in awarding contracts during the implementation of the project of the A.P. State Fibernet Limited to provide internet/telephone/TV connections to homes across the State. Refuting the allegations, Mr. Hari Prasad said he had purely an advisory role in the project. Moreover, he said the cost of the entire project had not exceeded Rs. 600 crore. Further, he also said that the then IT Minister, N. Lokesh, had no role as it was executed by the Energy Infrastructure and Investment Department headed by the then Chief Minister, N. Chandrababu Naidu. He also said that Tera Software had bagged the tenders as it was the lowest bidder. Also, the contract for supplying set-top boxes was bagged by Dasan Networks, a South Korea firm. He also said that Gemini communications (not Gemini constructions) was awarded as the Project Management Agency through due tendering process. While the initial tender was bid and won by the TCIL and the amount quoted was way beyond the allocated budget for the purpose, the government went for retendering and Gemini won the bid within the acceptable budget.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/former-adviser-denies-role-in-apsfl-scam/article32596643.ece
14 September 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||This chess game has a sure winner!||Ambiguity casts a shadow on the ambition to win. This happens more often than not in a game of chess. A game on a regular chess board may end up in a draw, but one is sure to emerge victorious in the case of ‘Giraffe Chess’. Born in Proddatur of Kadapa district, International Giraffe Chess Federation (IGCF) has come a long way in terms of acceptability and prominence. The new form of game owes its existence to siblings N. Saikiran Reddy and N. Bhagyasri, who invented it in 2012. As high school students, they enthusiastically played chess, but most games ended in a stalemate when a player’s king faces a threat. The duo decided to add four more squares, two on either side, to take the total number to 68, which gives a decisive end to the game. ‘Better version’ “India gave chess to the world and now we are again giving a better version,” quips Bhagyasri, who is studying M.A. (English) in Sri Venkateswara University, Tirupati, while her brother Saikiran Reddy is currently pursuing a bachelor’s course in Business Administration at Bengaluru. While most games like cricket or football have a decisive end, draw is common in chess. “A long-winding game with no hint of victory not only saps the morale of players, but also causes disinterest in spectators. Giraffe chess overcomes these issues,” Saikiran remarks. “This is a step above a tie. Moreover, a conclusive result will be out in five minutes in our game,” Ms. Bhagyasri explains.  World cup planned In a bid to encourage his children in their new domain, their father N. Gangadhar Reddy got IGCF registered in 2018 to popularise the game. After 102 tournaments at Proddatur town level, the duo conducted 76 experimental tournaments in Chennai. Buoyed by the response, they organised Kadapa district league, a 12-day event. “We have received acceptance from players of Afghanistan, Nigeria, Sri Lanka, Mauritius, Nepal, Mozambique and The Philippines for the first world cup event we plan,” avers Saikiran Reddy. The siblings have also made the game available on Google Playstore, which any Android phone user can download and play with the computer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/this-chess-game-has-a-sure-winner/article32596655.ece
14 September 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Initiative launched for grievance redressal||Backward Classes Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna on Sunday launched a novel initiative ‘'Good Morning Ramachandrapuram' which aims at covering all the households in coming weeks to document the grievances and status of the welfare schemes being implemented by the State government for various sections. The Minister interacted with families in some parts of the town, registered the grievances for further action, reviewed whether the beneficiaries of various schemes have received the financial assistance . Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna said: “The initiative begins in the early hours of every Sunday and as part of it we interact with families and assure them of timely service. The existing sanitary conditions, housing facility, functioning of the Secretariats are a few aspects that are being monitored as part of it.“ Accompanied by officials concerned, the Minister interacted with the elderly people and families belonging to the Backward Classes and enquired about their livelihood options and impact of COVID-19. “Every grievance being received during the ‘Good Morning Ramachandrapuram’ will be addressed in time stipulated,” said the Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/initiative-launched-for-grievance-redressal/article32596658.ece
14 September 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two farmers struck dead by lightning in E. Godavari||Lightning struck dead two tenant farmers in a paddy field at Kandrakota village in the limits of Peddapuram police station in East Godavari district on Sunday. According to Peddapuram Sub-Inspector A. Balaji, the two farmers were identified as Vadrevu Babu Rao (55) and Kola Gummayya (45). The tenant farmers were engaged in the weeding activity in heavy rain when the incident occurred. The bodies were sent to Area Hospital in Peddapuram for post-mortem examination. A case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-farmers-struck-dead-by-lightning-in-e-godavari/article32596661.ece
14 September 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||10 policemen at Antarvedi hit by COVID||Ten police personnel including an Additional Superintendent of Police posted at Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swami temple at Antarvedi in East Godavari district since September 6, tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday. “Ten personnel, including an ASP, Circle Inspector and Sub-Inspector, tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday. All of them are healthy and only one CI has been admitted to hospital for treatment,” East Godavari SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi said. The remaining nine are in home quarantine. Among the ten persons, one of them is a driver and another one is a gunman for a senior officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/10-policemen-at-antarvedi-hit-by-covid/article32596644.ece
14 September 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Girl survives after falling into swollen canal||It was a miraculous escape for a nine-year-old girl who fell into the flooded Telugu Ganga canal and had to stay afloat for about an hour until rescue arrived her. K. Mounika, who had gone to the forests to collect firewood with her sister, accidentally fell into the swollen canal on Thursday. The tribal girl kept flapping her arms and legs for about an hour in a frantic bid to stay afloat before police rescued her by throwing a rope to her, a delayed report reaching the police headquarters here said.  “After an hour-long rescue operation, we were able to bring the brave girl out of the water,” Kaluvoya Sub-Inspector M. Anjaneyulu told The Hindu . The survival of the girl was a miracle as the discharge was very heavy then, he said. “We had lost all hopes when we got to know about the incident,” said an overwhelmed Mounika’s grandfather, who had come to take her back home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/girl-survives-after-falling-into-swollen-canal/article32596636.ece
14 September 2020||Nivedita Ganguly,ANDHRA PRADESH||Volunteers in PPE suits spread safety message on Beach Road||People visiting the beach on Sunday evening were in for a surprise when they were greeted by a team wearing PPE suits. Holding placards with messages of wearing face masks and maintaining social distance, the team of Vizag Volunteers — a city-based NGO — went about explaining people on the need to stay indoors at a time when the COVID-19 cases were soaring in the city. Beach Road has been witnessing an unprecedented crowd over the past three weekends. This comes at a time when the State has shot up to the second position in the country in the number of coronavirus infections. “When we visited the beach three weeks ago, we were shocked to see people thronging the public places without masks or any adherence of social distancing norms. We felt that spreading awareness is the need of the hour. From last Sunday, we have been wearing the PPE suits to draw the attention of the crowd to the grave situation the medical fraternity is in today,” said Bhupathiraju Anmish Varma, a volunteer from the NGO. The team moved around from The Park Hotel Junction till Viswapriya Function Hall educating people on the beach and also distributing surgical masks to the visitors as well as destitute people. Karnatakapu Satish, the founder of Vizag Volunteers, said that the purpose of wearing PPE suit and stepping on beach road is to drive home the point that how much stressed the healthcare system is with doctors spending over 12-14 hours in PPE suits in hospitals and caring for patients. Vizag Volunteers is a team of individuals who got together in April to facilitate COVID-19 relief work. They have helped scores of migrant workers during the initial days of the lockdown by providing food and shelter and also facilitated their onward journey to their home town.  Currently, the team is volunteering in five government shelter homes and also collaborated with Indian Railways in data collection of passengers travelling in and out of Visakhapatnam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/volunteers-in-ppe-suits-spread-safety-message-on-beach-road/article32596668.ece
14 September 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Recoveries overtake fresh cases in Nellore, Prakasam||Fourteen more persons died of coronavirus taking the combined death toll in the two south coastal Andhra districts to 765 in the last 24 hours. The toll rose to 391 in Nellore district and to 374 in Prakasam district with seven more deaths each in the two districts, according to a health bulletin released by the State Government on Saturday night. As many as 2,257 patients were recovered in the two districts in the last 24 hours. In Nellore district, 1,004 persons were discharged from hospitals on recovery during the period. So far, 38,413 persons have recovered, bringing down the number of active cases to 7,127. The number of active cases came down to 14,379 in Prakasam district, where 1,253 were discharged in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/recoveries-overtake-fresh-cases-in-nellore-prakasam/article32596635.ece
14 September 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Complete lockdown observed in Srikakulam||People stayed at home and roads wore a deserted look in Srikakulam following imposition of complete lockdown on Sunday. To check the spread of the rising corona cases, the district administration has decided to clamp lockdown on Sundays though the Central government relaxed norms under Unlcok 4.0. The district administration took the decision as the situation was out of control in as many as 68 containment zones. District Collector J. Nivas urged people to wear face shields apart from masks while following physical distancing in public places. He launched distribution of 25,000 face shields provided by PVS Rammohan Foundation. He hailed the gesture of the organisation founder, P.V.S. Rammohan Rao, for coming forward to help people in this pandemic times. Mr. Rammohan Rao said the distribution process would be completed in two weeks. “As per the ICMR observation, 80% protection is possible with face shields. Saving lives is the real help at this crucial juncture. That is why, we are distributing them to vulnerable sections in the phase-1 and phase-II,” he said. Municipal Commissioner said that he would hold a meeting with all charitable organisations on the distribution of face shields to the poor people living in various colonies. He said that complete lockdown on Sundays would be helpful to control the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/complete-lockdown-observed-in-srikakulam/article32596526.ece
14 September 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Devout hail SVBC for live streaming Parayanam||Several callers at the ‘Dial your EO’ hailed Sri Venkateswara Bhakti Channel (SVBC) for live streaming various Parayanam events conducted at Tirumala during the lockdown period. At the TTD’s official phone-in programme conducted here on Sunday,callers appreciated the TTD for airing the programme live everyday during the pandemic. The TTD has been conducting mass chanting events like Veda Parayanam, Sundarakanda Pathanam, Virataparva Parayanam and more recently,the Bhagavad Gita, seeking global peace and wellness. “Since its inception twelve years back, never did the SVBC receive such an overwhelming response for its programmes,” Executive Officer Anil Kumar Singhal observed during the call. We are also contemplating to design programmes for children and youth, he added. Earlier, Mr. Singhal announced that the audit of TTD properties by Comptroller and Auditor General was aimed at higher transparency in administration, in view of some ‘vested interests’ dragging the TTD frequently into controversies on alleged diversion of funds other than propagating Hindu Dharma. “The CAG audit will put an end to it”, he concluded. ‘Be wary of fake websites for darshan’ In yet another statement on a note of caution, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams(TTD)’s vigilance department on Sunday appealed to the devotees not to get carried away by middlemen offering seva tickets of ‘Srivari Vastram’, ‘Udayasthamana and Abhisheka Seva’. The statement said that some devotees were landing in the net of middlemen or were getting lured by fake websites for darshan despite repeated appeals from the management cautioning devotees against falling into such traps. In view of the COVID-19 restrictions, tickets for such sevas are not issued to anyone. All Arjitha (paid) Seva tickets can be procured only through the official website www.tirupatibalaji.ap.gov.in, the vigilance officials clarified, adding that the tickets would be issued only after the resumption of the services and that too, through lucky dip platform. The department would take stringent action against such misleading elements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/devout-hail-svbc-for-live-streaming-parayanam/article32595985.ece
14 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Security heightened at places of worship across State: DGP||Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang has said that security has been stepped up at places of worship and the Commissioners and Superintendents of Police (SPs) have been told to have geo-tagging of shrines across the State. The managements of the shrines have been requested to provide surveillance cameras, arrange proper lighting and conduct safety audit with the help of fire services and electricity officials, he has added. The DGP told The Hindu that the loss of the chariot in a fire at Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Antarvedi was unfortunate. The managements of the shrines should cooperate with the Police, Fire, Revenue and other departments in providing security to the holy places, he said. Warning “Taking advantage of the Antarvedi incident, some organisations, parties and persons are trying to incite religious feelings and communal violence. Stern action will be taken against those who try to create law and order problems and disturb peace,” Mr. Sawang warned. Expressing concern over the fire at a temple at Sakinetipalli mandal in East Godavari district on September 6, the DGP appealed to people to maintain restraint, respect the sentiments of all sections and cooperate with police in maintaining peace. “It is the responsibility of every citizen to protect the sacredness of shrines and sentiments of devotees. Andhra Pradesh is a place known for peace and instructions have been given to the police to act tough against those who attempt to violate the prohibitory orders,” Sawang said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tight-security-at-places-of-worship/article32595926.ece
14 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rains to continue for four more days in State||The low pressure area formed over the West Central Bay of Bengal off north Andhra Pradesh coast in the early hours of Sunday and its associated cyclonic circulation triggered rainfall across several districts of the State. The low pressure is likely to become more marked and the India Meteorological Department has warned the State of very heavy to light rainfall across the coastal and Rayalaseema districts during the coming four days. Isolated places in East Godavari, West Godavari and Krishna districts are likely to witness very heavy to heavy rainfall on Monday, while isolated areas in Rayalaseema are likely to witness heavy rainfall accompanied by thunderstorms and lightning, according to IMD officials. Similarly, light to heavy rainfall and thunderstorms are likely to occur in isolated areas in various districts up to September 18. Several mandals in East Godavari received more than 100mm of rainfall as of 6 p.m. on Sunday. Also, several areas in West Godavari, Kadapa, Kurnool, Krishna, and Anantapur received moderate to heavy rainfall. Krishna district received an average of 20 mm rainfall as of Sunday morning. Good rain in Chittoor In Chittoor, several mandals received good rain on Sunday with the far west regions of Madanapalle division getting the highest of the month so far. The western mandals, which mostly received deficit rainfall in September first week, received rains ranging between 40 mm and 7 mm. While the normal rainfall in Chittoor district for September stands at 5,321.3 mm, the rainfall till September 13 remained 4,334 mm. The current status showed that out of 66 mandals, 51 received excess rainfall, followed by 14 with normal and just one mandal getting deficit rainfall. On Sunday, Kalakada mandal in Madanapalle division received the highest rainfall with 40.2 mm, while Mulakalacheruvu, Tamballapalle, KV Palle and PTM mandals received rainfall of 37mm to 10mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rains-to-continue-for-four-more-days-in-state/article32595912.ece
14 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P., TS officials to revive talks on RTC operations tomorrow||The top officials of the Road Transport Corporations of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana will meet on Tuesday to revive talks on inter-State bus operations. Principal Secretary, Transport and Roads and Buildings and Managing Director of the APSRTC M.T. Krishna Babu on Sunday said the talks would focus on the issue of ‘parity in kilometers’. He said as per the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014, both sides could operate their buses in the two States without any special permit for five years. But the operations had to be stopped due to the lockdown declared in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. He said initially, the APSRTC buses covered a distance of 3.73 lakh km in Telangana and the latter operated in 95,000 kms in Andhra Pradesh and it was proposed to alter the positions with AP reducing the area of its operations to 2.64 lakh kms in the neighbouring State and the latter increasing it to 1.52 lakh kms in Andhra Pradesh. There is still a difference of 1.10 lakh kms of distance which needs to be addressed, he explained. Mr. Krishna Babu said in the Tuesday’s meeting, he would put forth a proposal that AP would further shrink its operations by reducing 55,000 km of distance and Telangana buses could cover an additional 55,000 kms in Andhra Pradesh to bring about a parity. He said people were put to inconvenience in the absence of public transport facility to the neighbouring Telugu State. Moreover, private bus operators were taking undue advantage of the delay in RTC bus operations. There were nearly 750 private buses operating and any further delay may bring in 300 more new private operators. Buses to other States Mr. Krishna Babu said that efforts were on to restore inter-State bus services to Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Odisha also. Karnataka had agreed in principle, while Tamil Nadu and Odisha cited problems related to COVID-19. He said city services in Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam would start once the Medical and Health Department approved of it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-ts-officials-to-revive-talks-on-rtc-operations-tomorrow/article32596645.ece
14 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Water level rises at Prakasam Barrage||The Krishna river is in spate once again following heavy rainfall in the catchment areas and release of water from reservoirs upstream. The water level gradually rose at Prakasam Barrage on Sunday with the barrage receiving 1.18 lakh cusecs of floodwater at 5 p.m. and 15,480 cusecs being diverted to canals, while the surplus 1.03 lakh cusecs of water was discharged from the barrage. Several families in the low lying areas in Krishnalanka area were shifted to relief camps set up by the VMC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/water-level-rises-at-prakasam-barrage/article32595984.ece
14 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Last date to apply for CETs extended||The Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) has extended the last date for submission of applications along with late fee for THE candidates appearing for the Common Entrance Tests (CETs). In response to representations made by students requesting for more time to submit their applications in view of the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic, the APSCHE and the examination convenor released fresh dates on Sunday. Candidates appearing for EAMCET will have to pay a late fee of Rs. 10,000 in addition to the registration fee and submit their application by September 15. The last date for submission of application along with a late fee of Rs. 2,000 for those taking PGECET is September 23. A late fee of Rs. 500 should be paid by candidates appeariing for EdCET and the application should be submitted by September 25. Candidates writing LAWCET and PECET should submit their applications by September 25 along with a late fee of Rs. 2,000 and Rs. 500 respectively. It may be noted here that due to the pandemic, the CETs had to be postponed. As per the revised schedule, these tests are being conducted from September 10. The EAMCET is scheduled from September 17 to 25, PGECET from September 28 to 30, EdCET and LAWCET on October 1 and PECET from October 2 to 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/last-date-to-apply-for-cets-extended/article32596527.ece
14 September 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Suspects in desecration of idol held’||The police have picked up a few persons suspected to have vandalised the Lord Ganesha idol, near Rajamahendravaram in East Godavari district, Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang has said. Miscreants disfigured the idol at Venkatagiri village in Rajamahendravaram Rural on Saturday, triggering protests by the local residents. Mr. Sawang was on Sunday addressing the Commissioners, Superintendents of Police, and other officers through a video-conference, wherein he stressed the need for ensuring safety of shrines. Stating that some mischievous persons had resorted to such acts in Rajamahendravaram and Gudivada, the DGP said the police acted swiftly in both the instances. Eluru Range DIG K.V. Mohan Rao said seven suspects were picked up for their alleged involvement in the Venktagiri incident. “Samples have been collected and sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL). The Bommuru police are investigating the case,” he added. Brahmotsavams Tirupati Urban SP Avula Ramesh Reddy said that 561 places of worship had been identified, which included the Tirumala Tirupati Devastanams (TTD) and other shrines manned by it. Notices had been served to 382 managements under the A.P. Public Security Act, 2013, he said. Tirumala Town Town CI Chandrashekar said, “There are 14 TTD temples and 37 mutts. Security is being beefed up for the Brahmotsavams. The situation is being monitored through the 1,500 CC cameras arranged by the TTD.” “A security audit has been completed at the Srisailam temple. A drill has been conducted on the safety of the temple,” Kurnool SP K. Fakkeerappa said. Tungabhadra pushkarams “We are preparing for the Tungabhadra pushkarams to be celebrated this year-end. Safety of the Mantralayam, Mahanandi and Ahobilam temples is being reviewed,” he added. Guntur Urban SP R.N. Ammi Reddy explained the security measures being taken at the Sri Panakala Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy Devasthanam at Mangalagiri. Mr. Sawang directed the officers to ensure community participation, maintain vigil on habitual offenders and take stern action against those who try to disturb communal harmony. The DGP appealed to social media users not to post any derogatory and provocative comments and appealed to the public not to believe rumours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/suspects-in-desecration-of-idol-held/article32596650.ece
14 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Somu releases list of new BJP office-bearers||BJP State president Somu Veerraju announced the list of new office-bearers, which included 10 vice-presidents, five general secretaries and 10 secretaries, on Sunday. The vice-presidents are: former Ministers Ch. Adinarayana Reddy and Ravela Kishore Babu, former MLAs P. Vishnu Kumar Raju and Nimmaka Jayaraju, Relangi Sridevi, Kaku Vijayalakshmi, S. Malathi Rani, Pydi Venugopal, P. Surendar Reddy and Chandramouli. P.V.N. Madhav (MLC), S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy, Suryanarayana Raju, Lokula Gandhi and N. Madhukar have been appointed as general secretaries. Six persons — Pudi Tirupati Rao, Suhasini Anand, Chandu Sambasiva Rao, K. Anjaneya Reddy, S. Srinivas and Bhanu Prakash Reddy — have been appointed as spokespersons. Surendra Mohan, Nirmala Kishore, Sasibhushan Reddy, G. Devanand, Bitra Sivanarayana, K. Umamaheswara Rao and Sk. Babji have been appointed as presidents of Yuva Morcha, Mahila Morcha, Kisan Morcha, SC Morcha, OBC Morcha, ST Morcha and Minority Morcha respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/somu-releases-list-of-new-bjp-office-bearers/article32596646.ece
14 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Workers’ welfare fund diverted’||Jana Sena Party (JSP)president Pawan Kalyan has alleged that the YSR Congress Party-ruled State Government has diverted Rs. 450 crore from the Andhra Pradesh Construction Workers’ Welfare Fund for other purposes. Mr. Pawan Kalyan on Twitter said that it was an abuse of workers’ rights and gross violation of labour laws. “With what authority did the government divert the funds?” Mr. Pawan Kalyan questioned, and hoped that the government would go for a rethink on the issue. Mr. Pawan Kalyan said the 22 lakh registered construction workers in the State were first devastated by a crippling sand shortage and then by the nationwide lockdown that was imposed to curb the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/workers-welfare-fund-diverted/article32596648.ece
14 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vijaya Sai hails nod for medical colleges||Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy tweeted that the administrative sanction given for establishment of medical colleges at Pulivendula, Machilipatnam, Piduguralla and Paderu was a major step in healthcare reforms initiated by the government and described it as a “marathon, not a sprint.”  Snipe at Lokesh In a separate message on Twitter, Mr. Reddy mocked TDP leader N. Lokesh, saying he did not know the difference between LPG and natural gas. He was referring to the increase in the rate of tax on natural gas, which Mr. Lokesh allegedly misinterpreted as a hike in LPG.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vijaya-sai-hails-nod-for-medical-colleges/article32596649.ece
14 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two die as bike hits car||Two youth died after their bike hit a car, allegedly due to overspeeding at Dondaparthy, under the IV Town police station limits, in the early hours of Sunday. The youth were identified as M. Koteswara Rao (18) and S. Sarath (18), both residents of Malkapuram area of the city. According to reports, the incident occurred at around 3 a.m. when the two friends were returning home after attending a birthday party on Beach Road. The duo were heading to NH-16 to reach home and allegedly hit a car, which was coming from the flyover. Police said that the rider was not wearing a helmet. The duo sustained severe injuries and were shifted to hospital, where they were declared dead around 5 a.m. The police are yet to ascertain whether the youth were driving in an inebriated condition. The bodies were sent for post-mortem on Sunday morning. IV Town Police registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-die-as-bike-hits-car/article32596664.ece
14 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||RO plant inaugurated at KGH||A Reverse Osmosis (RO) plant worth Rs. 5 lakh, sponsored by Rotary club of Vizag Couples, Rotary Club Visakha Port City and Rotary Club of Vizag Metro, was inaugurated by P.V. Sudhakar, Superintendent, King George Hospital and Principal, AMC, at the new CSR Block at the KGH on Sunday. Mr. Ram Prasad, Nodal Officer, who was instrumental in getting the RO plant, was present along with Dr. Ashok and Dr. Parthasaradhi. This plant is capable of turning out 2,000 litres of purified water per hour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ro-plant-inaugurated-at-kgh/article32596663.ece
14 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District records 6 more deaths, toll rises to 327||The district COVID-19 cumulative tally rose to 44,560 with 415 fresh infections being reported on Sunday. Six more persons died of COVID-19 taking the toll to 327. On a positive note, as many as 500 persons have been discharged/recovered from the coronavirus. As per the COVID-19 bulletin released on Sunday, the number of active and recovered/discharged cases in the district is 5,430 and 38,803 respectively. Though the number of infections has seen a decline,compared to previous month, the deaths are yet to come under control. In September so far, as many as 7,454 cases were reported, while the number of deaths reported during the same period is 69. According to Special Officer for COVID-19 and Andhra Medical College Principal P.V. Sudhakar, there are 718 clusters in the district, as on date, of which as many as 118 are very active and 41 are active. As many as 192 clusters have been denotified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-records-6-more-deaths-toll-rises-to-327/article32596665.ece
14 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||84 kg ganja seized, man from Kerala arrested||Officials from IV Town police along with City Task Force (CTF) arrested a person from Kerala who was allegedly transporting 84 kg ganja from the Agency areas of Visakhapatnam district to his native place, here on Sunday. The arrested has been identified as O. Anandababu, a native of Thrissur district in Kerala. Based on credible information, the police intercepted a car near the Port Stadium main gate area and seized the contraband. A case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/84-kg-ganja-seized-man-from-kerala-arrested/article32596563.ece
14 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Waterspout fascinates visitors at beach||A waterspout created commotion among fishermen at the Fishing Harbour and fascinated visitors to the beach, for a few minutes. Some visitors to the beach and those at the Fishing Harbour caught the waterspout on their mobile cameras and posted them on social media. “We haven’t received any information about the waterspout but it is not an unusual phenomenon. Cumulonimbus clouds, due to pressure gradient, suck up water and objects (fish) and the spout travels for some distance before falling to the ground. They may usually go unnoticed at deep sea but when they happen on the coast, they get noticed by people on the shore,” said a spokesman of the Cyclone Warning Centre (CWC).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/waterspout-fascinates-visitors-at-beach/article32596656.ece
14 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ELS modifies coaching locos for goods operations||Electric Loco Shed(ELS), Visakhapatnam, has paired two electrical locos, WAP-4-model locos, by performing key modifications and made them ready for goods train operations. ELS has successfully modified two WAP-4 model locos, which are being operated for passenger trains, to work in multiple unit operation for hauling goods train operations. As these coaching train locos’ utilisation has reduced due to COVID-19 pandemic, team ELS took the initiative to use these locos for effective utilisation by performing key modifications. These class of locos are originally designed to work in single unit operation for hauling coaching rakes, according to A.K. Tripathi, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager. Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava appreciated the team for making the project successful in a short span.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/els-modifies-coaching-locos-for-goods-operations/article32596662.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||9,536 cases, 66 deaths in State||The confirmed cases per million was put at 10,629. Meanwhile, the daily positivity rate came down to 13.82% from about 17% a fortnight ago. Showing no signs of abatement in the spread of infection, East Godavari reported the highest single-day tally once again. The number of new cases and deaths (in brackets) was as follows: East Godavari (1,414 & 5), West Godavari (1,076 & 3), Chittoor (957 & 5), Nellore (844 & 7), Guntur (792 & 4), Prakasam (788 & 7), Srikakulam (733 & 2), Kadapa (585 & 6),Vizianagaram (573 & 4), Anantapur (521 & 7), Kurnool (441 & 5), Visakhapatnam (415 & 6) and Krishna (397 & 5). West Godavari district on Sunday crossed the 50,000-mark in the infection tally and two more districts were close to it. The district-wise tallies are as follows: East Godavari (76,808), Kurnool (51,625), West Godavari (50,474), Chittoor (49,398), Anantapur (49,306), Guntur (45,338), Visakhapatnam (43,848), Nellore (43,374), Kadapa (36,615), Prakasam (36,442), Srikakulam (32,230), Vizianagaram (27,946) and Krishna (21,274). While Kurnool had the lowest rate of active cases (8%), Prakasam’s rate stood at 39% , the highest among the districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/9536-cases-66-deaths-in-state/article32596641.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Making way||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/making-way/article32595989.ece
14 September 2020||B. ChandrashekharHYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Biofencing mooted for seedlings of seed balls||Broadcasting of seed balls, an effort to improve greenery on hillocks and government lands — where taking up conventional plantation is difficult — which was taken up on a large-scale in Mahabubnagar district in July first week has yielded good results in terms of germination of seed in the balls. A social audit conducted by different social groups and officials of the forest and horticulture departments in 327 villages where the seed balls were broadcast from August 10 to 31 has put the percentage of germination in the range of 60% to 75%. Over 1.17 crore seed balls were prepared by women self-help groups in record 10 days time and were broadcast over another 10 days’ period. Now that the germination is found to be good, the district administration has decided to take up biofencing to the seedlings so that they are not eaten by sheep, goat or cattle. “We are trying to make biofencing with local species of flora that are generally not consumed by sheep, goat and cattle. The threat is more from sheep and goat as the shepherds take their herds mostly to hillocks in nearby villages and government wastelands,” District Collector S. Venkata Rao said. Stating that ensuring survival of the germinated seedlings is a big challenge before them, he said their effort for biofencing would be keep the seedlings surviving at least till they reach a safe stage. The district officials stated that biofencing of the seedlings was already taken up by some self-help groups having awareness. The groups were also creating awareness among people on the need to provide biofencing to ensure survival of seedlings. The district administration has also written to the State Government seeking provision under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) for taking up bio-fencing to the seedlings. Of the 1,17,20,458 seed balls that were broadcast in 327 villages of 14 mandals as part of Telangana ku Haritha Haram with the highest of about 10.19 lakh were bombed in Nawabpet mandal and lest of about 7.5 lakh in Midjil. Besides, another 42.12 lakh saplings were planted by the government departments and another 7.4 lakh homestead plants were distributed to people for their backyard/frontyard plantation, also as part of Haritha Haram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/biofencing-mooted-for-seedlings-of-seed-balls/article32596522.ece
14 September 2020||B. PradeepSURYAPET,TELANGANA||Former constable sends police into a tizzy||A constable at the 12th Battalion Reserve Police at Nalgonda, who later resigned, gave Suryapet police a ‘test of time’ after posting a video on social media on Saturday. Chivvemla police with two other teams, with instructions from SP R. Bhaaskaran, raced against time with technology by the side, to trace Madhusudan Reddy, who had just posed drinking from a pesticide bottle and declared that he would end his life. According to police, at around 6.30 p.m., soon after a police officer watched the video post, the drive to stop the suicide began. Based on the number of times and the people, the video was shared among, officials were able to trace the local area networks, and parallelly tower locations were narrowed down. “The target location in Penuganchiprolu of Krishna district was identified, but he was not there and his cellphone was switched off,” the police said. Only once, when the cellphone briefly showed connection and later turned off, the police team then switched to tracking him by the International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI) number. And the new location was Vallabhi, about 20 km from Penuganchiprolu, in Khammam, where the local police after being alerted found him at around 10.30 p.m., drunk and riding a motorcycle. The apparent suicide was well prevented, thanks to police’s genuine efforts, but they also said it turned out to be a show by a ‘disturbed man’. He had not consumed any pesticide. Family dispute He has been living away from parents, wife and a baby, reportedly “for family disputes and disturbances”, and had also resigned his constable job. Chivvemla police said he was earlier booked for injuring a local dealer, and on Sunday he was booked for attempting to commit suicide. Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy congratulated Suryapet police for efforts in tracing the person. “Your response, right use of technology at the right time has saved a life and a family,” Mr. Reddy wrote on Twitter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/former-constable-sends-police-into-a-tizzy/article32596516.ece
14 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Dramatic drop in organ donation||People waiting with bated breath for various organs will have to sit tight longer than expected. The number of people on their death bed who part with their organs has plummeted in Telangana after the COVID-19 pandemic broke out. As on Sunday, as many as 2,438 people were waiting for organs. Interestingly, along with the donations, which have dropped sharply, there has been a dip in the number of people who register for receipt of organ/ organs. In 2013, when the State government initiated Jeevandan, a cadaver transplantation programme, 81 people in need of organs had registered and 41 people donated them. The numbers grew over the years. In 2019, as many as 1,129 people registered and 134 people donated organs. However, that changed this year (till September 10) — only 491 people registered as recipients while 39 people donated. Multiple factors, some beyond anyone’s control, led to the dramatic drop in the number of people who can donate organs to give a fresh lease of life to those with little hope of survival. In cadaver organ donation programmes, vital organs are harvested from a person who is declared brain-dead. During the COVID-19 lockdown, road accidents reduced drastically given the restrictions on movement. Thus, there was a corresponding drop in the number of people with serious head injuries and therefore, fewer brain-dead patients. Between March and August last year, 66 people had donated organs. During the corresponding time this year, 19 people donated with May, July and August recording zero donations. Besides, doctors and organ donation coordinators say that the identification of brain-dead patients at the right time and maintaining a record has become a challenge due to the shortage of doctors, nurses and ICU beds. Jeevandan in-charge G. Swarnalatha, says that in time of the pandemic, a donor and a recipient have to test negative for COVID-19 for the transplantation procedure to be initiated. Since RT-PCR test is primarily used to determine COVID-19 status, it takes one to two days to receive the results. “It takes around six hours to evaluate and declare if a person is brain-dead. Thereafter, the longer it takes to harvest the organs, the faster the organs deteriorate,” Dr Swarnalatha said. Liver transplantation specialist Manish Varma says the RT-PCR tests are only 70%accurate. “We use RT-PCR along with CT Scan. In some situations, RT-PCR results might be negative but CT scan reports reveal signs of COVID-19. So, our decision tilts towards not opting for transplantation if there is a doubt,” he said. Reluctant recipients If doctors clear a brain-dead patient for organ donation, the recipient is explained the risks involved. “We counsel recipients and their family members about the process involved in these times such as undergoing COVID -19 test, risk of contracting the infectious disease, time taken to recover post transplantation, etc. Some choose to postpone the transplantation,” senior transplant coordinator Bhanu Chandra says. If someone chooses to postpone the transplantation, the organ available will be passed on to the next person on the waiting list. “However, in the current circumstances (COVID-19 situation), their name in the waiting list is maintained. So, they will be given preference when an organ is available once again,” Dr Bhanu adds. Doctors said the number of people who register for the organ donations has dropped as people are avoiding hospital visits to avoid any possibility of contracting COVID-19 infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dramatic-drop-in-organ-donation/article32596480.ece
14 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||NEET relatively easy this year||The NEET-2020 conducted in the State on Sunday for entry into medical colleges went off smoothly without any issues with all COVID protocols and the questions were relatively easy. About 55,800 candidates applied from Telangana for the test and the attendance is said to be around 96%, though officially not confirmed. The test was conducted in 112 centres in Telangana and the cities where test centres were located were Hyderabad, Karimnagar, Warangal and Khammam. Candidates said the exam was relatively easy and the questions, as expected, were from NCERT textbooks. The paper consisted of 180 questions with four marks earmarked for each question for a total of 720 marks. Correct answer would get them four marks while one mark would be deducted for wrong answer. The National Testing Agency (NTA) that conducted the test is likely to release the answer key soon as the exam is already delayed due to COVID. Last year, the key was released after one month of the exam. Teachers at a corporate college said that in the Physics paper, about 40% questions were directly from NCERT books and questions were easy compared to previous years. The Chemistry paper had questions from various segments with the highest of 18 questions from Organic Chemistry followed by 15 from Physical Chemistry and 12 from Inorganic Chemistry. Questions were easy and not lengthy. Biology, however, was a bit difficult this year, according to NEET trainers with questions equally given from 11th and 12th classes. Questions tested the concepts. Zoology was moderate but questions were tricky and interpretative. 3,332 write in Khammam Amid strict adherence to COVID-19 preventive measures, as many as 3,332 aspirants of medical courses, clad in face masks, appeared for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) 2020 held at seven examination centres here on Sunday. Of the total 3,569 registered students, around 237 were absent at the designated exam centres including Harvest Public School in the city limits, sources said.NEET-2020 city coordinator R. Parvathi Reddy oversaw the strict implementation of safety measures issued by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) at all the seven centres.  (With inputs from P. Sridhar in Khammam)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/neet-relatively-easy-this-year/article32596499.ece
14 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Splendid art pavilion of Kakatiyas needs urgent restoration||The Trikuta Temple at Muppram village in Warangal district is a living testimony to the Kakatiya rulers’ passion for promoting and preserving natural paintings from the episodes of Ramayana in pristine forms. The paintings of Ramayana, which are etched on the ceiling of the temple, are a connoisseur’s delight. However, this precious and unique treasure of art now lies in shatter due to the apathy of officials concerned while nature’s vagaries over the years have made them fade out. The temple itself is also in a state of neglect, which needs urgent restoration for preserving the Kakatiya heritage for future generations, said former Superintending Archaeologist, Temple Survey Project (Southern Region), Archaeological Survey of India, D.Kanna Babu. Telangana has a hoary history and possesses several ancient monuments of great archaeological, historical as well as cultural significance, he said. “In fact, some of the most praiseworthy architectural marvels located in the remote regions of Telangana are unfortunately facing nature’s onslaught and subjected to severe human vandalism, crying for attention from the authorities,” Mr. Babu told The Hindu , adding that the mural heritage belongs to the Kakatiya emperor Ganapati Deva’s period (1199 A.D. to 1262 A.D.) He said that the shrine portrays the epic Ramayana’s stories in the most amazing and colourful way, which are embellished on ceilings. All the narrative murals like – Fight of Vali and Sugriva, Rama shooting arrows on Vali, Ravana’s appearance at Parnasala etc., most skilfully painted with natural colours have completely faded away beyond recognition due to seepage of rainy water through the shattered roofs since centuries, Mr. Babu said and added that the remaining few feeble painted lines are also in a bad state of preservation and nearing extinction. “Both the ferocious nature and disruptive human elements were solely responsible for the plight of the most exalted art pavilion of the Kakatiyas,” he said. He said that the temple has an entrance portico, dance hall as well as three members of Sanctum Sanctorum. “The sanctums and vestibule are decked with decorated doorways and the temple is highly momentous for its typical architecture, sculptures and wonderful mural paintings and it is the lone shrine which contains all the finest facets of the creative art of contemporary society,” he said. According to him, there are no parellels to this trinity shrine in this region and the village itself is named after Kakatiya queen Muppamba, wife of Prola II and grandmother of Ganapati Deva. Vandal acts He said that locals have dug out the meticulously formed stone floors and disfigured sculptures of the Gods kept out of the Sanctum Sanctorum. The majestically seated Nandi was also damaged. Currently, bats are the permanent residents in the shrine and foul smell of their dropping permeates the entire temple complex.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/splendid-art-pavilion-of-kakatiyas-needs-urgent-restoration/article32596519.ece
14 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Collateral damage more severe than the pandemic||Lack of infrastructure in government facilities on one hand and exorbitant billing in the private sector on the other have emerged as common issues during this COVID-19 pandemic. Brushed under this overwhelming virus spread, testing, treatment and mortalities is the problem of those with other illnesses. Very few hospitals agree to take in patients unless “strings are pulled” or “cash-only” payments are made as these tragic stories tell us. “My uncle, a heart patient, developed clots after a fall. Being a Railways employee, he is entitled to appropriate treatment at any private hospital for specialised treatment because although Indian Railways is a huge organisation, its own healthcare centres do not have adequate facilities,” says Kalyan, an entrepreneur. The woes began when a top private hospital in Secunderabad, which is closer to his house, refused admission claiming to be an exclusive COVID-19 care centre. It took an extra day to get the scans done after much persuasion in another hospital where he was diagnosed as having a gastric problem. Another top healthcare facility’s senior doctor agreed to perform surgery on him after several video-consultations. However, hours before he was to be operated, the doctor backed out, forcing the family to take him to another corporate hospital where he was admitted after advance payment of Rs. 2 lakh. The bill came to Rs. 5 lakh, inclusive of medicines, for four days. “When we brought a referral letter from the Railways, it was not accepted citing rules and regulations, as it meant changing the patient from cash to cashless treatment. After endless talks, they grudgingly accepted but soon we were told the operation is risky and cannot be done. They also wanted us to take the patient home with all tubes attached as the ICU bed could be used for another patient,” he recalls. The daily bills ran up to Rs. 84,000 and in a few days, his uncle passed away. There was another case of Venkat, a businessman, whose 55-year-old employee was seriously ill and died after several hospitals denied him treatment. “The family took him in an ambulance from one hospital to another and everywhere they were insisting for a COVID-negative certificate without even providing him with the basic first-aid. He died of a heart attack and turned out to be COVID-negative. The family was scared to take him to government hospitals because of the conditions there,” he claims. Kalyan says the State government could have simply converted the old secretariat into a COVID-19 care facility during the pandemic. “Function halls, playgrounds and colleges could also have been converted while regular healthcare facilities could accept patients for treatment of other ailments. This could and would save more lives but citizens have been left to fend for themselves,” he adds.  (Names changed to protect identity)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/collateral-damage-more-severe-than-the-pandemic/article32596483.ece
14 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID lab at Delhi airport||Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL), a GMR Group-led consortium, launched India’s first on-site coronavirus testing laboratory at Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi on Sunday. DIAL has collaborated with Genestrings Diagnostic Centre, a Delhi-based laboratory, to ensure safe journey of passengers entering the city or scheduled for domestic connecting flights. Option to modify slot The laboratory will have a walk-in option for passengers to get the test conducted after landing. International arrival passengers can opt for this facility online and book a slot in advance. Passengers will have to provide details such as name, contact details and valid ID proof while applying. They will also have an option to modify the slot in case they are not able to reach at the scheduled appointment time. Passengers belonging to the same family can book a single slot together. Waiting period Results of samples collected at the laboratory will be declared within 4-6 hours to the incoming passengers. With a negative RT-PCR test report, passengers can continue their onward journey. Until results are confirmed, passengers will be isolated at the waiting lounge or may opt to stay at a hotel.  In case of a positive result, passengers will be processed in line with applicable Indian Council of Medical Research protocols by the authorities. This will help the authorities concerned to keep passengers affected with the disease from coming in close contact with those already having RT-PCR negative reports. The lab has been constructed on a 3,500 square feet area at the multi-level car parking of Terminal 3 with sample collection stations near the arrival pier. The Ministry of Health & Family Welfare guidelines state that international passengers having RT-PCR negative certificate would be exempt from institutional quarantine granted by the State authorities and will be allowed for onward journey. This exemption will be a basic negative RT-PCR test report for which the test has to be conducted within 96 hours before undertaking the journey. However, if the passenger cannot get the same done within the desired time limit before boarding a flight from abroad, the RT-PCR testing facility at Delhi airport will allow them to get tested once they have landed, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-lab-at-delhi-airport/article32596484.ece
14 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSWREI, TTWREI students shine bright in IIT-JEE Mains||As many as 432 students from social welfare residential educational institutions and 274 students from tribal welfare residential educational institutions have qualified in IIT-JEE Mains and scored high percentiles on a par with corporate colleges. Sravan Kumar of Social Welfare IIT Gowlidoddi scored 99.51 percentiles and a tribal boy Katroth Anil from Tribal Welfare IIT Study Centre, Rajendra Nagar, scored 94.05 percentile while Naini Mamatha, a girl belonging to particularly vulnerable primitive group (PVTG) from tribal welfare Hayathnagar junior college, scored 89.11 percentile. They are the first generation sons and daughters of daily wage earners, agricultural labourers, vegetable vendors, roadside tea sellers, security guards, and auto drivers. These students proved that extreme poverty and rural background are not an impediment to making a mark in the country’s toughest entrance exam if right opportunities and guidance are provided. TSWREI and TTWREI Societies Secretary R.S. Praveen Kumar congratulated students for their outstanding performance. He said that the entire credit goes to committed teachers for their hard work in helping needy students from remote villages and tribal hamlets to secure admission in top-notch IITs and NITs in large numbers every year. “This transformation was made possible with generous funds and vision of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for approving free long-term intensive residential IIT coaching to poor SC/ST students who can’t afford coaching classes in corporate institutions,” he said. Minister for Social Welfare Koppula Eeshwar and Minister for Tribal Welfare Sathyavathi Rathod too have given priority to the education of marginalised children. He also pointed out that students of social and tribal welfare residential educational institutions have launched a silent academic revolution in Telangana by starting Village Learning Circles in times of the pandemic, where brilliant students have been conducting classes for their peers and fellow schoolmates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tswrei-ttwrei-students-shine-bright-in-iit-jee-mains/article32596493.ece
14 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||7 arrested for trader’s murder||Seven people involved in the murder of a businessman from Kishanbagh were arrested by Rajendra Nagar police on Sunday. The offence took place at Shivrampally on Tuesday, after which the accused fled. The arrested were identified as Syed Irfan (36), a footwear shop owner, Mohammed Attaullah (23), a labourer from Kalapather who was previously involved in another murder case, Shaik Khaled (23), a history-sheeter of Falaknuma police station, Mohd. Ziauddin (24), a car driver from Mailardevpally, Mohammed Waseem (24), another car driver, Ashraf Ali (21), a labourer and Kishan Rao (24), a driver from Rajendranagar. Attaullah was involved in a murder case at Kalapather police station in 2018 and Khaled was involved in several cases, including a fake currency case at Kalapather in 2013, a bike theft case under Afzalgunj police station in 2017 and a grievously hurt case in Falaknuma last year, apart from a dacoity case in Shalibanda last year. Ziauddin is an accused in an attempt to murder case reported in Falaknuma police station limits last year, Rajendranagar ACP K. Ashok Chakravarthy said. He said that Irfan ran a chit fund business and had to pay Rs. 5 lakh to a woman who is known to the victim, Mohammed Javed. “However, Irfan could not pay her the full amount as he suffered losses following a fire at his workshop a few months ago,” he said. As a result, Javed along with the woman went to Irfan’s workshop and demanded the money. Police said that Javed continued to demand the money, though the woman along with her children went abroad to stay with her husband. They returned to India about a month ago. “As the victim abused Irfan in filthy language and threatened him with dire consequences, the latter along with his associates hatched a conspiracy to kill him. On Tuesday night, when Javed contacted Irfan, they went to a pani puri shop at Shivarampally and hacked him to death,” the ACP said. All the accused fled after that, police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/7-arrested-for-traders-murder/article32596495.ece
14 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Purr’fect art installations taking shape||A curious cat peering at the traffic flowing on a flyover is the first draw of public art installation taking shape near the Ikea junction. While the attention of citizens is riveted by the cable-stayed bridge over Durgam Cheruvu, the art installations in the western parts of the city come as a surprise. “We are going to have nine cats in various locations in that area. We are creating them here and transporting them for installation at the site,” says R. Ramdev Rao at his workshop near Chilkur. Beside the acrobatic feline near the junction, there is a family of bears surrounded by ornamental olive trees. At the workshop, skilled welders execute the creatures based on three-dimensional scaled-down models. One of them happens to be a giraffe. “We cut the cotton steel pieces and weld them piece-by-piece to resemble the animal. Sometimes, we undo the work if it doesn’t resemble the model,” says Prasad, a welder from Chhattisgarh who was brought to Hyderabad after the end of lockdown. He is among the group of welders from Bihar who have been flown down from their home state to execute the work on time. “This is a beginning. Public art has to be consolidated. We should get internationally reputed artists and let them work here. In this effort, we will need a serious budget,” says Prashant Lahoti, a patron of art and a member of the team that worked on the Street Art Project in the city. “Street art festivals and public art installations add to the cultural appeal of a city. When people travel in Europe or the US, they are attracted to street art. The ethnicity or local art sensibility can be reflected, but it is not necessary,” says Laxman Aelay, who has put art from Telangana on the international map. The amount of money spent on the art project is not known.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/purrfect-art-installations-taking-shape/article32596501.ece
14 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||All set for comprehensive land survey||The State government is gearing up for launching a comprehensive survey of lands across the State in the digital mode. The survey this time will cover every inch of land across the State with non-tamperable geo-coordinates as basis. The government has decided to specify the latitude and longitude of each survey number so that the records “will remain forever”. The government has resolved to give the latitudinal and longitudinal coordinates as it is a relatively easy affair in the light of emerging technologies. Latest technology will, accordingly, be deployed to ensure that the survey is conducted in a fool-proof manner. The effort, according to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, is to ensure that the survey establishes the extent of the land in the State so that it will help in resolving long-pending disputes, be it problems between the neighbours or assessment of the extent of government lands or those in dispute between different government departments like the Forest and Revenue. According to the Chief Minister, the process and modalities for the survey would be launched soon as the Assembly had already passed two revenue-related Bills. The survey would be conducted in the quickest possible time so that the details will be posted on the Dharani portal which would be operated by the Revenue department in coordination with the Telangana State Technology Services. “Total survey of the land is the only solution for the existing problems,” he said. The government intends to keep record of lands in three modes. Operational records on Dharani website, digital records and manual records. The government has, accordingly, planned to maintain multiple servers, including some outside the State, as part of the disaster management guidelines. The government has already over 90% of the clear title documents available online and the entire data would be on the Dharani website. As much as 1.45 crore acres of land held by 57.7 lakh farmers is dispute free as can be seen from the distribution of Rs. 7,279 crore under Rythu Bandhu scheme without hassles and the government has, accordingly, decided to host the data of these lands on the portal. While the survey of agricultural lands is on, the government has decided to simultaneously focus on urban lands so that these records are also clean and entered into the web portal. These records will also be scrutinised and proper titles conferred so that urban property books in maroon colour on the lines of the pattadar passbooks issued to farmers in green colour are given to house owners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/all-set-for-comprehensive-land-survey/article32596505.ece
14 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Nine held from MP for duping investor||Rachakonda Cyber Crime police arrested nine persons for cheating a private employee on the pretext of providing huge profits by investing in the share market. The accused, Shivshankar Athiya, Abhishek Soni, Abhilash Choudary, Rohit Jain, Bhavesh Baragi, Vinek Pateriya, Athar Hayat, Atul Pateriya and Rahul Soni were arrested from Sagar in MP on on September 9. They were brought to Hyderabad on prisoner transit warrant. According to police, in March, Nuthakki Koti Siva Kakani Sudhakar from Vanasthalipuram approached police stating that the accused contacted him over the phone and introduced themselves as executives of Top Global Research Company, Bhopal, who help in providing huge profits within four to six months by investing in share market. They asked the victim to invest money through their company by making false promises of good returns and believing them, the former followed their instructions to open a DEMAT account and shared the credentials with them, police said. “Lured by the false promises of the accused, Siva Kakani transferred Rs. 9.60 lakh. The accused did not invest it and used the money. Later, they stopped responding to his phone calls and messages,” police said. Based on Siva Kakani’s complaint, a case was registered and the accused were arrested. Police seized 13 computer hard disk drives, a laptop, 18 mobile phones, four bank cards, 17 SIM cards and a Wi-Fi router.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nine-held-from-mp-for-duping-investor/article32596497.ece
14 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Provide land for liberation movement inspiration centre’||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy has urged Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to allot land in Hyderabad for construction of Telangana Liberation Movement Inspiration Centre. The Central government is ready to allocate funds if the Telangana government identifies land for the purpose and it will be a fitting tribute to people who struggled to liberate Hyderabad from Nizam’s rule. In a letter addressed to the Chief Minister on Sunday, Mr Kishan Reddy said he had urged Union Tourism Minister Prahlad Singh Patel for such a centre and he had agreed to financial assistance. “I met the Union Tourism Minister recently and explained people’s’ struggle to liberate Hyderabad region from the clutches of tyrannical Nizam rule and his private army of Razakars, ” he said in the letter. The Union Minister said the movement was led by leaders from all walks of life, including P. V. Narisimha Rao, Marri Chenna Reddy, Swami Ramananda Tirtha, Doddi Komaraiah, Chakali Ilamma, Kumram Bheem, Vandemataram Ramachandra Rao and Narayan Rao Pawar. “The Union Government has accepted to bear all the expenditure for the construction of the centre, provided the Telangana government gives the land,” Mr. Kishan Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/provide-land-for-liberation-movement-inspiration-centre/article32596508.ece
14 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Scrap LRS or reduce it by 50%, Sangareddy MLA tells govt.||Sangareddy MLA T. Jagga Reddy has urged the government to either withdraw the Land Regularisation Scheme (LRS) G.O. or at least reduce the fee by 50% and extend the payment of it by one year in view of the present situation where people do not have enough money to meet their daily demands. The legislator said that the Municipal Administration Minister, Mr. K. T. Rama Rao should understand the plight of people suffering on account of the coronavirus pandemic and take a humanitarian view. If the government wanted to fill its coffers through Land Regularisation Scheme, at least the Minister should think of reducing the fee by 50% and give one year for people to pay the regularisation fee. “I am giving you a realistic opinion of people and the government should consider it.” The Sangareddy MLA said the government was well aware of the financial condition of people in the corona times and financial burden should not be put on the poor and middle class, who buy the plots mostly on bank loans. Mr. Reddy said he would raise the issue in the Assembly to bring it to the notice of the government. “I hope they understand the ground situation and scrap the scheme itself.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scrap-lrs-or-reduce-it-by-50-sangareddy-mla-tells-govt/article32596510.ece
14 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sanitation on commercial stretches to be privatised||The GHMC is preparing ground for handing over sanitation responsibilities on busy commercial stretches in the city to private agencies. This comes on the heels of privatisation of road maintenance works on major stretches under the Comprehensive Road Maintenance Programme (CRMP). Notwithstanding the condition in CRMP agreement that sanitation on these respective roads will be the maintenance contractors’ responsibility, all the CRMP roads too are being included for private sanitation, the announcement of which is likely to come soon. Reliable sources informed about orders from GHMC Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar to the zonal and circle level officials asking them to identify the commercial stretches in their respective areas where the private agencies can take over sanitation. Accordingly, over 1,000 kilometres of road stretches in the city have been identified across various circles, and formal announcement is awaited to call for tenders. The identified roads, which are over 60% occupied by commercial establishments, include 709 kilometres which are under the CRMP. Apart from the CRMP stretches, internal roads too where commercial activity is very high, such as those in Abids, Nampally will come under private sanitation. Sources informed that tenders will be called for circle wise, and agencies will have the opportunity to bid for more than one circle too. Agencies securing the bids will have to assume services such as sweeping, garbage lifting, and transportation up to the transfer station. They will be responsible for sanitation 24x7 unlike now when sweeping is done only once early in the day. Garbage will have to be lifted twice or thrice a day depending on the intensity of the activity on the stretches concerned, leaving no scope for littering of the streets. The agencies will be responsible for garbage lifting even from residential establishments on the identified stretches. Sweeping of roads As per the existing arrangement, sweeping of the roads is done once in a day by workers from the GHMC’s sanitation wing— most of them outsourced. Garbage clearance is done by the private SAT (Swachh Auto Trolley) drivers, who are not employed with the GHMC, but provided subsidised loans to buy the vehicles. Though the corporation has a concession agreement with Ramky Enviro Engineers Limited for solid waste management in the entire city, it is yet to hand over the jobs of waste collection and transportation to the agency. Officials said SAT drivers are lax in lifting commercial waste, which is resulting in littering of roads and garbage heaps on the road margins.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sanitation-on-commercial-stretches-to-be-privatised/article32596520.ece
14 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana COVID count up by 2,216 cases||On Saturday, 2,216 more COVID-19 cases were detected in Telangana, taking the total to 1,57,096. The death toll reached 961 with 11 more fatalities being recorded on the day. While 56217 samples were tested on September 12, results of 2,345 samples were awaited. The new 2,216 coronavirus infections include 341 from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 210 from Rangareddy, 148 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 119 from Karimnagar, 126 from Nalgonda,105 from Khammam and 102 from Warangal Urban. Till September 13, a total of 21,34,912 samples had been put to test. From the current tally, 31,607 are active cases while 1,24,528 have recovered apart from the 961 deaths. The case fatality rate in the State is 0.61%. Bed availability In the 42 government hospitals across the State, 3,538 oxygen beds and 554 ICU beds were vacant as on September 12. In case of the 199 private hospitals, 2,694 oxygen beds and 1,169 ICU beds were available.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-covid-count-up-by-2216-cases/article32596477.ece
14 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Kishan complains to Union Home Secretary against Telangana police||Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy lodged a complaint with the Union Home Secretary on the ‘partisan’ behaviour of the Telangana police and wanted an explanation from them. BJP sources said that he was annoyed with the ‘partisan’ behaviour of the police, who allegedly remained mute spectators when the TRS leaders and activists blocked Union Minister Mansukh Laxmanbhai Mandaviya and Kishan Reddy during their visit to Ramagundam Fertilisers and Chemicals Ltd (RFCL) on Saturday. The Union Home Secretary is said to have assured the Minister that the incident would be inquired into. During the Union Ministers’ visit to the Fertilizer factory on Saturday, the TRS leaders led by Venkatesh Nethakani, MP and Korukanti Chander, MLA staged a dharna at the RFCL demanding employment to locals. They apparently blocked the gate forcing the Ministers to stay on the road for nearly an hour. Mr. Kishan Reddy was annoyed that the local police rather than clearing the agitating TRS cadre preferred to remain silent even as the Union Ministers waited there. The local BJP leaders and cadre also rushed to the place to counter the TRS protests and only then the police intervened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kishan-complains-to-union-home-secretary-against-telangana-police/article32596524.ece
14 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NGOs have a greater role in service in these times: Governor||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Sunday exhorted NGOs to intensify their efforts to help the needy during this pandemic. She said the NGOs and other service organisations like Rotary Club have been offering valuable services in different sectors and were supplementing the government’s efforts. The Governor was participating as chief guest at the virtual Rotary Sabha, a cultural conclave of the Rotary District 3232, Chennai, from the Raj Bhavan here on Sunday evening. She said that the Rotary’s motto of ‘Service above Self’ is driving millions of Rotarians all over the globe to offer their noble services. The Governor pointed out that Rotary’s efforts in ensuring polio eradication in the country and its services towards making India free of avoidable blindness were commendable. Ms. Soundararajan stated that inclusion of ethics and values should begin from basic education so as to inculcate the spirit of selfless service among the children. Referring to the cultural activities taken up as part of the cultural conclave of the Rotary Sabha, she said that there was every need to protect and promote our rich Indian heritage and culture and its art forms. Rotary District 3232 governor Muthu Palaniappan, City Union Bank CEO and MD Kama Kodi, Padma Shri awardee Kalaimamani Narthaki Nataraj, Rotary International director-elect A.S. Venkatesh, Girija Raghavan and Neelakandan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ngos-have-a-greater-role-in-service-in-these-times-governor/article32596481.ece
14 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man killed by wife’s relatives||A 27-year-old cab driver was brutally murdered allegedly by his wife’s parents and relatives at Babanagar of Kanchanbagh on Sunday evening. The victim, Syed Munawar Qadiri, got married to one Simran Qureshi five years ago, and for the past few months, the couple had marital issues. Since then Ms. Simran left Qadiri and started living with her parents. On Sunday evening, Qadiri’s in-laws called him to their house to resolve the issues between the couple, police said. “After a heated argument, Simran’s family members tied his hands and attacked him. Later, they slit his throat and threw him from the balcony of the first floor of the building,” police said. The body was shifted to Osmania General Hospital for autopsy. Kanchanbagh police registered a murder case and the accused were taken into custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-killed-by-wifes-relatives/article32596496.ece
14 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Teachers, staff observe fast||Opposing the Contributory Pension Scheme lakhs of teachers and employees and their families observed one-day fast at their homes on Sunday. The Contributory Pension Scheme Teachers and Employees Association of Telangana led the one-day fast with the demand ‘Fast for Old Pension Scheme’. Association Publicity Secretary Raghunandan Machana said more than 1.30 lakh employees, recruited after September 1, 2004, fall under the Contributory Pension Scheme in the State and members participated in the fast. Mr. Raghunandan said protests were held on Sept 1 across the country on social media platforms.Earlier too, representations were given to Ministers, MPs and MLAs on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/teachers-staff-observe-fast/article32596509.ece
14 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Advance parcel booking by Indian Railways||Indian Railways has introduced advance booking facility of parcel space in luggage rooms available in passenger trains and parcel vans attached to regular trains and also in time tabled parcel trains. Advance booking of space will be permitted 120 days in advance, subject to payment of 10% of freight at the time of booking. Balance payment (90%) of the freight has to be paid at least 72 hours before the scheduled departure of the train.There will be no refund if cancellation is done 72 hours before scheduled departure of train.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/advance-parcel-booking-by-indian-railways/article32596523.ece
14 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man held for procuring banned tobacco from Karnataka||The Golconda police on Saturday night raided a house and seized banned tobacco products worth Rs. 1.30 lakh. Abdul Nadeem (49), a businessman from Falcon Valley in Shaikpet, was arrested for procuring the tobacco products from Aiyaz of Bidar district, Karnataka. Police said that Nadeem was supplying the contraband to local shopkeepers and small traders. He was arrested and produced before local court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-held-for-procuring-banned-tobacco-from-karnataka/article32596494.ece
14 September 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||CPI(M) calls protest in Khammam today||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) district committee has called protest across the district on September 14 against alleged attempts by those at the helm at the Centre to "falsely implicate" CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury and a host of other intellectuals in the February-2020 Delhi riots case. Party activists staged protest demonstrations in Wyra and elsewhere in the district on Sunday against the alleged move to "muzzle" democratic voices. In a statement, party district secretary N Nageswara Rao alleged that the BJP dispensation at the Centre was trying to foist false cases against Mr Yechury and several prominent personalities, including a professor, an economist and a documentary film maker, for standing up for the cause of Delhi riots victims. Clandestine attempts were under way to link the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests with the February Delhi riots in flagrant misuse of power to stifle democratic voices, he charged. A Delhi-based BJP senior leader, who had fuelled tension by making provocative remarks during the Delhi riots, was allowed to go scot-free, while those who stood for the victims were being falsely implicated, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cpim-calls-protest-in-khammam-today/article32596515.ece
14 September 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||SR&BGNR college to get a new administrative building||The more than five-decade-old SR&BGNR Government Degree and PG College (autonomous) in the town is all set to get a new administrative building soon. The Commissionerate of Collegiate Education has reportedly given its nod for construction of the new building at an estimated cost of Rs. 1.19 crore, sources said. The institute has the distinction of having over 20 megaliths scattered across its 37.37 acres campus. However, the demands of various student unions for construction of college-attached hostels on the premises of the campus remained unfulfilled till date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/srbgnr-college-to-get-a-new-administrative-building/article32596529.ece
14 September 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Voluntary lockdown by village as cases rise||Even as the entire State has largely progressed to ‘Unlock’ mode, some villages are being forced to continue the lockdown, as evident from the prevailing situation at ground level despite tall claims by the State and district authorities. Take the case of Kangti mandal headquarters panchayat. As the number of COVID-19 cases saw a surge, the villagers urged the sarpanch to impose lockdown. The panchayat passed a resolution to this effect and made an announcement. A tam-tam was held on Saturday night informing the public that lockdown will in force for 10 days, till September 22. This decision was taken as one of the villagers recently died of the coronavirus. As a result, even grocery shops will also stay shut. “We conducted a gram sabha in village on Saturday in which this decision was taken voluntarily, particularly by traders. Even the medical shops and fertilizer shops will be shut. If any one needs any medicine or fertilizer, the shop will be opened to extend the required medicine and again it will be closed. Lockdown decision was taken after a COVID-related death took place in the village on Friday. Two members of the deceased person’s family are getting treated in Hyderabad while two persons working at his house are under isolation and undergoing treatment,” M. Krishna, husband of Kangti village sarpanch Pooja, told The Hindu . The situation in Masanpally village of Kalher mandal is not any different. In this village, not a single case was reported till August 24. But thereafter till September 9, it has reported as many as 104 cases. Some outsiders attending the last rites of three persons in the village located adjacent to Nanded-Akola road and entry of people from neighbouring Kamareddy district into liquor shop in the village are being attributed as reasons for the spread of coronavirus. Containment zones “There are 30 containment zones in the district, out of which 11 are in rural areas and 19 in urban areas. If more than 10 families at an area test positive, we are turning it into a containment zone and extending treatment to them. Individual cases are being attended by ANMs and ASHA workers,” District Medical and Health Officer Mothiram Rathod told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/voluntary-lockdown-by-village-as-cases-rise/article32596487.ece
14 September 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Dry ganja seized||Prohibition and Excise officials have seized 600 kg of dry ganja worth Rs. 1.5 crorre near Zaheerabad and arrested five persons. Deputy Commissioner K. A. B. Sastry said officials led by Assistant Superintendent D. Gyatri Devi conducted raids at a dhaba on Sunday. The police also seized Rs. 40,000, two cell phones and a lorry . The arrested persons were Afsar Shaik, Banavath Jaipal, M. Digambar Pawar, S. Satish Manik Rao and Amir Ajij Shaik.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dry-ganja-seized/article32596514.ece
14 September 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Garbage being dumped near Mahabubsagar||Unable to find a place to dump garbage being generated in the town, the authorities of Sangareddy town have started to dump it near Mahaboobsagar. Despite repeated efforts, officials have failed to find a place to dump garbage. The neighbouring villagers are also strongly opposing any such move. For several days, garbage was kept at several places in the town and it also came to a standstill. Every street corner in the town became a garbage point to dump trash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/garbage-being-dumped-near-mahabubsagar/article32596528.ece
14 September 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Gouravelli oustees demand updated package||A few days ago Nalla Mahender Reddy, a youth in the village of Gudatipalli in Akkannapet mandal, received a notice from the district administration demanding that he give his consent for the package being offered by the government within one month failing which the amount would be deposited in the court. The entire village would be submerged by the proposed Gouravelli Reservoir under the Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project. The notice came as a rude shock for not only the project oustees who received the notices but also for the family members. “The Collector, Karimnagar, has published Gazette number 55, dated 06.07.2016, which listed out the names of the residents of the village who would turn major by 01.01.2015. As per GO MS No. 03, Irrigation, Command Area Development (CAD) (LA R&R/ A2) dated 03.01.2017 they are being offered a package of Rs. 2 lakh and the Collector has issued orders to this affect. Those mentioned in the gazette can contact concerned officer — Revenue Divisional Officer, Husnabad — within in one month of receiving the notice and receive the amount. You have to submit photocopies of bank passbook, Aadhaar Card and four photographs. If you do not respond the amount would be deposited in the court concerned,” said the notice received by Mr. Mahender Reddy. Many youth in the village, who are eligible for compensation package, are objecting to the notices demanding that they be offered a package on par with youth in other villages of various irrigation projects in the district. In other villages the eligible youth were offered a package of a plot of 250 square yards in the Rehabilitation and Resettlement Colony and Rs. 5 lakh financial assistance.  Two judgments In two recent judgments on petitions filed by adult youth of Kotchaguttapally and Erravally, the Telangana High Court directed the government to treat all the eligible as family and extended the package that was offered to families — a double bedroom house on 250 square yards plot as per government norms and Rs. 7.5 lakh financial assistance. “Why should there be any discrimination against youth from our village? Why they are being offered a lower package when compared to adult youth of other villages that would be submerged under the Kaleshwaram project?” asked Baddam Yella Reddy, another resident of the village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gouravelli-oustees-demand-updated-package/article32596512.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Templates for land registration||There is a good news to people opting for land registration in the coming days. The government has decided to provide templates for registration documents at the MRO and sub-registrar offices enabling people to fill the forms by themselves. This, according to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, will help in easing the procedures for registering parties and, at the same time, do away with dependence on document writers. A well-intentioned initiative, for sure. But, the move should be accompanied by an announcement of an alternative to the document writers, several of whom are people who earn their livelihood through the profession, feel a section of people. It is hoped that the Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) government would sympathetically consider the plight of these people, who will be rendered jobless, before embarking upon the future course of action.   Come September every year, Opposition parties in Telangana would have one political agenda for sure – that is to target the party in power on the issue of September 17, the day in 1948 on which the then princely State of Hyderabad ruled by seventh Nizam Mir Osman Ali Khan was merged with the Indian Union after police action. Irrespective of which party is in power since the days of combined Andhra Pradesh, the parties in Opposition have always demand celebration of the day officially, stating that it was the day when the region became independent practically. Congress, Telugu Desam Party and, now, Telangana Rashtra Samithi, faced flak from opposition parties that targeted the government. Ironically, these parties have the history of not celebrating the day officially when in power but demanding it while in opposition. “Keeping aside politics, there’s genuineness in the demand for celebrating Sept.7 as an official event as it is done in parts of Karnataka and Maharashtra, which were part of Hyderabad State and demerged from Hyderabad in 1956 as part of the reorganisation of States,” a senior official said. Now, the BJP appears to have added sting to its demand by requesting the government to allot land for construction of a memorial centre on the movement that led to the liberation/merger.  (M. Rajeev and B. Chandrashekhar)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/templates-for-land-registration/article32596506.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Stocking up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/stocking-up/article32596489.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Prized wheels turn scrap||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/prized-wheels-turn-scrap/article32596531.ece
14 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Life goes off the rails||Anxiety and uncertainty have gripped over two lakh slum dwellers residing along roughly 70 km of railways tracks in the city, following a Supreme Court judgment ordering the removal of 48,000 jhuggis within three months. On the one hand, the slum dwellers are faced with the terrifying prospect of losing the roof over their heads in the middle of the deadly COVID-19 pandemic that is showing no signs of abating. On the other hand, the situation has placed them yet again in the middle of a political tug of war, with its origins in one of the oldest poll promises made to them in successive elections since the 1990s: the right to reside in one’s own home in the National Capital Territory of Delhi. “The government had said jahan jhuggi wahan makaan ... look what has happened now. Instead of maakan [house] there is a threat of being uprooted from the place where we have lived all our lives,” rued Teju Pandit, a resident of a slum located next to a railway track in Old Delhi. Residents of Pul Mithai are at a loss over where to relocate. Many of them have been living in the area for over 30-40 years, with some having spent all their lives next to the railway tracks. They have termed the circumstances tanashahi [dictatorship]. Subhodh Bind, a street vendor, said: “We cannot understand the reason behind this emergency order. The [SC] order came out of the blue and even states that nobody can interfere. How can we not be heard by the courts? What are we supposed to do now? It looks like authorities are more concerned of having a “clean view” than being concerned about us.” Mr. Bind is among the nearly 500 people (constituting 53 families) living next to the track in Old Delhi. The families have “moved around” the area since 1984 as a result of regular demolition drives carried out by authorities. But the possibility of being completely uprooted from the area is a first, they said. During a pandemic An eviction during an ongoing pandemic is also what residents are worried about. Poonam Devi, a daily wage labourer, said: “For five months we have been in distress due to the lockdown. We were dependent on the food being distributed, but now, even that is an issue. There is no work and we are all under heavy debt. This order is an added pressure and we are completely at a loss.” Twenty-six-year-old Chandni Devi, a homemaker, said she had sent two of her children back to their village as expenses were piling up and it was becoming impossible to stay in the city. “There is hardly any work here now and most of us are borrowing money and somehow existing. If we are evicted, how are we to survive? If we are forced to stay on rent then that will be another issue. If we cannot earn, how will we feed our children and educate them? The authorities need to rehabilitate us properly or else allow us to keep living here,” said Ms. Devi. Poonam (30), who has a small shop in the slum, said: “I have been running this shop for a long time. Even if we are rehabilitated to some other area, what good will it do for us? We will have to start from scratch again. It looks like we have been hit from both sides. The poor are basically dead and over.” Prem Prakash Bharadwaj, a resident of a slum cluster in Jor Bagh, said: “We have lived here for many years and have adjusted. Most of us work within 5-6 km from our homes. If we are suddenly rehabilitated to some place in Bawana, how are we supposed to continue working?” “Even though we have not received any notice yet, we want to continue staying here only. Where do we move amid this pandemic? As it is, the COVID-19 outbreak has affected our incomes terribly. We are surviving somehow,” he added. Iza-ul Mohammad (19), a daily wager, said: “We have lost all work due to the pandemic. The government and courts should have at least considered this. Also, if lakhs of slum dwellers are suddenly out on the streets during a pandemic, how will the authorities manage?” Hoping for a resolution at some level, Mr. Bind said: “Now, everything depends on the appeals that are made and we can only request the government to allow us to continue living here till proper rehabilitation is provided. What more can we do apart from waiting or dying in the process?” Report on solid waste Taking note of a report furnished by the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority regarding non-compliance of municipal solid waste management rules by the Indian Railways, the apex court in its order dated August 31 had directed removal of slum clusters that existed in close proximity to railway tracks on a 70-km stretch. “We direct all stakeholders that a comprehensive plan for removal of jhuggis be made and executed in a phased manner. The encroachments in the safety zones should be removed within three months and no interference, political or otherwise, should be there and no court shall grant any stay with respect to removal of the encroachments in the area in question,” the Supreme Court had said. The People’s Union for Civil Liberties, however, claimed that a conservative estimate had been provided by the Railways and that nearly three lakh jhuggis are set to be affected by this order. Soon after the order, the AAP, BJP and the Congress locked horns over the issue. War of words AAP on Friday said that the BJP wants to demolish every slum in Delhi. AAP national spokesperson Raghav Chadha said that if the BJP government does not provide permanent houses to the people, then the AAP government would do it. “The Supreme Court was hearing a case only on the cleanliness of Delhi, but the BJP’s railways ministry secretly filed an affidavit and demanded the removal of slums. The BJP government, in its affidavit to the SC, has noted that due to the Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP government, slum demolition is not taking place. We take this admission in pride,” Mr. Chadha said. The Delhi government-run Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) on September 10 also wrote to the Northern Railway, requesting it to not demolish any jhuggis without providing alternative accommodation. “You are requested not to demolish the jhuggis on Railways land without providing alternative accommodation as per provisions of the Delhi Slum & JJ Rehabilitation and Relocation Policy, 2015,” read the letter. The DUSIB also said that the jhuggis proposed to be demolished by the Railways are protected under the provisions of the Delhi Laws (Special Provision) Second Act, 2011. The BJP, meanwhile, hit out at the Delhi government stating that AAP considered slum dwellers a “vote bank and never as human beings” and issued an “ultimatum” demanding that those residing next to the railway tracks be shifted to vacant flats. “If the Delhi government does not shift the slum dwellers in the 52,000 houses lying vacant within the next 90 days, then we will shift the slum dwellers in those houses. The Chief Minister only pretends to be a well-wisher of the slum dwellers and that is why the Delhi government deprived them of the benefits of the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana,” said Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta. The Delhi Congress on its part has blamed both the BJP and AAP for neglecting slum dwellers. It said that while both parties in their election manifestos had said they would relocate slum dwellers to alternative venues or give them in-situ flats, nothing had been done on the ground. Delhi Congress chief Anil Kumar said the DUSIB was constituted under the Sheila Dikshit government with a clear mandate to provide housing to residents of JJ clusters. “Under this scheme, the Congress government started construction of over 64,000 flats across Delhi but sadly 90% of these flats are lying vacant as the Kejriwal-led government has not bothered to allot them to the needy,” Mr. Kumar said. While the issue of regularising unauthorised residential colonies had formed the core of the 2020 Delhi Assembly elections, the in-situ rehabilitation of slum clusters was a significant issue during the 2015 polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/life-goes-off-the-rails/article32596266.ece
14 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Virus cases in the Capital cross 4,000 mark for fifth day in a row||The number of fresh COVID-19 cases in the Capital continued to stay above the 4,000 mark for the fifth day in a row, after Sunday’s tally of 4,235 cases. In the past 24 hours, 29 people died due to the virus while 3,403 people recovered, a heath bulletin from the Delhi government said. It said that the total number of cases in the Capital now stands at 2,18,304 with a total of 4,744 deaths and 1,84,748 recoveries. The bulletin added that 56,656 tests were conducted during the same period with a positivity rate of 7.48%. The death rate, it said, based on the data compiled in the last 10 days was 0.68%. Of the total tests, 10,116 were RT-PCR tests, while 46,540 were rapid antigen tests. The Delhi government said that the cumulative positivity rate is now at 10.20% and the fatality rate is 2.17%. The city now has 1,488 containment zones and 15,946 people are under home isolation. The government’s patient management system shows that out of the 14,377 available hospital beds, 7,874 are vacant. Health Minister Satyendra Jain said that while there were enough ICU beds in State-run and Centre-run hospitals, there was a shortage in the number of ICU beds in private hospitals due to the surge in cases. He said that the government has passed orders for 28 private hospitals to reserve 80% of their total ICU/HDU beds for COVID-19 patients. These hospitals, he said, are also allowed to temporarily increase their total bed capacity up to 30% to be utilised by COVID-19 patients. There are five private hospitals that are entirely COVID-19 hospitals. Asked if the Delhi government was planning to enforce another lockdown due to the rise in the number of cases, Mr. Jain said: “The time for enforcing a lockdown has ended. We have gained enough experience through the lockdown and know that wearing masks is an effective way to fight the infection. We are creating awareness about wearing masks and social distancing,” he said. Delhi’s biggest single-day jump was reported on Saturday when 4,321 fresh cases were recorded. The Capital has seen a spurt in cases but the government has said that the increase is due to the fact that it has increased testing from 15,000-20,000 a day to up to 60,000 a day. The Minister said that by ramping up testing, even those who do not have symptoms but are infected will be isolated so that they do not spread it. “If you test positive without symptoms, we will be able to isolate you in time and prevent the infection from spreading. The number might be increasing at this point but this will help in containing the virus,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/virus-cases-in-the-capital-cross-4000-mark-for-fifth-day-in-a-row/article32596228.ece
14 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||33-year-old man shot dead by three on bike in east Delhi||A 33-year-old man was shot dead allegedly by three unidentified persons in east Delhi’s Madhu Vihar on Sunday, the police said. The victim has been identified as Yogesh from Dakshinpuri, they said. The police said they received information at 2 p.m. regarding the incident, which happened when the victim was on his way to meet his in-laws in east Delhi. Three men on a bike intercepted the car which Yogesh was driving. At a traffic light, they fired indiscriminately at him. A total of eights round were fired at him, said an officer. “The victim was rushed to Max Hospital where he was declared dead,” said DCP (East) Jasmeet Singh. Yogesh used to run a car washing workshop in Dakshinpuri and was involved in a murder case in 2011. After two years, he got bail. Later, he was involved in cases of assault. The police said they are getting more details about him to find out if he was involved in some other cases. They added that manhunt is on for the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/33-year-old-man-shot-dead-by-three-on-bike-in-east-delhi/article32596268.ece
14 September 2020||New Delhi,||DU yet to finalise cut-off dates for UG admissions||Dates for the release of the first list of cut-offs for admission to Delhi University’s undergraduate programmes have not been finalised, said Dean of Admissions Shobha Bagai on Sunday. Ms. Bagai confirmed that deliberations were on between various stakeholders, but stressed that no date had been finalised.  Supplementary exams Various factors were involved in deciding a date, Ms. Bagai said, including the release of the academic calendar for the session by the University Grants Commission and the results of the supplementary exams held by the CBSE. University officials expect the results of the supplementary exams, which were also taken by students who missed out due to the north-east Delhi riots, to be announced by the second week of October. Accordingly, the cut-off is also likely be around the second week of October. The results of the entrance exams held between September 7 and 11 are likely to be announced around the first week of October, but had not been finalised either Ms. Bagai said. Currently, for students applying for UG courses, the university has opened an edit option for details submitted in their forms. It will remain open till October 5. An edit option for PG programmes will be released on a later date following the completion of UG examinations this month, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/du-yet-to-finalise-cut-off-dates-for-ug-admissions/article32596235.ece
14 September 2020||New Delhi,||Riots: Ex-IPS officer seeks impartial probe into FIRs||Demanding impartial probe into cases registered during the riots, which broke out in north-east Delhi in February, retired IPS officer Julio Riberio wrote a letter to Delhi Police Commissioner S.N. Shrivastava on Saturday. In a letter, he raised question over action taken by Delhi Police against peaceful protesters who “rightly apprehend injustices born from bias and hate against a minority community”. Mr. Riberio, the former Commissioner of Mumbai Police, in the letter, said: “I write to you with a heavy heart. As a true patriot and a former proud member of the Indian Police Service, I appeal to you to ensure a fair probe into the 753 FIRs registered against peaceful protesters who rightly apprehend injustices born from bias and hate against a minority community. Delhi Police has taken action against peaceful protesters but deliberately failed to register cognisable offences against those who made hate speeches, which triggered the riots in north-east Delhi. It troubles sane and apolitical persons, like me... why Kapil Mishra, Anurag Thakur and Parvesh Verma have not been arraigned before the courts of law while deeply hurt Muslim women, peacefully protesting against discriminations based on religion, were lodged for months together in jail,” he wrote. “The not-so-subtle attempt by the Delhi Police to entangle true patriots, like Harsh Mander and Prof. Apoorvanand, in criminal cases is another matter for concern. We, the police forces in the land, and its leadership drawn from the Indian Police Service, have a duty and obligation to respect the Constitution and the enacted laws, impartially without regard to caste, creed and political affiliations. Kindly revisit the actions of the police under your command in Delhi to determine if they have been true to their oaths taken at the time of their induction into service,” he said. Eish Singhal, Delhi Police PRO said that an e-mail has been received. Since Mr. Rebeiro has not been in touch with Delhi Police in the recent times, we are trying to ascertain the veracity and the genuineness of the mail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/riots-ex-ips-officer-seeks-impartial-probe-into-firs/article32596231.ece
14 September 2020||New Delhi,||Conman held for trying to extort Rs. 20L from woman||A man has been arrested for allegedly trying to extort money from a woman in Outer North district, said an officer on Sunday. The accused, Saurabh Bhardwaj, posed himself as the younger brother of gangster Neeraj Bawana to impress the woman, they said. An officer said the woman filed a complaint at Narela Industrial Area police station regarding an unknown person demanding Rs. 20 lakh from her. He also told her that if she was unable to pay the amount, he would kill her family. A case was registered and probe was taken up. The accused was identified and arrested. He told the police that he was a drug addict and aspires to be a criminal. He said he got the woman’s number from a common friend and started calling her. Later he introduced himself as Neeraj Bawana’s brother, Pankaj. In order to impress her, he gave her expensive gifts and jewellery. She wanted to meet his family but he said that was not possible as his uncle had just passed away. Next, the girl’s family visited Bawana’s house following which the crime came to fore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/conman-held-for-trying-to-extort-rs-20l-from-woman/article32596267.ece
14 September 2020||New Delhi,||BJP to protest against govt. today||The Opposition BJP will protest against the government’s poor treatment of slum dwellers of Yamuna Khadar outside the Delhi Assembly during the one-day special session to be held on Monday, the party said on Sunday. The BJP also alleged that on one hand, the Kejriwal government was “shedding crocodile tears” over the eviction of slum dwellers along railway lines and on the other hand, it broke down 200 slums in the Yamuna Khadar area without any notice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-to-protest-against-govt-today/article32596269.ece
14 September 2020||New Delhi,||Second phase of DU open book exam starts today||The second phase of the open book examinations (OBE) held by DU for students in the final semesters will commence on Monday. This time, apart from attempting the question at home, students have also been given the option to take the examination at centres in Delhi. Colleges and departments have been directed to make various provisions to ensure social distancing and that the examinations remain as “touch-free” as possible, a DU advisory stated. Students attempting the exam have already been given details of seating arrangement and rooms. Candidates are required to submit a self declaration form before entering the centre. Persons with disabilities who wish to improve their marks and students who could not take exams during the first phase of the OBE or were unable to upload answer scripts can take the exams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/second-phase-of-du-open-book-exam-starts-today/article32596232.ece
14 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||YMCA pays tribute to medical fraternity||The YMCA on Saturday night paid musical tributes to the medical fraternity in the Capital for their untiring efforts in the fight against COVID-19. The event had several doctors and paramedics joining the virtual meeting. Several doctors complimented the YMCA for running a COVID-19 centre at its 250-bed Tourist Hostel for three months. The New Delhi YMCA had earlier hosted a similar musical performance for Delhi Police. It said that it was conducting such programmes to thank COVID-19 warriors. “Kapil Suri, HOD Radiology at Safdarjung Hospital, took the audience back to the 1980s with Kishore Kumar numbers, while Sumathi Muralidhar a Consultant Microbiologist at Safdarjung Hospital belted out kids by American singer Karen Carpenter,” the YMCA said. It added that doctors from Lady Hardinge Medical College and Kalavti Saran sang a group song on COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ymca-pays-tribute-to-medical-fraternity/article32596229.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,||NEET and clean||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/neet-and-clean/article32596467.ece
14 September 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Six Odisha Ministers infected||Six Ministers and 20 MLAs of Odisha have contracted the novel coronavirus as the State has added 50,000 cases in the past two weeks. Odisha on Sunday crossed the 1.50 lakh-mark in 183 days. On August 30, it had gone past the 1 lakh-mark. For the past two weeks, the daily positive cases have been consecutively exceeding 3,000. The fatalities are 626 though the rate is one of the lowest in the country. Handlooms, Textiles and Handicrafts Minister Padmini Dian was the latest to be admitted to a COVID-19 hospital along with her husband after they felt uneasy. Earlier, Agriculture and Farmers’ Empowerment Minister Arun Kumar Sahoo, Rural Development Minister Susanta Singh, Women and Child Development Minister Tukuni Sahu and Food Supplies and Consumer Welfare Minister Ranendra Pratap Swain had taken to social networking sites to announce their infection. Mr. Swain’s brother and an SP-ranked officer Ajay Pratap Swain had also tested positive. Odisha is placed at the 10th spot in the count. The last one lakh cases were reported in just 32 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/six-odisha-ministers-infected/article32596216.ece
14 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||SAD wants Centre to go-slow on ordinances||With the NDA government at the Centre all set to table the Bills replacing the agriculture-related ordinances in the monsoon session of the Parliament, slated to begin on September 14, the Shiromani Akali Dal, one of its constituents, has appealed to the government not to present the ordinances until all reservations expressed by farmers are addressed. The Akali Dal’s appeal has given the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party fresh ammunition to target the Badal family. SAD has so far been favouring the ordinances, asserting them to be benefiting the farmers. Congress State president Sunil Jakhar on Sunday said it was on account of their vested interests and to safeguard their position in the Central government that the Badal family had been in favour of the ordinances. ‘Vested interests’ “But now after facing farmers in villages, the party workers and other leaders have realised that the party’s political survival is at stake, and hence they have confronted the leadership of Sukhbir Singh Badal. The collective will of other leaders has prevailed on Mr. Sukhbir, forcing the party to take a U-turn on the ordinances’ issue. They (Badal family) were blinded by the need for power at the Centre by undermining the farmers interests. But now people and their party leaders have shown them the mirror and they had to change their stand,” Mr. Jakhar told The Hindu . “Also, this clearly indicates that Mr. Sukhbir is losing his grip over the party. This is the beginning of his fall and very soon, he will face stiff challenge to his authority in the party,” he said. ‘Quit Central govt.’ Terming the Akali Dal’s U-turn on the farm ordinances as ‘a cheap gimmick’ to hoodwink the farming community, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh challenged Mr. Sukhbir to quit the BJP-led Central government to prove his party’s sincerity. A statement, issued after a meeting on September 12 of the Akali Dal’s core committee presided over by Mr. Sukhbir, said it was felt that the party has a responsibility to take up the farmers’ issues with the Union government and get them addressed. The committee had pointed out that the SAD leadership had met farmers’ organisations and their representatives during the last few days. Also, it held discussions with farm experts besides taking the view of party’s grassroots workers and senior leadership, said the statement. It added that “a considered view had emerged that the Union government should not rush through with passing of the three Central ordinances till the apprehensions conveyed to the SAD were addressed”. ‘Test for Punjab MPs’ Hitting out at the Akali Dal, the Aam Aadmi Party’s Punjab president and Member of Parliament Bhagwant Mann said this session of Parliament would test all the MPs of Punjab whether they stand with or against the farmers of the State. “On the day of the introduction of the agriculture ordinance, the eyes of the people of Punjab will be on Sukhbir Singh Badal and Harsimrat Kaur Badal,” he said. Mr. Mann said Akali Dal’s latest stand on the issue had highlighted the fact that the ‘Badal family’ has been disturbed by the ground realities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sad-wants-centre-to-go-slow-on-ordinances/article32596219.ece
14 September 2020||FARIDABAD,||Woman arrested for killing daughter||A woman has been arrested for allegedly strangulating her eight-year-old daughter to death in Faridabad, the police said on Sunday. They said the woman practised occult and told the police that she had been possessed by an evil spirit since 2001. The woman from Sanjay Colony here, took the girl to Bhagola village in Palwal and allegedly murdered her. She then returned to Faridabad, leaving the body at the spot. The girl’s father lodged a missing complaint at Mujesar police station on Thursday. The police and Crime Branch teams interrogated the family. During probe, they saw the girl going out with her mother. Next, they found the mother’s behaviour suspicious. During sustained interrogation, the woman confessed to the crime. She told the police that she had earlier also made an attempt to kill the girl by drowning her in a water tank on the terrace but her sons came to the spot at the same moment. The girl’s family originally belongs to Pratapgarh in Uttar Pradesh. The body has been discovered at the instance of the woman, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/woman-arrested-for-killing-daughter/article32596224.ece
14 September 2020||Gondia,||Central team visits flood-hit districts||A three-member team of the Centre visited Maharashtra’s Bhandara and Gondia districts to review the damage caused by floods following heavy rains last month, officials said on Sunday. Flooding took place in the last week of August in some parts of the two districts, located in Vidarbha region, following heavy rain and discharge of water from dams in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. The team, comprising officials from the Union rural development and agriculture departments, visited the villages on Saturday to assess the damage caused to houses, cattle sheds and crops. The team members reviewed a road stretch washed away between Bela and Korambhi in Bhandara district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/central-team-visits-flood-hit-districts/article32596236.ece
14 September 2020||GUWAHATI,||Phone gifted by COVID-19 patient reconnects lost trucker with family||Gurmeet Singh was tasked with driving a truckload of essentials to a warehouse in Mizoram almost a month ago. He instead ended up being driven as a COVID-19 patient to the Zoram Medical College in Aizawl. When he came to his senses after a few days in the ICU, Mr. Singh found that he had rammed a language barrier; no one understood his Punjabi-laced Hindi and he could not catch the Mizo-accented English the healthcare service providers used. To make things worse, he had lost his mobile phone. Lalrinmawia, a teacher at the Mizo Higher Secondary School in Aizawl, came to Mr. Singh’s rescue by gifting him a handset and a SIM card. The teacher, who was admitted to the isolation ward with Mr. Singh and others, noticed Mr. Singh borrow the phone of another patient. “The other man gave him the phone reluctantly. It was understandable...I called up my family to fetch me an unused handset in the house,” Mr. Lalrinmawia told The Hindu on Sunday. “I could sense he was having problems communicating. So I gave him the phone to speak to his family and employers,” said the teacher. “But it was something any man would probably do for another one in trouble and lost far from home,” he added. Mr. Singh was spotted by villagers at Khamrang, about 75 km from Vairengte at the border, from where he was allowed entry after a rapid antigen test found him to be negative. “Members of the Khamrang Village Level Task Force found him sleeping under the truck, almost unconscious. “We sent a medical team and admitted him at the COVID Care Centre in Kolasib, but he was shifted to Aizawl because of other health complications,” district information officer Hmingthanzuala said. Mr. Singh was released five days ago and could not be contacted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/phone-gifted-by-covid-19-patient-reconnects-lost-trucker-with-family/article32596217.ece
14 September 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. books Mukhtar Ansari’s wife under Gangsters Act||The Uttar Pradesh police have booked the wife of jailed MLA from Purvanchal Mukhtar Ansari and her two brothers under the Gangsters Act for allegedly trespassing on land attached by the government and obtaining official contracts with forged documents. The latest case by the BJP government follows a sequence of penal measures taken against the politician and his family in the last two months. The MLA’s family has alleged that the government was targetting them to entangle them in criminal cases and to divert attention of people from its failures. A case under Section 2/3 (1) of the U.P. Gangsters and Anti-Social Prevention Act was lodged against the MLA’s wife Afsa Ansari and her two brothers — Sharjeel Raza and Anwar Shahzad — in Ghazipur district. The police have accused them of illegal possession of land that was already attached by it and obtaining government contracts with forged documents. The three committed “crime like an organised criminal gang”, the Ghazipur police claimed in a statement. SP Ghazipur Om Prakash Singh said the Gangsters Act was invoked against the three to put a leash on their ‘acts of embezzlement of funds and illegal trespass on property’. Chargesheets had been filed in the cases which were lodged in 2019, he added. Afzal Ansari, BSP MP from Ghazipur and brother of Mr. Mukhtar, accused the State government of vindictive action against the family to “divert attention of people from its failures and main issues”. “It is a clear misuse of power,” he told The Hindu on phone. “It appears like this is being done in a planned manner,” Mr. Afzal said on the cases against the family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/up-books-mukhtar-ansaris-wife-under-gangsters-act/article32596215.ece
14 September 2020||Mumbai,||Rohit Pawar tells Chirag Paswan to focus on reducing crimes in Bihar||Nationalist Congress Party MLA Rohit Pawar on Sunday asked Lok Janshakti Party’s (LJP) national president Chirag Paswan to first improve the law and order situation in Bihar, which is witnessing a ‘rise in the number of crimes’ under the Nitish Kumar-led State government in which his party is an ally. Mr. Pawar’s comments came a day after Mr. Paswan demanded the imposition of President’s Rule in Maharashtra as its law and order situation was deteriorating. Mr. Paswan had referred to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s action of demolishing illegal alterations at actor Kangna Ranaut’s house in Bandra and said Mumbaikars were worried about their safety. Mr. Pawar said he was using actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death to create ill will against Maharashtra. He said Mr. Paswan by speaking in the tone of an actress who is trying to launch her political career. Mr. Pawar said, “It is difficult to improve basic infrastructure by taking responsibility for the existing situation. Sad that you are choosing the easy path for your politics,” Mr. Pawar reminded Mr. Paswan, who has been an actor in Bollywood, that he too must be having an affinity to Mumbai. He said, “The people of Maharashtra will never tolerate you throwing mud on Maharashtra only for your political interests.” Mr. Pawar said, “I heard that you are worried about the law and order situation in Maharashtra and demanding the Governor to impose President’s Rule in Maharashtra. If you are so supportive of law and order, then why didn’t you demand this for Bihar at the time when crimes against girls in the Muzaffarpur shelter home were unearthed in 2018. You had said that such cases are coming out from many other districts in the State. You did not even demand Nitish [Kumar] ji ’s resignation.” The MLA said the National Crime Records Bureau data show that Bihar’s capital Patna has the top murder rate among 19 big cities. “Patna’s murder rate is 4.4 and is also at the top in killings of our sisters over dowry. In 2018 alone, five senior Right to Information activists were murdered. Many journalists were also killed. Incidents of people being killed by land mafia, and burning of houses are common in Bihar. Wonder why your party is still in the ruling alliance?” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rohit-pawar-tells-chirag-paswan-to-focus-on-reducing-crimes-in-bihar/article32596238.ece
14 September 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Main accused in sale of used gloves held||The Navi Mumbai Crime Branch’s Unit I has arrested the main accused in a case in which used gloves were being washed and resold. Dheeraj Rishikeshan (28), a supervisor of waste management at Amritha Institute of Medical Science and Research Centre in Kochi, was arrested on September 8. Senior police inspector Subhash Nikam, Unit I, said, “We are verifying if he was an employee or on contract. Prima facie, the hospital does not seem to be involved in the crime.” The accused, who has been remanded in police custody till Monday, said he was not aware that the gloves would be resold. He said he was made to believe that the gloves would be used to make slippers. On August 18, a team led by assistant police inspector Rahul Rakh, Unit I, seized four lakh tonnes of used gloves from a unit at Gami Industrial Park in Pawane MIDC. The team found 263 sacks of used gloves and 17 packets of washed and dried gloves. Prashant Ashok Surve (38), a resident of Belapur, who ran the unit was arrested. He led the police to Vipul Shah (52), a resident of Malad, and Nazeem Khan (30), who ran a godown in Bhiwandi, where 15 tonnes of used gloves worth Rs. 15 lakh were seized. Mr. Shah and Mr. Khan gave the police the details of Imran Lateef Siddiqui, who showed them a godown in Bengaluru, where 10 tonnes of used gloves worth Rs. 10 lakh were seized. However, the godown’s owner managed to escape. The Crime Branch team also seized 19 tonnes of used gloves worth Rs. 19 lakh from a godown run by Afroz Shaikh (36) in Aurangabad. Mr. Shaikh’s interrogation led the police to Hyderabad, from where they got a link to the hospital in Kochi. Tarun Lakshmandas Ramani in Delhi was identified as the middleman between Mr. Surve and Mr. Shaikh. The police said if the godown owner from Bengaluru is nabbed, then he could lead them to other hospitals selling used gloves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/main-accused-in-sale-of-used-gloves-held/article32596239.ece
14 September 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Red sandalwood worth Rs. 1.87 crore seized||The Raigad Local Crime Branch (LCB) has seized red sandalwood worth Rs. 1.87 crore from a farm at Neral in Karjat. Acting on a tip-off received by senior police inspector Jamil Shaikh, an LCB team raided the farm at Naaralwadi on Saturday along with forest officials. The team found 3,750 kg of red sandalwood worth Rs. 1.87 crore buried in the ground. The police said the sandalwood was stored in a pit which was 22 metres long, two metres wide and 1.5 metres deep. The pit was sealed with cement and tiles were placed over it. Grass was then grown on the tiles to conceal the pit. Mr. Shaikh said, “We seized an electric woodcutter and equipment used to pack sandalwood from a two-storeyed house at the farm. The sandalwood was smuggled here, processed, packed and sent elsewhere. We are investigating from where they received the sandalwood and to where it was being transported.” The LCB team has arrested Akbar Hussain alias Raju Batla, a resident of Trombay who owned the farm, and two of his accomplices. Mr. Batla has 23 cases registered against him across the country. He has contested Assembly elections in the State on Samajwadi Party and Peasants and Workers Party tickets. His wife is a former corporator from Trombay. The accused have been remanded in police custody till September 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/red-sandalwood-worth-rs-187-crore-seized/article32596240.ece
14 September 2020||New Delhi,||Case study: technical glitches, financial crunch and evading clients||From facing financial difficulties to overcoming technical problems, many advocates practising in the Capital had to adapt to the unprecedented challenges thrust by the COVID-19 pandemic. With the imposition of the first lockdown in March, the Delhi High Court and its subordinate courts have been conducting hearings mainly through videoconferencing. While standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the videoconference hearing have since been chalked out, and even limited physical hearing resumed recently, it has been a bumpy ride for lawyers who are just starting their career. Advocate Rajnish Kumar Jha, who began practising from 2012, stressed many lawyers do not have access to technology for virtual court hearing. “There are many who don’t have a smartphone. They never needed one earlier,” he said. “Many of them would come to the court, do their work, earn and go home. But the pandemic has changed all this. There is less work now. Besides, with virtual hearing, the client might not want to pay the same amount they used to for physical hearing, wherein a lawyer has to travel to court premises and reserve time to appear before the court,” he added. Genuine difficulties There were times when the clients have had genuine difficulties. “If the client himself is not in a good financial position, say his business is not doing well, we as lawyers don’t feel like asking for a fee. Here we have to balance the client-lawyer relation,” he said. Advocate Neeraj Mishra, who is a decade into the profession, said there is a standing order of the High Court not to pass any adverse order when the opposite parties are unable to appear for hearing due to the pandemic. Because of this, many of the litigants are avoiding court appearance as they do not want the case to proceed, he said. Mr. Mishra explained: “In case of clients who are plaintiff or complainant, they don’t want to pay the lawyers’ fees. Their arguments being firstly that nothing has happened in court, secondly that lawyers don’t have to go to court premises for physical hearing, and thirdly, even the defendant has not joined the virtual hearing.” Another issue that lawyers encounter regarding payment from clients is that while most of them don’t want to meet personally, some are hesitant to pay online either. “Also in the limited physical hearings that are happening these days, the presence of the client is not necessary. Hence, they don’t usually show up for hearing,” Mr. Mishra added. “While the Bar Council of Delhi and various bar associations in the Capital had been helping lawyers monetarily, I know lawyers who, despite needing the money, have not applied for it out of their self regard,” he said. Former Bar Council of Delhi Chairman K.C. Mittal said the crisis has caused serious financial problems for many advocates. It was then that the council decided to invite applications from needy advocates for financial assistance from March 27, 2020. The sum of Rs. 5,000 was granted to them, Mr. Mittal added. Practical problems Advocate Gyanant Kumar Singh said that while a majority of cases are being heard through videoconferencing, there are times when lawyers are unable to argue properly due to technical glitches. “Recently, I appeared in a virtual hearing in which my client’s case was clubbed with three other similar cases. But somehow, my mic was put to ‘mute’ by the technical staff. I could not argue my case. I also had two other cases, but could not argue those too as my mic was muted throughout the proceedings,” he said. "Also, the issue with virtual hearing is that litigants are not willing to pay the rightful due of the lawyer. We used to charge date-wise but are not getting it these days. The court registry is also taking up only those cases which are of urgent nature. Hence, the number of cases being heard has gone down,” he said. Advocate Abhishek Kumar Pathak also highlighted other technical hurdles with virtual hearing. “There are times when, due to network glitches, what we say on our side is heard or recorded differently. There are times when we wanted to refer certain documents during the virtual hearing. In a physical hearing we could just place the document to the court directly, but during virtual hearing, it is not always possible,” Mr. Pathak added. “Even if we email the documents, it would usually come up during the next date of hearing,” he said, adding that many litigants also do not have an email account which causes problems with serving proper notice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/case-study-technical-glitches-financial-crunch-and-evading-clients/article32596223.ece
14 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||10 held for cheating people via e-commerce apps||The police on Sunday said they have arrested 10 people and apprehended two juveniles for allegedly cheating hundreds of people through e-commerce apps by posing as Army or paramilitary personnel. The accused exploited the trustworthiness associated with the Armed Forces to cheat potential buyers or sellers. They also shared fake screenshots to lure their targets into scanning malicious Quick Response (QR) codes, they said. "During investigation, the location of the accused was identified and raids were conducted, following which 10 of them were arrested," said DCP (Cyber) Anyesh Roy said. Those arrested have been identified as Husban (22), Hasib (24), Faisal (19), Sajid (27) Sabir (25) Shezad Khan (26), Aziz Akhtar (25) and Sakir (29), all residents of Nuh district in Haryana, Yashvir (26), a resident of Faridabad, and Salim (35) from Rajasthan, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/10-held-for-cheating-people-via-e-commerce-apps/article32596230.ece
14 September 2020||New Delhi,||CAIT warns of collapse of small businesses||Traders body, Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), on Sunday warned that nearly 1.75 crore small business were on the verge of closure as a consequence of COVID-19 and related restrictions. The pandemic had brought traders in the country to their knees with no sign of respite in the near future, given that there was no support from Central or State governments, CAIT said in a statement. The body also hit out at banks for not extending formal finance to small businesses as a consequence of which most traders were dependent on informal sources to meet their requirements. What pinches traders is that all other sectors of the economy were considered worthy of being included in the financial package despite ensuring smooth supply of goods during the lockdown, said CAIT president Praveen Khandelwal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cait-warns-of-collapse-of-small-businesses/article32596233.ece
14 September 2020||Pune,||MVA govt. stabbed Maratha community in the back: BJP||Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) State president Chandrakant Patil on Sunday said the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government had stabbed the Maratha community in the back by failing to vigorously defend before the Supreme Court the issue of providing its members reservation in education and jobs. “As a result, the court has now put a stay on the implementation of the Maratha quota law. Our [BJP] government had fought hard to first get the Bill passed in the Maharashtra legislature, and then make sure that the law endured in the Bombay High Court,” said Mr. Patil. Rattled by the muk morchas (silent rallies) in the State in the latter half of 2016, the Devendra Fadnavis-led BJP government had finally managed to get the Maratha quota Bill passed in the Assembly in 2018 to pacify the restive community. Mr. Patil also alleged that the Congress never took any interest in granting a quota to the community. “Right from the beginning, the Congress leadership had no interest in granting reservation for the Maratha community despite the fact that the proposal for a quota was first mooted during the 15-year rule [1999-2014] of the Congress-Nationalist Congress Party coalition in the State,” Mr. Patil said. He also rebuked Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar for hinting at fresh transfers of IAS officers unless the grim COVID-19 situation in Pune was brought under control. Mr. Patil said the Deputy Chief Minister himself ought to monitor the situation daily if he wanted results rather than hectoring or browbeating officials. ‘Indulging in idle politics’ Countering him, a Congress leader from Pune said Mr. Patil was merely indulging in “idle politics” and the fact that the then Congress-NCP government had proposed reservation for the Maratha and Muslim communities in the State, proved that it had always been serious about both communities getting their due rights. Senior Congressman Mohan Joshi criticised the BJP State chief over the pandemic situation in Pune, remarking that despite several BJP leaders occupying positions of power in the Pune civic body and the city, not one had contributed anything significant to alleviate the health crisis. ‘Political stunts’ “The BJP has 100 corporators in the Pune civic body. The Mayor is from the BJP. Mr. Patil is an MLA from Pune’s Kothrud area. Union Prakash Javadekar, who is considered Prime Modi’s ‘right hand’, hails from the city. Yet, all these bigwigs have only indulged in political stunts instead of boosting the city’s medical infrastructure,” Mr. Joshi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mva-govt-stabbed-maratha-community-in-the-back-bjp/article32596244.ece
14 September 2020||Pune,||CREDAI-Pune Metro opposes hike in ready reckoner rates||The Pune chapter of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI) has protested the hike in ready reckoner (RR) rates announced by the Maharashtra government. CREDAI-Pune Metro said it would create a negative impact on home buyers as the RR had allegedly nullified the impact of concession given in the stamp duty rates. At 3.91%, the revised RR rate for Pune is the highest among all districts in the State. “The real estate sector has been a sluggish market for the last three to four years. This dire situation has been aggravated by the unprecedented COVID-19 pandemic. Even after five months, construction activities are still at a standstill,” said Suhas Merchant, president, CREDAI-Pune Metro. Remarking that the real estate sector is a growth engine that contributed substantially to the country’s GDP by creating wealth and employment, he said that it required governmental support to survive and revive itself from the present economic slowdown. ‘Sector needs booster’ “Considering this fact, the State government has not revised the RR rates during the last two years. As there is no improvement in the situation, the sector needs a booster rather than this uncalled-for upward revision. The steep increase in the RR rates is ad hoc and has no scientific basis,” Mr. Merchant said. The CREDAI-Pune Metro president further said that the government’s claim that the average increase in the RR rates was only 1.74 % was “utterly misleading” to the public. “The increase in upcoming areas of Pune has in fact been as high as 10%. This is because the land rates in residential places like Prabhat Road, Dhankawadi, Baner and Ghorpadi has been 8%. So the hike in RR rates has only shot up the prices further,” Mr. Merchant said. With a number of peripheral areas, including 23 villages, recently merged into the Pune Municipal Corporation, rates of residential properties in the city had increased across the board in Pune’s developing areas, he pointed out. ‘No sale’ Mr. Ashwin Trimal, managing committee member, CREDAI-Pune Metro, observed that the rates in the old part of Pune city had remained unchanged because there was not much development, and hence no sale was happening in these areas. “However, rates have shot up in areas where the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana initiative is being implemented, and flats are being purchased with subsidy from the government. Now, it will be more stressful for needy people to purchase such flats,” said Mr. Trimal. He said the hike would affect flat buyers more because the RR rates had precisely soared in those areas where there was a possibility of flats being developed. “This rise also appears illogical in certain cases as the land rates have not increased in proportion to the rates of flats. Hence, we can broadly conclude that the government is trying to nullify benefits given to home buyers by reducing the stamp duty with this increase in RR rates,” Mr. Trimal said, adding that the revision in rates had defeated the purpose of extending the stamp duty concession to home buyers.  This rise appears illogical in certain cases as the land rates have not increased in proportion to the rates of flats Ashwin Trimal Managing committee member, CREDAI-Pune Metro||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/credai-pune-metro-opposes-hike-in-ready-reckoner-rates/article32596242.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,||‘BJP-JJP govt. has been rocked by scandals’||Former Union Cabinet Minister Kumari Selja completes one year as the first woman president of the Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee this month. She speaks on a host of issues ranging from the party’s defeat in the Assembly election last year to challenges before the party to the performance of the BJP-JJP government in Haryana and, of course, the recent controversy over the letter by a few senior party leaders to Congress president Sonia Gandhi.   The BJP gave a slogan of “Abki Baar, 75 Paar” in 2019 Assembly election, but failed to get even a simple majority. It was clearly a vote for change in Haryana. But the Congress failed to make the most of it. Where do you think the party faltered? There was a change in the organisational set-up of Haryana just a few weeks before polling. Just four months before it, the Congress had lead in only ten Assembly segments during the Lok Sabha election. After the change in organisation, we barely had a month. We came from behind and managed to get 31 seats. We lost a few seats by very thin margins. The BJP aimed for more than 75, but got just 40. I think that is more remarkable than to say that the Congress did not do well. The Congress did really well. The Congress defied everybody. Do you think there was a delay in making a change in the State leadership. Had it been done earlier, could the results have been different? These are questions asked later with hindsight. Political decisions are taken when they are. The result is the fact. People were not willing to give the Congress even a dozen seats, but we got 31. We were confident of forming the government. We knew the BJP was nowhere close to what it was claiming. But unfortunately, they managed to create an atmosphere with the media and other resources at their command and people believed them. They had won all the 10 Lok Sabha seats just before the Assembly poll. All this helped them reach the 40-seat mark. The Congress does not have an organisational set-up at the district and block levels in Haryana for the past six years. You have been at the helm of affairs in the State for a year now. What’s causing the delay? There are multiple factors. The spread of the deadly virus over the past few months has put certain constraints on our political activities. I will admit that this is the main factor. I will try to be more active in the days to come. It is high time that people committed to the ideology of the party and its leadership are given positions in the organisation. Do you have any deadline in mind for it? No deadline as such, but we are discussing with the central leadership. The process is on at every level. We will do it in the near future. Your predecessor Ashok Tanwar left the party alleging that certain leaders had hijacked the party. Do you feel free to take decisions as party chief? It is not like that. We do understand there were problems at that time. In the coming times, we have to sort these out. I believe personal ambitions need to be put aside and genuine and hard working people should get a chance. We all have been appointed by the high command and it is not like if there are constraints or I need more freedom. That is hardly an issue. How do you rate the performance of the Haryana government? Firstly, the tall claims of the BJP in power for five years during the first term came to a naught when they failed to muster a majority on their own and were forced to form the government with the help of a party which had opposed them. But I suppose political exigency dictated the terms when they came together. Now in the past one year, this government has been rocked by scandal after scandal. Where is the delivery? And then on top of all this was the COVID-19 situation and the lockdown. This government was always found grappling with situations. Even after the lockdown, health issues remain, testing issues remain, hospital care issues remain and post-COVID care issues remain. They say one thing one day and take it back the next day. They were going to shut down all shops over the weekend, there was a massive protest. Then they said, no we would do it on Mondays and Tuesdays. What is the logic behind this? Logic should dictate that, not whims. Such whimsical and fanciful decisions of the government do not cut ice with the masses. Haryana being an agricultural State, there is this issue of three ordinances. Haryana’s agriculture sector depends on farmers, labours and commission agents. They want to do away with this time-tested system which has served the people. MSP is a major lifeline for the farmers. You throw open the market, as you have done in every sector to benefit a handful of big houses. You don’t think of those at the bottom of the pyramid. The Congress claims that there is resentment in every section of society in the State. But the party is not seen on the ground. Your comments. We have held more than 80 workers’ meetings and protests over the past one year. We have been holding protests even during the pandemic. I myself have participated in these protests. Our MLAs participate, our workers participate. We have a protest in every district. Whether it was petrol and diesel or any other issue, we have taken it up. Those who say that the Congress is not present on the ground have their eyes closed. Recently, 23 senior party leaders wrote to party president Sonia Gandhi seeking revamp of the Congress and the need for visible and full-time leadership. What is your take on it? Despite the constraints, the most visible opposition to the government’s anti-people policies is from the Congress and our leadership. I think the way Rahul Gandhi ji takes them on, no other Opposition leader in the country puts them on the mat. He does it with facts and figures and the realities of the day. Be it economy, the border dispute, or any other issue. Ms. Gandhi showed a lot of magnanimity to allow six hours’ discussion on it in the Congress Working Committee meeting. Being responsible soldiers of the party what we utter should strengthen the party and not weaken it. We have to fight the BJP and its nefarious designs. So for some leaders to suddenly raise this banner seemed unfortunate. The Congress’ political graph is on the decline since 2014. What do you think is the way forward for the party? The Congress has seen ups and downs. But our workers are not deterred by poll reversals. The Congress is a mass-based party. It will become strong again because it reflects the will of the people. It is not like the BJP that tries to destabilise the governments after losing the elections and buys MLAs. The Congress takes poll reversal in its stride and all of us get together and work hard. I wish all our friends will do that. It is time for us to work at grassroots level and not to question the leadership.  I believe personal ambitions need to be put aside and genuine and hard working people should get a chance||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-jjp-govt-has-been-rocked-by-scandals/article32596221.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Covering all bases||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/covering-all-bases/article32596469.ece
14 September 2020||London,||No EU plot to destabilise the U.K.: Ireland||Ireland on Sunday rejected an incendiary claim by Prime Minister Boris Johnson that the EU is plotting to destabilise the U.K., as another week of Brexit high drama beckoned ahead of a stormy parliamentary debate in London. A war of words escalated about a new British government Bill that London admits is in violation of its EU divorce treaty. Mr. Johnson’s contention that the European Union is plotting to choke off food supplies with destabilising new trade barriers between Britain and Northern Ireland is “simply not the case”, Irish Justice Minister Helen McEntee told Sky News. “Any suggestion that this is going to create a new border is simply not true,” she said, while Irish Foreign Minister Simon Coveney dismissed Johnson’s claim as “spin”. McEntee said that a protocol on Northern Ireland in the EU withdrawal treaty was agreed by both sides to ensure fair competition after Brexit, and to comply with a 1998 peace pact that ended three decades of unrest in the province. The treaty also “ensures the integrity of Northern Ireland as part of the U.K.”, she said, and it “ensures we do not see any kind of a border re-emerging”. Resignation talk  Writing in Saturday’s Daily Telegraph newspaper, Mr. Johnson had accused the EU of threatening to tear the U.K. apart by imposing a food “blockade” between Britain and Northern Ireland, which is meant to enjoy a special status with the EU after Brexit. Johnson said the EU’s stance justified his government’s introduction of the new legislation to regulate the UK’s internal market, after a post-Brexit transition period expires at the end of this year. But writing in Le Parisien newspaper, French European Affairs Minister Clement Beaune said it was “inconceivable” that a “great democracy” like the U.K. would break its word. Charles Michel, who heads the EU Council of governments, said Britain’s “international credibility” was at stake as both sides battle to unwind nearly 50 years of economic integration. He insisted Mr. Johnson’s government live up to its binding promises. Parliament debate The Bill will come up for its first debate in the House of Commons on Monday, and mutinous MPs are demanding its withdrawal along with pressing for Justice Secretary Robert Buckland to resign. “If I see the rule of law being broken in a way I find unacceptable then of course I will go,” Mr. Buckland told BBC television. “I don’t believe we’re going to get to that stage,” he added. The main opposition Labour party demanded thePM get his priorities right, four years after he led the hugely divisive campaign to quit the EU in a hard-fought referendum. “Get on with Brexit and defeat the virus. That should be the government’s mantra,” Labour leader Keir Starmer wrote in the Sunday Telegraph .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/no-eu-plot-to-destabilise-the-uk-ireland/article32595900.ece
14 September 2020||MINDEN,||Trump questions integrity of election||Kicking off a Western swing, President Donald Trump barreled into Nevada for the weekend, looking to expand his path to victory while unleashing a torrent of unsubstantiated claims that Democrats were trying to steal the election. Mr. Trump defied local authorities by holding a Saturday night rally in Minden after his initial plan to hold one in Reno was stopped out of concern it would have violated COVID-19 health guidelines. Unleashing 90-plus minutes of grievances and attacks, Mr. Trump claimed the State’s Democratic Governor tried to block him and repeated his false claim that mail-in ballots would taint the election result. “This is the guy we are entrusting with millions of ballots, unsolicited ballots, and we’re supposed to win these States. Who the hell is going to trust him?” Mr. Trump said of Governor Steve Sisolak. “The only way the Democrats can win the election is if they rig it.” As part of his ongoing crusade against mail-in voting, lawyers for the President’s reelection campaign are urging a federal judge in Las Vegas to block a state law and prevent mail-in ballots from going to all active Nevada voters less than eight weeks before the election.  Kamala Harris attacked The President expressed his condolences to the victims but, declaring that “I don’t have to be nice anymore,” focussed on tearing into his Democratic opponent, Joe Biden. Mr. Trump claimed that the Democrat’s running mate, Senator Kamala Harris, would be President “in about a month” if Mr. Biden won, asserting that the former Vice-President would be but a figurehead and that Ms. Harris would hold power. Mr. Trump also mocked Mr. Biden’s slower travel schedule. “You know where he is now? He is in his damn basement again!” And, for good measure, Mr. Trump invoked his 2016 opponent, Hillary Clinton, leading the crowd to launch into its traditional “Lock Her Up!” chant. The President claimed he usually tried to stop the chant but on Saturday declared, “I don’t care if you say it anymore” and, breaking yet another norm of the office, suggested that Ms. Clinton “should be in jail.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-questions-integrity-of-election/article32595907.ece
14 September 2020||SALEM,||Smoke chokes U.S. West Coast as wildfire rages on||Wildfire smoke that posed a health hazard to millions choked the West Coast on Saturday as firefighters battled deadly blazes that obliterated some towns and displaced tens of thousands of people, the latest in a series of calamities this year. For people already enduring the coronavirus pandemic, the resulting economic fallout and political tensions evident in the Black Lives Matter protests and far-right counter protests, the fires added a new layer of misery. “What’s next? You have the protests, coronavirus pandemic, now the wildfires. What else can go wrong?” lamented Danielle Oliver, 40, of Happy Valley, southeast of Portland. The death toll from the fires in California, Oregon and Washington stood at 31 and was expected to rise sharply. Most of the fatalities were in California and Oregon. Oregon’s emergency management director said officials were preparing for a possible “mass fatality event” if many more bodies turn up in the ash. And the state fire marshal resigned after abruptly being placed on administrative leave. The state police superintendent said the crisis demanded an urgent response that required a leadership change. Fires along Oregon’s Cascade Range grew Saturday, but at a slower rate than earlier in the week, when strong easterly winds acted like a bellows, pushing two large fires — the Beachie Creek Fire and the Riverside Fire — toward each other and the state’s major population centers, including Portland’s southeastern suburbs. In California, a total of 28 active major fires have burned 4,375 square miles, and 16,000 firefighters are trying to suppress the flames, California Fire Assistant Deputy Director Daniel Berlant said. Large wildfires continued to burn in northeastern Washington state too. President Donald Trump said he will meet emergency services in California on Monday. In all, 22 people have died in California.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/smoke-chokes-us-west-coast-as-wildfire-rages-on/article32595903.ece
14 September 2020||New Delhi,||Tamhane’s The Disciple wins best screenplay at Venice fest||Director Chaitanya Tamhane won the best screenplay award for his Marathi-language feature The Disciple at the Venice Film Festival that saw Chinese-American filmmaker Chloe Zhao bagging the top prize of the coveted Golden Lion for her drama Nomadland . The winners of the main competition were announced by the festival jury during the closing ceremony, held on Saturday and live-streamed globally. Headed by two-time Oscar winner Cate Blanchett, the jury also included directors Joanna Hogg, Christian Petzold and Veronika Franz, novelist Nicola Lagioia and actors Ludivine Sagnier and Matt Dillon. Mr. Tamhane, the wunderkind filmmaker of Indian cinema, became the first director from the country to compete in the main category of a European film festival after Mira Nair. Her film Monsoon Wedding won the the Golden Lion at the festival in 2001.  The Disciple looks at the world of classical musicians on the fringes of success. It follows Sharad Nerulkar, played by Aditya Modak, an Indian classical vocalist trying to achieve purity in his work as he has been raised on the stories of his father and guru about the masters of the past. “Writing ‘The Disciple’ was by far the most challenging and painful endeavour I have ever undertaken. This honour means a lot to me and it will encourage me to keep pushing my own boundaries even further.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/tamhanes-the-disciple-wins-best-screenplay-at-venice-fest/article32595910.ece
14 September 2020||LONDON,||Former PMs slam Johnson||Two former British Prime Ministers who played crucial roles in bringing peace to Northern Ireland joined forces on Sunday to urge lawmakers to reject Boris Johnson government’s plans to override the Brexit deal with the European Union, arguing that it imperils that peace and damages the U.K.’s reputation. In an article in The Sunday Times , John Major and Tony Blair slammed the government for “shaming” the country with legislation that, in places, goes against the very deal it signed to allow for the U.K.’s smooth departure from the EU. “This government’s action is embarrassing our nation,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/former-pms-slam-johnson/article32595901.ece
14 September 2020||LAHORE,||Pakistan detains a suspect in rape of mother on a highway||Pakistani police on Sunday said they have arrested one of two suspects in the rape of a woman, who was dragged from her car and attacked in front of her children, after her car broke down on a desolate highway in central Punjab province. The assault drew widespread condemnation.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pakistan-detains-a-suspect-in-rape-of-mother-on-a-highway/article32595902.ece
14 September 2020||Tehran,||London, Sept 13, 2020 (AFP) -||Tehran on Sunday abruptly postponed the trial of British-Iranian woman Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe, who has spent more than four years in jail or under house arrest since being arrested while visiting relatives with her young daughter in 2016. She had denied charges of sedition.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/london-sept-13-2020-afp/article32595905.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,||In LAC talks, from peace to conflict prevention||The ongoing crisis in eastern Ladakh has raised many issues on the range and trajectory of India-China relations. Among these is the future relevance of various agreements that were signed between the two countries to maintain peace and tranquillity along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) that serves as a de facto border. Agreements over the years Some experts argue that the genesis of the current problem lies in the first agreement signed between India and China in 1993. They say India should not have accepted the term ‘LAC’ in this agreement as there was no clarity as to where this line lay on the ground, and this ambiguity has forced India to adopt a policy of appeasement on the LAC. The absence of a delineated LAC is undoubtedly problematic, but it would also be appropriate to put the various agreements in a historical context, and dispassionately analyse their impact and their future relevance. After the 1962 war, the India-China border was loosely controlled by both sides, with a fairly sparse deployment of troops. That did not mean that border claims were diluted by either side, as witnessed in the bloody clash at Nathu La in 1967. The China Study Group, established in 1976, gave clarity to India’s claims by laying down the patrolling points and guiding the scope of military activity along the LAC. A significant change in border management occurred after the Chinese occupation of a post in the Sumdorong Chu Valley in 1986. The massive response by the Indian Army sparked realisation on both sides that the boundary issue needed to be brought to the fore, and pending a settlement, some mechanism must be evolved to keep peace along the LAC. I was posted as a young Major in the China desk of the Military Operations Directorate when Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi made the breakthrough visit to Beijing in 1988. After his visit, we had started working on a number of drafts on confidence-building measures along the LAC. Many of these recommendations were incorporated in the Agreement on the Maintenance of Peace and Tranquillity along the Line of Actual Control in the India-China Border Areas, signed in 1993 (https://bit.ly/3k5HNi2). The 1993 agreement formalised the LAC concept. However, understanding that there were differing perceptions, it called for creating a group of diplomatic and military experts for “resolution of differences between the two sides on the alignment of the line of actual control”. The agreement eschewed the use of force to settle the boundary issue and, as part of confidence-building measures, restricted military exercises and air activity close to the LAC. An essential part of the agreement was a reduction in “military forces along the line of actual control in conformity with the requirements of the principle of mutual and equal security to ceilings to be mutually agreed”. This was followed by the 1996 Agreement Between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the People’s Republic of China on Confidence-Building Measures in the Military Field Along the Line of Actual Control in the India-China Border Areas (https://bit.ly/2GXxkqD). It called for reducing or limiting military forces to minimum levels and limiting the deployment of major armaments such as tanks, artillery guns, and missiles to mutually agreed levels. A 2005 protocol (https://bit.ly/3hy3HJe), or the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the People’s Republic of China on Modalities for the Implementation of Confidence Building Measures in the Military Field Along the Line of Actual Control in the India-China Border Areas, added more confidence-building measures outlining the procedure to be adopted when soldiers of the two sides came to a face-to-face situation while patrolling areas where there was a differing perception of the LAC. The protocol also agreed to expand the mechanism of border meeting points and exchanges between the two militaries. Interestingly, there was no mention of a reduction in military forces. Unimplemented aspects Did these agreements serve a useful purpose? Undoubtedly, they resulted in an extended period of calm along the LAC and ensured that not a shot was fired. However, two unimplemented aspects of the agreements, combined with a shift in military posture by both sides, has led to an erosion of confidence-building measures between the two armies in the past few years. First, the differences in the alignment of the LAC could not be resolved. Attempts were made, and maps were exchanged of the Central sector, but there were apparent irreconcilable differences over the Western sector, and the process stalled in 2002. Second, the agreement on reducing military forces along the LAC to the minimum was neither seriously discussed nor implemented. In the late 1980s, when rapprochement with China was being considered, the Indian Army looked towards Pakistan as the major threat. However, even at that time, papers produced by my superiors in the Military Operations Directorate stated that in about 15 years, India’s primary adversary would be China. By the mid-2000s, the northern borders came into increasing focus of the military and the government. In 2006, a decision was taken to build 73 strategic roads along the LAC. In 2010, two new divisions were raised to strengthen deployment in Arunachal Pradesh, and additional formations were deployed in Ladakh. In 2013, the Indian government sanctioned the raising of a Mountain Strike Corps for the Northern border. As infrastructure improved on the Indian side and larger forces were available for patrolling the LAC, face-offs with Chinese patrols increased. In many cases, the Chinese soldiers complained that they were being prevented from going up to areas that they had traditionally patrolled, but India was defending its perception of the LAC more robustly. There is also a mistaken notion that the LAC is some fuzzy and unclear line. India’s perception of the LAC is clearly marked on its military maps, and while the soldiers understand that there are areas of differing perception, there is no ambiguity about the line that they are tasked to defend. Some media reports point out that the Indian Army had not been patrolling in the Depsang area after the 2013 intrusion by the Chinese. I will only briefly state that this is not true. As face-offs between the two armies became more frequent, protocols weakened. The first manifestation of this came in the Depsang intrusion in 2013, and the attempted intrusion at Chumar in 2014. In between Depsang and Chumar, both countries signed the Border Defence Cooperation Agreement, or the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the People’s Republic of China on Border Defence Cooperation (https://bit.ly/3c5yBaN), but it had little impact on the ground. After Doklam Even after Chumar, although protocols had weakened, they were still holding, and held out till the Doklam incident of 2017. It was after Doklam that we saw greater aggression by both sides. On August 15, 2017, videos were flashed all over the media of Indian and Chinese soldiers at Pangong Tso involved in stone-throwing. Today, the brutality of deaths along the LAC, the complete loss of trust, and disregard for the LAC by China have left all agreements in tatters. Can we go back to a situation where both sides revert to respecting the past agreements? I think it is no longer possible because two fundamentals of the agreements — resolution of the differing perceptions of the LAC and reduction of military forces — which have been ignored over the years stand unimplemented. There seem to be irreconcilable differences over these fundamentals. This reality is reflected in the five-point consensus arrived at in the recent meeting between the two Foreign Ministers. The two sides have agreed to “conclude new Confidence Building Measures to maintain and enhance peace and tranquillity in the border areas”. This is a good step forward, although we should no longer be talking about peace and tranquillity along the LAC, but conflict prevention. Lt. Gen. D.S. Hooda (retd.) is a former Northern Army Commander||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/in-lac-talks-from-peace-to-conflict-prevention/article32595888.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Coronavirus fears and preconception advice||In our preoccupation with managing the COVID-19 pandemic, we should not lose sight of special issues that may pose problems for women in the reproductive age group. The special issues are of two kinds: one that relates to medical management of pregnancy and newborn care. The World Health Organization (WHO) and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) have provided guidelines to address this issue. The second relates to the advisability of deliberately delaying pregnancy until the epidemic wanes and the disease becomes endemic. All available guidelines are silent on this issue. Is there a need for exercising a choice of timing of pregnancy? What should be a wise policy for the Government of India, or for that matter any government, the ICMR and WHO on this matter? Need for protocols, follow-up The SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes COVID-19 has a special predilection for the cells that form the inner lining of blood vessels. Therefore, organs that have a large number of blood vessels are particularly at risk. The placenta, a unique organ in pregnancy — the source of nourishment for the growing foetus — is highly vascular. It has been clearly demonstrated that in mothers infected close to the time of delivery, the virus can infect the placenta. A small percentage of newborn babies (1.4%) of such mothers have neonatal infection acquired from the mother. While most newborn babies do not develop clinical disease, rare neurologic problems have been described in them. In this context, it is pertinent that in Indian maternity hospitals, routine reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) testing of pregnant mothers admitted for delivery reveal that about 8-10 % of mothers are indeed infected by SARS CoV-2. The ICMR along with the professional bodies concerned should ensure that the treating teams are aware of the potential for trans-placental transmission of the virus and establish protocols for careful periodic follow-up of the new-born of infected mothers. If the virus can infect the placenta in term pregnancy, can it not affect the placenta in the first three months (first trimester) of pregnancy? The important question that comes to mind, therefore, is whether infection of the mother during the first trimester of pregnancy, the crucial period for the development of organ systems in the foetus, can cause congenital abnormalities. In the first trimester of pregnancy, many infections such as those caused by rubella and zika virus cause severe congenital abnormalities in the foetus. Recognition of this fact led to a WHO-approved government policy of routine rubella vaccination as part of the immunisation schedule of children. Issue of contraception In the context of COVID-19, it is too early to say whether viral infection during the first trimester will cause congenital abnormalities but the potential for such an occurrence is real. If it is a florid abnormality it would be known by now, but if subtle, by the time the effects on the foetus are recognised, it may be too late. Therefore, there is a need to anticipate this eventuality and be prepared for it. In the epidemic context, it is wiser to be cautious and advise effective contraception to postpone pregnancies till the probability of maternal viral infection is minimal. Cutting infection threat What are the advantages in adopting such a policy? If women adopt contraception, they will not need antenatal clinic visits which, during epidemic times, pose a risk of contracting infection in the clinic. Antenatal women constitute a large proportion of subjects who need to visit hospitals regularly and considerable proportions of health-care workers at the primary and secondary levels are occupied with their care. If this demand is less because women in reproductive age group practise contraception, there will be less pressure on the health-care system which is already struggling under the burden of this epidemic. These health-care workers can be deployed for the much-needed care of COVID-19 patients, non-COVID illness and, more importantly, the ensuing COVID-19 vaccination programme, a mammoth task in India. The lower birth rate till the epidemic wanes will ensure that there will be fewer children in the post-epidemic phase for economically distressed families to care for and curtail disease transmission through children. Every day about 748,000 babies are born in India. Since the outcome is unsuccessful in about half the pregnancies (embryo/foetal loss), the daily new pregnancies in India would be more than 15,00,000. With the widespread community transmission in India now, a large number of women who conceive are likely to be exposed to the virus. A proportion of those exposed will get infected and nearly 80% of those infected will be asymptomatic or have only trivial transient symptoms. They may not come to medical attention unless a family contact has RT-PCR positive symptomatic disease. At present, in city maternity hospitals, RT-PCR positivity in the first trimester is about 10% of all infected pregnant women and likely to increase rapidly as the epidemic in India approaches the peak. Infected women should have a more intensive follow-up during their ante-natal period to identify and document any fetal abnormality. Analysis of these results will be vital to state clearly whether any abnormality is attributable to the viral infection. The risk of exposure of the developing foetus is not just in those who come to hospital but also in all those asymptomatic or minimally symptomatic pregnant women with the viral infection. It is important, therefore, to advise all women in the reproductive age group to practise effective contraception over the next several months in order to prevent coronavirus infection during pregnancy and its potential impact on the foetus. The ICMR and the professional bodies concerned will do well to formulate policy on this matter and inform the profession and the public. Women who happen to conceive in spite of the advice may have to cocoon (reverse quarantine) themselves at least for the first trimester of pregnancy in order to avoid infection. On vaccination It is predicted that this virus will not go away but will stay on as an endemic problem after the fury of the epidemic is over. When this occurs and when an effective and safe vaccine is available, women in the reproductive age group who have not already acquired the infection and those who do not have circulating IgG antibody to indicate that they may have had asymptomatic infection, will have to be considered for priority vaccination prior to conception. Finally, while this problem will be huge in countries with a high birth rate such as India and China, it will also be a public health problem in countries with a low birth rate, where governments are concerned about ‘population wealth’. The ICMR and governments globally would do well to assess the situation, review all available scientific evidence and formulate and circulate an appropriate health advisory. India has the challenge and opportunity of adopting this policy and voicing its opinion in WHO. M.S. Seshadri is former Professor and HOD, Clinical Endocrinology Department, CMC Hospital, Vellore, and is currently Medical Director, Thirumalai Mission Hospital, Ranipet, Tamil Nadu. T. Jacob John is former Professor and HOD, Clinical Virology Department, CMC Hospital, Vellore and former President, Indian Academy of Pediatrics||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/coronavirus-fears-and-preconception-advice/article32595886.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Exploiting the Chinese exit||The current India-China border stand-off has expanded watchful Indian eyes into cyberspace; but the Chinese put up blinding shields on their own Internet territory more than a decade ago. The Chinese government began erecting censorship barriers (what I like to call the Great Internet Wall of China) and banned several popular Western websites and applications years ago. In January 2010, Google announced that in response to a hacking attack from within China on it and dozens of other U.S. companies, it was no longer willing to censor searches in China and would pull out of the country completely. Meanwhile, in the intervening years since Google and others were forced out, the Chinese Internet market exploded, and has grown to over 900 million users, most of them on mobile (paradoxically via Google’s Android) from just over 300 million in early 2010. This is according to the China Internet Network Information Center, a branch of the country’s Ministry of Industry and Information Technology. China’s lead In hindsight, China’s censors look like superb long-range economic planners and technology strategists. The Great Internet Wall did not filter and screen Western content so much as it insulated Chinese entrepreneurs from Big Tech in Silicon Valley. The Chinese web market was left with substantial appetites for Internet-based social, commerce, and lifestyle services which Big Tech could not fulfil. Home-grown firms such as WeChat and Alibaba had a field day building apps that were at first faithful reproductions of Silicon Valley, but soon morphed into distinctly Chinese applications tailored solely to the home market. Baidu has replaced Google in China. Youku Tudou is YouTube, and Xiaohongshu is a version of Instagram from which users can shop for goods directly. WeChat began as a simple messaging app, but is now many things for the Chinese (social media, news, messaging, payments, and digital commerce). As far back as 2016, U.S. President Barack Obama released a strategic plan which addressed many issues, but the most striking part of this report is that it appeared the Chinese had learnt their lesson from failing to make themselves an IT outsourcing services superpower like India had. According to the 2016 White House report, the Chinese have leapfrogged even the U.S. in AI research, especially in the components of “neural networks” and “deep learning”. In this case, the intellectual property being produced actually belongs to China and is not a faithful duplicate of someone else’s product or technology. This has far-reaching implications. Current affairs show us that the U.S. is likely to follow India’s lead by banning Chinese apps and technology companies. With the rise of Jio, and the response from its competitors, the widening reach of Internet connection across the country will provide hundreds of millions of non-urban Indians with fluid access to the Internet. India now has the lowest Internet data costs in the world. In its attempt to dominate the rest of the world, the Chinese Internet industry desperately needs India’s freshly minted 500-plus million netizens to continue to act as a training ground for the AI algorithms they put together. China’s Internet ecosystem is entirely self-created, self-run, and self-serviced, yet it exports the newly banned apps such as Tik Tok and PUBG worldwide — adding to the user base of 900-plus million Chinese netizens whose data they already have exclusive access to. The decision to ban such apps in India is not only a geopolitical move but also a strategic trade manoeuvre that can have significant economic impact. Banning these Chinese websites and applications to the Indian public effectively allows our home-grown IT talent to focus on the newly arrived Internet user. Big tech firms from Silicon Valley and China in both hardware and software have been in a tussle over the Indian consumer, but India’s focus remains on exporting IT services while paying little attention to servicing our own nation’s tech market. Most alarmingly, while we have spent the last two decades exporting the bulk of our technology services to developed countries in the West, the vacuum created as the Indian Internet grew has been filled by American Big Tech and by the Chinese. After the removal of more than 118 Chinese apps, Indian techies have started trying to fill the holes with copycat replacement websites and applications. But faithful copies are not enough for us to make full use of China’s exit. The primary Indian IT objective must shift from servicing others to providing for ourselves. In the absence of Chinese tech, Indian entrepreneurs should not simply look to replace what the exiting firms have so far been providing. They should focus instead on providing services and products of high quality that will be used by everyday Indians across the country. The aim of providing netizens with the same services across diverse markets is overarching — regional barriers created by language exist within our own nation. These provide an accretion of excellent smaller markets, with opportunities for specialised Internet services created for a local community, by the community itself. The fundamental focus of the new digital products that plan to emerge in the growing market should be to provide for hyper-regional necessities and preferences. With this in mind, there are several commercial opportunities available. For example, apps and services that provide specific market prices, local train and bus routes, allow for non-traditional banking and lending, education, health, online sales, classified advertising,and so on. It’s hyper-local, hyper-regional Accessibility is also crucial. With the rise in migrant work and labour all over the country, a news or banking app with, say, an Odiya interface should work everywhere that Odiya-speaking people migrate to. However, national accessibility on its own will not make an app a game changer. Indians are savvy enough to know what a world class app is. If we create hyper-local and hyper-regional services of high quality and great accessibility that are also portable across our linguistic diversity, we are far more likely to succeed in creating one of the strongest Internet markets in the world, rather than creating copycat apps or apps that only cater to English speakers. Technology companies all over the world have focused their efforts on the 15% of the world’s population with deep pockets while largely ignoring the other six billion denizens of the world’s population. Some sympathetic noises about ‘emerging’ markets are made, but the waters remain largely untested. If we go forward with the aim of servicing our own, India’s experiences as a modernising power are of great use to the bulk of the world’s population, which lives in penury when compared to its western counterparts. We can export our “India stack” to other countries in the “south”, such as those in Africa and Latin America. We have successfully done this before with our outstanding railway technology. There is no reason we cannot pull off the same achievement with our home-grown Internet power. Siddharth Pai is founder of Siana Capital, a venture capital firm focused on Indian Deep Tech and Science||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/exploiting-the-chinese-exit/article32595891.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Those subversive lines||Like every other professional, I too learn from best practices. I have learnt a lot from the work of Michael Getler, a former ombudsman at The Washington Post and at the Public Broadcasting Service, in handling various complaints from readers. He once said, “An ombudsman shows that the press can take a punch, if necessary, not just deliver one, and that there is also an independent voice to counter the daily claims of ‘fake news’ and to defend, when appropriate, against the sea of unfair and inaccurate criticism.” Complaints about two cartoons I was reminded of Getler’s wise counsel when I received two complaints within a span of 20 minutes about cartoons published in The Hindu over the past week. The first complaint was from Dr. P. Rajagopalan from Mylapore, Chennai. He wrote: “I am shocked and outraged beyond belief by two cartoons — one involving the Prime Minister dooming democracy to death and the other showing the NSA [National Security Adviser] as an attack dog rounding up innocents, criminals, activists and journalists with [the] Home Minister (like a Nazi) holding the leash, which were published in the September 7th and 8th issues, respectively, of your newspaper.” He went on to suggest that the cartoons should have been aimed only at former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and her son Sanjay Gandhi and not at the present Prime Minister or the Home Minister. Vijay S. Raghavan, a regular writer from Navi Mumbai, wrote: “ I wish to take objections to two cartoons by Surendra in The Hindu in the last few days. In one cartoon, Mr. Modi is shown cutting off the hook link from which a rope is hanging down and held tightly at the other end by a lady illustrated as Democracy. However hard the media, including The Hindu , tries to show the Modi government as anti-democratic and dictatorial, [what is seen] by the public is the other way round.” The cartoon in question was drawn by Satwik Gade and not by Mr. Surendra. Mr. Raghavan also took exception to the cartoon that criticised the way the NSA is being used to silence dissent. He wrote: “Just because some official steps were taken to control law and order, it does not mean that Mr. Modi is acting against democratic norms.” Talking truth to power Readers must remember that the excesses of one era do not justify the excesses of another. Cartoonists have been a critical voice throughout contemporary history. For instance, Abu Abraham drew some really subversive cartoons, including one that showed the President of India busy signing documents from his bathtub during the Emergency, which were later compiled as an anthology titled The Games of Emergency . When V.C. Shukla, the Information and Broadcasting Minister during the Emergency, justified censorship and said “it was needed to stop the spread of rumour”, Abraham famously retorted: “But why stop the spread of humour?” It is true that, in the words of another Information and Broadcasting Minister, Lal Krishna Advani, some journalists were “told to bend, but they chose to crawl” during the Emergency. The question before us is clear: do we want Abu Abrahams or those who choose to crawl when asked to bend? C. Rammanohar Reddy, a senior journalist and a former news ombudsman, has a very positive take on Mr. Surendra’s cartoons. On Mr. Surendra’s cartoon on the media trial of actor Rhea Chakraborty, Mr. Reddy tweeted: “A picture tells 10,000 words not a 1,000 words. Shame on Indian journalism. @surendracart’ a biting comment.” It is important that we not only understand the role of a cartoonist in our democratic space but also internalise it. In his excellent exposition on cartoons and cartoonists, Jonathan Moreno del Rio said: “Cartoonists are more than mere journalists who explore news and current affairs through their illustrations. They are not a source of information for the public; instead they are participants in public debate and engaged in commenting rather than reporting.” Taking a historical look at political cartoons, Harry Katz, former Head Curator of Prints and Photographs at the Library of Congress, said: “In an age when reality is defined by sound bites and spin doctors, pandering pundits and partisan politics, political cartoonists must remain relevant and above the fray, talking truth to power in all its forms and clarifying with insight, intelligence and accuracy the difficult, complex issues and events shaping our daily lives.” I think Mr. Surendra’s cartoons live up to Mr. Katz’s prescription. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/those-subversive-lines/article32595895.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Reducing India’s cancer burden||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-National Centre for Disease Informatics and Research (NCDIR) National Cancer Registry Programme Report of August 2020 has estimated that the number of cancer cases in India in 2020 is 13.9 lakh. India has seen a steady rise in cancer cases over many decades. A 2017 report showed that India’s cancer burden increased 2.6 times between 1990 to 2016, and deaths due to cancers doubled during the time. Almost two-thirds of these cancer cases are at late stages. In men, the most common cancers are of the lung, oral cavity, stomach and oesophagus, while in women, breast, cervix, ovary and gall bladder cancers are the most common. Tobacco use (in all forms) is a major avoidable risk factor for the development of cancer in 27% of cancer cases. Other important risk factors include alcohol use, inappropriate diet, low physical activity, obesity, and pollution. Cancer causes loss of lives and also has a tremendous socioeconomic impact. Reducing cancer is a prerequisite for addressing social and economic inequity, stimulating economic growth and accelerating sustainable development. But merely investing in cancer treatment is not an economically viable option. We need to focus on three key aspects: risk reduction, early detection and programmatic and policy solutions. Community empowerment Cancer occurrence is a complex interplay of host and environmental determinants, which makes it difficult to predict it at an individual level. But it is estimated that nearly 50%-60% of cancer cases can be avoided by tackling the known risk factors effectively. Community empowerment through a multisectoral approach that brings together government, private practitioners and civil society to increase health literacy and promote certain behaviour can go a long way in reducing potential risk factors. Improved awareness can also prevent stigma attached to the disease. We need to ensure that health systems are strengthened so that there is greater access to screening and vaccination, early detection, and timely, affordable treatment. The importance of data Population health approaches are also relevant for large-scale impact. Programmatic and policy-level solutions need to be driven by data. The information collected through the National Cancer Registry Programme has been used effectively over the years to advocate for better access to screening, early detection, referral, treatment and palliative care services. It has also helped shape cancer research in the country, which is of crucial importance to guide our efforts on cancer prevention and control. Making cancer a notifiable disease could be one of the ways to help drive this research further by providing greater access to accurate, relevant data that can drive policy decisions. India is committed to achieving a one-third reduction in cancer-related deaths by 2030 as part of the Sustainable Development Goals, and it has made considerable progress. India has improved in some areas, such as personal hygiene, which are distant drivers of cancer. Government programmes such as Ayushman Bharat, Swasthya Bharat, Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, Poshan Abhiyaan and Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Pariyojana and initiatives such as FSSAI’s new labelling and display regulations and drug price control can encourage inter-sectoral and multi-sectoral action. Other initiatives such as the National Health Policy, the National Tobacco Control Programme, and the National Programme for Prevention and Control of Cancer, Diabetes, Cardiovascular Diseases and Stroke are also paving the way for progress. Our approach should not simply focus on diagnostics, treatment modalities and vaccines, but emphasise inclusivity in thinking and action for equitable solutions that can greatly reduce the impact of cancer across all socioeconomic levels in the country. Dr. Balram Bhargava is Director General, ICMR, and Secretary, Department of Health Research; and Dr. Prashant Mathur is Director, ICMR-NCDIR, Bengaluru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/reducing-indias-cancer-burden/article32595896.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,||The second chair||More than a year after the 17th Lok Sabha was constituted, the constitutionally mandated post of Deputy Speaker is lying vacant. This unusual situation is in the spotlight as the monsoon session of Parliament begins on Monday and the Rajya Sabha is scheduled to elect a Deputy Chairman. The vacancy of Deputy Speaker appears to be less of a lapse, and more a calculated delay by the ruling BJP. On September 9, the Congress leader in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, wrote to Speaker Om Birla to initiate the process, by election or consensus. Mr. Chowdhury also recalled the convention of offering the post to the Opposition. Mr. Birla has been non-committal in his public comments on the issue, and the BJP has remained silent. Soon after the 2019 general election, the government had made some effort to fill the position. It had approached the YSR Congress, which reportedly turned it down since it would have been difficult to align their protest against the government for not according special status to Andhra Pradesh with occupying the post. While the Congress has been forceful in raising the issue, other Opposition parties have been less enthusiastic. In the Rajya Sabha, the JD(U)’s Harivansh, who has been reelected to the House, is seeking reelection as Deputy Chairman as the ruling combine’s candidate. He had defeated Congress leader B.K. Hariprasad — 125-105 votes — in elections in August 2018. The ruling combine, despite not having a simple majority, has managed to win crucial votes several times over in the past in the Upper House. This time around, BJP leaders have claimed the support of 140 members for Mr. Harivansh. The RJD’s Manoj Jha, an erudite member in the Opposition, is the joint candidate of 12 parties for the post. There was confusion within the Opposition ranks on whether this contest was worth it. Several of their senior members are likely to skip the session, considering the risk of COVID-19 infection. The BSP, which has remained a reluctant Opposition party, is unlikely to be different this time. The BJP has taken its overwhelming parliamentary majority as a justification for disregarding not only the Opposition but also parliamentary conventions. Its refusal to engage the Opposition in electing a Deputy Speaker is further eroding the common ground that India sorely requires to deal with the multitude of its current challenges. The BJP’s pre-eminence has also devastated the Opposition which is struggling to muster a coherent and united response. Election by consensus of an Opposition MP as Deputy Speaker of Lok Sabha will be a course correction. The government should be magnanimous and the Opposition creative in dealing with this issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-second-chair/article32595880.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Long haul ahead||Factory output continued to contract in July, albeit marginally slower than in June, reflecting the depressed economic conditions as the pandemic rages on. Quick estimates for the IIP show output across the three sectoral components of the index — mining, manufacturing and electricity — all shrank, dragging the overall index to a 10.4% year-on-year contraction. While this is slower than June’s 15.8% shrinkage, a closer look reveals that the rebound in momentum witnessed in the fiscal first quarter’s last month — when the economy reopened and the contraction narrowed sharply from May’s 33.9% fall — has dissipated appreciably. The most telltale sign of this flattening is the more than halved pace of growth in the solitary use-based industrial activity of the IIP’s six product groups, in which output had turned positive in June. Growth in consumer non-durables — it includes essential household consumables — slid back to 6.7% from the preceding month’s 14.3%, betraying the abiding weakness in private consumption spending. The other five groups posted double-digit contractions, with consumer durables and capital goods shrinking 23.6% and 22.8%, respectively. If the trend in durables attests to the RBI’s evaluation last month that “private consumption has lost its discretionary elements across the board”, the capital goods data point to a dismal picture on the investment front. With demand-starved companies operating their factories well below capacity, there is little indication that the protracted six-quarter slump in this key sector, which encompasses the plants and machinery that manufacturers order when expanding or starting new ventures, is anywhere close to reversing momentum. Electricity generation, however, provides some relief, with the contraction narrowing to 2.5% in July from June’s 10%. A deeper look at the 23 subcategories of manufacturing shows that only tobacco products and pharmaceuticals posted expansions in July, with the latter benefitting from the increased global demand for medicines, including generic drugs, in the wake of the pandemic. The manufacture of pharmaceuticals, medicinal chemical and botanical products climbed 22% in July, making it the solitary product to post an expansion of 1.8% over April-July. Textiles and garment manufacturing, employment intensive segments shrunk to 14.8% and 28.7%, respectively. To be sure, the IIP data come with a lag of six weeks and a few more recent indicators give room for some guarded hope. For one, the latest IHS Markit India Manufacturing PMI survey-based outlook signals that the sector likely posted some expansion for the first time in five months in August. And auto makers reported growth in shipments of passenger vehicles to dealers last month in anticipation of festive season demand. Still, to help sustain any incipient revival, the Centre will need to enact demand-supportive fiscal policies or risk seeing the slowdown prolong.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/long-haul-ahead/article32595881.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Land revenue and administration (From an editorial)||The report on the settlement of Land Revenue in the Madras Presidency for 1918-1919 is as arid a record as any similar annual issued by a department of Government. On account of a tradition which is more logical than useful, the annual reports of Governmental operations continue to be presented in a form which repels every one except the unwearying statistician. With a little more care chronicles of facts and figures might be made to evoke general attention so that they would serve to educate the average citizen as to the ways and means of Government. Apart from the uninviting form, the report under reference comes out so late after the respective period has passed that it would merit a comment but for its proving another proverbial characteristic of departmental documents. Going into the body of the report, we find that the total area under crops during the year under report showed a considerable decrease from the normal. The Board of Revenue attributes the fall to the season, which was generally unfavourable from an agricultural point of view.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/land-revenue-and-administration-from-an-editorial/article32595892.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Karunanidhi’s reply||Mr. M. Karunanidhi, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister said here to-day [Madras, September 13] that States could hope to solve their many problems only by getting greater autonomy. In his concluding remarks at the two-day State autonomy conference, sponsored by the D.M.K., Mr. Karunanidhi denied that his party was trying to divert people’s attention from the burning problems facing the State by holding a conference of this type. He said the Congress (O) was doing propaganda that the conference had been convened to hide the D.M.K.’s inability to solve the unemployment problem or check the rise in prices of essential articles. The aim of the conference was to show how they were unable to solve these problems because of concentration of power at the Centre. The Chief Minister asked the D.M.K. volunteers to tour villages and enlist the support of the people to their demand for greater powers for States. He hailed the meeting as a great success in view of participation of leaders from different parts of the country. He requested these leaders to take steps in their respective States to get the backing of the people. No longer could any one say that this demand was made only by the D.M.K.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/karunanidhis-reply/article32595893.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Riding the roller-coaster market||The quote attributed variously to Charles Darwin as well as to American lawyer Clarence Darrow would probably stand investors in good stead today: “It is not the strongest of the species that survives, nor the most intelligent, but rather the one most adaptable to change.” In the last six months, investors have seen an extreme roller coaster ride, first on the downside and now, on the upside. Many records were broken on the downside, when we saw the sharpest fall of the last decade in a month’s time and the unusual sight of oil trading in the negative, and the like. These six months have turned out to be a nightmare for even veteran investors when it came to predicting market movement. As markets in the west have already achieved their highs and ours are close to doing so, what can we learn from the fall and rise so that we can try to apply this learning to future crises and to better our returns? No one knows where the market is headed in the short term. As the famous saying goes, the market is a voting machine in the short term and a weighing machine in the long term. We, as investors, acted late when it came to the gravity of the problem and conveniently ignored both the pandemic and the economic slowdown. Suddenly, the market realised the severity of the issue leading to panic selling in every segment — large, mid, and small caps. The fall was severe when the Nifty plunged from 12,000 to about 8,000. At that point, the perception of risk was higher than the actual risk. Even though news flow was extremely negative, there was an opportunity waiting to be taken, had we paid attention to the valuation multiple. On March 23, when the market reached the recent bottom, the valuation of 30 out of 50 Nifty stocks were 30% lower than their five-year historical average versus 15 stocks before the fall started. Even on the basis of market cap to GDP ratio, it had hit about 56%, which was considered to be the lower bound for the broader market valuation in the last 10 years. It was one great opportunity to buy good businesses as if at a sale. The perception of risk was already priced into the stock. As investors, we should avoid double counting the risk. Perils of past winners The current underperformer (banking) had the largest exposure in the investor portfolio and current outperformer (pharma) had the least exposure. For example, weightage for banks in the Nifty Fifty has risen from 25% in FY10 to 30% in FY15 to 36% FY20. At the same time, pharma weight has fallen from 7.35% in FY15 to 2.71% in March 2020. An investor has the natural tendency to choose sectors that have done well in recent years due to the recency effect and familiarity with the sectors. Post the market correction, huge interest was seen in the banking/NBFC sector as they had done well in the last five years. But the investor might fail to appreciate that this pandemic has placed severe stress on the already stressed banking segment. As per RBI, our banking sector GNPA (gross non-performing assets) was already as high as 8.5% at the end of FY20 and is expected to reach 12.5% on a base case scenario for FY21 and 14.7% under a severely-stressed scenario. For any lending business, moratorium on loans should ring alarm bells as it signals increased business risk. An investor who wants to take exposure to the banking sector should take cognisance of the new reality. In the last five months, even though the market saw a strong rallybanking has been an underperformer. On the contrary, the best performing sector pharmaceuticals did not elicit high investor interest. To reduce sector risk, an investor should balance the portfolio with multiple sectors and invest in firms with future prospects and at right valuations. Bad news about economy The bad news on economic front is no secret and is available to all. So, it is generally priced into the market. During the last six months, most investors got it right about the economic projection but not the market movement. During the pandemic, the consequences of economic depression became amply reflected in lower prices. Acting on the bad news and not allocating capital when valuation was attractive on a sustainable business basis turned out to be a costly mistake for investors. From the recent bottom, more than 104 companies had generated more than 100% returns and 199 companies delivered 50% plus returns. Only five companies have delivered a negative return from March 23. It was the opportunity that we were waiting for and when it arrived, most of us missed it by looking at only the bad news and not seeing what the market had priced in. A calibrated approach of investing during lower market levels should aid the investor in capturing the forward, higher returns. As the fear of risk was high during the pandemic, the largest amount of capital was withdrawn from equity assets and allocated in liquid and overnight funds with expected forward return of 4-5%. As the pandemic was evolving, the risk for fixed income was getting higher due to lower future return while the risk for equity was coming down due to lower valuation risk. On an average, in the last five months, BSE 500 companies had delivered about 69% return which, in fixed income, would take at least 10-plus years. It is not about one versus the other but about having the right asset allocation, and allocating capital based on long-term risk appetite of the investor and forward returns of the asset. The current market mood should not determine the incremental capital allocation. To conclude, we initially overreacted to the crisis and pushed valuations lower but now we might be under-reacting to the problem as we are yet to find a vaccine or a sure cure for he virus, and there is no economic growth in sight. Taking a balanced approach to markets and investing regularly in frontline companies should help the investor attain satisfactory and sustainable returns.  Source: ACE Equity, RBI Financial Stability Report and Motilal Oswal Valuation Report   (The author is head   of research and co-fund manager   at ithought Financial Consulting)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/riding-the-roller-coaster-market/article32595874.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,||One intermediary, many insurers||The agent who is a family friend, a corporate agent with whom you may already have dealings... we saw the role they play in your insurance journey. Enter the insurance broker, a relatively new entity in personal insurance in India. The difference between an agent (including corporate agent) and a broker is that the former represents the company, but the latter represents the customer. He can represent every insurance company in India, if he wants to, and so, you can have different policies with different insurers, all purchased from and serviced by the same entity. Two decades ago, the insurance broker was confined to reinsurance, a business-to-business product for insurance companies to cover their risks and offered by firms in India and abroad. After the insurance sector reforms in 1999 when the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA, as it was then named) came into being, direct insurance brokers were registered to help customers buy products of multiple insurers. Their natural clients were large and medium business houses who needed sophisticated and high-value life and non-life insurance covers, tailored to their needs. Brokers could get them quotations from various insurance companies and negotiate premium rates and terms. They could also offer them risk management advice and claims consulting. In recent years, brokers have started selling to individuals as well, offering health and motor policies. Aided by their physical and online presence, this appears a promising business opportunity for them. As customers, you should know that direct insurance brokers can be registered to sell only life insurance or only non-life insurance or both. Brokers who are registered to sell direct insurance and reinsurance are called composite brokers. Any broking company should carry on an insurance broking business exclusively. Checking authenticity All registered brokers should have company names with the words ‘Insurance Broker,’ ‘Insurance Brokers’ or ‘Insurance Broking.’ You can also look up www.irdai.gov.in for a list of registered insurance brokers, numbering over 700 now, to check the authenticity of any entity you may be thinking of dealing with. Regulations specify financial, qualification and compliance requirements for setting up a broking company, the functions of a broker and code of conduct which help protect the customer. For example, a direct broker should have a share capital (or contribution if it is a limited liability partnership, LLP) of Rs. 75 lakh. This capital has to be from own funds of the promoters/ shareholders and the shares/contribution should not be encumbered by way of pledging and the like. The net worth at any point should not fall below Rs. 50 lakh. He should also maintain a deposit of Rs. 10 lakh with a scheduled bank that IRDAI has a lien on and should also have a professional indemnity insurance cover. The objective is to ensure the financial health of the intermediary for the benefit of all stakeholders. An important point is an insurance broker cannot indulge in multi-level marketing. So, do be wary of anyone approaching you with such a proposal. The direct insurance broker’s functions also include assisting in the negotiation of claims and maintaining proper records of claims. He should also help in opening of e-insurance accounts and in issuing e-insurance policies. Should you have a grievance, he should respond and resolve it within 14 days of receipt. Apart from care, diligence and confidentiality, your broker is also supposed to be insurer-neutral when he advises you, not favouring any particular firm but based on your requirement. At the time of a claim, the code of conduct specifies the broker should forward information from you to the insurer and advise you on the latter’s decision and ‘give all reasonable assistance to the customer in pursuing a claim.’ Direct insurance brokers can also sell through the Internet (web aggregators), via the telephone (telemarketers) and through distance marketing. The regulations apply to all of them too and there are additional points on the code of conduct that applies to them.  (The writer is a business journalist specialising in insurance & corporate history)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/one-intermediary-many-insurers/article32595877.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,||loose change||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/loose-change/article32595876.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Indian flavour and Ricky Ponting’s belief, Delhi Capitals’ trump cards||A team with a rich Indian flavour, Delhi Capitals could well be the dark horse. Last year, it made the playoffs after seven years, thanks to Ricky Ponting’s astute guidance. This year too, the team looks good on paper to surprise the traditional front-runners in the league phase. The only team not to reach an IPL final, Capitals has gone for home-grown talent in top-order batsmen like Shikhar Dhawan, Prithvi Shaw, Shreyas Iyer, Rishabh Pant and Ajinkya Rahane, and spin-bowling all-rounders such as R. Ashwin, Axar Patel and Amit Mishra. In fact, Mishra is not only the second highest wicket-taker in IPL (157 wkts) but also has a double-century in First Class cricket. Wicket-keeper Alex Carey and Shimron Hetmyer, along with Marcus Stoinis, provide options for the role of a finisher. Rabada the spearhead Capitals’ pace spearhead Kagiso Rabada, new-addition Anrich Nortje, and the fit-again Ishant Sharma can prove a handful. Harshal Patel, who had a fruitful Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy last winter, Mohit Sharma and young Avesh Khan lend depth to the squad. Nepal leg-spinner Sandeep Lamichhane is seen as an able substitute when the first-choice spinners need a breather. Big influence Another important factor in the Capitals camp is the presence of Ponting. This passionate and supremely fit Aussie brings plenty to the table and is known for his quality suggestions. A tough taskmaster, Ponting believes the side has the potential to go all the way. Skipper Shreyas, whenever in need of inputs, can call upon seniors like Ashwin, Rahane, Dhawan, Ishant, Mishra and Ponting. It will be interesting to see how the captain marshals his abundant resources. More often than not, Capitals has struggled in the competition. It is the only team to bring up the rear of the league table on four occasions. At the same time, it has twice topped the points table. Indeed, this Ponting-inspired bunch has the potential to come good and repeat its playoff-reaching performance of 2019.  The only team to bring up the rear of the league table on four occasions, Capitals twice topped the points tally||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-flavour-and-ricky-pontings-belief-delhi-capitals-trump-cards/article32595993.ece
14 September 2020||London,||Liverpool clinches wild opener||Mohamed Salah hit a hat-trick as Liverpool kicked off its Premier League title defence with a thrilling 4-3 win against Leeds on Saturday. Liverpool didn’t have it all its own way as Leeds came from behind three times before Egypt forward Salah finished it off with two minutes left. Leeds is back in the top-flight for the first time in 16 years and Marcelo Bielsa’s team deserves credit for putting Liverpool under enough pressure to expose flaws in a team that won the title by 18 points. “It was eventful,” Liverpool defender Virgil van Dijk said.“They are going to give trouble to many teams in the league.”  The results:   Sunday: Premier League: West Brom 0 lost to Leicester 3 (Castagne 56, Vardy 74-pen, 84-pen).   LaLiga: Alaves 0 lost to Real Betis 1 (Tello 90+5); Valladolid 1 (Herrero 40) drew with Real Sociedad 1 (Lopez 60).   Saturday:   Premier League: Liverpool 4 (Salah 4-pen, 33, 88-pen, Van Dijk 20) bt Leeds 3 (Harrison 12, Bamford 30, Klich 66); West Ham 0 lost to Newcastle 2 (Wilson 56, Hendrick 87).   LaLiga: Granada 2 (Herrera 49, Milla 53) bt Athletic Bilbao 0; Cadiz 0 lost to Osasuna 2 (Adrian 10, Santos 79).   Salah is the first Liverpool player to score a hat-trick on the first day of a league season since John Aldridge against Charlton Athletic in 1988/89 The Egyptian also reached 50 Premier League home goals, in only 63 matches. Alan Shearer took 47 matches to hit the landmark Salah has now scored in Liverpool’s opening match of the campaign for a fourth season in succession. Only Teddy Sheringham has done this before, two seasons for Nottingham Forest and then Tottenham Hotspur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/liverpool-clinches-wild-opener/article32596006.ece
14 September 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Sreesanth’s ban ends||On September 10, 2020, S. Sreesanth expressed his hopes about a comeback to cricket through his Twitter handle. It was on September 13, 2013, that he was banned for life by the BCCI in the wake of the IPL spot-fixing scandal. The ban was reduced to seven years by the BCCI ombudsman last year. If September 13, 2020, is taken as the day that marks the end of the seven-year-ban, Sreesanth, who was part of two World Cup-winning Indian teams, has reasons to celebrate. But the Kerala Cricket Association (KCA) has not received any communication about the end of the ban from the BCCI thus far. No clarity yet “We hope the communication would come soon and that Sreesanth could play for Kerala this season, though there is no clarity yet on domestic competitions as of now,” a source in the KCA said. “We have had discussions with Sreesanth about his training and fitness and we found he is very keen to play.” With pace spearhead Sandeep Warrier moving to Tamil Nadu, chances are indeed high for Sreesanth, who has 87 wickets from 27 Tests, to play for Kerala in the Ranji Trophy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sreesanth-kerala-cricket-association-look-ahead-as-pacers-seven-year-ban-comes-to-an-end/article32596002.ece
14 September 2020||Kolkata,||I will return tougher from US after 2-1/2 month training, says boxer Vikas||“I will return as a tougher boxer,” said Vikas Krishan, before boarding a flight to the USA early on Sunday. Vikas will train in Virginia for two-and-a-half months as part of his preparations for the Olympics. The government has approved Rs. 17.5 lakh under Target Olympic Podium Scheme (TOPS) for this.  The 28-year-old, a former World championships bronze medallist, had switched from professional to amateur boxing last year to give another try to his Olympics dream. First hurdle He cleared the first hurdle by bagging an Olympic quota place earlier this year. The primary target for Vikas, a 69kg boxer, is to train with professional boxers in the USA. “I will spar with professionals. That will benefit me,” Vikas told The Hindu . However, there is no certainty about the Indian getting any professional fight early next year. Vikas felt the hardships of training and sparring with professional boxers would make him physically and mentally tougher. “Amateur boxing is all about scoring. You have to impress the judges and win a bout. In professional boxing, there is a greater chance of getting hurt as you fight for 12 rounds. Even if you get hurt, you keep going.” Own example Vikas cited his own example. “During the Olympic qualifying event (in Jordan), I had a cut above the eye. Despite that I beat the second seed (Ablaikhan Zhussupov) from Kazakhstan (in the semifinal). An amateur would have become disturbed at that point. “We Indians, when we approach a big event like the Olympics, always think we should not face a Russian, a Cuban or an American in the first round. You don’t find such a mentality in a professional boxer. In the last two years, from the time I changed to pro boxing, my mentality has changed.” Vikas will be guided by his Inspire Institute of Sport (IIS) coach Ron Simms in Virginia. “It’s like a mini-Cuba. There are a lot of boxing clubs as we find in Bhiwani. So I will get to spar with different types of opponents. “I am planning to return to amateur boxing around February so that I will get four-five months to gain some rhythm (before the Olympics),” said Vikas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-will-return-tougher-from-us-after-2-12-month-training-says-boxer-vikas/article32596173.ece
14 September 2020||CHENNAI,||CFC signs Chhuantea and Reagan||Chennaiyin FC (CFC), on Sunday, said it has signed left-back Lalchhuanmawia Fanai and right-back Reagan Singh for the 2020-21 season. The 31-year-old Fanai, who hails from Mizoram and is better known as Chhuantea, along with the 29-year-old Reagan from Manipur, join the two-time Indian Super League (ISL) champion on free transfers. Important additions “Chhuantea (Fanai) and Reagan (Singh) are important additions to our squad in the key full-back positions. They bring valuable experience,” said Chennaiyin head coach Csaba Laszlo on the duo’s arrival. “I am really excited about working with the new coach and achieving his vision for the club. This will be a unique ISL season and I can’t wait to meet the boys in Goa and get the ball rolling,” said Chhuantea. Reagan said: “I am very happy to join one of the most successful clubs in the ISL. CFC is a unique team with a great fan-base, and I promise to contribute to the best of my ability in our efforts to bring a third ISL title to Chennai.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cfc-signs-chhuantea-and-reagan/article32596056.ece
14 September 2020||MANCHESTER,||Zampa restricts England||Adam Zampa proved a thorn in England’s side again as Australia restricted the World champion to 231 for nine in the second One-Day International at Old Trafford on Sunday. The leg-spinner took three for 36 from his 10 overs to follow his four for 55 during Australia’s 19-run win in Friday’s first of a three-match series. England captain Eoin Morgan top-scored with 42 (5x4) but could not prevent his side slumping to 149 for eight in the 41st over. But a partnership of 76 between the recalled Tom Curran (37) and Adil Rashid (35 n.o.) kept England in the game.   The scores: England 231/9 in 50 overs (Morgan 42, Zampa 3/36) vs. Australia .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/zampa-restricts-england/article32595991.ece
14 September 2020||HYDERABAD:,||Shaunak, Fayaz win||Sk. Fayaz won the open category title with 11.5 points from 12 rounds in the 172nd Brilliant Trophy open online chess tournament here on Sunday. Dhruvateja (10.5) and Chidvilas Sai (10) finished second and third respectively.    Final placings: Juniors: 1. Sree Shaunak, 2. Balanandan, 3. Karthikeya Nandan.   Open: 1. Sk. Fayaz, Dhruvateja, 3. Chidvilas Sai.   Age groups: Boys: U-15: 1. Srikara Darbha,2. K. Mithran. U-13: 1. Kirthi Sethia, 2. M. Akshith. U-11: 1. Abhiraaj Arora, 2. Rounak Jakhotia. U-9: 1. Karthikeya Nandan, 2. Sravan Ambaru. U-7: 1. Balanandan Ayyappan, 2. Hariram Perecherla.   Girls: U-15: 1. Sruthika Saypuri, 2. Naannya. U-13: 1. P. Jayahari Chandana, 2. Sara Kausar. U-11: 1. Durga Likitha, 2. Harshitha Agarwal. U-9: 1. Deethya Sai Katakam, 2. Sahasra Samudrala. U-7: 1. Aaditri Abhishek, 2. Kashika Dustakar .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shaunak-fayaz-win/article32596470.ece
14 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Gukesh wins||GM D. Gukesh won the Goodearth online Blitz Open chess tournament which was organised by Chess Kerala. Gukesh (9) assured himself of the title even before the final round clash against GM Jose Eduardo Martinez Alcantra. The Peruvian GM beat Gukesh and ended up with nine points but he could only finish as the runner-up. Gukesh earned Rs. 12,000 as prize money while Eduardo Martinez took home Rs. 10,000.    The final standings: 1. D. Gukesh (9 points), 2. Jose Eduardo Martinez Alcantara (9), 3. Mitrabha Guha (8.5), 4. Aronyak Ghosh (8), 5. Harsha Bharathakoti (8), 6. Vugar Rasulov (8), 7. Abhimanyu Puranik (8), 8. Aradhya Garg (7.5), 9. Jakhongir Vakhidov (7.5), 10. Diptayan Ghosh (7.5) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gukesh-wins/article32596318.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 06:11 IST,||Sudoku - September 14, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-september-14-2020/article32596716.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,||You’ll never walk alone||‘Picture yourself marooned on a deserted island; who would you like to be with?’ From school-crush conversations to magazine quizzes, the question runs through life. Somewhere we know that without social connection, we probably would not be able to survive. Even Tom Hanks’s character Chuck Noland needed his Wilson to stay sane in Cast Away .   Often unacknowledged and easily dismissed as ‘a passing phase’, studies suggest that the impact of loneliness on the human psyche and well-being can be manifold. And for the majority of this year, COVID-19 has kept families apart and erased social connections. Recognising the necessity of keeping hold of and developing our social bonds further, Dr. Vivek H. Murthy, the 19th Surgeon-General of the United States of America, penned his book Together: The Healing Power of Human Connection in a Sometimes Lonely World (Profile Books, distributed in India by Hachette India). Loneliness is the centrepiece of this quasi-memoir style compilation.   “COVID-19 has certainly exacerbated [loneliness] in our communities. When people struggle with loneliness, it can also lead to a greater risk of heart disease, depression, dementia, anxiety, and sleep disturbances. If we do nothing differently, we may see the physical distancing that is prescribed to combat the virus translate into social distancing. We will become lonelier,” says Dr. Murthy, connecting over a Zoom call from his home in Miami, Florida. “But we can choose to use this moment to step back and take stock of our lives to recognise how important and powerful our relationships are. There is a chance we could come out of this pandemic stronger, more connected and fulfilled than before.”   Edited excerpts from the chat:  Separating stigma from mental health-related issues can be a task. Is it one reason why loneliness is less acknowledged? There is an unfortunate stigma around loneliness. People think that if someone is lonely then something is wrong with them, or they are not likeable or loveable, or worse, that they are broken in some way. For these reasons, loneliness carries a sense of shame that makes it hard to talk about. We look around and it seems like we are the only one experiencing loneliness because nobody else is talking about what they are going through, and that further isolates us. So, loneliness begets loneliness. Human connection is no different from hunger or thirst. We don’t feel ashamed when our body signals us that it is thirsty; we reach for a glass of water. So, one of the ways to de-stigmatise is by helping people understand that it is common and a natural signal that our body sends us. Another powerful way to de-stigmatise any condition is by sharing our personal experiences with it. Every time someone stands up in a room to say they have been struggling with a problem, they may be met with silence. But that is not people judging you, it is them reflecting on their own lives. Convincing policy makers of this being a public health crisis can be a gargantuan task...  Around the world, there is a growing recognition that loneliness is a health and economic priority. Some of the data has been compelling for policy makers when they see it. That is an important caveat. In many countries, policy makers are not hearing about it, they are not seeing the data, and they don’t necessarily recognise how deeply connected issues like loneliness are to their front page issues we are reading about every day, whether it is an addiction crisis or challenges with depression, anxiety and suicide, or even the deeper problems we face in workplaces, schools and colleges. But when they are given the data, when they start to see what other governments are doing around the world, then it makes a compelling case for the policy makers to take immediate action. You quote research that suggests our ‘default social setting’, whether someone is an introvert or extrovert, is to socialise...  Our biology and study of human connections tell us that we are hardwired to connect with each other. So, the difference between introverts and extroverts is not in whether or not you need people, it is in how you prefer to interact with people and how much alone time you need. Introverts prefer to interact with people one-on-one and in small groups. They need more time in solitude. Extroverts gather energy from their interactions with other people and often seek out and enjoy being part of large groups. Over the past two decades has there been less emphasis on developing quality human connections?  It is defensible to say that in modern society because it asks us to achieve more, go to the best schools, get the best jobs and earn the greatest awards. In people-centred lives, we put people and relationships first when we are making decisions about where we need to put our time, effort and attention. In a people-centred society, we design our curricula in schools to give children the tools to build healthy relationships in the earliest of ages. We design our workplaces to support social connections and we examine public policy to understand what impact it will have on communities. It is no coincidence that we see an extraordinary degree of political polarisation in countries at a time when we are also experiencing a deterioration in relationships and an increase in loneliness. What is the impact of social media on connection?  Like all technology, social media can strengthen or weaken our connections depending on how it is used. The challenge is the ways we are using it now contribute to a sense of isolation. I want to challenge the new generation of techpreneurs to think about how they can build products and services that can enhance human connections, recognising that it is the foundation on which we build everything else.  The challenge for introverts is we live in a world that is very extroverted||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/youll-never-walk-alone/article32596179.ece
14 September 2020||September 14 2020 00:00 IST,||Breathe||The Cleveland Clinic, on its website, suggests a way of conscious diaphragmatic breathing. The idea is to strengthen the diaphragm (it’s a muscle, remember!). Lie on your back, knees bent, a pillow under the head and knees. Place one hand on the upper part of the chest and another just below the rib cage. Breathe in through your nose, and feel your stomach rise. Drop the muscles of your stomach inward, and feel the breath move out of the body. The chest should not rise or fall. Practise for 5-10 minutes, three or four times a day. In time, you can also do this sitting up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/breathe/article32596183.ece
