01-07-2021||Jharkhand||Mucormycosis cases, fatalities drop significantly in Jharkhand||Jharkhand has witnessed a significant drop in cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis and fatalities caused by the fungal infection, which the state notified as an epidemic last week following a heads up by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The state has not reported even a single mucormycosis-triggered casualty in the past fortnight, records with the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) highlight. So far, the state has reported 26 mucormycosis deaths and the last casualty occurred on June 17, about 14 days ago. As many as seven confirmed and 11 suspected cases of the fungal infection have been reported in the state in the past 14 days, indicating that mucormycosis cases were gradually falling, health officials said on Thursday. IDSP data highlights that the recovery rate has also jumped to almost 70 per cent from around 45 per cent a fortnight ago. Of the 86 confirmed cases of infection reported in the state, at least 60 patients have recovered. However, at least 64 people in the state were under observation after suspected mucormycosis. “The recovery rate for mucormycosis is above 69 per cent now, and the fatality rate too has dropped significantly. But we cannot afford to be complacent as early diagnosis helps save a lot of lives and prevent complications,” said Dr. Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer for health department’s Information, Education and Communication (IEC) wing. As per records with the health department, Ranchi reported 31 confirmed cases of mucormycosis and eight fatalities – the highest in the state. East Singhbhum reported 20 cases and five casualties, while Dhanbad reported six cases and two deaths. At least three of the four mucormycosis patients found in Ramgarh could not survive. Hazaribag also reported four cases and three casualties. Koderma and Bokaro reported three cases each. Even though black fungus cases and fatalities have dropped in the state, doctors warned against any complacency. Any person, especially Covid survivors and people with diabetes, experiencing symptoms of mucormycosis should immediately seek medical attention, they said. “Symptoms of fever, nasal congestion and partial facial swelling should not be taken lightly,” said Ranchi civil surgeon Dr Vinod Kumar. Mucormycosis is a rare infection caused by exposure to mucor mould found in soil, plants, manure and decaying fruits and vegetables. The line of treatment includes surgery and administering anti-fungal drugs, mostly Amphotericin B. Several thousand cases of Covid-induced Mucormycosis were reported in India in the past couple of months and doctors claimed that use of high dosage steroids for treatment of severely-ill Covid patients was one of the reasons for the spike.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-116
01-07-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel foundation trains mountaineers for Olympics||A select group of young climbers are sweating out to iron out flaws under experienced hands at a special camp organised by Tata Steel Adventure Foundation (TSAF). The 10-odd climbers, including an 11-year-old village boy, are training in the mornings and afternoons for nearly a month now at a cradle run by TSAF at the JRD Tata Sports Complex as the elite Jamshedpur-based adventure wants to prepare them for the state, zonal and national competitions. The climbers at the camp, among others, include siblings Aman and Anisha Verma who have donned India colours in international competitions. Others have claimed medals in zonal and national events. The sport climbing events will start getting on the tracks since the second wave of pandemic is waning and things are opening up. The TSAF has given accommodation to the campers inside the JRD Tata Sports Complex and also provided them with the required diet. “The camp is aimed at keeping our climbers prepared for the events ahead. We want them to be in fine fettle and fully fit to sustain the load of competitions. The camp is going on very well,” said Hemant Gupta, head of TSAF. The camp is being supervised by Bibhas Roy, a Calcutta-based route setter and assisted by two senior climbers.The campers are getting trained in the three separate categories of sport climbing – bouldering, speed and lead. With sport climbing included as one of the disciplines for next month’s Olympic Games in Tokyo, JapanTSAF is serious about backing its climbers to the hit by providing them adequate training and exposure front. The training is being imparted by keeping future Olympics in mind. “Olympic is a big event. We want to adequately train and provide exposure to climbers so that they can represent the country in the Olympics in future,” a TSAF official said. The adventure outfit, which boasts the only sport climbing in Jharkhand, sends its climbers to zonal and national competitions and also trains them under experienced hands. The climbers have proved their mettle in both zonal and national competitions and won all round applause for their skills. The TSAF has also planned a residential academy for sport climbing on the lines of archery and football cradles run by Tata Steel in Jamshedpur. The spadework for the academy had started but things got stuck in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Sport climbing has gained popularity in the steel city. School kids are showing interest in the event and a good number of them have joined the cradle run by the TSAF.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-116
01-07-2021||Jharkhand||IIT-ISM geologist gets international recognition for work on Mars ||The research paper of P.K. Padhy, a 1979 batch MSc (Applied Geology) of IIT-ISM, highlighting the probable generation of oil and gas on Mars 3.5 billion years ago has drawn the attention of the world community. The Martian process of hydrocarbon generation highlighted in his paper is akin to the geological condition of the earth of the period of 1600 to 500 million years ago. The paper, titled Presence of Hydrocarbons on Mars, which was published in peer-reviewed international journal of American Association of Petroleum Geologists DEG, ‘Environmental Geosciences’ recently was appreciated by Michael Thorpe, the renowned NASA scientist as innovative during a Zoom meeting with Padhy, who is presently settled in Bhubaneshwar following retirement after 38 years of service in ONGC. Sharing the achievement during telephonic talk with The Telegraph Online today from Bhubaneswar, Padhy who has immense contribution to the hydrocarbon exploration scenario of India said the my research paper is based on a comparative geological phenomenon between Meso-Neoproterozoic (1600-540 million years) petroleum geology of Earth and the equivalent Amazonian and older periods of Mars of around 3.7 billion years ago. The comparative analysis of geological phenomenon of the two solar planets having a fair degree of geological similarity between the internal structure, orbital cycle, and axis tilt points enumerates the generation and entrapment of Hydrocarbons in Mars. “The research of mine based on the study conducted during my service of over 38 years further points that depositional morphology like alluvial fans, debris flow fans, deltas and lacustrine fans implies possible sedimentation processes active on early Mars like that of our own Earth” said Padhy. “The organic matter on Mars could be in-situ or could have been delivered by meteorites,” further said Padhy and added that deposition of source rock and subsequent decomposition of organic matter could have generated hydrocarbons in early Mars. “Similarly,the biogenic remains, amorphous organic matter, and algal filaments associated with the Proterozoic strata have generated hydrocarbons on Earth,” said Padhy. By analyzing the petroleum systems of Earth during Meso-Neoproterozoic (1600-540 million years) time, the research paper enumerates that Earth analogous early hydrocarbons might have been generated and  preserved  in ideal locales like the ancient Valles Marineris rift and crater-induced basins. Padhy carried out extensive geo-scientific interpretation work on various petroliferous basins of India. He published a number of scientific papers in national and international journals. He is amongst the earliest pioneers in evolving the concept of Oil Shale Exploration and Scope for “Neoproterozoic Oil Exploration” in India. Besides science, he has a special interest in literature, especially poetry (mainstream poetry and Japanese haikai), and has seven collections to his credit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-116
01-07-2021||Jharkhand||Environmentalist Jamuna Tudu vows to keep her fight on against timber mafia||Green crusader Jamuna Tudu has renewed zeal in her fight to save forests even after a recent incident when over 40 plants sown by Van Suraksha Samity were stolen by unidentified individuals from Sunsunia jungle in Chakulia block of East Singhbhum. “We had sown plants in the jungle earlier last month. But most have been stolen while some were destroyed by unknown persons. But my team members are not going to stop our mission of saving forests. Plants would have helped increase the forest cover,” said the feisty Jamuna, a Padma Shri awardee. Speaking to The Telegraph Online from her village Maturkham in Chakulia block, 90 km from Jamshedpur, the well-known environmentalist pointed out incidents of tree felling has come down in her area. “I think people are slowly and steadily understanding the importance of conservation but still we are not going to sit quietly. I think some villagers must have stolen and damaged the plants sown by us. We have intensified our daily patrolling in  Beladih, Madhupur, Laubera, Dhalukdingha, Baraghat and Muhulbera forests to prevent such incidents in future,” the 35-year-old Jamuna said. Known as Lady Tarzan for the ferocity with which she fights the timber mafia, Jamuna would shortly plan a trip to West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan for spreading the wings of VSS. “The pandemic has stopped me from undertaking tours. Now things have begun to improve and travel restrictions have been lifted. It is time for me to venture out of Chakulia to spread the wings of VSS. I have already talked with some groups who are keen to join us in our mission,” she added. Formed in 1998, the Samiti is currently limited to East Singhbhum. It has over 300 women members in the district, including Bahragora, Ghatshila, Potka, Patamda and Dalbhumgarh. VSS committees were formed in Dumka, Giridih, Godda and Pakur last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-116
01-07-2021||Jharkhand||Very few buses leave steel city on Day 1||A few intra-state buses, for various destinations like Ranchi, Bokaro and Ramgarh, plied from the Sitaramdera bus terminus here on Thursday, but passengers were too few in number. Chief patron of Jamshedpur Bus Owner's Association Upendra Sharma said, "The government notification regarding relaxations in lockdown rules reached us late in the night. Many bus operators were not aware of the lifting of restrictions on inter-district bus services. They came to know about it only on Thursday morning. Therefore, less number of buses plied." Sharma said they were expecting good seat occupancy in the next two to three days. Around 350 inter-district buses operate from Sitaramdera, Kolhan's largest bus terminus, on a daily basis. Sharma also hinted at a hike in bus fare. "We are contemplating a bus fare hike due to rising fuel costs. A minimum of 40 per cent hike has been proposed. A decision in this regard will be taken soon," he said. Members of the association also demanded concessions on road tax. "We have been facing a difficult time since last year because of the pandemic and lockdowns. Unable to bear losses, several bus owners shifted to other businesses to earn their livelihood," said another member of the association. Passengers seemed relieved over resumption of inter-district bus services after almost three months. "I had to hire a car to go to Ranchi for business purposes which was expensive. But now with restoration of the inter-district bus services, I can opt for a bus journey to the capital," said Akhilesh Pandey, a local trader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-116
01-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand cinemas will reopen on July 27, banking on 'Bell Bottom'||Cinema halls in Ranchi are unlikely to resume operations until this month-end even though the state government has allowed their opening  with 50 per cent capacity after over two months of lockdown in the wake of the second wave of the pandemic. While announcing certain relaxations on Wednesday, the Hemant Soren government did not allow inter-state bus services to resume, but intra-state buses have been allowed to start plying. A few buses plied between Ranchi and Jamshedpur on Thursday, but the bulk of the operations are expected to start from Friday. Anand Jalan, chairman of the film, art & culture sub-committee of Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries, said that following discussions with most hall-owners in Ranchi, it has been decided that film screeings will resume from July 27. “No major films are likely to get released immediately. Akshay Kumar-starrer Bell Bottom is the next big release on July 27. So, that is the time when most of the screens in the capital are expected to sizzle again. Opening halls any earlier will mean unnecessary expense as no one is expecting any immediate footfall," he said. Jalan said cinema managements would use this time to reorganise logistics and manpower. Ranchi has around 20 film screens comprising big multiplexes and single-screen theatres. There are 80 movie halls in the state in all. “We are looking at a similar reopening schedule in other towns of the state too,” Jalan said, adding that the business of flim screenning had suffered the most in last  year owing successive lockdowns. An official of Popkorn Cinema, a multi-screen facility at Ratu Road, said, “Per month, our fixed monthly bill is at least Rs 1 lakh. In the last 12 months, the hall barely functioned even for 30 days. Imagine our plight,” he said. Among the other relaxations announced on Wednesday, bars and restaurants were permitted to reopen with 50 per cent capacity while markets can stay open till 8pm everyday. But the state government will continue with the practice of a complete lockdown over the weekend from 8pm on Saturday till 6am on Monday. As for bus services, close to 2,000 buses that ply from Ranchi daily are expectd to resume operations from Friday. Krishna Mohan Singh, president of Ranchi Bus Owner’s Association, said, “We will resume from tomorrow (Friday) as everyone was busy today (Thursday) getting the fleet ready for operations.” On the prescribed protocols, Singh said, “As per our understanding, buses will run to full capacity from Thursday with Covid appropriate norms in place. The state government notification hasn't put a cap on number of passengers. Even if we were to run on 50 per cent capacity, people will suffer as they will have to pay extra in the light of high fuel prices.” A few eateries of Ranchi began dine-in facilities from Thursday with 50 per cent capacity. Others are expected to open in the next few days. A staffer with Kanha, a restaurant at Morabadi, said, “We have started dine-in operations, but people are still in favour of home delivery. Barely three persons  came to our restaurant for lunch. But we got 30 orders for home delivery."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-116
01-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand reports 85 new cases, but 5 districts draw a blank ||Jharkhand reported as many as 85 new  Covid-19 cases on Wednesday while 120 Covid patients recovered, bringing the state's active caseload down to 914, a bulletin from the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. At least five districts – Saraikela, Ramgarh, Palamau, Pakur and Dumka – did not report fresh cases of coronavirus infection on Wednesday, while East Singhbhum reported the highest spike of 17 cases. However, East Singhbhum also reported 22 Covid recoveries, which brought the active caseload there down to 103, the NHM stated in its bulletin. Covid-19 vaccination numbers dropped significantly in the state on Wednesday owing to a crisis of vaccines. As per government data, the state administered the first dose of the vaccine to only 13,775 residents and the second dose to 4,150 residents. In the past one week, the state vaccinated at least 1 lakh residents every day on an average. As per data with the health department, Bokaro reported 10 cases and Ranchi reported eight cases of Covid-19 on the day. The active caseload in Ranchi dropped to 251 on Wednesday as at least nine patients recovered from Covid-19. As many as 48 patients were battling the viral infection in Bokaro by the end of Wednesday. Jharkhand on Wednesday tested swab samples of 47,995 residents and less than 0.2 per cent of them were found infected. So far, over 3.45 lakh people have been infected by coronavirus in the state and 98.25 per cent of them have recovered, highlights government data. The growth rate of Covid cases on Wednesday dropped to 0.02 per cent in Jharkhand against the national average of 0.11 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state rose to 2878.86 days against the national doubling rate of 639.68 days, NHM stated in its bulletin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-116
01-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand govt mulls ordinance for panchayati raj institutions||The Jharkhand government is likely to bring in an ordinance soon to ensure that panchayati raj institutions can continue functioning in the state. The present term of the rural bodies expires on July 15. “We will surely find a way out before that,” state rural development and panchayati raj minister Alamgir Alam told The Telegraph. Sources said an ordinance is being considered unavoidable because the panchayat elections that were due in December last year could not been held due to the Covid-19 pandemic. As the term of the office-bearers of the rural bodies was scheduled to end by the first week of January this year, the government took a decision to set up working committees with the elected representatives as members for another six months, expecting the panchayat elections would be conducted within that time. But the polls could not be conducted as the country and the state had to grapple with the ravaging second wave of the pandemic and the situation remains far from favourable for holding elections to nearly 4,400 gram panchayats and other rural bodies at block and district levels. The situation has put the government in a fix. While the term of the working committees constituted in January expires on July 15, the Jharkhand Panchayat Raj Act also does not have any provision for granting a second extension of their term. Asked if the issue was taken up at the state cabinet meeting on Tuesday, Alam said: “It would have been done but we had to withhold because approval from certain other departments couldn’t be received.” “At this stage, passing an ordinance seems like the only alternative left,” said Ajay Kumar Singh, mukhiya of Bundu panchayat under Petarwar block of Bokaro district which has won national awards for best performing rural bodies in different categories. “Its true that the situation is not favourable for holding panchayat polls. But the government also couldn’t keep development process in rural areas on hold indefinitely,” he said. “Besides, the Centre would not release more funds for rural development if the previous allotment was not spent under the supervision of elected representatives and unless the utilisation reports were signed by them,” he added. He also pointed out that the absence of panchayat bodies would mean that the government would be deprived of the contributions of a huge number of representatives at the gram panchayat, panchayat samiti and zilla parishad level who implement welfare schemes in rural areas. “But an ordinance is surely not a solution and the panchayat elections have to be held whenever the situation improves,” Singh said, adding that he hoped the pandemic would end soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-116
01-07-2021||Jharkhand||Elgaar Parishad case: NHRC seeks report on Swamy jail care||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has sought an action taken report from the superintendent of prisons in connection with the alleged denial of medical facilities to octogenarian Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy at the Taloja Central Jail in Navi Mumbai. Fr Stan, 84, is presently undergoing treatment under custody at the Holy Family Hospital in Mumbai. The NHRC has sought the report from the prison authorities within four weeks from the date of receipt of the letter, a copy of which is available with The Telegraph. NHRC assistant registrar (law) Subhra Tyagi had sent an email to the prison authorities on June 26. Jesuit lawyer from Tamil Nadu, Father Santhanam A, had moved the NHRC in May drawing attention to the alleged denial of medical facilities to Fr Stan during the pandemic despite showing Covid-like symptoms of cold, fever, body pain and diarrhoea. He had also said an ayurveda doctor was treating Fr Stan and sought the intervention of the NHRC in the matter. The lawyer had also claimed that a majority of the jail staff, especially those working in the kitchen, and a number of undertrial prisoners had tested Covid-positive. Fr Stan was also diagnosed with Covid on May 30 after an RT-PCR test at the Holy Family Hospital, Bandra. He had been vaccinated on May 18 at the jail when he allegedly had fever. “Father Stan Swamy is suffering from Parkinson’s, loss of hearing and was also having fever, cough and trouble in his stomach. He was not even vaccinated. It was only after (the) Bombay High Court order on May 28 that he was shifted to Holy Family Hospital and was diagnosed as Covid positive. He has been in prison since October 9, 2020, and was vaccinated despite him having fever which is against medical protocol. The situation is the same with other 15 co-accused in the same case. We want the prison authorities to know that they cannot escape as an independent body is now watching over them,” said Fr Santhanam. Fr Stan and 15 others have been arrested under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the anti-terror law Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act by the National Investigation Agency in the Bhima-Koregaon-Elgar Parishad case. Father Joe Xavier, director of Bangalore-based Indian Social Institute, who is coordinating with Jesuits on Fr Stan’s matter, told this newspaper that the priest was shifted to the ICU at Holy Family Hospital on Tuesday because of health complications. Bombay High Court had on June 17 extended Fr Stan’s stay in the private hospital till July 5 as he continues to remain critical and requires intensive care. The next hearing of the bail petition of Fr Stan will be taken up by the high court on July 3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-117
01-07-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Jharkhand DGP’s plan to reduce digital divide||⚫A second-year student of mathematics honours at Delhi’s Lady Shri Ram College, Aishwarya Reddy, 19, had asked for a laptop, even a second-hand one, to continue her online classes during the Covid lockdown. But her father, a motorcycle mechanic, could not fulfil her request. In November last year, Aishwarya allegedly committed suicide at her home in Telangana, calling herself a “burden to her family” in a purported suicide note. She had scored 98.5 per cent in Class XII. ⚫ Eleven-year-old Tulsi Kumari, a Class V student at the government-run middle school in Bagunhatu in Jamshedpur, sold mangoes by the roadside so that she can buy a new smartphone to attend online classes. Her father had fractured his legs in a mishap and she was staying at an outhouse in Bistupur. Her video was shared widely on social media leading to a Mumbai-based businessman not only buying a dozen mangoes from her for Rs 10,000 each but also arranging a smartphone and a tutor. The two cases have made Jharkhand director-general of police Niraj Sinha take an innovative step to bridge the digital divide hampering students by constituting “smartphone banks” in all police stations across the state. “These two cases really disturbed me and made me think about developing smartphone banks for helping our meritorious and poor students who are deprived of online classes due to lack of devices as almost all educational institutions are closed due to the Covid-induced lockdown. I have asked my colleagues for suggestions based on my request for setting up smartphone banks. We shall make improvements and carry the initiative forward after gauging the response,” Sinha, a 1987-batch IPS officer, told The Telegraph on Wednesday. A directive issued by Sinha on Wednesday to the senior superintendents of police of Jamshedpur, Ranchi and Dhanbad and superintendents of police in the remaining 21 districts asked them to start smartphone banks at all police stations (over 527 in the state). “The smartphone banks have to be set up at all police stations and also at the district-level where (interested) people can deposit their second-hand and used laptops, smartphones and even desktops. The police station officials will have to maintain a daily register of the equipment deposited and also submit a receipt of the items to the users so that they can be assured that in case of misuse of the gadgets they will not be held legally responsible,” the directive said. The daily register would contain the name and address of the depositor, IMEI number of the mobile phone, unique identity number of laptop, date and time of depositing the gadgets, etc. The collected gadgets should be deposited at the earliest to the district-level smartphone banks. “The gadgets would be given to poor but meritorious students based on the written recommendation of principal or educational institution heads. The principal or institutional heads should provide written certification about income group of the student, unavailability of gadgets and academic performance,” the directive said. While giving the gadgets, the district police should take a letter from the students containing their name, address, educational institution’s name, smartphone IMEI number or laptop unique ID and date and time of receipt of the items. According to Manis Kumar Jha, principal scientist at the CSIR-National Metallurgical Laboratory, Jamshedpur, who is doing research on electronic waste recycling, Jharkhand generates four million metric tonnes of e-waste annually.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-117
01-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand relaxes lockdown curbs, bars and restaurants to open with 50% capacity||Cinema halls, bars and restaurants will now be able to resume with 50 percent capacity in the state as the Jharkhand government on Wednesday gave its nod for their operations as part of the unlock ahead of the expiry of the ongoing phase of partial lockdown (health safety week) at 6am on Thursday. While the state government has decided to go for another edition of complete lockdown from 8pm on Saturday night till 6am on Monday, it has allowed extension of time frame for all kinds of business entities in the state to 8pm from the existing 4 pm cap on normal days, as per the communiqué from the state IPRD department. The state government has also provided its consent for resumption on intra-state bus movements but curbs will continue on interstate bus movements. Private and public offices can operate with 50 percent capacity whereas banquet and community halls cannot have gatherings of more than 50 persons, thereby allowing more assimilation of people than the existing cap of 11 persons for marriage or other activities. However, organisation of socio-religious processions will remain banned in the state. All examinations held by the state government stands suspended but those held by the union government are allowed with prescribed Covid-19 norms, informed the communiqué. Religious places will continue to remain closed for devotees. While e-passes are not required for moving in private vehicles between one district to another within the state, it will continue to remain in force for inter-state movements. The state government has also ended 7-day mandatory quarantine rule for those coming into the state but they will be subjected to thorough Covid-19 testing, read the communiqué, adding that all other prescribed Covid appropriate behaviour will continue to remain functional.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-117
