02-07-2021||Jharkhand||Tokyo Olympics 2020: Young archers convey best wishes to Deepika Kumari ||Young budding archers from Kharsawan interiors on Friday wished Deepika Kumari and the Indian men’s team of Tarundeep Rai, Atanu Das and Pravin Jadhav, luck for the Olympic Games starting in Tokyo, Japan next month. The archers, in the 8-12 age group, were part of a signature campaign held in the presence of Jharkhand Archery Association (JAA) president and Union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda at Damadiri ground in Kharsawan. Munda, who felicitated Komalika Bari and Ankita Bhakat for bagging women’s recurve team gold in the recently concluded World Cup Stage 3 in Paris, was impressed with the craze shown for Deepika by the budding archers. He also honoured Purnima Mahto, coach of the team in Paris, during the event organised by Seraikela-Kharsawan District Archery Association (SKDAA). Coaches, archers and functionaries of the district archery outfit were present on the occasion. The budding archers, who hone their skills at Damadiri ground, idolise Deepika who picked the nuances of archery at a cradle run by SKDAA in Kharsawan, the erstwhile princely town, 37 km from Jamshedpur, in 2005 before heading to the elite Tata Archery Academy in Jamshedpur. Deepika, the world number one archer who claimed three gold medals in Paris, is the only woman archer to have qualified for the Tokyo Olympics. She will compete in the individual recurve round. Munda who also heads the Archery Association of India and is the chief patron of SKDAA, heaped praise on Komalika and Ankita for the achievement and said both have made the country and Jharkhand proud by their exploits. He also praised Purnima for her guidance to the Jharkhand troika of archers. He also gave his best wishes to the Olympic –bound archers on the signature board. SKDAA secretary S.K. Mohanty said the archers had arrived at the Damadiri ground well before the start of the signature campaign which started at 3 pm. “The 30-odd archers eagerly waited for the event to begin and were very glad to wish Deepika and the men’s team. Mundaji was also very impressed with the eagerness shown by the budding archers,” he told The Telegraph Online on from Kharsawan. Mohanty, also vice president of JAA, said the young archers were presently shooting with traditional bows and arrows and would subsequently switch to the globally acceptable recurve division. “We are keen to produce more Deepika Kumaris in Kharsawan,” he added. Seraikela-Kharsawan has produced a good number of international archers and is aptly called the cradle of archery in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-115
02-07-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Jharkhand reports zero deaths for second consecutive day||The Covid-19 fatalities remained nil for the second consecutive day and recoveries continued to steadily outnumber the new cases in the state, as per the bulletin issued by the health department on Thursday night. According to the bulletin, 156 persons were declared cured compared to 96 fresh cases. Currently, only 854 active cases exist. The Covid death toll stands at 5113 since the outbreak of the virus. Out of a total of 3,45,706 positive cases, 3,39,739 got cured. Among the districts, East Singhbhum and Ranchi district reported 10 new cases each followed by Giridih ,9, and eight cases each from Bokaro and Gumla. As many as five districts namely Chatra, Godda, Khunti, Lohardaga, and Seraikela didn’t report any new cases. The mortality rate in the state was recorded at 1.47 per cent, higher than the national average of 1.30 per cent. The recovery rate among Covid patients in the state has improved to 98.27 per cent, better than the national average of 96.90 per cent. Altogether, 1,00,35,595 samples have been tested for Covid-19 in Jharkhand, including 51,924 since Thursday, it added. On the other hand, a total of 26,826 people took their first dose of the vaccine in the last 24 hours of which 23,000 people were between 18-44 years. Due to the low vaccine stocks, mainly of Covishield, only 6,947 people were able to take their second doses during this period. So far 3.54 lakh people are fully vaccinated in the state, which is about 43 percent of the target group, added the bulletin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-115
02-07-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city's favourite park to get a new entry point ||The lush green Jubilee Park will soon have one more entry point from the Marine Drive side, intended to provide a better access for the visitors coming from the western part of the steel city. The picturesque park, a major place of attraction for residents living in and around the steel city, presently has three entry points -- one is from the Bistupur end and two from Sakchi. The work for setting up the fourth entry point is being carried out by JUSCO, a subsidiary of the steel major Tata Steel. "We have started setting up a fourth entry point for Jubilee Park. The new entrance to the park is coming up from the Marine Drive side, "said Sukanya Das, spokesperson of JUSCO to The Telegraph Online. Sukanya said the entry point is being set up keeping in view of the visitors' rush to the park, especially during the year end and new year occasions as well as during the Founder's Day celebration. While the existing entry points are close to the park, the new entrance to it will be about 500 metres away from its heart. Moreover, the visitors willing to come through the new entrance will have to travel about two kms along Marine Drive from the turning point near the Water Filtration Plant on Subernarekha Link Road in Sakchi. Sources in JUSCO said the flower beds, gardens and illuminated fountains beside other attractive things will come up in the 500-metres-long stretch between the center of the park and its new entrance. Jubilee Park has been closed for the visitors since March last year in view of the pandemic, but when it will be reopened post pandemic, it will be a place of pleasant surprise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-115
02-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand govt no fare-hike diktat upsets bus operators||Ranchi's Kantatoli bus depot was abuzz with activity on Friday as buses hit the roads of Ranchi after being allowed to resume services, but after the state government's late night directive on Thursday asking operators not to hike fares, it is doubtful if full-fledged public transport services can continue for long. Buses have been allowed to run with full seating capacity, provided all other Covid norms, like wearing of masks and carrying  proper route permits, are adhered to. But the no-fare hike order of the state transport department is a concern for majority of  bus operators who called it "impractical". Krishna Mohan Singh, president of Ranchi Bus Owners Association, said that the price of diesel had risen by  at least Rs 30 in the last three months. “Today, diesel price in Ranchi is about Rs 94 a litre compared to Rs 64 when we  shut operations temporarily. How can bus operators sustain themselves with old rates? Few days back, we had met with the state transport department secretary K K Soan with  our demands,including logical consideration in hiking the ticket fares. But it did not help," he rued. He said that even  though the government had allowed buses to run with full seating capacity, no owner could run the business without hiking  ticket rates by at least 10-15 per cent. “We will be forced to cut down on the number of buses on the road because besides fuel price, there has been an increase in other accessories such as engine oil and the likes,” he added. A manager of Chanchal Travel, which runs buses in several  routes including Ranchi and Jamshedpur, said, “We have a 45-seater AC bus on the Ranchi-Tata route. On an average, we calculate operation costs of a  trip based on at least 30 passengers. As per the estimates, we are now incurring an increase of Rs 3000 in operation costs per trip on this route, taking into account the current rate of Rs 300 per ticket. After a few days it will be difficult to manage. We want the  government to reconsider its decision.” While transport commissioner Kiran Kumar Passi didn’t respond to  calls, another senior official in the department said, “People, mostly poor or middle class, travel by bus between different districts. The government doesn’t want to further burden them with higher ticket rates. The last time, the state government provided waivers in road permit taxes to all commercial vehicles. Once the situation normalizes, the transport department will certainly look into the demands.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-115
02-07-2021||Jharkhand||Union minister to lay foundation stone for five Eklavya schools ||Union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda will lay the foundation stone of five Eklavya Model Residential Schools in three districts of Kolhan region. On Saturday, the union minister will lay the foundation stone of an Eklavya Model Residential School at Khairbani in Rajnagar block of Seraikela Kharsawan district. He will lay the foundation stone of two other Eklavya Model Residential Schools the same day at Sialjodi village of Hatgamharia block and at Haldia in Majhgaon block, both in West Singhbhum district. On July 4, Munda will lay the foundation stone of a similar Eklavya residential school at Hatiapata village of Ghurabandha block in East Singhbhum and at Ghordhuan in Dhalbhumgarh block of East Singhbhum. Eklavya Model Residential School EMRS is a Union government scheme for model residential schools for Indian tribals (ST, Scheduled Tribes) across India. It is one of the flagship interventions of the Union ministry of tribal affairs and was introduced in the year 1997-98 to ensure tribal students get access to quality education in the remote tribal areas. The government gives one time Rs 30 lakh grant for establishing the school, thereafter up to Rs 30 lakh per school annually. The additional cost is borne by state governments. At the end of 2018, a total of 284 EMRSs have been sanctioned with a maximum of 32 approved in Madhya Pradesh. There are around 226 such residential schools presently functional across the country. Eklavya residential schools in Jharkhand will be developed as a Centre for Excellence on the lines of Navodaya Vidyalaya. For sports, the residential schools will have the state-of-the-art facilities including art training, specialised training, boarding and lodging facilities, sports kits, sports equipment, competition performance, insurance, medical expenses etc. as per norms of Sports Authority of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-115
02-07-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad roadside dhabas undergo thorough hygiene inspection||The Dhanbad Municipal Corporation on Friday launched a hygiene inspection drive against the roadside dhabas situated on the station road, a day after reopening of restaurants following the relaxations allowed by the state government. The hour-long inspection carried out under the leadership of Anil Kumar, DMC food inspector, during the morning from 10.45 am to 11.45 am also led to the detection of unhygienic practices by five road Dhabas including the preservation of stale food and wrong practice of keeping food in the open. Kumar gave stern warning to the faulty dhaba operators asking them to mend their ways immediately or face action as per the Jharkhand Municipality act ranging from imposition of fines to sealing of shops. Taking note of lack of proper garbage disposal, Kumar also instructed them to ensure proper garbage disposal using the door to door garbage collection service of DMC   and make payment of user charges to DMC. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Friday, Anil Kumar said, “the drive launched today will continue in other areas also as we have covered the dhabas operating on the road stretch from Rangatand Chowk to Hanuman Temple while the other food outlets operating from other side of Hanuman Temple to Railway auditorium will also be taken to task soon.” “As the restaurants reopened only since yesterday, so we have not  imposed any fine for the violation and hygiene and rather carried out drive of today as an awareness exercise during which we clearly told them that such can’t be served to customers, as it will adversely affect their health”said “We have also destroyed some of stale food caught lying in the freezer of five out of 13 inspected  dhabas  and apprised the dhaba operators about the rule pertaining to the Jharkhand Municipality Act under which action may be initiated against them  for flouting  laid norms,” said Kumar. “We also objected to the practice of Dhaba operators dumping huge amount of garbage including food leftovers on the road side due to non use of door to door garbage collection service and also warned them against the illegal dumping of garbage” said Kumar “The shopkeepers were asked to keep the garbage in dustbins only which will be collected by personnel of Ramky Enviro Engineers executing solid waste management project” said Kumar and added that they were also asked to  pay the user charges being collected by DMC before ensuring door to door garbage collection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-115
02-07-2021||Jharkhand||Curbs off but Dhanbad buses and trains stay grounded||The travails of thousands of daily passengers including office goers, labourers and daily wage earners, continues in the coal town as city bus services remain suspended despite government restrictions being lifted. Passengers travelling to places like, Katras, Sindri, Maithon, Chirkunda, Rajganj, Topchanchi are the worst affected as other than being compelled to pay four to five times fare in auto-rickshaw they are also compelled to make a break journey as auto rickshaws do not operate for long distance. Suspension of local train services, including Dhanbad-Sindri passenger train and Dhanbad-Chandrapura due to the pandemic and other reasons have further added to the woes of the common passenger as they are left with no other option other than travelling in auto- rickshaw and pay exorbitant fares. Notably, only 13 out of total 70 buses procured by DMC way back in 2010 under the millennium city project have been operational till the pre lockdown period of April 21, while remaining 57 are lying grounded due to being in extremely dilapidated condition as many of them have never came on road due to failure of DMC to operate buses. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Friday, Ranjit Kumar Singh, a speech therapist cum special educator of Jeevan Jyoti School, a school for differently-abled students, at Dhanbad said, “My residence is in Katras and travelling from Katras to Dhanbad I am now compelled to pay Rs 60 in auto-rickshaw instead of the charge of Rs 20 of bus fare.” “Such is the monopoly of auto drivers that they are even charging as much as Rs 80 as Katras fare from railway passengers during the weekend complete lockdown,” said Ranjit. Echoing his sentiments, Umesh Heliwal, a garment seller of Karkend Bazar in Dhanbad, who is also secretary of Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association said, “Many of our staff as well as retailers travelling from far off places like Sindri, Baghmara, Maithon, Chirkunda are facing great difficulty in visiting us due to non operational of city bus service.” President of Sindri Chamber of Commerce, Deepak Kumar Dipu said, "The worst sufferer of the suspension of city bus service are the Sindri residents located around 30 km from Dhanbad as auto rickshaw drivers are even charging as high as Rs 150 as Dhanbad-Sindri fare during lockdown instead of city bus fare of Rs 25 per passenger." “We have requested the railway authorities for the restoration of Sindri Dhanbad passenger train and simultaneously a restoration request of city bus service was made to DMC authorities but all our requests have fallen into deaf's ear,” said Dipu. Contacted, DMC Assistant Engineer, Uday Kachhap who is also the in charge of transport service of DMC,  said, “All 13 buses would start operating soon as the contractors operating buses have started carrying out necessary servicing  as batteries have exhausted during  the over two months of lockdown period while other technical snags also developed in engine etc.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-115
02-07-2021||Jharkhand||SAIL seeks stern action against protesters ||The SAIL,management is planning to take stern actions against those who participated in a strike demanding pay revision on Wednesday that crippled production at Bokaro Steel Plant for almost 24 hours. The strike, called by 12 trade unions jointly demanding pay revision, incurred a huge loss to the steel major. Though the production and revenue loss has not been declared officially by management, but sources at key positions confirmed that BSL suffered a production loss of around 6500 tonnes of crude steel.  In terms of revenue, the loss faced by the company is about Rs 40 crore. BSL spokesperson, Manikant Dhan said that the loss is being assessed by the management. Of the five steel plants of Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL), BSL suffered the maximum jolt as the workers not only refrained from work, but also disrupted work at critical production zones like Blast Furnace and Steel Melting Shop.  There is an indication that SAIL management is going to take major action against the furious employees involved in the strike. Apart from the production and revenue loss at the BSL, the blast furnace incident has shaken the management. The BSL management has sent a special report related to the strike as well as the blast furnace incident to SAIL Headquarters, said sources. About two dozen employees are under scanner in blast furnace incident where the railway tracks through which hot metals were carried to other units were blocked for more than 4 hours. The situation in Blast Furnace had aggravated to an extent where there was a possibility of occurrence of any untoward incident, with pressure on the pipelines supplying gas to blast furnace and coke ovens. The agitators attempted to shut down the Blast Furnaces, an issue taken seriously by the SAIL management. Despite persuasion by BSL's ED Works and senior officials, the agitators did not leave the track.  BSL's in-charge director Amarendu Prakash had to seek cooperation from the district administration. Knowing the seriousness of the situation, SDO, Chas, Shashi Prakash Singh himself reached the blast furnace and asked agitators to leave the track in half an hour. Shortly after that, the CISF removed the employees from there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-115
02-07-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Bus operators, hoteliers relieved as govt lifts restrictions ||Bus operators, hoteliers and restaurant owners heaved a sigh of relief after the Jharkhand government on Wednesday lifted the Covid-induced restrictions on their operations after over two months. According to the new guidelines issued by the Jharkhand government, inter-district buses can operate with their seating capacity adhering to standard operating procedures from Thursday though the partial lockdown would continue till further orders. “We are happy that the government has agreed to our demands for the last few weeks to let us resume our operations so that our staff and we can sustain ourselves. We are incurring huge losses and our staff are staring at starvation. We have told all our staff to ensure mandatory use of masks by passengers and also carry out regular sanitisation of bus seats. We might also start thermal scanning of passengers,” said Krishna Mohan Singh, president of the Ranchi Bus Owners’ Association. The restaurant and bar operators termed the move to lift restrictions as a delayed decision but still welcomed it. “It should have been done in mid-June itself when the cases started declining. Anyway we would have adhered to strict Covid protocols and prevented gathering. The situation is such that we are neck deep in financial crisis due to the lockdown which was imposed on April 22. However, we welcome the decision of the government and would operate with the mandatory 50 per cent capacity,” said Gurusharan Singh, a senior functionary of the Jharkhand Restaurant and Bar Association and a Ranchi-based restaurant owner. The directive also allowed shops and other establishments across the state to open till 8pm (from the earlier 4pm) but the weekend lockdown (from 8pm on Saturday till 6am on Monday) will continue. Banquet halls and community halls have also been allowed to open with a maximum of 50 people. In another significant decision, the government also allowed stadiums, gymnasiums and parks to open from Thursday. There will be a prohibition on gathering of more than 50 people in such places. Entrance examinations allowed by the Union government can be held. However, exams to be held by the state government will continue to be postponed. There will be no requirement of e-passes for inter-district travel in the state. E-passes will remain mandatory for inter-state movement in private vehicles but for movement within a district, no e-passes will be required. Religious places and educational institutions would continue to remain closed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-115
02-07-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi: Indian Institute of Management successfully completes final placement||The Indian Institute of Management, Ranchi, on Thursday announced that it had “successfully completed the final placement” for all the students of its 2019-20 MBA and MBA-HR (human resources) programmes, despite the pandemic situation. All 273 students — 201 in MBA and 72 in MBA-HR — have been offered jobs by reputed companies this year, said a release issued by the institute on Thursday. It said 167 companies had participated in the placement process this year. The average pay package offered to MBA students was Rs 14.69 lakh per annum while the highest CTC was Rs 26.50 lakh per annum, the release said. The average package for MBA-HR students was Rs 14.68 lakh per annum, with the highest offer being Rs 29.75 lakh per annum, it added. Asked about the 100 per cent placement for its students during the pandemic, institute director Shailendra Singh told The Telegraph: “The performances of the previous students of the institute who are well placed across the domains have created a good impression about IIM-R among the employers who keep returning to Ranchi for recruiting our students.” “The sincerity of the present students and the efforts put in by the faculty members also helped in providing cent per cent placements,” he added. “The placement process was really very satisfying as we didn’t feel the problem that many others faced in various institutes where offers were either withdrawn or withheld during the pandemic last year,” said Subham Singha Roy, an MBA-HR student who just joined “one of the leading manufacturing companies of the country”. The recruiters offered diverse roles in the functional areas across various domains. Among those, sales and marketing had the highest number of jobs comprising 31 per cent of the total offers followed by strategy and consulting (20 per cent), operations and general management (20 per cent), IT and analytics (17 per cent) and finance (12 per cent). The placement session featured the return of major brands and prominent companies like Accenture, Aditya Birla Capital Ltd, Asian Paints, Byju’s, Birlasoft, Capgemini, Cognizant, Deloitte, Godrej, HSBC, ICICI Bank, ICICI Lombard, Infosys, JP Morgan and Chase, Kotak Mahindra Bank, Mahindra and Mahindra, Maveric Systems, O9 Solutions Inc, Oxane Partners, RBL Bank, Samsung, Tata Steel Ltd, Tech Mahindra, TVS Motors, Ultratech, Vedanta Group, Yes Bank and many more, the release said, adding that there were also some first-timers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-115
02-07-2021||Jharkhand||Fuel price hike dampen spirits of Dhanbad bus operators ||Coal town bus operators are not ecstatic over the resumption of intra-state operations, due to the steep hike in fuel prices. Following the relaxations by the state government allowing operation of intrastate buses, only five intra state buses out of a total of 250 operated from Dhanbad on the first day. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, Sanjay Singh, Vice President of Dhanbad Bus Owners Association, said, “We are treading cautiously in changed scenario of over two month closure when the fuel prices have increased to around 25% and unless we get 50% bookings we are not in a position to resume the full fleet of long distance buses like those running between Dhanbad to Ranchi.” “We will not able to even to pay the salaries of our staff if the booking remains less than 50% of the total capacity,” said Singh. For buses operating between Dhanbad to Ranchi they required at least 100 litres of diesel per day and when the diesel prices have increased to over 94 per litre they will be required to invest around Rs 9400 per day which will be around Rs 1700 more than the previous per day fuel cost of Rs 7700 per day, clarified Singh. “No other relaxation despite our demand for waiver of road tax of three months of April, May and June of closure period and increase permit tenure till September have been considered by the government  adding to our financial constraints,” said Singh. Sumit Singh, owner of Bundela Travels which operates over 25 buses said, “The response of the passengers during the first day was quite poor and  as the five out of 250 buses, including two for Giridih and one each for Ranchi, Bokaro and Chhatra which operated from the Bus Depot at Bartant operated with less than 10% occupancy.” “Various reasons, including the lack of proper information among the passengers about the government permission for operation of buses from today,  availability for lesser staff before the bus operators for running the buses were responsible for poor occupancy today” said Singh and added that they are expecting the passenger flow to improve gradually within a week. “We will be operating a limited number of buses in the present scenario and only will be able to operate the full fleet in the changed scenario of increased fuel prices when the passenger flow increases” said Singh. Sunil Singh, operator of Sunil Travels which operates buses between Dhanbad to nearby Bengal towns like Purulia, Asansol, Durgaur and Burnpur said, “The relaxation in Jharkhand has no benefit for us unless the situation improves in Bengal but we welcome the Jharkhand government relaxations.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-116
02-07-2021||Jharkhand||Wedding planners upbeat after lockdown relaxations||More than 2000 wedding planners, hoteliers and banquet hall owners are upbeat over the relaxations announced on Wednesday night by the state government, including allowing opening of banquet halls, marriage halls and restaurants with limited capacity of 50 persons. Over 1200 decorators, tent house owners, band operators, caterers, wedding photographers of the district have started work for the remaining weddings scheduled during the last six days of the lagan season. The hoteliers, banquet and marriage hall owners and restaurant operators on the other hand are overjoyed at the prospect of beginning of different kinds of small parties including, birthday, marriage anniversaries, engagement, promotion parties besides the conferences, meetings, seminars etc during the post-marriage season. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, Pradeep Kumar Singh, President of Dhanbad Zila Decorator Association, said, “Though 80% of around 20 thousand marriages scheduled during five month lagan season beginning from March have already been cancelled, but the relaxation as this juncture also will help us to compensate for some of the losses.” “We were more concerned about the income of labourers working with us like generator operators, electricians, dishwashers, servers, bush boys, band party operators,” said Singh and added that large number of these labourers have already left for their native places to work on the farmland due to cancellation of almost all marriages scheduled during, March, April, May, June. “The best part of the order was allowing a congregation of maximum 50 persons which will allow the functions to be held with the involvement of wedding planners like us,” said a Jharia based decorator. Senior General Manager of Skylark Hotel, Anutosh Bagchi also welcomed the relaxations provided by the government including allow opening of banquet halls/ marriage halls and said “though marriage season is almost at the end but we are looking over other meetings, parties etc held aS part of the birth way function, marriage anniversaries, ring ceremony, work anniversary functions, promotions etc” “The banquet hall rents and restaurant income are an important part of the hotel business and hotel’s income will also improve with permission for dining facility in their restaurants as during the recent times the concept of group dining has gained popularity which  allows people to share the food cost among each other,” said Bagchi. “We expect the situation to improve further for the hospitality sector with the gradual relaxation in lockdown situation in neighbouring states of Bihar and Bengal and also opening of all means of transports including, buses, trains and private vehicles,” said Vinay Singh owner of Hotel Ramson in Dhanbad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-116
