03-07-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city bus service to resume from Monday ||The steel city bus service will resume from Monday after two-and-half months providing relief to daily commuters. The bus service was stopped on April 22 due to a spike in cases of Covid-19 during the second wave. The Shikshit Berojgar Mini Bus Association which runs the bus service (popularly known as mini bus service) within the city has decided to operate buses from Monday following relaxations in lockdown rules. "The buses will resume operation from Monday with the prevailing old fare. Buses will run on all the scheduled routes," said Sanjay Pandey, president of the association. He went on to say that the buses will run with full capacity and that it will be mandatory for all passengers to wear masks. The senior functionary of the association said they will convene a meeting of the bus operators later this month to discuss the issue of hike in ticket fares. "All bus operators are passing through a difficult phase because of Covid-19 induced lockdown coupled with diesel price hike which has risen by about Rs 39 in the last three months. Therefore, it will be difficult for us to survive if we continue with the old fare, "he pointed out. The current diesel price in Jamshedpur has crossed Rs 94 per litre while it was around Rs 65 in March. On an average around 90 buses used to ply from the Sakchi-based bus stand for various destinations daily. But, because of the pandemic, the number of buses have been reduced to around 40 which run in places like Telco, Govindpur, Tatanagar station, Baridih, Sundernagar, Adityapur and Kandra. Several bus operators demanded the district administration to clear their outstanding dues for the service which they had provided during the lockdown last year for ferrying migrant workers from Tatanagar railway station to their respective home districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-114
03-07-2021||Jharkhand||State gears up for vaccination of pregnant women||Jharkhand is getting ready to vaccinate pregnant women against Covid-19, for which it will impart special training to frontline workers, vaccinators and others involved to counsell recipents about the benefits and  potential risks of the vaccine, health officials said on Saturday. Besides, the state will also hold orientation of members from professional bodies such as the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Federation of Obstetric and Gynaecological Society of India (FOGSI), the Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP) and others so that information related to vaccination of pregnant women can be passed on to others. “Programme staff members working at PHCs (Primary Healthcare Centres), CHCs (Community Healthcare Centres) and even in private clinics will be trained for counselling pregnant women so that the beneficiaries can take an informed decision of getting vaccinated,” said Dr Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer of health department’s Information, Education and Communication (IEC) wing. The Union health ministry has allowed vaccination for pregnant women, claiming that the benefits of vaccination far outweigh the risks. The decision was taken following recommendation of the National Technical Advisory Group for Immunisation (NTAGI). However, the ministry has also issued detailed guidelines related to vaccination of expecting mothers, and warned of rare yet severe side effects within 20 days of vaccination. The health ministry has not specified any additional precautions to be taken during vaccination of pregnant women who were also suffering from anaemia, malnutrition or had a low body mass index (BMI), sources in the state health department said. In Jharkhand, several rural women suffer from anaemia and other nutritional deficiencies, and the effect of vaccination on such pregnant women is not clear. While most pregnant women might respond well to the vaccine and show only minor side effects like mild fever and body ache, some vaccinated women may experience shortness of breath, chest pain, persistent vomiting or seizures. Such side effects may need immediate medical attention, officials said. Frontline workers and vaccinators will also be imparted special training to help prospective beneficiaries get their slots using the Co-Win platform and guide them through the process in case they opt for walk-in vaccination, officials said. Since around 75 per cent of the state’s population lives in rural areas, teams of frontline workers would visit homes of pregnant women and counsel them about the importance and side effects of vaccination against Covid-19. As per Union health ministry guidelines, obstetriciand, paediatricians and neonatologists should be made part of district teams for monitoring adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) for proper investigation and reportage of side effects in vaccinated pregnant women.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-114
03-07-2021||Jharkhand||Three in police net for selling drugs from home||In a major breakthrough against drugs peddling, police seized huge quantities of marijuana and prohibited drugs like Nitrosun-10 tablets from three houses in the densely-populated Garib Nawaz Colony under Jugsalai thana area on Saturday. The team led by deputy superintendent of police (Law and Order) Faiz arrested three persons, including a woman during the raid. Those arrested were identified as Mohammed Nausad (40), Amzad Ali (46) and Shamima Begum (46), all residents of Garib Nawaz Colony. From the houses of those arrested, the police team recovered stocks of Nitrosun-10 tablets, marijuana and Correx whitener. The OC of Jugsalai thana Tarun Kumar said they had received a tip-off that some drug-peddlers are selling narcotic drugs and other intoxicating substances from their houses in Garib Nawaz Colony. "On the basis of the tip off, superintendent of police (City) Subhash Chandra Jat set up a raiding team led by DSP (Law and Order) Faiz Akram on Saturday morning.  A police party surrounded the entire colony and raided the houses of the suspects. During the search operation, the team found the stocks of marijuana, Nitrosun-10 tablets and Correx whitener from the houses of all the three accused," said Kumar while addressing a media conference. The OC said the Nitrosun-10 tablet which is highly-intoxicating is sold at medical stores on production of medical prescription only. "Now, after a huge quantity of Nitrosun-10 tablets were recovered from the houses of the three accused, the police are trying to find out the medical store that had supplied them. The accused would sell the tablets to addicts at a wishful rate, "the police officer pointed out. The police are also trying to find out the shop that had supplied the seized Correx whitener in large numbers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-114
03-07-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant cash award promise for Tokyo-bound: Rs 2cr for gold, Rs 1cr for silver, Rs 75 lakh for bronze||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Saturday announced a cash award of Rs 50 lakh for star archer Deepika Kumari who had grabbed a hat-trick of gold medals as India made an unprecedented clean sweep at the World Cup Stage 3 in Paris last month for a perfect build-up to the Tokyo Olympics in less than a month's time. The chief minister also declared cash awards of Rs 2 crore for winning gold in Tokyo Olympics Games to be held from July 23 and August 8, Rs 1 crore for winning silver and Rs 75 lakh for bronze for the Jharkhand players. For archers Ankita Bhakat and Komalika Bari, Hemant announced a cash reward of Rs 20 lakh each while for coach Purnima Mahto Rs 12 lakh. For Nikki Pradhan and Salima Tete who have been selected in the Indian Hockey team for Olympics, Hemant announced Rs 5 lakh each. "Chief Minister announced cash awards for our champions. Deepika - Rs 50 lakhs, Anikta and Komalika - Rs 20 lakh each, Salima and Nikki - Rs 5 lakh each & Coach Purnima Mahto Rs 12 lakhs. "CM also announced cash rewards for winning Olympic medals - Gold- Rs 2 crore, silver - Rs one crore & Bronze- Rs 75 lakhs," Chief Minister's office said. The CM also interacted with the players and Dronacharya awardee Punima Mahato virtually. Star Indian archer Deepika Kumari last month had regained the number one position in global rankings following her hat- trick of gold medals at the World Cup Stage 3 here. The 27-year-old from Ranchi, who had achieved the top spot for the first time in 2012, had claimed gold medals in three recurve events -- women's individual, team and mixed pair. "This is going to take Deepika to the number one spot in the world rankings on Monday," World Archery had tweeted on its official handle after Deepika's gold rush. Deepika first combined with Ankita Bhakat and Komalika Bari to notch up the women's recurve team gold with a comfortable win over Mexico. Nikki Pradhan and Salima Tete, two Jharkhand girls, will be part of India's 16-member women's hockey squad for the Tokyo Olympics Games to be held from July 23 and August 8 and Jharkhand had termed it a "proud moment" for state. Jharkhand is known for producing world-class women archers and female hockey players. "Proud moment for us as our girls Nikki Pradhan and Salima Tete make it to the final 16. Best wishes to Team India and our girls from Jharkhand. May the team comes out in bright flying colours," chief minister Hemant had earlier tweeted. Pradhan hails from Hesal village in tribal heartland Khunti, about 65 km from state capital, Ranchi. Though she picked up hockey stick at a tender age, she fine tuned her skills at Bariatu Girls' Hockey Centre, Ranchi which has also produced former India hockey captain Asunta Lakra. Indian Women's Hockey Team midfielder Pradhan, 27, earlier became the first hockey player from Jharkhand to participate in the Olympic Games when she played for India at the Rio Games. While Nikki is a seasoned midfielder in the Indian squad, Indian women's hockey team's young midfielder Salima Tete having debuted for India in early 2017 against Belarus was touted to be the next big thing in Indian hockey. Tete, 19, hails from a small hamlet in Simdega district, Jharkhand and has since proved her potential in the Indian team.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-114
03-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand traders welcome retail and wholesale inclusion in MSME||Various trade outfits on Friday welcomed the decision of the Union government for the inclusion of retail and wholesale trades in Micro Small and Medium Enterprise (MSME). Nitin Gadkari, the minister of MSME and road transport, on Friday announced revised guidelines for MSMEs with inclusion of retail and wholesale trades as MSMEs. The retail and wholesale trade were left out of the ambit of MSME. Now under the revised guidelines, retail and wholesale trade will also get the benefit of priority sector lending as per RBI guidelines. With the revised guidelines the retail and wholesale trades will also be allowed to register on Udyam Registration Portal, which enables any person who intends to establish a micro, small or medium enterprise to file online, based on self-declaration with no requirement to upload documents, papers, certificates or proof. "The trader community across the country is jubilant because of their inclusion under the definition of MSME. We thank the Union government for taking such a big decision for the business community of the country," said Praveen Khandelwal, secretary general of the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), the apex body of small traders talking to The Telegraph Online. Suresh Sonthalia, the national secretary of CAIT and former vice- president of Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industry ( FJCCI ) said around 1crore traders in Jharkhand will benefit with the Centre's decision of including retail and wholesale trades in MSME. "We have been raising this issue and have been following it up with the Union commerce and MSME ministry for more than a year. The decision will benefit more than eight crore small businesses of the country. In Jharkhand alone around one crore traders who have GST registration would be benefitted. The inclusion in MSME will help them in getting loans and bill payments besides other benefits," he explained. According to Sonthalia, with this decision, the traders will fall under the MSME category and will be able to avail requisite finances from the banks and financial institutions under priority sector lending. Besides, now the traders will also be enjoying several other benefits of various other government schemes which are being enjoyed by the MSME sector. "Today is a  big day for us. It's a victory for the business community of the country which is providing employment to about 40 crore people and generating an annual turnover of Rs 115 lakh crore, " added Sonthalia. Leading trade outfit of Kolkan region - Singhbhum Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SCCI ) too was upbeat with the decision. SCCI's general Secretary Bharat Vasani said , "The Covid pandemic affected traders will now be able to restore their businesses by obtaining necessary finances from the banks which were earlier denied to them. This step of the government will prove to be a milestone step in reviving not only the economy but even the most vibrant retail trade of India."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-114
03-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand teachers appeal to JPSC chief for 'justice' in CBI exam probe ||A total of 35 university and college teachers of Jharkhand, mentioned in a CBI chargesheet for alleged reconstruction of merit list by Jharkhand Public Service Commissioner, petitioned JPSC chairman Amitabh Choudhary seeking his intervention to ensure justice for them. The group of 35 petitioners, out of total 59 charge sheeted teachers, presently posted in different colleges and universities of Jharkhand have pointed out in their petition that the “arbitrary, illegal and unauthorised” reconstruction of  merit list by JPSC provided to the investigating agency led to them being charge sheeted. They are compelled to lead a life of indignity for more than a decade due to charges of criminal conspiracy, forgery against them. The petitioners in the letter sent to Choudhary on Friday further enumerated that the charges of fraudulence as mentioned in the CBI charge sheet of 2019 is based on the “wrong assumption” that merit list pertaining to their selection of 2006 was to be made on the basis of marks obtained in paper 3 of 200 marks related to their subject but the fact remains that the merit list was to be prepared on the average marks of all the three papers taken together. Notably, altogether 767 candidates qualified in JET Exam held in 2006 and after the interview conducted for appointment of lecturers in 2007 731candidates were recommended for appointment in 2008. Following a complaint of irregularity in the JET exam, a probe was instituted by CBI on the instruction of Jharkhand High Court in 2012. “The University Grants Commission guidelines, however clearly states that in order to qualify the examinees must obtain minimum qualifying marks in Paper 1st (multiple choice related to teaching aptitude) and 2nd paper (multiple choice pattern related to subject) separately (of 100 marks each) and also taken together,“ said one of the petitioners, Amitabh Bharti . “The UGC guideline further states that the result should be prepared on the basis of average marks of all the three papers taken together of only those candidates who secure minimum qualifying marks in Paper 3,” further says the petition. “All of us have actually obtained more marks than the required minimum marks in each paper separately, and also above average cut off marks of three papers,” reads the petition. “We have been just dragged into this Built-Up Case in a most unjust, unfair and degrading way and manner, without any rhyme and reason,” reads the petition. “The reconstructed merit list instead of merit list ought to be prepared as per UGC guidelines, provided to CBI by JPSC led to our being charge sheeted in case.” “We, therefore, request you to kindly intervene, if legally feasible, into the issue, not only in order to restore and retain the social image, reputation, dignity, and popular trust in JPSC, but also to provide protection and justice to the humble college and university teachers who are being subjected to uncalled for accusations, victimisations, persecutions and social humiliations in our everyday life,” further reads the petition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-114
03-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand board unveils 80:20 formula for matric, intermediate results ||Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC) has devised a formula, based on a combination of marks obtained in its own examinations and those awarded by  schools, to formulate results of matriculation and intermediate students whose board examinations had to be cancelled this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. On Saturday, JAC officials indicated they were working to declare final results by the end of the month. As per the evaluation pattern devised by JAC along with the state education department, results of Class 10 will be based on Class 9 results while results of Class 12 will be on the basis of performace in Class 11. In Jharkhand both Class 9 and Class 11 final exams are also conducted by JAC. Officials said the council has asked all government schools across all 24 districts to send in marks of the internal assessment/practical exams of  students by July 13. JAC officials spoke of a 80:20 ratio while formulating final results. “Eighty per cent of the total marks of a student will be given on the basis of performance in Class 9 or Class 11 while 20 per cent marks will be based on internal assessment or scores achieved during this year’s practical exams to be sent by the school/district committee,” explained a JAC official. Over 7 lakh students had enrolled for matric and intermediate exams this year. Before the Covid lockdown was clamped in Jharkhand in April, JAC had already conducted offline practical exams for more than 70 per cent students. “For the remaining students, we have sent a proposal to the state disaster management department for holding practical exams. It will be held after getting its nod, either online or offline. For arts and commerce streams in intermediate, we will simply take into account the internal assessment of  schools since these subjects have no practicals,” said a JAC official, adding that the remaining practical exams can be completed in a day or two if and when the government gives a go-ahead. JAC chairman Arvind Prasad Singh said they had started work on the results. “We are trying to prepare and announce the result by this month- end,” he said. On the modalities of calculating the 80 per cent marks, he said that JAC would not face any problem. “The unique thing about Class 9 and Class 11 exams in Jharkhand is that these are also conducted by JAC unlike many other states. We already have a database of marks for both the classes. So there won’t be any problem in assessing students based on their past performance,” he said. The Jharkhand government cancelled this year’s state board matric and intermediate exams on June 10 after the outbreak of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. While making the announcement, chief minister Hemant Soren said that JAC and the state education department had been directed to devise a formula and prepare results in sync with other boards so that students did not face problems while seeking admission to institutes of higher education or appearing for competitive exams. On June 17, JAC submitted its evaluation criteria  to the state education department after several rounds of meetings with various stakeholders. Even though the department has not yet made an official announcement about having accepted the formula, sources said that chief minister had given his consent. “All schools and district education superintendents have been asked to upload the 20 per cent marks for their students only through the JAC website,” said an official in the JAC secretary’s office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-114
03-07-2021||Jharkhand||SC upset at Jharkhand High Court for summoning senior officers on bail case||The Supreme Court has expressed displeasure over the Jharkhand High Court orders summoning senior state officials while allowing an anticipatory bail plea of a man, saying the HC went outside the scope of the case and can at best register a public interest litigation if it finds that the factual scenario supports such an action. A bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Krishna Murari, in its order passed on June 29, said that there is no requirement of appearance of the officers and since the proceedings arising before the high court judge from the anticipatory bail application having been closed, nothing survives in those proceedings. The bench was hearing an appeal filed by the Jharkhand government against the high court's two orders dated April 9 and April 13 in which it had summoned senior state government officials, including the chief secretary, home secretary and the health secretary, asking them why contempt action should not be initiated against them. In its appeal, the state government has said that the high court in an unprecedented manner, unknown to law, has continued with the said proceedings and has passed a slew of directions of a general nature pertaining to the State on the alleged lapses on the part of investigating officers and government doctors resulting in alleged false prosecution of the accused, who had applied the for anticipatory bail. The high court was hearing an anticipatory bail plea of Dhanbad resident Basir Ansari, who has been booked under section 49A of IPC and other provisions after his wife Anjum Bano committed suicide in her maternal home within one year of marriage. Ansari has submitted that their marriage was solemnized on July 7, 2018 and after his wife complained of abdominal pain in August 2018, an ultrasound was done and it was found that she was pregnant by three months. The father of Anjum Bano was informed and she was handed over to her father, who took her to his village, and the premature pregnancy was terminated. Thereafter, Anjum Bano committed suicide in her own native place, Basir had said. The high court noted in its order that the autopsy of Anjum Bano was conducted by Dr Swapan Kumar Sarak but in the post-mortem report, he has not mentioned the premature termination of pregnancy of the deceased soon before her death. The high court had then directed the chief secretary to verify the certificates of all the doctors practicing in Jharkhand either on the government side or the private side. On April 9, the high court had noted that the affidavit filed by the chief secretary was not in compliance with the earlier orders of the court as he had failed to mention the enrolment number of Dr Swapan Kumar Sarak for whose conduct the case was lingering before the court since 2018. It, thereafter, went on to summon the chief secretary, home secretary and the health secretary on the same day through virtual mode, but the officials did not appear and later cited their busy schedule owing to issues related to COVID-19 management as the reason for their absence. The top court noted that the high court judge proceeded to look into many other aspects dehors (outside) the aspect of anticipatory bail, on account of the alleged conduct of Dr Swapan Kumar Sarak who had conducted the autopsy and was alleged not to have mentioned that the deceased was pregnant . It said, “The said fact is stated to have come to light only when the ultrasound report was filed along with the anticipatory bail application. It is this nature of proceedings which have troubled the State of Jharkhand which has come up in Special Leave Petitions.” The bench said that the HC can register a public interest litigation if it finds that the factual scenario supports such an action. "Insofar as the betterment of the criminal justice system is concerned", which was cited by the HC in its orders, "the case at best would be a public interest litigation if something survives in the same", the apex court said. The apex court said "the relevant papers should be placed before the Chief Justice of the High Court on the administrative side for examination whether the factual scenario calls upon the matter to be entertained as a public interest litigation (PIL) or not. "If it is so entertained, then it should be so registered only as public interest litigation, the bench said. Additional Advocate General Arunabh Chowdhury, appearing for the Jharkhand government, submitted that the orders passed by the high court do not paint a very happy picture on account of all officers being summoned to court, more so, in view of the apex court having cautioned against unnecessary summoning officers and that too in proceedings of the nature of anticipatory bail where the issue came to an end. He said that if the order dated April 13, is perused, really nothing would survive as the explanation of the officials concerned has been recorded with the assistance of an amicus curiae. That apart, the nature, scope, width and ambit of the orders passed by the high court are way beyond the powers and jurisdiction vested in the court under section 438 of the code and the high court has delved into issues/domain beyond the powers of the court exercising jurisdiction under section 438 of the code , it said. The state government said that the high court did not have the jurisdiction to deal with the issues which the court had raised suo-motu before itself and proceeded to express the opinion on the same including passing drastic orders for initiation of contempt against the officials of the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-114
03-07-2021||Jharkhand||Two Jharkhand teachers selected for national awards ||Two teachers from Jharkhand have been selected for national awards given by the Union ministry of education for their innovative teaching methods using technology. Shweta Sharma, 44, an assistant teacher with Vivekanand Middle School in Deoghar district, and Nirupama Kumari, 40, a teacher at Ram Rudra Plus Two High School at Chas in Bokaro, are among the 24 teachers selected from across the country for the National ICT (Information and Communication Technology) Awards for 2019. The award comprising an ICT kit, a laptop and a commendation certificate would be given to the 24 teachers. No teacher from Jharkhand had been selected for the award since 2010. The selection was done by a jury set up by the Central Institute of Educational Technology under the guidelines of the Union education ministry. The jury considered 205 entries (both for 2018 and 2019) received from 28 states/Union Territories and five autonomous bodies. After evaluating the presentations done through online mode between February 5 and 11 this year, the jury recommended the names which were later approved by the ministry. “It (the award) would certainly motivate us more in using ICT tools. I had set up a digiclass in elementary schools of Deoghar on my own and used ICT tools for blended teaching and created state-specific subject-based content. I also took training and orientation of teachers through the ‘Deoghar Quizathon’ and also at state-level for online classes with the latest ICT apps and tools. I converted textbook lessons into comics to make the content more attractive. I am planning to create an English speaking course app for government school students,” said Shweta. She has also created video content for elementary and secondary students on a YouTube channel which has over 6,000 and 5,000 subscribers respectively and extensively used special animations and live tools for education videos. Bokaro-based Nirupama, an assistant Hindi teacher, made videos using former students for teachers in the Digisath programme (digital content through WhatsApp). “In order to have community participation in the Digisath program, I created video content using former students for teachers. I also developed content on a YouTube channel for digital education which had nearly 3,800 subscribers, 3.5 lakh viewers and 12,000 hours of watch time. I also made my own website (www.econtenthindi.org). I helped students learn about the usage of ICT in small groups,” said Nirupama, who has also won the National Teachers Award 2020. Two other teachers selected from eastern India include Kangkan Kishor Dutta from a government school in Assam and Sukanya De, who teaches in an ICSE affiliated school in Bengal. “We disclose the state of the selected teachers from the state quota but we do not disclose the states of the teachers from the autonomous boards like CBSE and ICSE,” said CIET joint director Amarendra P. Behera. However, a source in the CIET said the only teacher selected from the ICSE quota for 2019 is from Bengal while none of the teachers from CBSE, Navodaya Vidyalaya Samity (NVS) and Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (KVS) are from eastern states. Three teachers from CBSE, two teachers from NVS and one teacher from KVS have been selected for the award.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-114
