04-07-2021||Jharkhand||Tenughat Dam gates opened due to incessant rain||The Tenughat Dam authourities on Sunday opened two sluice gates to discharge the increased water level due to incessant rain. About 6767 cusecs per second water is being discharged in Damodar River that has raised its water level. It may be noted that a total of 18 gates are installed in Tenughat Dam, of which, 10 are radial and 8 fall under sluice gates. Tenughat Dam is the largest earthen dam in Asia. The water from this dam is supplied to the Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) and also to the people living in the entire Bokaro Township. The Nodal Officer, Flood Control Cell, Tenughat Dam Division, has informed Dhanbad administration and West Bengal about the discharge of water. Damodar enters West Bengal after travelling through various parts of the district and Dhanbad. Executive engineer, Shyam Kishore said the water level of Tenughat Dam has increased due to continuous rain. Two sluice gates were opened on Sunday morning while one gate was already open. The water level of the Damodar River has risen. People living on the banks of the river have been asked not to go in the river. He said the water holding capacity of Tenughat Dam is 852 feet, whereas at present the dam has 849.75 feet of water.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-113
04-07-2021||Jharkhand||Notorious gang member dies from chest pain in Dhanbad jail||Chirkunda based notorious criminal Anand Vardhan also known as Mantu Kashyap lodged in Dhanbad Divisional Jail since June 28, died on Sunday morning while he was being taken to Sahid Nirmal Memorial Medical College after he complained of chest pain. The incident took place at around 7 am when Kashyap was rushed to Sahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College and Hospital by the jail authorities following chest pain, where he was declared brought dead. Jail Superintendent Ajay Kumar said, “Mintu Kashyap’s health condition deteriorated during the morning hours as he felt chest pain and difficulties in breathing following which he was referred to SNMMCH following primary check up by jail doctor.” Dhanbad district administration led by Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar ordered an enquiry into the death and constituted a medical board to carry out post mortem of the body. Kashyap, who has links with the notorious Guddu Shukla gang of Uttar Pradesh, was arrested by police from Chirkunda on June 28 along with two of his accomplices in connection with the Vinod Jha murder case of Chirkunda on February 24. Vinod Jha, a former accomplice of Kashyap, was in the money lending business. Jha’s relationship with Kashyap had turned sour over a money dispute as a result of which he was killed. Geeta Devi, wife of Vinod Jha, in her complaint to police had directly charged Mantu Kashyap for her husband’s death and revealed to police that her husband used to work for Mantu Kashyap since 2011 in his money lending business. Geeta further claimed that her husband stopped working for Kashyap in October last year over a money dispute with Jha. Kashyap was nursing a grudge against Jha ever since he parted ways with him and was killed in Taldanga colony of Maithon near a temple on February 24 at around 1.30 pm when he was playing cards along with some of his friends under the shade of a tree. Police launched an investigation after Jha’s murder and arrested eight persons within a week of his murder of February 24. Main accused, Mantu Kashyap however, remained elusive and was finally arrested along with one of his female accomplice and her son on June 28.  He was subsequently sent to Dhanbad jail on judicial custody after being produced in court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-113
04-07-2021||Jharkhand||Rath Yatra to be held symbolically in Dhanbad ||The two oldest Rath Yatra pujas of the district - Hari Mandir of Hirapur (started in 1925) and Panchdev Mandir of Jharia (started in 1932) - will be performed within the temple campus symbolically in full observance of Covid protocols. The puja committees of the respective temples have already started preparations with a fresh coat of painting to the chariot as well as the temple. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday, Partho Sengupta, a senior member of Hirapur Harimandir management committee said, “We have decided not to take out the procession this year like last year as per the government order and even if the government allows taking out of the procession we will not take out the same in order to ensure safety for one and all.” “Puja, however will be performed in temple campus itself as per the over 96 years of tradition beginning from 1925 as the chariot will be moved from one corner of the temple to other corner unlike the procession which used to taken out from the temple to different parts of the town,” said Sengupta and added after the symbolic procession, the chariot will be placed near the main gate for darshan. “Nobody, however, will be allowed inside the temple during the evening on July 12 and our volunteers will be deputed to ensure social distancing norms,” said Sengupta. Sengupta said devotees will be allowed into the temple one at a time when the morning rush will be less. Vishnu Tripathi, convenor of Rath Yatra Sanchalan Samiti of Jharia said, “We have also decided not to take out the procession this year in view of pandemic but preparation for the traditional puja  which will held has already been launched since yesterday itself with the repair of the seepage problem in the Panchdev Temple.” “After completion of  temple renovation and painting we will also carry out chariot refurbishment and like Hari Mandir we will also move the chariot from one place (garbhgrih) to another place, mausibari  around 10 meters away within the temple campus,” said Tripathi. “As the sentiments of the people of Jharia are attached with the Rath Yatra which began in 1932, we will be holding the puja and our volunteers will ensure strict observance of Covid protocols and social distancing norms,” said Tripathi. The Rath Yatra of Panchdev Mandir was first taken out by a Jharia based trader, Ramkhelawan Sao in 1932 with the permission of then Jharia king, Shiva Prasad Singh. According to myths, Sao was childless till the age of 54 and after a trip to Puri Lord Jagannth came in his dream and asked him to organise Rath Yatra in Jharia. He organised Rath Yatra in 1932 obeying the god orders and was blessed with a child in 1933. Since then Rath Yatra is taken out every year by his descendents with the help of other residents of Jharia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-113
04-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur FC set to miss Stephen Eze in ISL ||The Jamshedpur FC backline seems set to miss the towering presence of Stephen Eze. The Nigerian international centre back will not be a part of the Jamshedpur FC in the upcoming Indian Super League (ISL). It is understood that the 27-year-old Eze is not keen to play the cash-rich ISL even though JFC is keen to sign him up. Eze is looking to play in the more lucrative European circuit and his agent is in talks with some clubs abroad. Eze was the second foreign centre back for Jamshedpur along with captain Peter Hartley, an Englishman. He played 20 ISL matches and scored four goals. Sources in the know revealed that JFC was still holding talks with the right-footed Eze but he has set his priority of playing in the European circuit. "We don't think Eze will be with us in the ISL this time. Though his one-year contract has come to an end but we are keen to have him with us. But it seems all over," one of the sources said. Unlike ISL, European circuit has more visibility and lucrative. "Moreover, Eze is serious to play for the national side of Nigeria and playing for European Clubs would help him in this direction," the source added on condition of anonymity. Jamshedpur FC chief executive officer Mukul Choudhari said Eze may not be in their side for the ISL. "He (Eze) is an asset for any side. Eze is a solid defender and is also very good at set pieces. We are still in talks with him but he is keen to turn out in the European circuit," he added. Eze is an international with the Nigerian national team having represented them 13 times since his debut in 2016. In May 2018, he was named in Nigeria’s preliminary 30-man squad for the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia but did not make it to the final 23. His Super Eagles side finished runner-up in the African Nations Championship in 2018 with Eze playing all six games. The defender has been playing with Lokomotiv Plovidiv in the Bulgarian top division for the past four seasons. He won the Bulgarian Cup in the 2018-19 season with Lokomotiv and represented them in the Europa League 2019-20 in four games. The 6’6” Eze is excellent in positioning and anticipation and calm while distributing the ball. His dominance in the air in defending was an asset for Jamshedpur. He is of high quality in attacking set pieces, which reflects in his 3 goals in the 2018-19 season for Lokomotiv.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-113
04-07-2021||Jharkhand||Experts from US guide Jharkhand doctors, support staff on tackling Covid third wave||In a first, specialist doctors from University of California, University of Texas and University of Illinois, USA, imparted online training on critical care of children and management of intensive care units to hundreds of  healthcare professionals in Jharkhand on Sunday. Paediatricians working in state-run medical colleges and hospitals, district hospitals, malnutrition treatment centres, Special NewBorn Care Units, NewBorn Stabilization Units, physicians and paediatricians going to be posted in the upcoming 28 new paediatric intensive care units (PICUs) attended the first ever such symposium jointly held by the health department and the Indian Medical Association (IMA). The initiative is among several the Hemant government has planned in assocaition with the medical fraternity in view of a possible third wave of coronavirus infections. Inaugurating the webinar, health minister Banna Gupta said, "It is estimated that around 7 lakh children in Jharkhand would be affected if and when the third Covid wave strikes. Total population of children below the 18-age group is around 1.44 crore in our state. With a possible 5 per cent strike rate, at least 7 lakh children are expected to contract the virus, as per the state health department estimates,” "It is also feared that the more seriously affected children, might develop Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome and even Black Fungus infection, in later stages," said Gupta, adding that the state needs to be more vigilant to prevent loss of lives. The health minister also condemned recent attacks on doctors during the Covid-19 pandemic and assured them that the  Medical Protection Act (MPA) would be implemented in the state. Additional Chief Secretary Arun Kumar Singh, IMA national president Dr. J.A.Jayalal, IMA national secretary Dr.Jayesh Lele, national president of IMA’s women’s wing Dr.L.Yesodha, National Health Mission (NHM) Director Ravi Shankar Shukla and doctors from various hospitals also attended the webinar. “This is the first time that such an international webinar has been arranged where specialists from top medical colleges in USA shared their insights and perspectives on combating a possible third Covid wave that is projected to affect several lakh children in Jharkhand. This interaction will help us be prepared for the third wave,” said Dr Bharti Kashyap, the chairperson of women doctors wing of IMA Jharkhand. Dr Yonca Bulut, Professor of Paediatrics, Division of Paediatric Critical Care, Department of Paediatrics, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of California, and Los Angeles, USA, Dr. Ravi Kashyap, Associate Clinical Professor, University of Illinois College of Medicine, USA and Dr. Pooja Kashyap, Paediatric Cardiologist, Director of Adult congenital Program and Assistant Professor, University of Texas, USA were the key speakers during the event. The USA-based specialists suggested that to reduce the impact of a possible third wave of Covid infections, urgent steps should include mechanisms to recognise early warning symptoms, putting in place child ICUs equipped with monitoring devices like electro- cardiogram and echo cardiogram equipment and supported by advanced diagnostic and pathological testing facilities along with an efficient transport system to ensure quick hospitalisation. All such facilities should be manned by paediatric heart specialists and paediatric ICU specialists, nursing personnel and trained manpower capable of managing all monitoring devices and interpreting pathological and diagnostic test results in the shortest possible time, to ensure prompt care to Covid affected children. They stressed the need of organising training for doctors, cardiologists, paediatric heart specialists, nursing staff, health care personnel manning radiological, diagnostic and path labs, ventilators, respiratory devices and other equipment. Proper stocks of essential medicines should be built for each paediatric ICU to take care of child patients and all children showing signs of coronavirus infection should be immediately shifted to designated paediatric ICUs, the experts said. Dr. Kashyap pleaded that respiratory ailments and heart problems in children caused by Covid sjould be also brought under the Ayushman Bharat National Health Protection Scheme, to provide relief to low-income groups.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-113
04-07-2021||Jharkhand||Stan Swamy on ventilator, Jharkhand rights group appeals to Centre, Maharashtra ||Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha (JJM) has renewed its demand to the Centre  and Maharashtra government to ensure that Father Stan Swamy was given access to necessary specailised medical treatment after the 84-year- old Jesuit priest and social worker was put on ventilator at the Holy Family Hospital in Mumbai on Saturday night. JJM, a conglomeration of several rights groups, also called upon the Bombay High Court on Sunday to immediately grant him bail and allow him to return to Jharkhand. Swamy is in judicial custody after the National Investigation Agency arrested him in October last year in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case  causing an uproar among leading tribal and civil rights groups. Calling Swamy’s condition as "critical", JJM, in a fresh statement on Sunday evening, held NIA and the Centre accountable for the suffering of the  senior citizen. "The NIA court also played its role by denying him bail on both medical grounds and merit. Assurances of the Maharashtra government regarding support for Stan Swamy are yet to materialise,” said the statement. Swamy has been keeping unwell since early may at the Taloja jail. He had fever, cough, extreme weakness and a running stomach. “Even though he demonstrated severe Covid symptoms, he was not tested at the prison.  After a public outcry, he was administered Covid vaccine. He also tested positive for Covid. Ironically, he was given the vaccine when he was already severely ill,” said JJM, adding that it was only on May 28 that the Bombay High Court allowed his transfer from Taloja jail to the Holy Family Hospital. Swamy’s arrest on October 8 last year triggered outcry among adivasis, gram sabhas, civil society, political leaders and parties. Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren too has condemned the arrest and expressed his solidarity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-113
04-07-2021||Jharkhand||Chandil police to instal street lights on Dobo-Kanderbera Road||In an initiative to provide safety to commuters, Chandil police have decided to install street lamps on the Dobo-Kanderbera Road in Seraikela-Kharsawan district which connects Chandil with Jamshedpur through the Domuhani bridge in Sonari. The Chandil police's initiative assumes significance as the seven-km-long stretch remains dark in absence of any street lamp, giving rise to crimes like robberies and even murder. The police had to take the step to get the important road illuminated as the road construction department ((RCD) which has set up the road has no plans to set up a street lamp system there. The police have decided to approach house owners settled on either side of the Dobo-Kanderbera Road to install lamps on their rooftops. "Although the Dono-Kanderbera Road has become important after the Domuhani bridge was set up two years ago, it is getting increasingly crime-prone. We have, therefore, decided to get the road illuminated with the cooperation of the local residents,"said Sanoj Kumar, OC, Chandil thana to The Telegraph Online. He said they have decided to approach the house owners on either side of the road to fix a lamp on their rooftops. Kumar pointed out they will try to install poles for the lamp-post along the stretch where there are no houses. He said for fixing the poles and drawing power lines for the lamp-post they will take the help of the local residents. The OC, when queried, said they are taking such initiative as there is no proposal to provide the street lamp facility by the RCD on the said road. The Dobo-Kanderbera Road provides a shorter route to Ranchi through Chandil and people are using the road increasingly during the day as well as at night. Executive engineer of RCD, Seraikela, Nirmal Singh when contacted confirmed that the department has no plan to provide a street lamp system on the Dobo-Kanderbera Road. "We are aware that the Dobo-Kanderbera road has become an important road connecting the steel city, but we have no plan to provide a street lamp system on that road as such," said Singh to The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-113
04-07-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro trade body seeks government help to revive industry||The Bokaro Chamber of Commerce and Industries has sought help from Union Steel Minister Dharmendra Pradhan to revive several industrial units that have been affected by the Covid induced lockdowns. The chamber has sent a letter to the minister acquainting him about the poor condition of industrial units located in Bokaro. Even though the industrial units, majority of which are dependent on Bokaro Steel Plant, were exempted from the lockdown curbs, their production and sales were severely affected. The industrialists claimed that they are passing through a very bad phase and need government intervention. Chamber President Sanjay Baid said that without full resources, non-availability of oxygen, shortage of raw material, working with 50% labour, non-availability of transport etc, the local industry was working and producing in adverse conditions. Due to this, the ordered goods could not be delivered on time. “We have requested the Union Steel Minister to ensure that Public sector undertakings (PSU’s) issue a fresh purchase order to the units, which have not been able to supply the ordered goods during the Corona period, along with deducting late fee on the goods supplied by such units,” said Baid. Another industrialist in Bokaro, Sidharth Parakh said, “Covid has broken the backbone of industry and trade resulting in unemployment and poverty. Government can change this challenge into an opportunity. Economic Reform can boost this industry.” The chamber has suggested that a Core Committee should be constituted by the Purchase Department of BSL, a unit Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL), which should work for guidance and redressal of difficulties and problems being faced by these units. Baid added that SAIL should play an important role in the Prime Minister's endeavor to promote 'Vocal for Local'. BSL should provide its secondary products in priority to the industries operational locally from the past 30-35 years in the district, taking huge loans from the banks and providing huge employment. This will give a boost to industries here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-113
04-07-2021||Jharkhand||Vaccine drive for coal town petrol pump workers||The Dhanbad district administration in association with Coal Field Petroleum Dealers Association on Sunday organised a special vaccination drive for staff members of petrol pumps including, service station attendants, driveway attendants and nozzle man as part of its initiative to vaccinate high risk group individuals. The day-long drive conducted at three different petrol pumps of the district, under the supervision of District Reproductive and Child Health Officer (DRCHO), Dr Vikas Rana began during the morning hours at 9.30 am from Green View Fuel Station at court road during which around 150 persons were vaccinated. The drive then moved to Rita Verma Petrol Pump at Memco More and finally concluded at Mahamaya Petrol Pump of Kharkabad area of Govindpur. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday, Rana who is also the nodal officer for Covid vaccination in the district said, “We have organised the drive today as part of our series of special vaccination drives under which we also organized vaccination for specially-abled persons on June 9 at Pehla Kadam, a school for differently-abled students at Jagjivan Nagar and also for delinquents for Child Reformatory Centre of Bhuda on June 16.” “Apart from the staff of the three petrol pumps where the drive took place, staff of adjoining petrol pumps were also vaccinated,” said Rana and added that all beneficiaries were administered Covishield. “As part of the series of special drives we have plans to vaccinate the auto drivers and street vendors as soon as sufficient doses of vaccines are available,“said Rana. Animesh Mirdha, manager of Green View Petrol Pump, said, “Altogether five staff of our petrol pump besides the 25 staff of other adjoining petrol pumps including, Balaji Petrol Pump, Shivam Petrol Pump and Aastha Shaki Fuel pump were vaccinated at our centre during the two hour drive conducted from 9.30 am to 11.30 am” “We as petrol pump staff are highly indebted to the initiative taken up by the district administration and Coal Field Petroleum Dealers Association as many of us due to our job preoccupation could not spare time for standing in long queues outside the vaccination centres despite us falling in high risk category due to being exposed to large number of customers on a daily basis,” said Mirdha. Sanjeev Rana, General Secretary of Coalfield Petroleum Dealers Association who is also the owner Mahamaya Petrol Pump at  Kharkabad of Govindpur where over 50 persons including the petrol pump staff besides their family members  were vaccinated during the last leg of drive said, “The  drive held today was the first of its kind for the petrol pump staff held in the state and we are thankful to the district administration.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-113
04-07-2021||Jharkhand||Vaccination regains momentum in Jharkhand after fresh stock of doses arrives||With fresh supplies of vaccines coming in from the Centre, the vaccination campaign against Covid-19 regained momentum in Jharkhand on Saturday as the state administered the first dose of vaccine to over 1 lakh residents and the second to more than 30,000 beneficiaries on the day, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. As per data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Saturday administered the first dose of vaccine to 1,09,459 beneficiaries, including 92,540 in the age bracket of 18 years to 45 years. At least 33,449 residents received their second jab on the day and most of them were above the age of 45 years. Owing to an acute shortage of vaccines, Jharkhand had to cut down on vaccination in the past couple of days with several session sites remaining non-operational. On average, the state vaccinated less than 40,000 residents daily from Wednesday to Friday. Jharkhand received 6 lakh doses of vaccines from the Centre on Friday and distributed them to the 24 districts. Meanwhile, the state continued to witness a drop in the active caseload of Covid-19 as recoveries outnumbered fresh cases on Saturday. At least 91 cases of Covid-19 surfaced in the state in the past 24 hours, while 116 Covid patients recovered during this period, bringing the active caseload down to 805. One Covid casualty, reported from East Singhbhum, took the toll in the state to 5,114 on the day. The active caseload in Ranchi increased slightly as the district reported only five recoveries against 10 fresh cases of infection. As per NHM data, at least 232 Ranchi residents were battling the viral infection by the end of Saturday. Ranchi is also the only district in Jharkhand with a triple-digit active caseload. At least six districts – Saraikela, Pakur, Hazaribag, Giridih, Dumka and Chatra – did not report fresh Covid cases on Saturday, while Ranchi reported the highest spike among the 24 districts, NHM stated in its daily Covid-19 bulletin. The state on Saturday tested swab samples of 53,266 residents and around 0.17 per cent of them were found infected by Coronavirus. So far, more than 3.45 lakh people have been infected by the deadly virus in the state and 98.28 per cent of patients have recovered. About 1.47 per cent of patients could not survive. The growth rate of Covid cases in Jharkhand dropped to 0.02 per cent against the national average of 0.11 per cent on the day, while the doubling rate in the state reached 3076.92 days against the national doubling rate of 660.05 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-114
