05-07-2021||Jharkhand||Obituary: Father Stan Swamy fought the good fight, finished the race||I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race. These Biblical words seem to sum up the life of Stanislaus Lourduswamy, 84, the Jesuit priest from Jharkhand, who died on Monday in Mumbai hours before his appeal for bail was heard. Accused of being an “Urban Naxal” in court, Swamy, or Stan, as his friends called him, had spent long years working among his beloved Advisasis in this eastern Indian tribal state. In 2016, moved by the plight of Adivasi prisoners in the tribal state, many of whom were falsely branded as “Naxalites”, Swamy conducted research on them. It was published as a report titled, Deprived of rights over natural resources, impoverished Adivasis get prison: a study of undertrials in Jharkhand. His study found that 31 per cent of undertrials and a little over a third of the convicts were tribals. The percentage of tribals in jail was far higher than their proportion of the population. Among other key findings were that 97 per cent of undertrials interviewed said that allegations that they were linked to Maoists were false, and 96 per cent of them earned less than Rs 5,000 a month, underlining the fact the poorest and the most vulnerable in the state were the among the ones arrested under stringent anti-terror laws. His study coming after three decades of work among the tribals which focussed on their community, land and forest rights, was considered authoritative but also discomfited the powers that be. Swamy who was born in Trichy in Tamil Nadu according to his friends, studied theology and did a Masters in Sociology at the University of Manila in the 1970s. Later he studied at Brussels where he struck up a friendship with Archbishop Holder Camara whose work among Brazils poor influenced him. He later worked as Director of the Jesuit-run Indian Social Institute at Bangalore from 1975 to 1986. As an activist for tribals in Jharkhand some thirty years ago, he worked for the release of tribal youths from imprisonment, often in cases where they were falsely accused. He took up the cause of tribals marginalised after their land had been taken over for dams, mines and townships, often without their consent. Two days before NIA took him into custody in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case, the Jesuit priest claimed stringent laws such as UAPA were being misused to arrest tribals “indiscriminately” in a video message. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on October 9 last year had filed a charge-sheet against eight persons, including Father Stan Swamy, for their alleged involvement in inciting a mob to violence in Bhima Koregaon near Pune on January 1, 2018. Swamy who was arrested from his home in Ranchi on October 8, 2020 had said he had never been to Bhima Koregaon. But, he was taken to Mumbai where he was produced before a court and remanded to judicial custody. Father Swamy is the oldest person to be charged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), officials had then said. NIA officials had said investigations established he was actively involved in the activities of the CPI (Maoist). The NIA also alleged that he was in contact with "conspirators" -- Sudhir Dhawale, Rona Wilson, Surendra Gadling, Arun Ferreira, Vernon Gonsalves, Hany Babu, Shoma Sen, Mahesh Raut, Varavara Rao, Sudha Bharadwaj, Gautam Navlakha and Anand Teltumbde -- to further the group's activities. The agency alleged that Swamy had also received funds through an associate for furthering the agenda. Besides, he was convenor of the Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee (PPSC), a frontal organisation of the CPI(Maoist), the officials had claimed. They alleged literature, propaganda material of the CPI(Maoist) and documents related to communications for furthering the group's programmes were seized from his possession. Ahead of his arrest, Swamy had posted a video saying the NIA had been interrogating him and had questioned him for 15 hours during a span of five days. "Now they want me to go to Mumbai, which I have said that I won't go," he had said, citing the pandemic. The video, posted on YouTube, was recorded two days before his arrest. "I have never been to Bhima Koregaon for which I am being made an accused," he had said. He had added that he had asked for questioning through video conference and hoped that better "human sense" would prevail. "...what is happening to me is not something unique happening to me alone, it is a broader process taking place all over the country. We all are aware how prominent intellectuals, lawyers, writers, poets, activists, student leaders are all put in jail because they have expressed their dissent or raised questions about the ruling powers of India," Swamy had said in the video. He had said he is part of "the process" and in a way happy to be so because he was not a silent spectator and is part of the game. "I am ready to pay the price whatever be it," Swamy had said. The Bhima Koregaon case was taken over by the NIA on January 24 last year. Pune Police has alleged that the violence was caused following speeches given by members of the group Elgar Parishad on December 31, 2017. Violence broke out the next day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-112
05-07-2021||Jharkhand||Monsoon revival after 48 hours, expect heavy rain from Wednesday ||The southwest monsoon, which had weakened over Jharkhand, is expected to be revived after 48 hours, weathermen said on Monday with the state's northern, central and southern regions expected to experience heavy rainfall between Wednesday and Friday. "Monsoon which had become weak over Jharkhand due to the shifting of the trough towards the north is expected to revive around mid-week. Most districts would get a good spell of rain after 48 hours. We have also issued an alert of heavy rain in isolated areas from Wednesday, " said Abhishek Anand, head of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. Weathermen said a monsoon trough at mean sea level was running from northwest Uttar Pradesh to Tripura across east Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Assam. Another north-south trough from northeast Bihar to south coastal Odisha across northeast Jharkhand and Gangetic West Bengal, at 1.5 km above mean sea level, would assist in rainfall activity. The southwest monsoon had weakened over Jharkhand for over a week. The Met department also issued a lightning alert for northern and south-eastern parts of Jharkhand during the next two days. Lightning was reports from several parts of the state on Monday afternoon, including Ramgarh, Hazaribagh, northern Ranchi, Chatra and Latehar. Light to moderate rain was also reported at a few places in the last 24 hours. Due to a weakened monsoon, several districts have been experiencing sultry weather, which in turned pushed up the discomfort index. The average discomfort index, measured on the basis of temperature, humidity and wind patterns, was 60 degrees, five notches above normal, in Jharkhand on Monday. A climate analyst at IMD’s Ranchi office said the weather would be slightly warm and humid for the next two days. Statistics of monsoon rain revealed that so far Jharkhand has received 300.1mm against a normal of 246mm, a surplus of 22 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-112
05-07-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi district hospital to get 200 special O2 masks for children||The Ranchi district administration has placed an order for 200 special oxygen masks for infants and children in a bid to be ready for a third wave of Covid-19 and provide timely breathing assistance to patients who suffer from Covid-induced hypoxia, health officials said on Monday. Ranchi civil surgeon Dr Vinod Kumar said that the oxygen masks ordered were smaller in size and had smaller nasal cannula. Each oxygen mask also had a different cuff for monitoring blood pressure and heart rate of the patient, he added. “Infants and young children have smaller faces than adults, so we cannot use the usual oxygen masks available in the hospital in case a child needs breathing assistance,” said Dr Kumar, adding that the freshly-procured oxygen masks will be used in the Paediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) and Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) of Sadar Hospital in the state capital. These oxygen masks would be used for children in the age bracket of zero to eight years, said the civil surgeon, claiming that children older than eight years may require oxygen masks used for adults depending on various factors. This development comes close on the heels of an infant’s death, reportedly triggered by Covid-19. Sources in the department said that a five-month-old baby died of SARS-CoV-2 infection in Ranchi on Sunday. However, there was no official confirmation of the death by the time this report was filed. An expert committee of doctors constituted by the state government has predicted that around 7 lakh of the 1.43 crore population in the age bracket of 0 to 18 years may get affected by Covid-19 in the third wave. While 2.86 lakh of the patients are feared to be symptomatic, about 8,610 of them may show severe symptoms and need intensive care, the committee has predicted on the basis of trends across the world and in India. The Hemant Soren-led government in Jharkhand has also started the process of setting up 1,000 ICU beds for children in a bid to prepare for a third wave of Covid-19. At least 500 of these ICU beds would be set up in private hospitals and the remaining 500 in government healthcare facilities. The state has been seeking guidance from experts in India and abroad to prepare a roadmap for tacking a third wave of Covid-19 and strengthen the health infrastructure for the same. So far, the state has held virtual meetings with doctors from the USA, World Health Organisation (WHO) members, health experts from reputed Indian institutions and various other stakeholders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-112
05-07-2021||Jharkhand||Trans Himalayan Women's Expedition team to be trained at Garhwal Himalayas||Members of the Fit@50+ Women’s Trans Himalayan Expedition will assemble in Garhwal Himalayas in October to train for the 4,500 journey. The expedition, which was scheduled in May, has been put off to March next year in view of the Covid 19 pandemic. It will be organised by Tata Steel Adventure Foundation (TSAF) in collaboration with ministry of youth affairs and sports under FIT India programme. The expedition will be led by legendary climber Bachendri Pal. The 10-member expedition team, which comprises three Everesters, will stay at the base camp in Kaflon and will trek 13,615 Darwa Top. Kaflon, which is located along Uttar Kashi-Gangotri Highway, is the place where participants of TSAF’s annual outdoor leadership programme camp. The base camp has a kitchen, store room, audio-visual hall, instructors' room and an office-cum women instructors' room. The week-long training will be conducted under the leadership and expertise of Padma Bhushan Bachendri Pal, the first Indian woman to annex Mount Everest in 1984. The expedition team also includes Jamshedpur-based tribal Payo Murmu. The elite Jamshedpur-based adventure outfit has the required set up at Kaflon and the training can take place without any hassles whatsoever. The expedition team members have been indoors owing to the Covid and it was felt necessary to train since things have now opened up, a source at the TSAF said on condition of anonymity Hemant Gupta, head of TSAF, said the training will take place in October and the team will camp at Kaflo. “Dates for the training will be worked out in due course of time,” he added. The team will commence the journey of an ultimate human endurance starting from the misty mountains of Arunachal Pradesh at Bomdila and then enter Bhutan. From there, the expedition will traverse through Bhutan cross over into Sikkim and cover Chitrey, Kala Pokhari and Sandakphu. It will then move into Nepal, where the route enters Dhaulagiri range and cover Salpa Pass, Lamajura Pass and also cross Thorang la (17,769 ft) around Annapurna Massif. From Western Nepal, the trail goes from Jumla and enters Kumaon district in Uttarakhand at Dharchula. From here, the expedition will cross Lamkhaga Pass (17,320 ft) - one of the toughest passes, which connects Kinnaur district of Himachal Pradesh with Harshil of Uttarakhand. The team will then traverse to Himachal. From here, they will trek through Spiti to cross Kaza, Kibber and cross Parang La (18,307 ft). The expedition will conclude in the Leh-Ladakh region where the team will cross Khardungla (18,380 ft), Saser La (17,753 ft), Depsang La (17,869 ft) and finish at Karakoram Pass (18,175 ft).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-112
05-07-2021||Jharkhand||Railway police seize 36 bottles of liquor headed for Bihar at Tatanagar station||Railway police seized 36 bottles of whiskey that a man was trying to smuggle by boarding a Bihar-bound train from Tatanagar station on Monday. The liquor consignment was seized when the suspect was asked to scan his luggage at the scanner installed at the entrance of the railway station. However, the man sneaking in the liquor into the railway premise, escaped from the spot, the moment the cops realised that he carrying liquor in his luggage. Talking about the breakthrough, Sanjay Kumar Tiwari, inspector, Railway Protection Force (RPF), Tatanagar said that the man, in his early thirties had first tried to sneak into platform No 1. He was carrying a heavy bag. “The man appeared suspicious. One of the RPF officials who spotted him stopped him from entering the platform and asked him to get his luggage scanned. Reluctantly, he put the bag in the scanner. But by the time, the scanning was through and it was detected that there were liquor bottles inside the bag, the man fled from the spot leaving the consignment abandoned,”said Tiwari while talking to The Telegraph Online. The RPF inspector maintained that that they found 36 whiskey bottles of two different brands in the luggage. Tiwari reiterated that it is illegal to carry liquor bottles in train. He even out that the man wanted to take the consignment to Bihar as sale of liquor is prohibited there. He said that the Jharkhand Excise department officials have been informed about the liquor seizure so that the seized consignment can be handed over to them to initiate the necessary investigation. According to sources in the Tatanagar RPF post, the railway police had tried to trace the liquor smuggler by taking out CCTV footage at the railway station, but due to obscure image in the footage, the man could not be traced. “If the man could have been nabbed, then we would have interrogated him so as to know if the act of liquor smuggling to Bihar was attempted for the first time beside other angles to the issue,” said one of the RPF officials while talking to this website.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-112
05-07-2021||Jharkhand||Centre answerable for Swamy's death, says Hemant ||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren blamed the Centre's apathy and the denial of much-needed medical help for the death of 84-year-old Jesuit priest who was in judicial custody while undergoing treatment at a hospital in Mumbai. Expressing shock at his demise, Hemant tweeted: “Shocked to learn about the demise of Father Stan Swamy. He dedicated his life working for tribal rights. I had strongly opposed his arrest & incarceration. The Union Govt should be answerable for absolute apathy & non provision of timely medical services, leading to his death.” Leaders of the Church dubbed Father Swamy's death as the "murder of an innocent man". Theodore Mascarenhas, the Bishop of Ranchi, said, “We simply see it as an innocent man being killed. He was even refused a straw in jail and for seven months. Bail was denied. It’s time that the entire criminal justice system in India is reviewed.” Several tribal & civil rights groups called it a murder of democracy. Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha, a conglomeration of rights groups, said, “It is a clear cut case of murder of a person who dedicated his life for the cause of adivasis. We have been demanding for his bail, citing how he was booked under false cases. The investigators and Central government didn't even consider his age..." Swamy was put on ventilator two days ago during treatment at the Holy Family Hospital in Mumbai. Dr Ian D’Souza of Holy Family Hospital informed the Bombay high court about his passing on Monday, a day before his bail hearing was scheduled. Swamy was the oldest defendant in the Elgaar Parishad terrorism case at 84. He was  arrested by National Investigation Agency in October last year in connection to an ongoing probe related to Bhima Koregan blast in 2008. After testing covid-19 positive few weeks ago, Swamy was finally shifted to hospital from Taloja jail on May 30, where he was languishing since October last year, on Bombay high court’s directives. On Sunday too, JJM had demanded that the Centre and the Maharashtra government ensure that all necessary medical and specialised treatment was made avaialble to Swamy after he was put on ventilator.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-112
05-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand activists, leaders saddened by Swamy's demise||Several tribal & civil rights groups and leaders of different parties in Jharkhand and across the country sunk into grief following the news of 84-year-old father Stan Swamy’s demise on Monday, two days after he was put on ventilator during his treatment at Holy family hospital in Mumbai Dr Ian D’Souza of Holy Family Hospital informed the Bombay high court on Monday that Swamy passed away at 1:30 pm. The Jesuit priest was awaiting bail despite his deteriorating health following his arrest by National Investigation Agency in October last year in connection to an ongoing probe related to Bhima Koregan blast in 2008. Expressing shock and condolences, agriculture minister Badal Patralekh said, “I am saddened with the news. May he rest in peace and his family get strength to overcome the sorrow.” Former state Congress chief and party’s national spokesperson Ajoy Kumar said that it was a personal loss to him. “The void he left can’t be filled,” he said, adding that his death is a murder of democracy. “It is not death on a noble person but murder of democracy. Another feather in the cap of Modi Government!! Shameful, Brutal, Gruesome!” After testing Covid-19 positive few weeks ago, Swamy was finally shifted to hospital from Taloja jail on May 30, where he was languishing since October last year, following Bombay high court’s directive. Despite hosts of comorbid conditions and falling health, he wasn’t granted bail despite several activists including Jharkhand Janadhikar Manch, a group of different rights body demanding on numerous occasions at different platforms. On Sunday, JJM again demanded the central and Maharashtra government to urgently ensure all the necessary medical and specialised treatment to him after he was put on ventilator. JJM also demanded that the Bombay High Court to immediately grant him bail and sent back to Jharkhand. Swamy, who was in in judicial custody was booked under anti-national cases causing uproar among tribal and civil rights group globally. JJM had also accused NIA and central government for the sufferings of this elderly person. “The NIA court also played its role by denying him a bail on both medical grounds and merit. Assurances of the Maharashtra government regarding support for Stan Swamy are yet to be seen,” said JJM. Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren too had condemned the arrest and expressed support and solidarity last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-112
05-07-2021||Jharkhand||105 recoveries against 11 fresh Covid cases push Ranchi's active caseload to 102||The active caseload of Covid-19 dropped close to the 100-mark in Ranchi on Sunday as the district reported at least 105 Covid recoveries against only 11 fresh cases of infection on the day, figures released by the health department highlighted. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 102 Ranchi residents were battling Covid-19 by the end of Sunday. Ranchi, however, also reported the only Covid casualty in Jharkhand on the day, which took the toll in the district to 1585 and that in the state to 5115, the bulletin further revealed. While Simedga reported 10 fresh cases of Coronavirus infection on the day, no other district barring Simedga and Ranchi reported a double-digit-spike. East Singhbhum reported four cases against 10 recoveries, which brought the active caseload there down to 60, while Dhanbad reported five cases against the same number of recoveries. As many as 25 people were battling the viral infection in Dhanbad by the end of Sunday. At least six districts – Saraikela, Pakur, Lohardaga, Godda, Dumka and Chatra – did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 on the day. At least 162 recoveries against 52 cases brought the active caseload in the state down to 658 on the day, government data highlighted. The growth rate of Covid-19 in the state was 0.02 per cent in Jharkhand against the national average of 0.11 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state jumped to 3308.12 days against the national average of 646.07 days. So far, over 3.45 Jharkhand residents have been infected by the lethal virus and 98.33 per cent of them have recovered. However, 1.47 per cent of the patients could not survive. The state on Sunday tested swab samples of 44,912 residents and only 0.11 per cent of them tested positive for Covid-19. So far, the state has tested over 1 crore residents for Covid-19 and less than 4 per cent of them were found infected by the virus. Jharkhand has so far received 75,41,260 doses of vaccine against Covid-19 and utilized 70,57,910 of them, a report released by the NHM on Sunday stated. The state had as many as 4,81,390 doses of vaccines in stock by the end of Sunday. As per government data, Jharkhand has wasted about 0.3 per cent of the total doses made available to the state by the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-113
