06-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand cabinet clears new industrial policy, aims to create 5 lakh jobs||The Hemant Soren cabinet has cleared a new industrial policy for Jharkhand with the aim of creating five lakh jobs by attracting investments to the tune of Rs 1 lakh crore and also sanctioned a bonus for contractual healthcare workers for their service during the pandemic. Titled, Jharkhand Industrial and Investment Policy (JIPP)- 2021, the new document, cabinet secretary Vandana Dadel said on Tuesday, would phase out the exiting policy framed during the term of the former BJP goverment headed by Raghubar Das. "The focus of the new policy is to churn out investments to the tune of 1 lakh crore and 5 lakh jobs,” she said. Dadel said the new policy has identified five high-priority and eight priority sectors to attract investments. The high priority sectors include textile and apparel, automobile and auto components, agro and meat processing and allied units, pharmaceuticals and electronics, design & manufacturing (EDM). Priority sectors comprise start-ups, healthcare, education, tourism, IT and IT- enabled services, renewable energy, among others. On incentives to investors, she said, “For the first time, fiscal incentives have been introduced for ‘early birds’ and anchor units who will be given capital subsidy between 5-25% on projects and investments. Other incentives include a comprehensive project investment subsidy, stamp duty subsidy, assistance for quality certification and patent registration, reimbursement of state GST, interest subsidy, among others. Private universities and healthcare institutions too  will receive the subsidies.” In another significant decision, the state cabinet also sanctioned a bonus equivalent to one month’s salary to all contractual employees engaged in Covid-19 work on a one-time basis. Dadel said the government would be spending close to Rs 16 crore for this. The cabinet also okayed hiring of medical staff across hospitals and medical colleges for a period of six months on contract in view of a manpower crunch. On remunerations, she said, “For final year PG students, Rs 3500/per/shift honorarium is fixed. For MBBS, it will be 2,000/per/shift, Rs 1,200 for final year MBBS, Rs 500 for B.Sc nursing, among others.” Keeping in mind that competitive exams could not be held because of the pandemic, the cabinet granted a one-time approval for admission to B.ED colleges in the state through merit list prepared on the basis of marks obtained at the graduation level. “Jharkhand Combined Entrance Competitive Examination Board has been made the nodal agency to work out modalities for admission without entrance test,” she said. A proposal to launch a new scheme titled, Guru-Shishya Parampara, mooted by the state art and culture department to conserve dying art forms was also approved by the cabinet. In all, the state cabinet took up six proposals at Tuesday's meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-111
06-07-2021||Jharkhand||Vendors, shoppers defy social distancing norms at Sakchi’s Mangala haat||Vendors returned to the Mangala Haat at Sakchi market on Tuesday after a gap of about three months. However, they failed to adhere to the social distancing norms laid down by the government. Both shoppers and other visitors were also seen flouting Covid appropriate behaviour amid threat of a possible third wave. Relaxations of police vigil led to the footpath vendors entering the commercial hub in large numbers post 9 am today. Significantly, this was the first time in the past three months that Sakchi market witnessed this huge a crowd today. Shoppers wanting to purchase from footpath vendors, mainly added on to the swelling number of crowd. The footpath vendors had been allotted a piece of land at the Aam Bagan ground in Sakchi for transacting business. They have been using that land for selling their wares for last three months. But, today, they turned up in large numbers at their original place at Sakchi market, thereby, creating a chaos. Maintaining a distance of one metre is the usual norm inside the market. But no one- neither the vendors nor customers paid heed to this norm. Several vendors and shoppers were spotted without a mask at the haat, which was open till evening. Notably, erstwhile Dhalbhum SDO Nitesh Kumar Singh had adopted strict measures and had been instrumental in shifting the footpath vendors from Sakchi market to the near-by Ambagan ground. Following a state government notification on Monday Singh was transferred to the state tourism department. The Singhbhum Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SCCI) has taken note of it. “We are aware of today's crowding at Sakchi market and violation of social distancing norms. Some permanent shopkeepers had lodged complaints of violation of social distancing norms by footpath vendors and buyers. We have requested the district administration to prevent such crowd in that market,” said Bharat Vasani, general secretary of the trade outfit. Ravi Bharti, city manager of Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee, said random Covid test in different markets would resume in one or two days amid threat of a third wave.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-111
06-07-2021||Jharkhand||ISL: Jamshedpur FC lets go of Spaniards for upcoming session||Jamshedpur FC look set to miss the Spanish flavour in edition 8 of the Indian Super League (ISL) starting in Goa later this year. Its contract with two Spaniards, Aitor Monroy and David Grande, who were part of the Jamshedpur squad in the 2020-21 season, has ended and the Tata Steel-owned club has not signed them on for the cash-rich tournament ahead. While midfielder Monroy’s contract was for two years, forward Grande’s was for one-and-a-half years. It is not sure if Jamshedpur would again go for Spanish footballers this time. Spaniards were always part of the squad since the 2017-18 season when JFC took the ISL field for the first time. The likes of Jose Luis Espinosa Arroyo (Tiri), Sergio Cidoncha, Carlos Calvo, Pablo Morgado, Sergio Castel and Noe Acosta have donned JFC jerseys in the earlier ISL editions. Centre back Tiri has even led the side. Jamshedpur had one Spanish player in the 2017-18 season, five each in the 2018-19 and 2019-20 season and two in the 2020-21 season. Apart from Spanish players, two Spaniards Cesar Ferrando and Antonio Iriondo have worked as mentors for JFC before Scotland-born Owen Coyle took charge in the 2020-21 season. Coyle has his own style of operating and players are drafted into the squad as per his recommenations. It was Coyle who, among others, ensured the signing of English defender Peter Hartley and Lithuaian goal machine Nerijus Valskis for Jamshedpur in the last season. Coyle also introduced his own style of play as tiki-taka (short passes), the style followed during Ferrando and Iriondo’s tenure as head coaches, took a backseat. A member of the JFC team management said both Monroy and Grande do not fulfill the requirement of head coach Owen Coyle. “Nationality of players does not matter when it comes to squad formation. Players who fulfill the requirement of the head coach are considered,” he said on condition of anonymity. Apart from Monroy and Grande, JFC might also miss the services of Alex Lima, a Brazilian midfielder who has so far shown no willingness to join the club. This apart, JFC Is all set to feel the absence of towering Nigerian defender Stephen Eze who is looking to play in the European circuit. The Men of Steel stood sixth with 27 points (20 matches, seven wins, as many loses and six draws) in last season’s ISL held in Goa. Goa will once again host the upcoming edition of the tournament starting in November.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-111
06-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand villagers build their own bridge with bamboo||Hundred santhali families living in a dense Jharkhand forest, with no roads connecting them with the district and block headquarter, or bridge to cross the rain fed river during the monsoon did something out of the box. They not only made a kutcha kachcha road but also a 50-feet long bridge to overcome their problems. Their unbelievable work has not just made them earn praises from officials but has also made them promise funds to have proper bridge and road developed. The road and bridge in question has been made by the villagers of Panchda village that falls in Ango panchayat, around 23kms away from Barkagaon block haedquarters and 53kms away from Hazaribagh town. Villagers maintained that they had been facing connectivity problems for a long time. Despite managing to travel amid all difficulties, it was getting difficult for them to take pregnant women for medical treatment due to lack of roads or bridges. Led by one Deepak Karmali, villagers began cutting a pathway, about a fortnight ago. First they made a kutcha road from Panchda village to Jhikhore where the major challenge was to cross a fifty-feet wide rain-fed river. Villagers made a bamboo bridge to cross the river. According to Karmali the determined villagers took four days to construct the road by using spades and shovels. “Villagers worked and made a road and bridge through shramdan,” he said. Barkagaon block development officer Prakash Kumar Saw said what villagers did is inspiring. “I will ensure a proper road there and will look into the bridge issue also,” he said. Villager Motilal Manjhi said, “We want better facilities here but officials to people's representatives never cared to ensure that for us. We did what we could without waiting for any action from government”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-111
06-07-2021||Jharkhand||Ramesh Bais named new governor of Jharkhand ||Ramesh Bais (74) will succeed Droupadi Murmu as the new governor of Jharkhand after a formal notification was issued from the office of the President of India on Tuesday. Bais, who was governor of Tripura before being assigned to Jharkhand, is among seven others whom President Ramnath Kovind appointed in various states. Bais will be the 10th governor of Jharkhand. Murmu who was appointed in May 2015 as the first woman governor of the state also holds the distinction of being the first resident of Raj Bhawan to have completed a five-year term in the state since its creation in year 2000. Bais, who is from Chhattisgarh, has been a member of the BJP and served as Union minister of state (Independent charge) for environment and forests during the late Atal Bihari Vajpayee's government from 1999. He was elected to the 9th, 11th, 12th, 13th, 14th, 15th and 16th Lok Sabha from Raipur. His appointment has evoked mixed reactions in Jharkhand. BJP’s Khunti MP and Union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda said, “I congratulate honorable Ramesh Bais on his appointment as governor of Jharkhand. He has an illustrious experience in politics and parliamentary affairs and his wisdom will help in overall development of the state.” State health minister and Congress MLA from Jamshedpur West Banna Gupta, however, questioned the logic and timing of replacing incumbant Droupdai Murmu. He also accused the Centre of being anti-tribal and anti-women. “Droupadi Murmu, a tribal lady, was well spoken and sensitive Governor. Her removal by Centre exposes its mindset towards tribals and women. It was an honor for Jharkhand to have a lady tribal as the governor.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-112
06-07-2021||India||Covid: State reports first single-day spike of less than 50 cases in second wave||Jharkhand on Monday reported a single-day spike of less than 50 Covid cases for the first time since the second wave hit the tribal state earlier this year, causing over 3,000 deaths and more than 1 lakh cases in hardly six months, figures released by the health department highlighted. While the state reported a spike of only 46 cases against 93 Covid recoveries on the day, at least two more patients, one each from Gumla and East Singhbhum, died during treatment, a bulletin from the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. The two fresh casualties reported on Monday took the Covid toll in Jharkhand to 5,117 and that in East Singhbhum to 1,038. However, Ranchi, which has reported 1585 Covid casualties so far, continues to be the worst-affected district in Jharkhand in terms of Covid caseload and fatalities. With recoveries outnumbering fresh cases on Monday, the active caseload in Jharkhand dropped to 609, the NHM stated in its daily Covid bulletin. While none of the 24 districts in Jharkhand reported a double-digit-spike in cases, at least nine districts – Ramgarh, Pakur, Koderma, Jamtara, Hazaribag, Godda, Garhwa, Dumka and Chatra – did not report fresh cases of coronavirus infection on the day. By the end of Monday, there were 100 active cases of Covid-19 in Ranchi, while all the remaining 23 districts had fewer cases. Ranchi reported eight cases against nine recoveries on the day, while East Singhbhum reported six cases against 11 recoveries, which brought the active caseload there down to 55. Bokaro reported three cases against four recoveries and Dhanbad reported two cases against three recoveries. The state on the day tested swab samples of 49,659 residents and less than 0.1 per cent of them were found infected by the deadly virus. As per government data, over 3.45 lakh people have contracted Covid-19 in the state so far and 98.34 per cent of them have recovered. The Covid mortality rate in the state was 1.47 per cent against the national average of 1.30 per cent. As per NHM data, the growth rate of Covid-19 in the state was 0.02 per cent against the national average of 0.10 per cent. The doubling rate in Jharkhand reached 3662.90 days against the national doubling rate of 664.89 days on Monday. The state on Monday administered over 1 lakh vaccines against Covid-19 for the second day in a row. As per government data, as many as 70,409 residents, including almost 57,000 from the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years, were administered the first dose of the vaccine on Monday. The second dose was administered to 25,703 beneficiaries, mostly those above the age of 45 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-112
06-07-2021||Jharkhand||Underground cabling turns Dhanbad roads into pothole zone||The 125km underground cabling work being carried out by the Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited as part of the Jharkhand Sampurn Bijli Achchhadan Yojna has turned the different roads of Dhanbad into pothole zones, complicating the traffic woes of the residents due lack of proper repair of dug up roads The 500 meter stretch of Hirapur road from Tiwari hotel to Lindsay club is the worst affected at the heart of the town as the road dug up for laying cables remained closed for more than 20 days aggravating the traffic situation. Moreover, even after the completion of one part of cable laying, proper repair of road was not carried out near the exchange chowk. Expressing disgust at the situation, Sanjay Kumar, a cyber face operator of Vinod Market adjacent to Tiwari Hotel said, “I faced a lot of difficulty reaching to market from my house at Barmasia due to unplanned digging carried out in front or our market, which further narrowed down the road.” “The potholes remained uncovered for several days inviting accidents and we even planned to lodge a written complaint but before that the cabling work was completed and somehow the potholes were covered but not properly,” said Kumar. Sanjeev Chaurasia, president of Park Market Chamber of Commerce, said, “The situation presents a glaring example of unplanned development and wastage of public money due to short sightedness of authorities.” “Instead of carrying out the underground cabling work after the strengthening of roads, the strengthening of roads should have been carried out before the launching of underground cabling work” said Chaurasia. "Even if if the underground cabling was launched after the road strengthening the estimate of the underground cabling work should have proper budgetary provision for proper repair of road dug up during the cabling work,” further elaborated Chaursia and added that several other roads like the road connecting Housing colony to Golf Ground front gate is also facing the similar situation as even after more than one year after its digging it is still awaiting repair. “We will raise the issue with the JBVNL officials in writing soon demanding proper repair of the road” said Chaurasia and added that if the situation persists than school students will have to face a lot of problem after the reopening of schools. Contacted, General Manager of Dhanbad Supply area of JBVNL, Ajit Kumar, said,“We will immediately look into issue and ensure proper repair of roads.” Notably, 70% work of Jharkhand Sampurn Bijli Achchhadan Yojna under which the underground cabling of 33000 volt cables as well 11000 volt cables is to be carried out has already been completed. Two gas insulated substation besides other substation are to established as part of scheme which aims to ensure greater safety, lower transmission losses, lower maintenance cost and uninterrupted power supply during adverse weather condition like storm, rain etc.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-112
