07-07-2021||Jharkhand||Murder or suicide? 35-year-old man found dead in BJP office||Mystery shrouds the death of a 35-year-old man whose body with a bullet injury was found inside BJP's Vegetable Mandi office at Sakchi on Thursday afternoon. The deceased, identified as Suraj Mishra, was found lying dead on the table in the party office with a pistol in his right hand. A police team from the Sakchi thana rushed to the spot followed by City SP, Subhash Chandra Jat for inspection. "Prima facie the gunshot death of the man appears to be suicidal, but we have started investigation to probe other angles too. The body is still lying at the spot. We have summoned a team of forensic science experts to carry out a scientific investigation of the case," said Jat to The Telegraph Online. The City SP, when queried, said when a police party led by Sakchi thana OC, Kunal Kumar reached the spot he found another man was in deep slumber on the floor in the same room where Suraj was lying dead. Jat said the incident was known after shop-keepers from adjacent shops had rushed to the BJP's office after hearing the sound of gunshot at about 2 pm. According to the shop-keepers, the deceased would work as a "Line-taker" (in-charge) of the nearby Sitala Mandir auto-rickshaw stand and would often come to the BJP office for passing leisure time. Police are also trying to collect CCTV camera footage to find out what time the victim entered the party office and whether anyone had come out of the office soon after the incident. The police are also talking to the deceased's family members so as to know if there was any strong reason behind such drastic step by by the man.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-110
07-07-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad cricket stadium to get a makeover, add facilities||The Railway Stadium of Dhanbad, the centre of district and national level cricketing activities, situated at the heart of town, is set for a makeover as pitch repair work was launched on Wednesday. The work at the stadium, which has hosted Ranji Trophy matches in 2010-11 and 2011-12 and the Cooch Behar trophy during 2008, is likely to be completed within a fortnight. This apart, construction work of a sports hostel meant to accommodate visiting players in under-16 and under-19 teams is nearing completion. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, pitch curator of Railway stadium, Dhanbad Dulal Banerjee, said, “The soil consignment for renovating the pitch has arrived last week from Calcutta and the primary work began formally since today and it will take around a fortnight to complete the renovation work.” “The renovation of the pitch is generally required after five or six years and since the ground has been lying unused since some time due to the pandemic related constraints of sporting activities, we decided to conduct the renovation work now,” Banerjee. “The dressing room renovation of the stadium has already been completed and air conditioners etc have also been installed in the stadium” said Banerjee and added that rubber tile flooring has also been carried out in the dressing room to avoid any accident due to slip. Regarding the ongoing work of sports hostel development near the railway stadium he said that the hostel equipped with the state-of-art facilities and equipment is likely to be ready within a month. “Earlier, organisers of different interstate and under-16 and under-19 tournaments had to face difficulty in accommodating the visiting players from  other states and due to lack of hostels they had to be accommodated in different hotels but now they can be accommodated in the hostel itself,” said Banerjee and added that the hostel can accommodate two team members simultaneously. Confirming the development, Madhusudan T.V., Senior Divisional Commercial Manager of Dhanbad Division of East Central Railway, who is also the sports officer of Dhanbad Division, said, ``The sports hostel development work is likely to be completed within two months.” In 2012, some renovation of the existing boundary wall of the stadium besides some new development work in the stadium was carried out including the gymnasium and toilets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-110
07-07-2021||Jharkhand||How Jharkhand convinced vulnerable tribes to take the vaccine ||With awareness campaigns in local dialects, inclusion of influential villagers and religious leaders in busting myths around Covid-19 vaccination and wall paintings encouraging people to take the jab, the Jharkhand government has managed to overcome the widespread hesitancy against immunisation among members of Particularly Vulnerable Tribe Groups (PVTGs) in the state over the past one month, officials said on Wednesday. Even though the Co-Win platform did not provide any segregation for the PVTGs, the state government at its level ran extensive campaigns to vaccinate members of these groups, who live in the interiors and are mostly unaware of the happenings around the world. However, convincing the PVTGs to get vaccinated was not an easy task. Many members of these tribe groups were of the opinion that vaccination would lead to death and even minor side effects after the jabs triggered major panic among them, officials involved in the campaign said. In a bid to increase acceptance for vaccines among members of these groups, the health department roped in influential village personalities and religious leaders to bridge the communication gap. The religious leaders and other influential villagers took the jabs first in front of the villagers to prove that they were safe and then asked them to get vaccinated, officials said. “We launched a campaign to vaccinate PVTG members on priority basis about a month ago. After initial hiccups, we managed to put an end to the apprehensions of these tribe groups and the inclusion of influential personalities of the villages helped us a lot,” said Dr. Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer of health department’s Information, Education and Communication (IEC) wing. As per the 2011 Census, there are nine PVTGs in Jharkhand – Asur, Birhor, Birjia, Hil Kharia, Korwas, Mal Pahariya, Parhaiya, Sauria Paharia and Savar. With a total population of 2,23,327, these tribe groups are spread across various districts of Jharkhand, mostly in Santhal Pargana, East Singhbhum and parts of Koderma. Several surveys have highlighted that several members of these tribe groups suffer from malnutrition, anaemia, illiteracy and lack of access to basic resources. Recalling an incident in Koderma, an official involved in the vaccination campaign said that some members of PVTGs ran into jungles and climbed atop trees to avoid vaccination when the campaign started earlier this year. “We all know how easily villagers can turn violent if they feel threatened. One of the toughest tasks for us was to keep them calm and explain the benefits of vaccination to them,” he said, requesting anonymity. One of the first vaccination campaigns for PVTGs was run in Gurabanda block of East Singhbhum, a left wing extremism-affected area with high poverty and illiteracy rate, about a month ago. There, vaccination teams had to have dialogues with the leaders of groups protesting against vaccination and convince them to end the protests. Eventually, pictures of such protestors getting vaccinated were put up on flexes and pasted on walls in the villages to encourage vaccination, officials said. The state is yet to compile data related to vaccination of PVTGs, but officials spearheading the campaign say that at least half of them have received the first dose of vaccine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-111
07-07-2021||Jharkhand||Kharsawan’s archery centre eyes revamp||Jharkhand’s reputed training centre located in Kharsawan, is all set for a revamp. Seraikela-Kharsawan District Archery Association (SKDAA), has sought help from its chief patron Arjun Munda to revamp the centre. Munda, a former Jharkhand chief minister, had laid the foundation stone of the archery cradle in his capacity as Jharkhand welfare minister in 2005. The district archery outfit has requested Munda, president of Jharkhand Archery Association, to help in setting up a multi-gym, a shade, separate toilets for trainees (boys and girls), sophisticated recurve and compound bows at the centre. The training centre that’s functional at Damadiri ground in Kharsawan, the erstwhile princely town about 40 km from Jamshedpur, is at a non-descript state and runs from a community centre. SKDAA secretary Sumanta Mohanty mentioned that the suggested facilities were for the trainees coming from the hinterland to get trained at the centre. “We have sought Mundaji’s help in sprucing up the facilities. We are optimistic that he would extend necessary help by arranging the required funds,” he added. Speaking over phone from Kharsawan, Mohanty said, “We are doing our best to help trainees make progress. But it is not possible without the required facilities. Archery will get a new direction in the district if the facilties were in place,” Mohanty said. He further added that Munda had earlier provided 10 sophisticated bows for the trainees. Union tribal affairs minister Munda, who also heads the Archery Association of India (AAI), is aware of the potential of archers from Seraikela-Kharsawan. and wants other district archery units in Jharkhand to promote the game (as well as archers) who can be guided in winning medals in national and international competitions. He is seriously working to promote archers in the rural backwaters across the country. Seraikela-Kharsawan district has won plaudits from Munda for promoting the game and producing international archers. At present Munda's wife Meera is the president of SKDAA. The likes of international archers Deepika Kumari, Paltan Hansda, Manjuda Soy, Mangal Ho have been trained at the Kharsawan cradle. Prior to the pandemic around 25 (15 boys and 10 girls) archers belonging to the 8-18 age group used to train here in the Indian round (shooting with traditional bows and arrows as well as recurve and compound divisions. Training is imparted by senior archers, including NIS (National Institute of Sports)-accredited coach Sumit Mishra. Experienced coaches Purnima Mahto and Dharmendra Tiwary as well as their counterparts from government-run cradle in Dugni (near Seraikela) B. Srinivas Rao and Himanshu Shekhar Mohanty make periodical visit to guide the trainees. Mohanty said training at the cradle has been discontinued owing to the pandemic. “We would like to resume training once the Covid situation completely improves,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-111
07-07-2021||Jharkhand||Annapurna Devi joins Modi ministry||BJP's Koderma MP Annapurna Devi was inducted in the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s council of ministers on Wednesday evening when the full list of new inductees was announced officially. Devi is among the 43 fresh faces who have been shortlisted for the oath-taking ceremony in the evening. A close aide of Devi, who is currently in Delhi along with her, said, “Maam had come to Delhi in the morning after being summoned suddenly. She is among the 43 who will take oath today. But till the time final ceremony is over, fingers crossed.” Two MPs from Jharkhand--Arjun Munda (Khunti) and Mukthar Abbas Naqvi (Rajya Sabha) _ are already Union ministers, handling tribal and minority affairs respectively. Devi, who is currently national vice-president of BJP, was a part of the Lalu Prasad-led Rashtriya Janata Dal until the 2019 parliamentary elections. She was also state president of RJD in Jharkhand and was to contest from Koderma on a party ticket. However, she quit RJD and joined the BJP before the elections. The saffron camp pitched Devi from the Koderma seat to take on Babulal Marandi, who was then the chief of JVM-P, which now stands defunct after the latter’s merger with the BJP. The party’s gamble on Devi, a prominent Yadav face, worked as she trounced Marandi by a margin of over 4 lakh votes. After the death of her husband, Ramesh Prasad Yadav, a minister in the Rabri Devi cabinet, Devi took to politics in 1998. Since then, Devi has been a four-time MLA from Koderma. In the 2014 Assembly polls, she, however, lost to the BJP’s Neera Yadav .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-111
07-07-2021||India||Ranchi's active Covid caseload drops below 100 as city reports 25 recoveries in a day||The active caseload of Covid-19 dropped below 100 in Ranchi on Tuesday, while that in state reached 555 as Jharkhand reported at least twice as many Covid recoveries as fresh cases on the day, figures released by the health department highlighted. After Tuesday’s developments, none of the 24 districts have an active caseload in triple digits, while at least four districts – Ramgarh, Pakur, Godda and Garhwa – have less than 10 Covid patients, data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed. As per a bulletin released by the NHM, Ranchi reported five Covid cases against 25 recoveries on Tuesday, which brought the active caseload in the district to 80. East Singhbhum reported a spike of 17 cases and the active caseload there rose to 59 as only 12 patients recovered from Coronavirus infection there. At least 55 people were found infected by the lethal virus in Jharkhand on the day, while 108 Covid patients recovered. At least 12 districts – West Singhbhum, Simdega, Saraikela, Pakur, Lohardaga, Khunti, Hazaribag, Godda, Giridih, Garhwa, Dumka and Chatra – did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 on the day. The state on Tuesday tested swab samples of 65,991 residents and only 0.8 per cent of them were found infected by Coronavirus. As per government data, over 3.46 lakh people have been infected by the virus in Jharkhand so far and 98.36 per cent of them have recovered. On Tuesday, another Covid patient, a resident of East Singhbhum, died during treatment, taking the toll in the district to 1039 and that in Jharkhand to 5118. The state has so far reported a Covid mortality rate of 1.47 per cent. The doubling rate of Covid-19 reached close to 4000 days in Jharkhand on Tuesday, while the growth rate remained 0.02 per cent against the national average of 0.10 per cent. As per government data, it would take at least 3920.44 days for the number of Covid cases to double in the state at the current growth rate. The national doubling rate was 710.58 days. Jharkhand administered vaccines against Covid-19 to over 1 lakh beneficiaries for the third day in a row on Tuesday. As per government data, the first dose was administered to 988,878 residents, while 41,330 beneficiaries received the second jab. More than 80,000 of the beneficiaries were younger than 45 years. The state distributed 13,080 doses of Covaxin among the 24 districts on Tuesday and had 2,52,270 doses of vaccines in stock before the vaccination centres opened on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-111
07-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Anganwadi centres closure ‘hits’ child rations||The closure of Anganwadi centres in Jharkhand for the past six months has deprived around two-thirds of children aged between six months and three and nearly half of those between three and six years of their take-home ration, according to a survey conducted in the last week of June. The sample survey was conducted by the state chapter of Right to Food Campaign in association with local civil society organisations and the report was released on Monday. On the reason behind conducting the survey, state convener of the campaign Asharfi Nand Prasad said: “We had been hearing that the take home ration, supposed to be distributed to children attached to Anganwadi centres of their respective areas, didn’t reach many families.” The survey covered 8,818 families attached to 2,037 Anganwadi centres spread across 159 blocks in all the 24 districts of Jharkhand, Prasad said, adding the emphasis was given on the families belonging to the deprived sections. The state government had decided that dry ration would be given to such children as their Anganwadi centres that would provide cooked meals remained closed during the pandemic. The survey found that 73 per cent of the families surveyed had children aged between six months and three years but only 32 per cent of them received dry ration during the six months from January to June. Despite assurances of delivery of ration at home, only eight per cent children received it at their homes while families of 78 per cent had to collect it from Anganwadi centres and 13 per cent from the home of Anganwadi sevikas (helpers). Though 53 per cent of beneficiary families got ration in January, their number reduced to seven per cent in May and nine per cent in June, the survey found. On the other hand, 55 per cent of families having children aged between three and six years got dry ration during the six months from January to June 2021, the survey found. Of these families, 75 per cent had to collect it from Anganwadi centres and 15 per cent from sevikas’ homes while 10 per cent of the beneficiaries got it delivered at their homes. Though 78 per cent of these children got the ration in January, the number dropped to 17 per cent in May, the survey report said. Asked about the reason behind drop in the number of beneficiaries, Prasad said: “Actually, the Anganwadi workers and self-help groups spend from their own pockets for supplying cooked food or ration and get the amount reimbursed later.” He added that shortage of funds may be the reason for the lack of take home ration. Prasad said they are planning to discuss the findings of the survey with the social welfare minister and secretary soon. The social welfare secretary was in a meeting and could not speak when approached for his comments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-111
07-07-2021||Jharkhand||Rights activists vow to ensure that Bagaicha continues to empower||Rights defenders in Jharkhand and Jesuits have vowed to ensure that Bagaicha, an institution founded by the late Father Stan Swamy in 2006, continues to empower social organisations and NGOs working against the displacement of marginalised people, human rights violations, illegal land acquisition and confinement of tribals by branding them as Maoists. Fr Stan, severely ill and at 84 the eldest prisoner in a case accusing rights activists of Maoist links, passed away in a Mumbai hospital on Monday while waiting for bail. “Bagaicha will continue to raise its voice for the oppressed and marginalised and fulfil the mission and vision of Fr Stan Swamy with the support of the Society of Jesuits,” said Fr A. Santhanam, a Tamil Nadu-based advocate and Jesuit whose petition with the National Human Rights Commission against medical negligence of the Taloja jail authorities in attending to Fr Stan prompted the NHRC to seek a report from the Maharashtra government last month. “Because of Fr Stan Swamy’s exceptional commitment to the most marginalised and vulnerable people, some of the news about atrocities and incidents of human rights violations in Jharkhand, a state otherwise largely ignored by the mainstream media, started seeing the light of day in the past two decades. His astounding documentation skills combined with his ability to network with other human rights groups ensured that there were several initiatives meant for the real development of a state like Jharkhand, and all these were done from Bagaicha,” Fr Santhanam added. In June 2001, Fr Stan had moved to Ranchi from Chaibasa and set up residence at Gharana Apartment, Purulia Road. It was here that he began contacting organisations in his effort to coordinate and galvanise the struggle against dispossession. The search for a piece of land for setting up Bagaicha, a social action centre, bore fruit when the Ranchi Jesuit Province agreed to gift an acre on the campus of the Agriculture Training Centre, Namkum. “Fr Stan had coined the name Bagaicha, which the Ho tribe uses to describe a place where all species of plants are found. Fr Stan built the institution as a meeting point and platform for all organisations working for human rights and espousing the cause of the oppressed to discuss and execute plans. It developed the leadership skills of such organisations,” said Fr Tony P.M, the in-charge of Bagaicha. The Ho tribe, among whom Fr Stan had worked extensively, is predominantly found in the Kolhan region of Jharkhand, encompassing the districts of East and West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan. A tribal women’s rights activist from Jharkhand, Aloka Kujur, said all organisations used to meet at Bagaicha. “We not only learnt social analysis from Bagaicha but Fr Swamy also helped many organisations with (knowledge on) constitutional provisions in their fight for justice for the oppressed and the tribals. The institution also helped organisations and individuals by empowering them with knowledge on various other areas and was a place of discussion and deliberation on myriad issues. We are determined to fulfil the dreams of Fr Swamy,” said Kujur, who had been associated with Fr Stan for the last two decades. There are three sections at Bagaicha — a dining hall and a programme hall, a 40-bed dormitory with double-decker beds and a residential building to accommodate Jesuit fathers and staff. It also has a huge stone slab resembling those built in tribal villages during the Pathalgadi movement for tribal rights. “The stone slab has the names of 50 tribal martyrs, including Tilka Majhi, Birsa Munda and Sido Kanhu. We will have Fr Stan Swamy’s name etched on the stone slab,” Fr Tony said. Bagaicha is one of the five social service centres of the Ranchi Jesuit Province, the others being the Xavier Institute of Social Sciences, Gram Uthan (Gumla), Agriculture Training Centre and Hoffmann Law Associates. Fr Joseph Xavier, director of the Indian Social Institute, Bangalore, who is coordinating the funeral ceremony of Fr Stan, said he was cremated in Mumbai around 5.30pm after the funeral Eucharist at St Peter’s Church, Bandra. The ashes will be taken to Ranchi and Jamshedpur. The ashes will be kept at Bagaicha between July 8 and 11 and several events will be organised nationally in memory of the octogenarian Jesuit priest. Christian youths in capital Ranchi and other parts of Jharkhand staged a candle-light protest on Tuesday evening, holding the Centre and the National Investigation Agency responsible for Fr Stan’s death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-111
