08-07-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel foundation plans acclimatisation trip for Everest-bound climber||The Tata Steel Adventure Foundation (TSAF) has planned an acclimatisation trip for Asmita Dorjee who has been selected for next year's Mount Everest expedition. The 37-year-old Jamshedpur-based climber will trek an 18,000-ft plus peak in Garhwal Himalayas in December to tune herself up for the arduous 29,029 ft challenge ahead. Asmita had been making preparations for the Everest expedition at Kaflon, the base camp of the premier adventure outfit, near Uttar Kashi in Uttarakhand. She has come back to her home in the steel city a couple of days back. Sources in the know revealed that selection of the 18,000 ft-plus peak would be made in August-September. "We will be planning our year-long programme, including the summer and winter outdoor leadership programme and Asmita's acclimatisation trip for the Everest expedition in August-September. The Covid-related situation has now improved and we can chalk our list of programmes," one of the sources said on condition of anonymity. The Everest-bound Asmita had been climbing mountains, running and stretching exercises at a height of 4,500 ft above sea level during her preparations in Kaflon. Legendary climber Bachendri Pal had been giving her confidence boosting talks as part of preparations. Asmita, daughter of Sherpa Ang Dorjee who was part of Pal’s Everest expedition in 1984, trained alone at Kaflon by climbing nearby mountains with a load of 20 kg, running and a bit of stretching exercises. Hemant Gupta, head of TSAF, confirmed the acclimatisation schedule for Asmita. "She needs to acclimatise for the Everest expedition. We have planned a trip to Garhwal Himalayas where she will trek an 18,000 ft-plus peak," he added. According to Gupta, an Everester, an experienced climber from the TSAF stable, would accompany Asmita for the acclimatisation trip. "She (Asmita) would not be preparing under the guidance of Bachendri Pal who will be leading the five month long Fit@50 Plus Women's Trans Himalayan Expedition starting October," he informed. Asmita, a senior instructor at the TSAF, has been part of  summer and winter outdoor expeditions  in the Garhwal Himalayas. She was also one of the members of an all women team comprising employees of Tata Steel and Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL) which went for an expedition to Kedarkantha (12,500 ft) in Gahwal Himalayan range of Uttarakhand in early March last year. She was also a part of an expedition to Leh-Ladakh organised by TSAF in 2018. So far, 11 TSAF candidates have climbed Mount Everest. They include Bachendri Pal, Premlata Agarwal, Rajender Singh Pal, Binita Soren, Meghlal Mahto, Susen Mahto, amputee Arunima Sinha, Hemant Gupta, Sandeep Tolia, Swarnalata Dalai and Poonam Rana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-110
08-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharia residents protest rising pollution levels||A group of over two dozen residents of Jharia on Thursday launched a series of agitations, titled Yuddh-pradushan ke viruddh (war against pollution) to protest against the dangerous levels of pollution and lack of insensitivity of the mining company BCCL and Dhanbad Municipal Corporation officials. The group of social activists, environmentalists, former councilors, teachers and school students began the agitation at around 11 am by congregating near the Katras More, one of most polluted traffic squares of the town, and marching upto the BCCL Bastacola area headquarters, Vikash Bhavan. The agitators who were holding brooms and dustpans in their hands also cleaned the thick layer of coal dust and mud deposited on the road side as a  mark of protest against the lack of apathy of authorities towards the pollution taking a toll on the health of common people. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, Murari Sharma, an octogenarian activist of Jharia who led the march being the senior most among all the protesters, said, “Rampant mining being carried out by coal company BCCL and its private contractors in gross disregard of laid norms, transport of coal in overloaded trucks and lorries are chocking the breath of common residents as people are becoming victim of, allergic rhinitis, asthma, bronchitis, tuberculosis etc.” “The gross disregard towards the norms can be assumed from the fact that large mountains of earth, soil, sand and dust dug out from the ground for coal excavation have been deposited very near to the main road in Jharia endangering the life of lakhs of people passing through the road,” said Sharma who is also the acting president of Jharia Coalfield Bachao Samiti, a frontal organisation of local residents of Jharia. Environmentalist Akhlaque Ahmad who is also a resident of adjoining locality near Katras More said, “We are continuously raising the issue of pollution with the BCCL authorities for several years and during our talks with the local management of General Manager of Bastacola, Soumen Chatterjee, promises of a whole host of measures were made, including proper washing of the wheels of coal transporting vehicles before coming out of mining areas in order to clear the coal dust layers deposited in wheels.” “Not only this, but the BCCL authorities also promised coal transport in covered vehicles only besides regular water sprinkling on adjoining roads, but all these promises proved hollow as nothing materialised on ground till date,” said Ahmad. Anup Sao, former councilor of Ward Number 37 of Jharia who also participated in the protest on Thursday blamed the civic body, Dhanbad Municipal Corporation. “None of the steps required for mitigating pollution including the regular operation of dust sweeping machines for cleaning roads, laying of paver blocks on road side and green walling of colonies by carrying out plantation as promised under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) have been implemented by Dhanbad Municipal Corporation leading to the aggravating of pollution situation,” he said and added that they will continue their agitation till the authorities come out of their slumber.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-110
08-07-2021||Jharkhand||Another Union minister from state won't help us: JMM ||The ruling JMM said it sees no benefit accruing to Jharkhand after Annapurna Devi's induction into the Union council of ministers since the two other MPs from Jharkhand had done precious little for their home state. Addressing a press conference on Thursday, JMM’s spokesperson Supriyo Bhattacharjee said, “While BJP may be elated with the fresh induction, we don’t see anything good for the state. It is because, BJP won 12 out of 14 LS seats in the 2019 elections of which two were already in the ministry. None of the MPs till date took any initiatives to assist state government in terms of coordinating or pressuring the central government to provide our dues, be it pending GST, paucity of funds or other assistances. In that context, even don’t expect anything now either.” Bhattacharjee was referring to Khunti MP Arjun Munda, who is Union minister of tribal affairs, and Tanya Sabha  MP Mukthar Abbas Naqvi,  tasked with the minority affairs department. The JMM spokesperson also found fault with the the BJP's claims about the overhauled ministry.  “While the BJP is publicising it as the youngest-ever cabinet with  many professional/qualified persons, we see it in a different context. BJP’s actual workers and grassroots leaders will never get their due recognition. The reshuffle is yet  another testimony to that,"  he said. He  said, “Annapurna Devi was a borrowed player, who joined the BJP with the  one-point agenda of getting a poll  ticket from Koderma. Similarly, BJP, which made Babulal Marandi its leader of the legislature party, is again an outsider. He joined the party to save his political career after JVM-P’s performance in last assembly elections. The current BJP state president, Deepak Prakash, who is a Rajya Sabha MP,  is also from other party. So is Arjun Mundaji, Sanjay Seth (Ranchi MP) and the like. Where is the place in the party for those who toiled hard for decades to serve the party?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-110
08-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand delves into vaccine stocks of districts to combat shortage in Ranchi||The Jharkhand government directed three districts to part with at least 6,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines from their share to Ranchi in a bid to manage the vaccine crisis in the state capital, which according to the Co-Win portal, had only 13 operational sites on Thursday. As per data available on the Co-Win platform, only 449 of the 3,377 vaccination sites were operational on Thursday in Jharkhand. Although the state was yet to release the final data of vaccine doses administered on the day, at least 19,066 residents were inoculated  by 5pm. The data on the Co-Win dashboard, however, was subject to change as updates were sent from different districts till midnight, officials said. Using the power of vaccine redistribution vested upon the state government by the Centre, Ranchi called for stocks from Dumka, Palamau and Sahebganj. Dumka was asked to provide 1,000 Covishield and the same number of Covaxin doses  from its share, a letter from the health department stated. Palamau was directed to provide 750 doses each of Covishield and Covaxin to the state capital, while Sahebganj was asked to give away 1,500 doses of Covishield to Ranchi from its share. Ranchi civil surgeon Dr Vinod Kumar admitted that the state capital was facing an acute shortage of Covid-19 vaccines and most of the session sites for vaccination here remained non-operational on Thursday. “We have not received the vaccines from Dumka, Palamau and Sahibganj yet. And there is no update on fresh supplies arriving from New Delhi as of now,” said Dr Kumar, adding that the spare vaccines from other districts could only be used for temporary management of the situation and the district would require fresh supplies from the Centre at the earliest. Naman Priyesh Lakra, officer on special duty for Covid-19 vaccination, said that the state was expecting delivery of 1 lakh Covaxin doses on Friday and at least 2.5 lakh doses of Covishield on July 15. As per data shared by the National Health Mission (NHM), Jharkhand had 47,210 vaccine doses in stock on Thursday evening. The state has so far received 75,54,340 vaccine doses and used 75,16,008 of them. At least 9,987 doses were wasted, as per government data. This is the second time that Jharkhand is facing  a crisis of vaccines this month. Earlier, on July 1, the state had to cut down on vaccination across 24 districts due to vaccine shortage. On July 2, Jharkhand received around 6 lakh doses of vaccines from the Centre. From July 3 to July 6, the state vaccinated at least 1 lakh beneficiaries every day, as per government data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-110
08-07-2021||Jharkhand||Three rebels lay down arms in Hazaribagh ||In a first in the district, three rebels of the Communist party of India(Maoist)including two women on Thursday surrendered themselves at Hazaribagh district collectorate. One of the extremists, Usha Kisku, was carrying a reward of Rs 1lakh for capture. Officials termed this a big moment claiming that regular police operations had weakened the outfits in the district and such surrenders had put an end to rebel activities. The three extremists were Usha Kisku, Mamta Santhali also known as Sarita Santhali, residents of Harli Tola in Ango under Ango police station of the district and Nageshwar Ganjhu of Dudhmatia village under Simaria police station. Nageshwar is a native of Hesabar village of Barkagaon block in Hazaribagh district. 19-year-old Mamta has been active in the outfit since 2015. She was wanted in half a dozen cases lodged in Chatra and Hazaribagh. Usha Santhali , 27, joined the child wing of the outfit in 2009. She had lost her mother early and her father was an alcoholic. Maoists took her in promising a better life. She admitted her involvement in around a dozen cases of violence which was the reason why the state government had announced a reward of Rs.1 lakh. She is accused in cases lodged in Hazaribagh and Chatra. Nageshwar, 38, was involved in setting fire to six trucks in Kusumba of Katkamdag. He set ablaze machines involved in construction of Ghaghra Dam. Sources said superintendent of police Karthik S. had convinced the trio to surrender, promising better life and benefits under the surrender policy of the state government. Deputy Commissioner Aditya Kumar Anand, CRPF and Cobra battalion officials welcomed the trio extremists by giving them bouquets. Usha was given a cheque of Rs 1lakh by Karthik. Officials even released a video titled ‘Wapas aao life banao’ to motivate extremists to surrender. According to sources, a total of 22 extremists were in touch with the district police chief while only three surrendered on Thursday. “In the next few days, we are hoping for more such surrenders,” added officials. Karthik termed the surrender as a big achievement, urging others to surrender and join the mainstream. “If not, get ready for tough action,” he warned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-110
08-07-2021||Jharkhand||Showers across Jharkhand signal monsoon revival||The southeast monsoon has revived, resulting in moderate to heavy rain at several places across Jharkhand during the last 24 hours. Pakuria in Pakur district recorded the heaviest rainfall of 82mm followed by Jamshedpur and Lohardaga which since Wednesday evening recorded rainfall of around 60mm. Nimdih in adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district and Bokaro witnessed around 50mm rain while Chaibasa and Chakradharpur in neighbouring West Singhbhum district recorded around 40mm rain. Rajmahal in Sahebganj district and several places in Dumka and Giridih districts recorded over 30mm rain. Met statistics revealed that as many as 15 observatories in different parts of the state recorded rainfall between 10mm and 20mm during the last 24 hours. Four persons died in th state due to lightning strikes on Wednesday evening. The four casualties included two farmers from Godda district and one death each from Deoghar and Pakur district. Weathermen at Ranchi Met Centre said the southwest monsoon revived after remaining in a weak phase for more than week. In its forecast, the Ranchi Met Centre predicted light to moderate thunderstorm activity and heavy rain at isolated places of north-west, southern and central Jharkhand during the next three days. A low-pressure area is likely to form over west-central and adjoining the northwest Bay of Bengal off north Andhra Pradesh-south Odisha coasts around July 11. This would trigger widespread rain in Jharkhand. Thursday's satellite pictures indicated a trough at mean sea level from northwest Uttar Pradesh to northeast Bay of Bengal across southwest Bihar, Jharkhand and Gangetic West Bengal. A weather bulletin issued by Ranchi Met Centre showed a cyclonic circulation over eastern Uttar Pradesh at 0.9 km above mean sea level extending upto 1.5km above mean sea level. Another cyclonic circulation was persisting over northwest Bay of Bengal and adjoining coastal areas of Odisha and  West Bengal  extending upto 4.5km above mean sea level. A north to south trough was also stretched from Jharkhand to north coastal Andhra Pradesh across coastal areas of Odisha and West Bengal to 3.1 Km above mean sea level. During this monsoon, Jharkhand has so far received rainfall of 329 mm against a normal of 276 mm, a surplus of 19 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-110
08-07-2021||Jharkhand||Vaccine shortage leads to chaos at lone coal town centre||A shortage of vaccine doses and the resultant huge rush at the lone operational vaccination centre of the district, the Red Cross society building, caused a huge ruckus which ultimately led to the suspension of operations till further orders. Social distancing norms were flouted at the vaccination centre since the early morning while the beneficiaries and Red Cross society members charged each other for the state of affairs. Aggrieved over the suspension of the vaccination process, some residents sat on Dharna at the centre for some time accusing members of the Red Cross society of gross mismanagement. The chaos began at the centre early in the morning at around 5 am when prospective beneficiaries started reaching much ahead of the scheduled vaccination at 10 am. The situation however aggravated since around 8 am as a tussle broke out between a group who booked their slots through an online process and another standing in a long queue for onsite vaccination, for early vaccination. Notably, as per conventional practice in the district, priority is given to those beneficiaries coming through online slot booking while half of the allotted vaccine is reserved for beneficiaries for onsite vaccination process. As more than 500 people arrived at the centre despite only 180 allotted doses of Covaxin, the situation turned murkier at around 9.30 am with verbal exchanges between the two groups compelling police intervention at the centre to control the situation. Though the members of the Red Cross society brought a large number of chairs to put things in order and announced that vaccination will begin only after everyone takes their respective seats, the continuous arrival of more beneficiaries compelled the authorities to finally suspend the vaccination till further orders. One of the aggrieved people who arrived at the centre and had to return without getting vaccinated said, “I came here at the centre for a second dose of Covaxin after taking leave from office, but was surprised to witness the huge rush at centre and final suspension of vaccination process.” “On one hand Prime Minister, Chief Minister, Health Minister are regularly appealing people to get vaccinated early to ensure the safety of oneself, their family members, community and society at large but on the  other hand the common people are not getting vaccines despite standing in long queues for several hours,” said the beneficiary. Dr Vikash Rana, District reproductive and child health officer (DRCHO) who is also the nodal officer of Covid vaccination said, “We have shortage of vaccination due to which only one centre was operational but huge rush at centre and lack of patience among prospective beneficiaries leading to messy situation compelled us to suspend the vaccination process.” “We are expecting sufficient doses in a day or two after which all centers will be reopened with allotment of sufficient doses,” said Rana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-110
08-07-2021||Jharkhand||Covid-19: Vaccination loses momentum as state awaits fresh supplies from Centre  ||The vaccination campaign against Covid-19 lost momentum in Jharkhand on Wednesday owing to a shortage of doses. After vaccinating over 1 lakh beneficiaries daily since the arrival of fresh stock of 6 lakh doses on July 2, the state on Wednesday managed to vaccinate only about 60,000 residents, government data revealed. As per data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state administered the first dose of vaccine to 38,687 residents on the day, while the second jab was administered to 19,756 beneficiaries. More than 35,000 beneficiaries inoculated on the day were younger than 45 years. The state had 1,27,570 doses of vaccines in stock after session sites downed their shutters on Wednesday, good to last only one more day, a report from the health department highlighted. However, officials said that fresh supplies may soon reach Jharkhand. At least nine of 24 Jharkhand districts – West Singhbhum, Pakur, Lohardaga, Khunti, Godda, Giridih, Garhwa, Dhanbad and Chatra – did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, while 98 Covid recoveries against 75 fresh cases of infection brought the active caseload of Covid-19 in the state down to 532 on the day, figures released by the health department highlighted. However, East Singhbhum, the second worst-affected district in terms of casualties and caseload, witnessed a spike in the active caseload for the second day in a row as 21 people were found infected by Coronavirus there and 15 patients recovered, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. As per the bulletin, at least 64 people were battling the viral infection in the district by the end of Wednesday. None of the remaining 23 districts reported a double-digit-spike in cases on the day. Ranchi, the district which has reported the highest number of Covid cases so far, reported only five cases against 13 Covid recoveries on the day, which brought the active caseload here down to 72. The Covid toll remained 5,118 as the state did not report fresh casualties on Wednesday, but the Covid mortality rate in the state remained 1.47 per cent against the national average of 1.30 per cent, government data highlighted. Jharkhand on Wednesday tested swab samples of 44,510 residents and around 0.16 per cent of them were found infected by the SARS-CoV-2 virus. So far, over 3.46 state residents have been infected by novel coronavirus and 98.36 per cent of them have recovered. The doubling rate of Covid-19 reached 4123.74 days on Wednesday against the national average of 721.86 days, government data highlighted. The growth rate of Covid-19 in Jharkhand was 0.02 per cent against the national growth rate of 0.10 per cent on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-110
