09-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand receives 1 lakh vaccine doses from Centre||The pace of Covid vaccinations is expected to pick up from Saturday with the Jharkhand health department receiving one lakh doses of Covaxin on Friday with officials confirming that stocks had been dispatched to all 24 districts. As per a communiqué from the health department on Friday evening, Ranchi and Dhanbad were allotted maximum doses, to the tune of 8,600 and 8,300 respectively, followed by Giridih (7,700), Bokaro and East Singhbhum (6,400 each) and Palamau (5,900). Jharkhand has so far received 76,54,340 doses vaccines, comprising 13,80,480 doses of Covaxin and 62,73,860 doses of Covishield. As many as 75,52,790 doses have been administered. The remaining 27,240 doses _  0.36 per cent of the total  doses receied _ were wasted, according to the vaccine stock report released by the health department. Currently, 1,28,790 doses are available for the administration, including 1,12,690 doses of Covaxin. The remaining doses are of Covishield.  “Taking today’s (Friday) arrival of stocks into account, the state now has vaccines for the next two days. Another 2.5 lakh doses of Covishield is expected on or by July 15,” said an official of the health department. Since the last three days, the vaccination drive in Jharkhand has suffered owing to depleting stocks. While Friday’s usage figures were yet to be released by the health department at the time of filing this report, sources mainatined that only a  few centres were able to administer vaccines.  “Districts which had stocks available with them held the vaccination drive while those which ran out of stocks suspended the inoculation centres,” said the official. On Thursday, Jharkhand could only vaccinate about 20,000 residents. As per provisional data released by the NHM, as many as 14,541 residents received the first dose of the vaccine on Thursday, while the second jab was administered to 6,314 beneficiaries. The state has on average vaccinated over one lakh residents daily since fresh supplies arrived on July 2, but the figure dropped to around 60,000 on Wednesday. More than half of those who received vaccines against Covid-19 on Thursday were below the age of 45 years, government data highlighted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-109
09-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jab drive for coal town auto drivers, LPG delivery personnel ||The Dhanbad district administration on Friday conducted a special vaccination drive for auto rickshaw drivers and LPG cylinder delivery boys, during which around 200 persons were vaccinated. The vaccination drive for auto rickshaw drivers began on Friday morning at Railway Auditorium near the railway station in the presence of Sub Divisional Officer, Surendra Prasad while the vaccination drive for LPG cylinder delivery boys and refilling station staff has been conducted at the LPG refilling station of Indian Oil at Memco Mor of Dhanbad. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Friday, Dr Vikash Rana, District Reproductive and Child Health Officer (DRCHO) who is also the nodal officer for Covid vaccination in the district said, “We have provided 100 Covaxin doses for each of the centre including Railway Auditorium and Indian Oil LPG refilling station at Memco More.” “The drives conducted today are part of the special vaccination series under which 80 petrol pump staff were vaccinated on July 4 at three centres while 60 delinquents of Child Reformatory Centre at Bhuda were vaccinated on June 16,” said Rana. On June 9, 60 physically and mentally challenged persons were vaccinated at Pehla Kadam, a school for differently-abled students. “Our drive for special groups exposed to infection due to their profession will continue and we will be also conducting vaccination for street vendors, milk parlor staff etc soon” said Rana. Speaking at the launch of the vaccination drive for auto rickshaw drivers, Surendra Kumar, Sub Divisional Officer of Dhanbad said, “The auto drivers are exposed to a large number of passengers coming from different places on a daily basis and are prone to infection so their vaccination should be of utmost priority.” He further exhorted the auto rickshaw operator association office bearers present during the launching of the vaccination drive to ensure vaccination of all around 15,000 auto rickshaw drivers at the earliest and said “Regular checking of the vaccination certificates of the autorickshaw drivers would be conducted by the district administration and only those staff bearing the certificates for getting vaccinated will be allowed to operate.” Sunil Singh, an auto rickshaw driver who is also the president of Jharkhand Parivahan Mazdoor Union said, “The drive launched today will not only benefit the auto rickshaw drivers and their family members but will equally benefit the large number of passengers travelling by auto rickshaws and we will request the drive to continue in the future.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-109
09-07-2021||Jharkhand||68-year-old to cycle 80km for Covid jab awareness in Chandil villages||Achinto Pramanik will once again prove that age is only a number when it comes to stamina and endurance. The 68-year-old master athlete who has claimed medals for Jharkhand in national competitions will lead a bicycle rally on July 18 to spread awareness about the importance of taking jabs for Covid-19. The rally being organised jointly by Masters Athletics Association, Jharkhand and Adventure Athletics Group (AAG) will cover 80 km (up and down) to Chandil in Seraikela-Kharsawan district. The team with 30 adventure enthusiasts will cross villages falling in the Chandil sub-division. The rally will start from Gamharia in Seraikela-Kharsawan at 6am on July 18. "People living in villages are still circumspect about taking vaccines for Covid. We thought of taking out a bicycle rally to try and make the rurals understand that taking vaccines are safe and life saving. We have ordered 1,000 pamphlets highlighting the benefits of taking vaccines for Covid. The pamphlets will be distributed among the villagers," Pramanik said. The sexagenarian, who runs a grocery shop near his home in Gamharia, added each member of the cycle rally will sport T-shirts. "I own a racing cycle with gears but rally members can ride ordinary cycles. We will take a bath at Chandil dam and also enjoy lunch. We will return to Gamharia in the evening," Pramanik told The Telegraph Online. The master athlete is gearing up for the bicycle rally at his home. "I pedal for an hour at home. My racing cycle is in good condition and I am eagerly waiting for the rally to kick-start,"Pramanik said. Pramanik also led a 20-member team which ran all the way to Deori temple along the Jamshedpur-Ranchi NH 33 last year to spread awareness about the dos and don'ts on Covid safety. Adventure vAthletics Group has also organised similar runs to Calcutta, Puri, Rajrappa, Dalma hills and Hathikheda temple in East Singhbhum to spread awareness about pollution, cleanliness and environment. Pramanik’s daily fitness regime includes a 20-km run, gym visits, besides trekking the Dalma hills periodically. Running comes to him from within. He secured first position in the 25-km run under-65 and above age category at the fifth edition of Tata Steel Kolkata 25k run-a-thon in December, 2018. The lanky athlete finished the race in 2:09:15 seconds to walk home with a medal and Rs 20,000 cash prize. He has also claimed a gold (200m steeplechase), silver (800m) and bronze (1500m) at the national event held in Panjim, Goa in 2015. He also slotted home three golds (200m steeplechase, 800m and 1500m) and a silver (4x400 m relay) at the national meet held in Hyderabad in 2017. He also won silver in a virtual marathon event held in November last year. He has missed representing the country in international masters’ athletics competitions for not being able to find a sponsor. Yet, he continues to participate in national events and win medals for Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-109
09-07-2021||Jharkhand||Sahara City rape: court orders trial of 22 people earlier given a clean chit ||A special POCSO court has orderd the trial of 22 people who were given a clean chit after investigations into the rape of a minor domestic help in 2018 in what has come to be known in an around Jamshedpur as the Sahara City rape case. Three primary accused are already facing trial in the case registered with Mango police station in January 2018. Among the 22 others who now face trail, as per the order of additional district judge V. Subhash, are former deputy superintendent of police Ajay Karketta, former MGM thana OC Imdad Ansari and a woman.  The three primary accused are Indrapal Singh Saini, Shib Kumar Mahto and Shrikant Mahto. The court has ordered for inclusion of 22 more accused under CrPC Section 319 after the victim's mother filed a petition against them with the Special POCSO court in March this year. "After the petition was filed in the Special POCSO court, the court recorded the statement of the victim. As names and addresses of all the 22 accused were not in the petition, the court had instructed them to furnish them. The petitioner had furnished the names and address of the accused on July 3," said advocate Mamta Singh who is pleading on behalf of the victim while talking to The Telegraph Online. Earlier, the police had carried out an investigation against these 22 persons, but had given them a clean chit in 2019, leading the victim's mother to approach former chief minister Raghubar Das for justice. Das had ordered a CID probe. The CID had also carried out a probe, but in September last year, a clean chit was given to these 22 persons. According to the prosecution, the victim who used to work as a domestic help at the house of a businessman Nanak Chand Seth was allegedly raped by Shib Kumar Mahto in 2016. An electrician by profession, Shib Kumar had outraged the modesty of the victim while visiting Seth's house in Sahara City in absence of Seth and his family members. Shib Kumar had also made a video clipping of the act and later passed it to his friends, Saini and Shrikant, who had also exploited the minor. In 2017, Saini had taken the victim to Dimna forest under MGM thana area where he was caught by the police along with the girl. The victim was brought to the MGM thana where two police officers, including a DSP,had outraged the modesty of the girl. Incidentally, Tanushri Nayak, a resident of Mango, had come to the rescue of the victim and set her free from the police station. But later, Tanushri allegedly pushed her into flesh trade.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-109
09-07-2021||Jharkhand||Oldest coal town orphanage to take in Covid orphans||When there is a will there's a way. The age-old adage holds true for a group of philanthropists of Dhanbad, who, despite facing economic constraints due to lack of any government support, are doing their best to provide shelter to the Covid orphans. Over 20 members of the management committee of the oldest orphanage of the district, Hindu Mission Orphanage, are working on a plan to provide accommodation and help to such children, who lost one or both of their parents during the pandemic. The help plan of Covid orphans for which the members are trying to contact such children is in addition to shelter being provided to 18 regular inmates including 14 who are under- 12 years. Talking to Telegraph Online on Friday, Sujay Nandi, a movers and packers service operator of Hirapur, who is also a member of Hindu Mission Orphanage Committee, said, “We had 18 inmates before beginning of second wave of pandemic but 14 of less than 12 years of age have been sent back to their respective places as there was lack of permission to keep children of less than 12 years of age.” “But, we are in process of bringing back these remaining 14 children in the orphanage as the situation has improved now,” said Nandi and added that they are simultaneously exploring ways of extending help to Covid orphan children as they are deeply peeved over the condition of these children. “We have two permanent staff in the orphanage, including a caretaker and a cook and two to three teachers are also engaged in providing education to the inmates,” said Debabrat Jhampaty, another member of the management committee of the orphanage. “Though, we are also facing financial constraints due to pandemic as the food expense, education expense, electricity and water bills, clothing expense, books and stationeries for the inmates but that didn’t dampen our spirit to help children who turned orphans due to pandemic,” said Jhampaty. Established in 1939 at Hirapur, the members and office bearers of the orphanage committee contribute themselves for managing the expenses. A part of the expenses was managed by rent received through a private school, Kids Garden, operating from a corner of the orphanage, but owing to the closure of schools during the pandemic, the rent has also stopped. “Though, we also receive occasional fund from various benevolent people of the society including, some lawyers, BCCL officers and other persons of Dhanbad origin settled in other parts of the country but during the time of pandemic we are facing difficulty in approaching them” said Jhampaty  and added that the two storey building of 1939 which houses, kitchen, care taker’s room, office on  ground floor and room for orphans for second floor is lying and bad shape. “Though, we have recently carried out repair of kitchen but the bathroom and toilets are lying in extremely bad shape and some rooms are also leaking, for the comprehensive repair of which they have prepared an estimate of Rs 8 lakh but arranging funds for executing the renovation plan” said Jhampaty. Established by a group of Hindu Missionaries in 1939 the orphanage had 93 inmates during its initial days but gradually the number decreased to 18 inmates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-109
09-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand ramps up testing, over 11 lakh kits dispatched to districts ||Over 11 lakh kits are being distributed across all districts of Jharkhand to ramp up Covid testing for the next month or so as a part of the state health department’s efforts to ensure early detection of patients even as the daily infection rate has dropped in last few weeks. Health department sources said on Friday that a total of 4 lakh RAT and approximately 7,66,440 VTM (viral transport media) kits for RT-PCR tests have been allocated to districts. “We have already started dispatching stocks to all districts. The state government’s focus is to continue testing as many people as possible on a daily basis to prevent chances of any undetected Covid-19 cases or formation of clusters anywhere in view of concerns over new variants of the virus,” said an official engaged with management of the kits. Providing details of the number of kits being allocated,  he added, “In Ranchi, which has the highest floating population, has been given 41,600 RAT kits and 1.34 lakh VTM kits. Similarly, East Singhbhum, another key district, has got 35,200 RAT kits and 84,000 VTM kits. In Dhanbad, we have dispatched 20,800 RAT and 50,400 VTM kits. Districts are free to identify vulnerable areas for rolling out testing drives in their respected domains.” The official further added that Jharkhand has already received five mobile RT-PCR testing vans with the help of JITM Skills Private Limited, a private agency which has partnered with the state health department for augmenting testing capacity. “In another fortnight, mobile RT-PCR vans too will be rolled out in areas with maximum gatherings like haats, bazaars etc,” he said. Last month, the state health department had directed all districts to set up dedicated 24x7 testing points at all major transit points, such as bus stands, airport, railway station, interstate borders, in view of easing restrictions and allowing free movement of people. On an average, about 45,000 samples are being tested on a daily basis at the moment and the state’s positivity rate was 3.40 per cent as of July first week. State director of the National Health Mission Uma Shankar Singh said the department was not letting its guard down despite a drop in Covid-19 cases. “Uninterrupted testing is a crucial component of  thwarting further spread of the virus. Therefore, the state  government has decided to not allow complacency to set in,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-109
09-07-2021||Jharkhand||Covid-19: Active caseload drops below 500 in Jharkhand||At least 110 Covid-19 recoveries against 55 fresh cases brought the active caseload in Jharkhand below 500 on Thursday, while one more casualty reported in East Singhbhum took the Covid toll in the state to 5,119, figures released by the health department highlighted. As many as 11 districts – West Singhbhum, Saraikela, Ramgarh, Palamu, Pakur, Lohardaga, Jamtara, Godda, Giridih, Garhwa, Dumka and Deoghar – did not report fresh Covid cases on the day, a bulletin from the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. At least 476 Jharkhand residents were battling the viral infection by the end of Thursday. Besides reporting the only Covid casualty on the day, East Singhbhum also reported 15 cases of infection, the highest among the 24 districts. The active caseload in the district also rose to 66 on Thursday as only 13 patients recovered from Covid-19 there. The active caseload also jumped to 34 in Bokaro, which reported 12 Covid cases against only six recoveries. Barring Bokaro and East Singhbhum, all the remaining 22 districts reported a drop in the active caseload on the day. At least eight Covid recoveries against six fresh cases brought the active caseload in Ranchi down to 70, still the highest among the districts in Jharkhand. The state on Thursday tested swab samples of 47,347 residents and 0.11 per cent of them were found infected. As per government data, over 3.46 lakh people have tested positive for Covid-19 in the state so far and 98.38 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of the patients could not survive. The vaccination campaign against Covid-19 was hit by a shortage of doses for the second day in a row on Thursday as the state managed to vaccinate only about 20,000 residents on the day. As per provisional data released by the NHM, as many as 14,541 residents received the first dose of the vaccine on Thursday, while the second jab was administered to 6314 beneficiaries. The state has on average vaccinated over one lakh residents daily since fresh supplies arrived on July 2, but the figure dropped to around 60,000 on Wednesday. More than half of those who received vaccines against Covid-19 on Thursday were below the age of 45 years, government data highlighted. The state, however, is expecting delivery of 1 lakh Covaxin doses on Friday and 2.5 lakh doses of Covishield on July 15, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-109
09-07-2021||Jharkhand||Resistance march and condolence meeting for Stan Swamy's death||A silent resistance march was held in Jamshedpur on Thursday and a condolence meeting was organised in Ranchi to decry the custodial death of octogenarian Jesuit priest Father Stan Swamy and intensify the agitation for repeal of the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). Fr Stan, who passed away in a Mumbai hospital on Monday while waiting for bail in judicial custody for eight months, had challenged the UAPA in Bombay High Court. Over 100 social activists, academics, trade union activists and tribal leaders took part in the silent resistance march wearing black masks and passed through different parts of Sakchi, Jamshedpur, before gathering at a local roundabout in the afternoon. “Father Stan Swamy, who had spent all his life raising his voice for the tribals and the oppressed, was killed in custody by the fascist government at the Centre through its wing, the NIA, and the callousness of the Maharashtra prison authorities. We demand stern punishment for all those who conspired to kill an elderly person who had been raising his voice for the rights of tribals,” said Madan Mohan, a leader of the Visthapith Mukti Vahini, an organisation fighting for the cause of the villagers displaced by the Subernarekha Multipurpose Project. “The government should not think that killing Fr Swamy would silence the movement; in fact it would only give more fire to the movement. We would not stop till the draconian UAPA is repealed,” he added. The UAPA, under which Fr Stan had been arrested last year in connection with the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, allows for detention without trial for six months. Jawaharlal Nehru University alumni and tribal rights leader Deepak Ranjeet said the time was ripe for a nationwide agitation to release all human rights activists and journalists, including Siddique Kappan, arrested under the UAPA and the sedition law on flimsy grounds. At a condolence meeting in Bagaicha, the social research centre at Namkum near Ranchi that Fr Stan had set up and where he lived, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha MLA Stephen Marandi, Congress lawmaker Rajesh Kachhap, tribal rights activist Dayamani Barla, women rights activist Aloka Kujur and several human rights organisations decided to meet chief minister Hemant Soren and submit a memorandum to governor Ramesh Bais for repeal of the UAPA. “While paying tribute to Fr Stan Swamy, it is time for us to take forward his mission and vision by empowering tribals and the marginalised, making them aware of their rights and also exerting pressure for the repeal of the UAPA under which he was arrested and ultimately killed in custody,” Kujur said. The attendees decided to take out a rally on July 15 demanding the repeal of the UAPA and also meet the chief minister to seek the enactment of a law preventing the NIA from arresting anybody in Fifth Schedule areas without the consent of the gram sabha concerned. The Provincial of the Jamshedpur Jesuit province, Father Jerome Cutinha, said the ashes of Fr Stan arrived at Ranchi on Thursday evening in a flight and would be kept at Bagaicha and also taken to various other places in Jharkhand. “Since it is not possible for many Jesuits and others to come to Ranchi to pay their last respects to Fr Stan Swamy, we will be taking the ashes to different parts of Jharkhand, including Jamshedpur, Dhanbad, Chaibasa and Gumla, over a month. On August 3, the ashes will be buried at the Jamshedpur graveyard in Mango,” Fr Jerome said. Fr Joseph Xavier, the director of ISI Bangalore, had earlier carried the ashes of Fr Stan across several parts of south India for people to pay their last respects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-109
