10-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur FC ropes in Eli Sabia to strengthen backline||Jamshedpur FC have added Brazilian defender Eli Sabia to their list for the upcoming Indian Super League (ISL) to be held in Goa from November onwards, in a bid to strengthen the defence of the team. The 31-year-old Sabia, who played for Chennaiyin FC for the last three seasons, will compensate for the absence of Nigerian international Stephen Eze in the backline. Eze has not signed for Men of Steel as he is looking to play in the European circuit. Sources familiar with the situation said JFC head coach Owen Coyle was keen to have Sabia in the side. Coyle was with Chennaiyin FC before he joined Jamshedpur in the last season. "Sabia has reunited with Coyle," one of the sources added, requesting not to be quoted. The Scotland-born Coyle was also instrumental in bringing Chennaiyin FC's goal machine Nerijus Valskis and defender Laldinliana Renthlei when he moved to Jamshedpur. He also ensured the signing of English defender Peter Hartley who captained the club in the last season. Sabia and Hartley are expected to strengthen the JFC backline. The Brazilian first joined Chennaiyin FC in 2016. He then returned home for a spell at Sertaozinho FC before switching to Al Raed in Saudi Arabia. Out of six foreign players to be included, Jamshedpur already have four – Hartley (United Kingdom), Valskis (Lithuania), Jordan Murray (Australia) and Eli Sabia (Brazil), on board. Jamshedpur finished sixth, four points behind fourth-placed FC Goa last season, with 27 points (20 matches, seven wins, as many loses and six draws) in last season’s ISL held in Goa. They are determined to qualify for the play-offs for the first time and have more or less worked out the team formation for the tournament ahead. The club has tried out four coaches – Steve Coppell (England), Cesar Ferrando, Antonio Iriondo (both from Spain) and the present incumbent Coyle – and some Indian and foreign players since the 2017-18 ISL season. However, JFC are yet to make it to the play-off. But for some poor refereeing in the last season, the club would have qualified for the knock-outs. Moreover, Valskis, who showed great form in the beginning, failed to fire when it mattered the most.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-108
10-07-2021||Jharkhand||At Ranchi requiem for Father Stan Swamy, a prayer for the world ||Ranchi archdiocese held a special mass at St Mary’s Cathedral on Saturday in memory of Father Stan Swamy, the 84-year-old Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist who breathed his last on June 5 at a hospital in Bombay under judicial custody after his arrest under UAPA for alleged links with Maoists. Father Stan's last rites were held at Mumbai's Shivaji Park crematorium _ because of Maharashtra Covid protocols _ his associates brought his ashes to Ranchi where he spent several decades working for adivasis. Church leaders said the requiem, held in the presence of archbishop of Ranchi Father Felix Toppo, bishop of Ranchi Father Theodore Mascarenhas and a handful of other priests, was more for the sake of humanity’s awakening than mourning for Father Stan's passing. The mass was also streamed online since there were Covid restrictions in place on the number of people who could attend the gathering. “We pray for the whole world today not just for father Stan,” Archbishop Toppo said. After the proceedings, church leaders distributed food packets among the poor. Bishop Mascarenhas said, “More than the mourning, we have gathered here to thank God for sending a holy soul like Father Stan Swamy. We are here to pray that what happened to him does not happen to anyone else. We appeal that all accused under UAPA along with Stan must be released unless proven guilty.” He said that everyone will remember him (Stan) with gratitude and humility for his service and utter courage which he possessed in all the odd situations.  “We had a courageous man, not afraid of anything. A man, loved by many, and persecuted and tortured by some, but left for the heavenly abode after fulfilling his time and purpose on the earth. The kind of treatment he faced in prison, for very simple things like a sipper and straw for drinking water due to his health condition, any ordinary human being would have given up. But he kept fighting.” "What was his crime?" the Bishop asked. Father Stan, Bishop Mascarenhas said, was not afraid of those who would touch his body. "He was not afraid to fight for the rights of under privileged, tribals, Dalits and all those who needed his help. Those who hated him continued till they were sure that he had gone to his grave. When he was in court and very sick, there was so much reluctance to give him medical help. His last wish was - 'Let me go back to my people'," the Bishop added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-108
10-07-2021||Jharkhand||In Jharkhand, a sudden spike in black fungus cases ||At least eight confirmed cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis have surfaced in Jharkhand in the past 48 hours after a significant drop in cases since the end of June, figures released by the health department on Saturday highlighted. On Thursday, there were 86 confirmed and 66 suspected cases of black fungus in the state. By Saturday, the count of confirmed cases jumped to 94, while suspected cases dropped to 58, revealed data compiled by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), the body that monitors cases of mucormycosis since it was listed as a notifiable disease by the government. “The patients who were already getting treated for suspected mucormycosis have added up to the list of confirmed cases as their test reports arrived,” said Ranchi civil surgeon Dr Vinod Kumar. Even though cases of infection have increased, the fatality rate was gradually dropping, which according to doctors, was a positive trend. The fatality rate for mucormycosis in Jharkhand was 27.65 per cent, which was lower than the average fatality rate of 50 per cent for this disease in general. No fresh casualties caused by the fungal infection occurred in the state this month. The state reported two confirmed cases of mucormycosis on June 30, and no fresh cases were reported until Friday. As per data with the IDSP, two confirmed cases were reported in Ranchi and one each in East SInghbhum, Garhwa, Giridih, Godda, Gumla and Palamu in the past 48 hours. So far, at least 26 people have died of mucormycosis in the state and the last fatality was reported in June, IDSP data further highlighted. As per IDSP, at least 75 patients have recovered from the fungal infection in Jharkhand so far. The fungal infection, as per government data, has affected people in at least 18 of the 24 districts in the state. Of the 152 suspected and confirmed cases of mucormycosis in Jharkhand, at least 55 have been reported in Ranchi and 23 in East Singhbhum. The remaining 16 affected districts have reported less than 10 cases. Mucormycosis is a rare infection caused by exposure to mucor mould found in soil, plants, manure and decaying fruits and vegetables. The line of treatment includes surgery and administering anti-fungal drugs, mostly Amphotericin B. Several thousand cases of Covid-induced Mucormycosis were reported in India in the past couple of months and doctors claimed that use of high dosage steroids for treatment of severely-ill Covid patients was one of the reasons for the spike.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-108
10-07-2021||Jharkhand|| ITI students in Jharkhand face career uncertainty amid second wave||More than one lakh students of Jharkhand pursuing ITI courses in different trades are facing uncertainty over career due to delay in the final examination of their course and publication of results. The aggrieved students of 2018-20 batch who earlier took out a protest march in Dhanbad and staged a demonstration at Randhir Verma Chowk near the district headquarters on  February 8 this year have now decided to carry out a fresh agitation from July 15 demanding early examination and publication of results. Jharkhand has over 200 ITI colleges where training in different trades -- including wireman,  fitter, welder, turner, electrician, diesel mechanic, electronics mechanic, plumber, carpenter, turner, draughtsman mechanic, surveyor -- is given. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Saturday, Saurabh Sao (24) a  student of privately run KK ITI Dhanbad said,  "Our session is delayed by more than a year as ideally the final results of our batch should have been published in July 2020 but instead our final examination is yet to be completed." "To apply for recruitment exams, the upper age limit is 24 and due to the delay in examination and publication of results, many students including me will be deprived of that opportunity," said Sao. He added that after their  protest in February, examinations of two papers were held but the entire examination could not be completed in wake of aggravating of Covid situation again. "The ITI exams of students of our batch in other states, including in neighbouring Bengal, were held amidst strict adherence to Covid protocols despite a similar situation there," said Sao. Majority of the students pursuing ITI are from humble family backgrounds and thus the hope of family as a prospective main source of earner for the family rests on them, he further said. Goutam Koiri (23), another student of KK ITI Dhanbad, said, "My father is a small farmer who has somehow managed to fund my education curtailing other expenses but the delay in examinations and publication of results seems to spoil our career as we will be not able to appear for many recruitment exams," "If the examinations of IITs and other engineering colleges can be held then why can't the examinations of ITIs be held," questioned Koiri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-108
10-07-2021||Jharkhand||Zomato boy thrashed by cops, residents stage protest outside police station||A group of over 50 residents on Saturday staged a demonstration in front of Ulidih police station, Mango in protest against the brutal thrashing of a Zomato delivery boy by the police. Led by Vikash Singh, who is a social activist, the protestors demanded action against the two Mobile Tigers (cops on bike) responsible for the high-handedness and they would intensify the stir. After an hour-long demonstration, the agitated protestors handed over a written complaint to the OC Meghnad Mandal, seeking action against the cops concerned. A resident of Tank Road in Ulidih, the victim Debendra Kumar (23) was returning home from his food delivery duty on Friday at about 11 pm. As the youth was about to reach his home, two Mobile Tigers intercepted his bike near Rajasthan Bhawan in Ulidih and started thrashing him mercilessly. "The two cops claimed I did not stop on being waved on the way and started hitting me with the batons. Despite repeatedly telling them that I could not see them waving, they did not stop and continued to thrash me," said Devendra while talking to this website. The youth whose shoulder was filled with the bruises from baton injuries said he could not sleep throughout the night and informed the social activist Vikash Singh about the incident in the night in the morning. The OC, Ulidih thana, Meghnad Mandal confirmed to have received the complaint, but said that he would recommend for any action after an enquiry into the incident. "First of all, we have to find out whether the alleged high-handedness by the Mobile Tigers had taken place under my jurisdiction or not. Secondly, whether Zomato delivery boy was thrashed by any Mobile Tiger or sustained injuries in a clash with others somewhere else will have to be investigated, " said Mandal while talking to The Telegraph Online. However the OC, when asked, conceded that they will try to get the CCTV footage of the alleged thrashing. Vikash Singh said the unemployed youths who work in the online food delivery companies have to work till late night. "Not only do those working in an online food delivery company have to work late night shifts, but they also have to ride the bikes at a comparatively high speed owing to the limited delivery-time. The cops on patrolling duty should not swing into taking punitive action without verifying the fact, " observed the social activist while talking to this website.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-108
10-07-2021||Jharkhand||Two friends drown in Vrindaha waterfall as villagers rescue the third||Three college friends from Bihar who came to enjoy the famous Vrindaha waterfall in Jarga panchayat under Tilaiya police station of Koderma district met with a tragic accident as two of them drowned on Friday. The third one was saved by local villagers. A police team reached there shortly after the incident but failed to recover the duo's dead bodies as the search operation was called off owing to dusk. Sources said the trio, namely Karthik Kumar (19) and Sunny Raj (20) of Patna and Siddharth Kumar of Nawada decided to go for a vacation. Sunny studies in a college at Patna and suggested Kakolat waterfall as it was in his hometown Nawada.The trio reached there on Friday but were stopped by the police as the fall becomes risky during monsoon. They then searched on google and came to know about Vrindaha waterfall which is known as Kashmir of Koderma. They reached Koderma at 11 in the morning and had their breakfast at a restaurant before heading towards the fall. After reaching the place, the friends went close to the 100feet high fall. Suddenly, Karthik slipped and fell into the deep water. Siddharth and Sunny jumped in the water to save their friend but all three of them started drowning. The villagers ran to their rescue, managing to save Sunny but the other two drowned. "We came in contact of each other through PubG. Karthik was fond of traveling and he put together the plan to visit any tourist spot. Two days ago too, we planned to come to Kakolat but we failed to wake up early," Sunny said at the Tilaiya police station, crying inconsolably. Officer-in-charge of Tilaiya police station, Dwarika Ram said, "Local divers had been hired to find the bodies but operation had to be called off as it was getting dark. We will again search for the bodies tomorrow." adding that the parents of the boys have informed. In another incident. a man died after being accidentally shot from his friend's service revolver on Friday. Three friends including a trainee deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Ashutosh Kumar went to the popular Tilaiya dam for picnic. Sources said that Ashutosh is undergoing training for DSP in Buxar of Bihar. It appeared that while showing his service revolver to his friends, Ashutosh accidentally fired the gun and the bullet hit one of his friends Nikhil Kumar's right chest. Ashutosh and his other friend Siddharth Kumar immedietly put injured Nikhil in the car to take him to the hospital but Nikhil succumbed to his injuries in the car. Ashutosh tried to cover up the matter but the senior officials of Koderma sent a police team which brought the body to Koderma sadar hospital. Koderma deputy superintendent of police (headquarter) Sanjeev Kumar confirmed the incident and said a probe has been initiated. Nikhil's brother Vineet Sinha rejected the story of accidental firing and claimed that his brother was killed over some dispute and demanded justice. Police officials said DSP Ashutosh and Siddharth were arrested and are being interrogated. "We will solve the case soon, we're waiting for the postmortem report," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-108
10-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jesuits and Catholics plan Requiem Masses for Stan Swamy||The ashes of Father Stan Swamy arrived at the Jamshedpur Jesuit Province, from where he had begun his service in Jharkhand, on Friday and was placed at the Loyola Chapel for people to pay their last respects. Jesuits and Catholics have planned Requiem Masses (held for the dead) at Jamshedpur and Ranchi. Politicians and tribal rights activists on Friday visited Bagaicha, the social research centre at Namkum near Ranchi that Fr Stan had set up and where he lived, and vowed to carry on with the movement to repeal the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Fr Stan, who passed away in a Mumbai hospital on Monday in judicial custody while awaiting bail for nine months, had challenged the UAPA in Bombay High Court. He had been arrested in the Bhima-Koregaon Maoist links case under the UAPA, which allows for detention without trial for six months. The Provincial of the Jamshedpur Jesuit Province, Fr Jerome Cutinha, said the ashes of Fr Stan would be kept at the Loyola Chapel in Jamshedpur for two days — Friday and Saturday. Since Sunday is a weekend lockdown in view of Covid, the planned memorial Mass at XLRI Jamshedpur will be held online in the evening. “There will be a Requiem Mass at the Ranchi Cathedral by the Ranchi Archdiocese on Saturday morning and thereafter in the evening an online mass will be held by Jesuits. If there are requests, we will send the ashes to other parts of Jharkhand for people to pay their respects. On August 3 the ashes will be laid to rest at the Jesuits’ graveyard in Jamshedpur,” Fr Jerome said. CPI-ML general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya visited Bagaicha on Friday evening to pay his respects to Fr Stan. “I had come here during the first NIA raid (in 2019) and spent some time with Fr Stan, who has been martyred for raising his voice for the tribals and the oppressed. We will continue the agitation and the mission of Fr Stan,” he said. “Our leader (Bagodar MLA Vinod Kumar Singh) will take part in a joint rally of rights activists, academics and political leaders of different parties to the Raj Bhavan on July 15 to submit a memorandum demanding the repeal of the UAPA and the release of rights activists lodged under the sedition law in Jharkhand and other parts of the country,” Bhattacharya said. Mahendra Patha, a leader of the Jharkhand Kisan Mahasabha that is part of the farmers’ movement against central farm laws, also visited Bagaicha. He said the BJP-led central government’s “efforts to suppress voices of dissent with arrests would not be successful” and that the agitation would be intensified by also involving farmers and social activists. RJD state vice-president Rajesh Yadav said efforts should be made to form a common platform of all Opposition parties not only in Jharkhand but across the country against the BJP-led Centre’s strategy of arresting rights activists under draconian laws like the UAPA. According to the National Crime Records Bureau, 105 UAPA cases had been registered in Jharkhand in 2019, trailing only Manipur (306), Tamil Nadu (270) and Jammu and Kashmir (255).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-108
10-07-2021||Jharkhand||Focus on 15 specific priority sectors in Jharkhand policy  ||The Jharkhand Industrial and Investment Promotion Policy 2021, which was cleared by the state cabinet on Tuesday, will focus on 15 specific priority sectors. Of these 15, seven are high-priority or focus sectors — textile and apparels, automobile, auto components and electric vehicles, agro food processing, meat processing industries, pharmaceuticals and electronics system design and manufacturing (ESDM). The remaining eight are priority sectors — start-up and incubation centres, education and technical institutes, healthcare, tourism, IT and ITeS (information technology-enabled services), breweries and distilleries, renewable energy and high and medium engineering. The JIPP, which will replace the 2016 Industrial Policy of the erstwhile Raghubar Das-led BJP government, also envisages setting up of industrial parks under government, private, joint venture or PPP (public-private partnership) mode in apparel fibre (textile park), IT and software technology park (STPI), gems and jewellery park, biotech and herbs park, chemical and pharmaceutical park, food processing and meat processing park, automobile vendor and ancillary industries park, ceramic park, plastic park, knowledge park and film city. “The JIPP will be in effect for five years. Through this policy, the government aims to fetch investments worth Rs 1 lakh crore in the state and provide employment to 5 lakh people. The state government will provide subsidy upto Rs 50 crore and additional subsidy of 5 per cent for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, women and differently abled,” said chief minister Hemant Soren during a review meeting of the industry department in Ranchi on Friday. The new policy, a copy of which is available with The Telegraph, admits the Covid-19 pandemic has adversely affected the economy and development of the state due to disruptions in supply chains and a crash in overall demand. “The major industries of the state including construction, mining, tourism, automobile and light/heavy engineering were amongst the worst hit leading to a crash in exports from the state. The manufacturing and service industry needs to be revived and with this aim, the policy has been revised to provide investors with regulatory support. To rejuvenate the existing rural industries including sericulture, handloom, handicraft, khadi, textile, etc, it is envisaged to assist them in modernisation/technological upgradation and provide necessary common facilities, backward and forward linkages including product design, marketing support, etc, to make them globally competitive. The Government realises that export units in the state need to be modernised by adopting the latest technologies, undertaking skill upgradation,” states the policy mission. The policy envisages focus on industries with export potential and to encourage and motivate such industries for increasing the volume of exports. It will also focus on export items manufactured from 100 per cent indigenous inputs normally done by the MSME (micro, small and medium enterprises) sector and to establish linkages between OEMs (original equipment manufacturers) and MSME/ancillary industries. It will provide a simple, proactive, and supportive institutional mechanism for the rapid growth across sectors and promote employment generation in industrial and services sectors by providing facilitation under the Industrial and Investment Promotion Policy, MSME Act, 2006, and other policy interventions. The policy also outlined technology and skill upgradation in the traditional sectors like mineral-based products, handicrafts, handlooms, agriculture and processed food products to enhance value addition and quality competitiveness. The policy also aims to develop Jharkhand as a textile hub. “There has been phenomenal growth in the sericulture sector and the state has the highest production of tasar silk in India. Jharkhand primarily exports tasar silk to the US, the UK, Germany, France, Turkey, Japan, Australia, Sweden and Switzerland. In addition to silk weaving, the State has taken adequate measures for the revival of cotton wool weaving. The Government of Jharkhand is committed to upgrade the facilities in Industrial Training Institutes for apparel production. An autonomous institute of quality apparel training will be set up on its own or in joint venture/collaboration with multiple agencies/institutes,” states the policy outline. The policy aims to notify all textile and apparel parks as public utility services. Meanwhile, Soren during the review meeting on Friday stressed on the constitution of an investment promotion board, making an action plan for execution of one district one product (ODOP) plan, investment in industrial parks and forming of a MIS (management information system) for the survey of beneficiaries under the Prime Minister’s Employment Generation Programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-108
10-07-2021||Jharkhand||Ajsu apparently unhappy over the induction of MP Annapurna Devi ||The All Jharkhand Students Union (Ajsu), a constituent of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance, is apparently unhappy over the induction of Koderma MP Annapurna Devi as a Union minister of state on Wednesday. The reason for its discontent was a strong rumour that Giridih MP Chandra Prakash Chaudhary, who is the Ajsu’s lone representative in Parliament, would get a central berth. “We also heard that rumour but we can’t comment on it officially as we were not given any assurance or hint about him (Chaudhary) becoming a minister,” Ajsu central spokesperson Deo Sharan Bhagat said. “What’s wrong if a NDA constituent expects a berth at the Centre, particularly when other partners were given the same?” asked an agitated Ajsu member who requested anonymity “because such comments may have an adverse impact”. “They (BJP) have made MPs belonging to other partner parties from neighbouring states ministers but not from here,” he grumbled, naming R.C.N. Singh of the Janata Dal United and Pashupati Kumar Paras of the Lok Janshakti Party from Bihar and Anupriya Singh Patel of Apna Dal from Uttar Pradesh who were also made central ministers on Wednesday. The rumour about Chaudhary becoming a minister gained ground because the BJP had left the Baghmundi Assembly seat in Purulia district for the Ajsu in the recent Bengal Assembly election. But a section of political observers felt the BJP would not offer a central berth to the Ajsu because it had fought the 2019 Assembly election in Jharkhand independently, despite fighting the parliamentary polls together earlier that year. Not only those from the Ajsu but even a section of the BJP are also not happy at the induction of Devi as a minister, according to JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya. “I’ve been receiving calls from my some of my old friends who are dedicated workers of the BJP for many years but are now frustrated after Annapurna Devi was made a minister,” Bhattacharya told mediapersons on Thursday. “Ab BJP ka matlab ho gaya bahari jonon ki party (BJP is now a party of the outsiders),” Bhattacharya quoted some BJP workers as saying.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-108
10-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur author in India Book of Records 2022||A young author from Jamshedpur has entered the India Book of Records 2022 for writing the largest collection of thoughts in a book. Ansuman Bhagat’s A Lot of Your Own Thoughts aims to provide positive energy to stressed minds. Though published in 2018, the book has attained renewed significance, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic. The confirmation from the India Book of Records was received last week. “The record for writing the largest collection of thoughts in a book was set by Ansuman Bhagat (born on March 7, 1996) of Jamshedpur, Jharkhand. The book titled A Lot of Your Own Thoughts (ISBN: 9789388333-23-8) is a collection of inspiring, motivational thoughts written in English and Hindi which encourages the reader to develop positive thinking. The first edition of the book was published in 2018 by Invincible Publishers, as confirmed on May 28, 2021,” stated the letter sent to the writer. Bhagat, 25, an alumnus of Kerala Samajam Model School, Jamshedpur, said: “I had written the book in 2018 but it got relevance in 2020 and 2021 during the Covid pandemic. The pandemic has led to people’s lives being stressed and increased negative thinking. People have become engrossed in earning money and do not have time to think about themselves. I believe the book with over 234 inspirational quotes will provide much needed positive energy to the readers.” Bhagat believes that everyone has difficulties in life and no person is born successful. Hence, hard work and many sacrifices have to be made in life to be successful. “It is necessary to have good and positive thinking,” he said. Bhagat has also received two awards from OMG Book of Records a few days back. “I received the national record from OMG Book of Records in the category of India’s most popular young face in the writing world in 2021 and was recognised as a young inspirational (self-help) writer for the same book. The OMG Book of Records has included these records in its 2021 edition,” he said. The OMG Book of Records is an annual book of records which has the collection of record holders in different categories such as sports and social service. Around 400 records are categorised under this initiative. Bhagat, who has also found a place among Indian authors in Google and whose works are available on the online platform too, is now penning a book on the life of artistes of Bollywood and TV industry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-109
10-07-2021||Jharkhand||Clash among labourers halts work at BCCL site||Two warring groups of unorganised labourers pelted stones at each other during a clash at Godhar Coal dump of Bharat Coking Coal Limited on Friday demanding priority in work allotment. Several labourers were injured in the clash. The situation however came under control after a police lathicharge and forced eviction of some agitating laborers sitting on dharna at the coal loading site. Dhanbad Sub Divisional Officer, Surendra Kumar who also reached at the site along with a large number of policemen took details of the incident from the colliery management and workers and warned the representative of both the groups of resorting to any sort of violence. Unorganised labourers engaged in manual coal loading work at Godhar Coal Dump, including one group led by Trade Union Janta Mazdoor Sangh (Bachcha Singh faction) and other groups of local residents keep fighting on the issue of allotment of coal loading work. Over 60 supporters of the Bachcha Singh faction on Friday sat on the dharna at the Godhar demanding allotment of work. The protesters blocked the entrance of the coal loading site since the morning, obstructing the movement of other labourers inside the mine which in turn affected the coal loading and coal transport work. The tension continued for more than an hour. Perturbed over the blockade, another group of labourers who were allotted work, objected over the blockade after which a verbal argument ensued between them and some resorted to stone pelting against each other. A team of Kenduadih Police station led by officer in charge, Binod Oraon who reached at the site, carried out the minor lathicharge and also apprehended some of those engaged in blocking the entrance of the coal dump site. “The issue is a minor one related to demand of work allotment but police and administration had to intervene to bring an end to deadlock as blockade carried by some protesters obstructed the loading work at the site affecting the livelihood of many people,” said Surendra Kumar. “We will hold a meeting with both the groups and try to find out an amicable solution under the mediation of BCCL officers” further said Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-109
