11-07-2021||Jharkhand||Rain, thunderstorms across Jharkhand ||Several regions of the state, including capital Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Dumka and Pakur, experienced rain and thunderstorms on Sunday due to an active monsoon trough. Weather experts said the trough was running from central parts of western Rajasthan to northwest Bay of Bengal across east Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, south Chhattisgarh, Odisha and north Coastal Andhra Pradesh extending upto 0.9 Km above mean sea level. Several districts, including Khunti, Seraikela-Kharsawan, West Singhbhum, Koderma, Lohardaga, Dhanbad, Simdega and Ramgarh, experienced light to moderate rain on Sunday.  Kuru in Lohardaga district recorded the highest rainfall of 25.6 mm. Jamshedpur and its adjoining areas recorded about 15 mm of rain. Ranchi, Khunti, Pakur and Dumka recorded below 10 mm. Head of Ranchi Met Centre Abhishek Anand said, "Generally cloudy sky with light to moderate rain or thunder is likely at few places over Jharkhand during the next 72 hours." He ruled out the possibility of heavy rain during the next three days. Against a normal of 310 mm, Jharkhand has so far recorded rainfall of 344 mm, a surplus of 11 per cent, this monsoon. Weathermen at both IMD's Ranchi and Patna Met Centres said Ranchi and Bihar is expected to get normal rainfall in the month of July, the second monsoon month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-107
11-07-2021||Jharkhand||Koderma is Bihar’s Goa post-2015 alcohol ban||Once known for mica and making the maximum number of song requests on popular radio programme Binaca Geetmala, Koderma definitely moved on. It has now earned the status of being ‘Goa’ for the people of Bihar. An accidental firing from the service revolver of Bihar DSP Ashutosh Kumar, which resulted in the death of his friend has once again highlighted the fact that Koderma has turned into a hot destination for the Bihar people. DSP Kumar, had reached Koderma with his friends and checked into a hotel before going to the banks of Tilaiya Dam for celebration where one of his friends got killed in accidental firing. According to sources Jawahar ghat - kown for its mind blowing beauty and greenery, was the spot selected by the DSP to party with his friends in seclusion. With no proper road to reach the spot, he took the help of a local villager. From the spot the police have seized liquor bottles and also gathered evidences that indicate that food was cooked by the DSP and his friends. Another incident that took place at the dam area yesterday, was the untimely death of two youths - Karthik and Siddharth. The duo had come from Bihar with their third friend Sunny Raj to enjoy their day. But they got drowned, expert divers took six hours to fish out their dead bodies yesterday. Many believe that Koderma situated along Bihar-Jharkhand border, has quickly transformed into a hot spot for celebration and liquor parties for the people of Bihar. Given the fact that alcohol was banned in April 2015 in Jharkhand’s neighbouring state, many have been flocking the district simply because of easy access to liquor. This in turn has made the mica district earn the name of Bihar’s Goa. Sources maintained that the 2015 decision of the Bihar government to ban alcohol in the state, has made the mica district a hotspot for people to party. With the influx of people from the neighbouring state for parties has made many roadside dhabas come up in Ranchi-Patna highway which has alcohol on offer. Visitors from well-to-do-families, often come to the Tilaiya Dam for a break along the banks of this picturesque reservoir. Excise department officials on condition of anonymity said sale of alcohol is up by mainfold in Koderma in comparison with districts like Hazaribagh, Bokaro, Dhanbad and Ramgarh. They admitted that people not just coming for booze parties but are also planning weddings. Even many remote villages of the district are engaged in manufacturing country liquor, which is often supplied to Bihar. “We cannot stop anyone from coming to Koderma or going to any other districts,” said excise officials. “But we are carrying regular raids at illegal liquor making units and destroying it. Even raids also taking place regularly in roadside dhabas to stop them selling liquors without having the license,” added they. Coming back to the DSP case, Koderma superintendent of police Ehtesham Waquarib visited the spot where they had partied when the accidental shooting took place. He talked to local villagers and passed instructions to his team to collect samples from the spot including the empty bullet. He said an FIR lodged against DSP and his friend under sections 302, 120B and 27arms act of the IPC. He said probe going on to reach to the facts of this case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-107
11-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand focus on post-Covid ailments, directs daily reporting in districts||With a drop in Covid cases and fatalities, the Jharkhand government has shifted its focus on post-Covid complications and causes of death among survivors, officials said on Sunday, adding that the health department has directed all 24 districts to send in data related to health disorders and casualties reported at dedicated post-Covid care facilities to the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) every day. The National Health Mission (NHM) director, in a letter addressed to all the deputy commissioners recently, asked them to send details such as the number of visits by Covid survivors, number of admitted patients, number of patients receiving physiotherapy or any alternate therapy, number of patients discharged and the number of fatalities at post-Covid care centres every day by 5pm. “So far, no fatalities have been reported at any of the post-Covid care centres. We started compiling data related to post-Covid complications on Saturday, and it is too early to draw any inference on the types of health disorders that were most prevalent among Covid survivors in the state,” said Dr Ranjit Mandal, the nodal officer appointed for post-Covid care centres in Jharkhand. The decision of reporting daily entries and treatments at post-Covid care centres comes close on the heels of the reportage of a new crippling condition called "bone death" among Covid survivors in some parts of India. Avascular necrosis, a health complication that causes the death of bone tissues, has been reported in some Covid survivors in Pune who were treated with high doses of steroids during treatment. Even though no cases of avascular necrosis have been reported in Jharkhand, doctors say that patients in early stages of this condition may seek physiotherapy. Health experts monitoring physiotherapy at post-Covid care centres may be able to diagnose bone death in patients depending on their symptoms and some tests such as X-Ray, doctors added. Jharkhand has operational post-Covid care centres in all 24 districts. Many cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis, or black fungus, also came to light at these centres earlier this year. As per the latest directive from the health department, the districts also need to mention the number of patients who were referred to “higher centres” from the post-Covid care centres for better treatment. Even those patients who do not need hospitalization for Covid treatment may suffer from severe ailments post-recovery and need medical attention, say doctors. Several cases of lung fibrosis and cardiovascular disease in Covid survivors were also reported in the state during the first as well as the second wave. As per government data, as many as 3,46,279 Jharkhand residents have been infected by SARS-CoV-2 virus so far and more than 98 per cent of them have recovered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-107
11-07-2021||Jharkhand||Olympic assignment for Ranchi athletics coach||Jharkhand Athletics Association (JAA) president Madhukant Pathak has been named manager of the 26-member Indian athletics squad for the upcoming Tokyo Olympics which is scheduled to begin from July 23. The Athletics Federation of India (AFI) sent a formal communiqué to this effect to its state unit on Sunday. Besides 26 players, AFI will also send a team of 13 coaches headed by chief coach Radha Krishnan Nair along with eight support staff and two officials. AFI President Adille J Sumariwalla in a statement said, "We have selected coaches and support staff as per requirement of our athletes who have qualified for the Games." Pathak, who is also treasurer of AFI, thanked AFI for bestowing him with the responsibility. He said that as the manager of the team, he will have to ensure that the contingent, mainly players, is taken care of in all aspects so that individuals can put up a good show during the Olympics. “As a manager, my job will be to take care of all technical aspects like attending technical meetings, preparing the athletes for competition, taking them for their dope tests, etc. In a nutshell, I will be the crucial bridge between our athletes, technical officials and the main competition," he explained. This is not the first time that the athletics coach and official of the Jharkhand outfit has been tasked with international duty. In the past, he was with Indian athletics contingent in previous three Olympics held in Beijing, London and Rio in 2008, 2012 and 2016 respectively. While none of the Jharkhand athletes could qualify for a place in the Indian squad for this year’s Olympics, Jharkhand will be pinning its hopes on three players, in hockey and archery, to clinch medals at the global stage. Golden girl Deepika Kumar of Ranchi will be the lone representation from India in the individual women recurve category in archery while Nikki Pradhan of Khunti and Salima Tete from Simdega will be part of the national squad in hockey. Salima will be making her Olympics debut, while the other two athletes have represented the country in previous games. Earlier this month, while interacting with Olympics-bound players of the state, chief minister Hemant Soren had announced cash awards of Rs 2 crore, Rs 1 crore and Rs 75 lakh for players if they won gold, silver or bronze medals, respectively in the Tokyo Olympics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-107
11-07-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad’s lone amusement park in shambles||The lone entertainment park of Dhanbad -- Birsa Munda Park, opened its gates to the visitors on July 1, after a gap of 70 days. But all its amenities seem to be in a mess. All the rides including toy train, dragon train, vortex, caterpillar and dhum jhula have been non-operation since it reopened. This apart, other facilities like swings, sea-saw and slide have also become defunct, thanks to the gross neglect by the custodian of the park -- Dhanbad Municipal Corporation. The list doesn’t end here. About 25 staff of the park including the gardeners, ticket booking staff and jhula operators have not been paid their salary since the last three months. The park is also devoid of security guards as their service had been withdrawn during the lockdown period on the ground of fund crunch. As a consequence, gardeners, clerks and other staff including jhula operators were being used as security guards. Notably the estimate for repairing some of the facilities, including the toy train, swing, slide, sea-saw and seats etc has been sent by the park management to DMC earlier this year (March); a reminder has also been sent recently, but they are yet to get any response. When TT Online contacted Niwas Kumbhkar, park manager, he said, “We reopened the park on July 1. As of now the park is witnessing a daily footfall of around 200 persons, which is way lesser than (500) it used to get during the non-Covid time.” “Yesterday, we also relaunched the laser fountain. We are hopeful of running it in the evening. But it again depends on the power supply as we can’t run it through a generator,” said Kumhkar. He added, “It too expensive to operate it using a power generator. It consumes 20 litres of diesel per hour.” “Since no extra charges are taken from the visitors for the laser show viewing, it is unfeasible to operate the laser fountain through generators,” he said. “We are in the process of restoring other facilities like the toy train, which has been lying defunct due to lack of battery. Swings, slides etc will also be repaired. An estimate has been sent in March followed by a reminder last week,” said Kumbhkar. Asked about the non-functional caterpillar, dhum jhula, vortex and dragon train, Kumbhkar said, “These facilities are lying non-functional due to lack of manpower. Our ride operators are at present working as security workers. We have written about the same to DMC.” Established in 2009 during the tenure of former Deputy Commissioner of Dhanbad Ajay Kumar Singh, the park is spread over 24 acres of land in Baramuri area about 6 kilometers from the district headquarters. It is equipped with several facilities for children as well as other visitors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-107
11-07-2021||Jharkhand||South Eastern Railways eye green initiatives and energy conservation measures||South Eastern Railway has decided to promote energy conservation measures and use of alternative sources of energy in the current financial year. As part of its environment friendly measures it will focus on the installation of solar plants to harness clean energy, usage of LED lights to cut down on regular electricity consumption and the introduction of Head On Generation (HOG) system in train operations. HOG technology is an electrical power supply system which provides power drawn from the overhead electric lines to cater to the entire train load which includes lighting of the coaches, air conditioning, fans, pantry and other passenger interface requirements. “These measures will make trains cost-efficient and also cut down on pollution,” explained a railway spokesman at Garden Reach, Calcutta-based headquarters of South Eastern Railway. The HOG system is free of air and noise pollution. Currently, around only 35 trains are moving on the HOG system. Data indicates that it has resulted in the reduction of fuel cost and carbon emission. SER also plans to increase the number of trains moving with HOG technology to 60 by March next year. To save conventional energy, it will be switching over to non-conventional sources of energy in various phases. Till now in SER, 2.306 MWp solar plants have been installed on the roof top of its Garden Reach headquarter and four divisions including Ranchi and Chakradharpur. According to railway officials around 500 acre of vacant land along the railway tracks as well as settlements in SER jurisdiction have been identified for the installation of 201 MWp capacity of solar plant. Notably, by consuming solar energy as an alternative source of energy, SER has saved Rs. 33.6 lakh in 2019-20 and Rs. 39 lakhs in 2020-21. SER has also replaced conventional light fittings with energy efficient LED lights in all around 363 stations that fall under its jurisdiction and other railway establishments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-107
11-07-2021||Jharkhand||Pray for the release of Elgaar Parishad accused if not proven guilty||A call to pray for the release of all the Elgaar Parishad accused was sounded after the Requiem Mass for Father Stan Swamy at St Mary’s Cathedral in Ranchi on Saturday. “We would like to appeal to all to pray that all those accused in the Elgaar Parishad-Bhima Koregaon case be released immediately unless the State is able to prove their guilt conclusively,” Ranchi auxiliary Bishop Theodore Mascarenhas said while delivering the homily after the mass, which was broadcast online. The Ranchi-based Father Stan — an ailing, 84-year-old Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist who died in federal custody on July 5 in Mumbai — had been held for nine months without bail under the anti-terror law UAPA in the Elgaar Parishad case. He and 15 other rights activists, lawyers, academics and litterateurs were arrested and accused of Maoist links in the case amid suggestions that at least some of the “evidence” against them had been planted. “We do not mourn Father Stan Swamy but rather celebrate his life, lived for the poor and marginalised. He was loved by many but also hated by a few who tortured him, persecuted him, refused to meet his basic needs,” Bishop Mascarenhas said. Father Stan, a Parkinson’s patient, had been for a period denied a sipper and straw in jail that he needed to drink water. Citing an old article by former Mumbai police commissioner Julio Ribeiro, Bishop Mascarenhas said: “The article states that only 2 per cent of the cases prosecuted under the UAPA have ended in convictions till date.” He added: “The State (Union government) is obviously not concerned about convictions. It is more interested in the process that keeps the accused in jail for years, thus neutralising their abilities to organise a viable opposition to unjust projects that rob the poor of their rights and even their livelihood.” Ranchi Archbishop Felix Toppo presided over the Requiem Mass, which was attended by Bishop Mascarenhas, Simdega Bishop Vincent Barwa and the three Jesuit provincials of Jamshedpur, Ranchi and Hazaribagh who concelebrated the mass. Father Jerome Cutinha, provincial of the Jamshedpur Jesuit province (to which Father Stan belonged), said: “Father Stan lived for the tribals, fought their battles and died for them. Father Stan and his battles will continue to live on in us.” Father Ajit Xess, provincial of the Ranchi Jesuit province, read the gospel of the day. Father Santosh Minz, provincial of the Hazaribagh Jesuit province, delivered the vote of thanks at the end of the mass. Bishop Mascarenhas spoke of Father Stan being gathered to his people through his ashes, which have been brought to Ranchi, just like Jacob who wanted to be gathered to his people. After the Mass, Archbishop Toppo, the other two bishops, the three provincials and young Catholics handed over food packets to over 150 poor people outside the Cathedral gates and the Chunwatoli basti near the Ranchi bus stand. The Indian People’s Theatre Association’s Jharkhand unit has decided to stage plays to build awareness among tribal and marginalised communities about Father Stan’s custody death at the hands of a “fascist central government”. “We will not let Father Stan’s martyrdom go in vain. We shall take help from likeminded organisations, form jathas (small groups) and go to the different blocks and panchayats of Jharkhand, targeting areas whose issues Father Stan had raised,” IPTA state secretary Upendra Kumar Mishra said. “We will stage plays to create awareness against the current fascist government at the Centre which killed an 84-year-old man in its custody without even a trial.” The IPTA, which has over 500 members across the state’s 24 districts, paid tributes to Father Stan at an event in Kanta Toli, Ranchi, together with tribal human rights groups and Left parties on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-107
11-07-2021||Jharkhand||Cervical cancer: Jharkhand to focus on screening of suspected cases  ||The Jharkhand government will focus on screening of suspected cases of cervical cancer to prevent the spread of the disease, officials said during an online orientation programme on Saturday. The state health department also fixed screening targets for district hospitals during the programme. “The targets were fixed just to give the initiative a momentum. Otherwise, all suspected patients need to be given proper treatment,” additional chief secretary (health) Arun Kumar Singh, who presided over the programme, told the civil surgeons of various district hospitals. Though it kills a huge number of women, cervical cancer — a tumour of the cervix or the lowermost part of the uterus — can be prevented if treated on time, the doctors were told and advised to intensify screening at the government facilities they head. “On an average, 185 women die of cervical cancer everyday,” said Dr Bharati Kashyap, president of the women doctors’ wing of the local branch of Indian Medical Association, who is involved in the initiative, and took part in the programme. “But the cancer takes upto 10 years to blow up fully and, as such, enough time is available for preventing it from spreading further if diagnosed at an early stage and treated properly,” she further said. Early screening and vaccinating the symptomatic women would help achieve the purpose, she added. The cryogenic machines needed for screening are available at Sadar hospitals in 11 of the 24 districts of the state but they are not in use at many of these facilities. Many doctors of the district hospitals were also given training for screening such patients by Dr Kanika Gupta, director of gynaecological oncology, Max Superspeciality Hospital, New Delhi. “The spread of the disease can be checked but we need to work with an aim to eradicate it,” said Dr Gupta who joined the programme from New Delhi. When requested, she agreed to address the doctors of the state on the topic online and also conduct a training programme in Ranchi in September. Singh directed the civil surgeons to start screening such patients from next week itself and also gave them initial monthly targets. The targets were worked out to 15 per cent of the average number of women visiting the outpatient departments of the hospitals with gynaecological problems in a day. Accordingly, Ranchi Sadar Hospital was given the maximum target of screening 180 women every month while the Jamtara hospital was asked to screen the minimum of 22 patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-108
