12-07-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town's lone generic medicine shop offers 85% discount||Patients from economically weaker section facing difficulty in treatment due to high cost of medicines have reasons for some relief as Jivan Rekha Trust, operator of Asian Dwarkadas Jalan Memorial Super Speciality Hospital of Dhanbad, has launched a generic medicine shop, Dawai Ghar as part of its welfare activity at City Centre market complex on Monday. The shop, jointly inaugurated by Dhanbad MP P.N. Singh, MLA Raj Sinha and general secretary of Jivan Rekha Trust, Rajiv Sharma is first among the series of 15 generic medicine shops to be launched by Jivan Rekha Trust in a phase wise manner. Sharma said that they will offer 85% discount on purchase of medicines as the trust operates on a no profit and no loss basis. Talking to media at the sidelines of the inaugural function, Sharma said, “The initiative to launch the generic medicine shop is to help such people who could not carry out treatment properly as they could not purchase the medicine due to high costs.” “We have plans to launch 15 such shops across the district  in phase wise manner out of which one will be launched next month at Govindpur,” said Sharma. “We have also plans to launch the OPD service at these generic medicines shops where the patients can avail the medical consultation service at the registration cost of only Rs 10,” said Sharma and added that they would simultaneously appeal to all doctors of the district to prescribe cheaper medicine for the patients. Dhanbad MP, PN Singh while lauding the initiative of the trust  said, “Due to higher cost of medicines and medical treatment many patients face a lot of difficulty and more  private health care providers operating in Dhanbad should follow the trend set by the Jivan Rekha Trust to help the common people” Notably, the City Centre based generic medicine shop, launched today is the lone generic medicine shop offering a discount of over 85% on generic medicines as the generic medicine shop of Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital inaugurated way back on September 3, 2012 is now lying closed since over an year due to lack of medicines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-106
12-07-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city crackdown on against unauthorised vendors ||Steel city civic body Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) with the help of police has launched a drive penalising unauthorised vendors and shopkeepers even as the district health officials resumed Covid-19 test at Sakchi on Monday over the threat of a third wave. A health department's team began Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) for all those entering the market. Notably, among all markets Sakchi witnesses a huge rush of shoppers. The footfall of people coming to the market has increased ever since relaxations in lockdown rules last month. On Monday, JNAC officials went around the market penalising unauthorised vendors and even those shopkeepers found encroaching the footpath. A fine of Rs 500 was imposed on such shopkeepers. Cops also deflated the bikes and other two-wheelers parked in an unauthorised manner at the market posing inconvenience for movement of people. ADM (Law and Order) N.K. Lal said such a drive would continue in Sakchi. "We will carry out similar drive in other markets, "he said. The Covid-19 test was also carried out in Kadma market on Monday. Scanning and RTPCR test of passengers arriving from different states at the Tatanagar railway station by train also resumed in Monday after a brief break.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-106
12-07-2021||Jharkhand||Patient alleges rape by hospital staff in coal town||A 25-year-old mentally challenged woman admitted at Sahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College and Hospital since June 26 was allegedly raped by an ambulance driver on Sunday night. The incident has put a question mark over the security of common persons at the hospital, which serves to address the medical care needs of patients of several adjoining districts like Giridih, Jamtara, Godda, Sahebganj, Pakur, Dumka, Ramgarh, Bokaro etc besides Dhanbad. The incident came to light at around 11.30 pm on Sunday when some other patients of the female ward informed the hospital management about the missing woman after which a search was launched in the hospital. They informed the police that an ambulance driver, Sanjay Das, had come to  the ward along with a friend and took her out on the pretext of enquiring something from her. The woman was finally recovered at around 11.45 pm when the hospital staff and other patients sighted her loitering in the hospital campus. They also caught a local tea stall owner suspecting his role in the rape of the woman. The police however left the tea stall owner after preliminary enquiry and launched a search for the accused ambulance driver Sanjay Kumar Das. The woman was admitted to the hospital by unidentified persons on June 26 and had mentioned the wrong address in the hospital register. Arun Kumar Chaudhay, Superintendent of SNMMCH said, “We came to know about the incident last night from some patients and the hospital administration has launched the search in the hospital after which the woman was found.” “We have informed the police about the incident and at the same time enquiring from our staff, how the woman went out of the medicine ward,” said Chaudhary. Dhanbad MLA, Raj Sinha said, “The incident is a blatant example of  deteriorating law and order situation in the state where even patients are not safe in the hospital.” He said that there is no provision for checking the credentials of anyone in the hospital before entry on the campus and hundreds of tea, snacks stalls have mushroomed on the campus while auto drivers and other people can be spotted loitering in the campus aimlessly. “There should have been provision for keeping the records of every visitor in  the hospital to avoid such incidents,” said the MLA. Contacted, officer in-charge of Saraidhela Police station, said ‘Though we have questioned a tea stall owner in connection with the incident but have not received any formal complaint in this regard and the medical examination of the victim would be conducted only after receiving the formal complaint.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-106
12-07-2021||Jharkhand||Low-key Rath Yatra celebrations in steel city||The steel city saw a low-profile Rath Yatra (chariot festival) celebration for the second consecutive year due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. In its 14th year, the Jamshedpur unit of Iskcon put off the grand procession organised as a part of Rath Yatra celebration for the second year in a row. The Iskcon Temple at Cable Town in Golmuri only organised the necessary rituals attached with the festival on its premises. The rituals were performed on a decked up chariot but the traditional procession with thousands of devotees pulling the three chariots of  Lord Jagannath, Subhadra and Balaram was not taken out. Iskcon in association with various socio-religious outfits used to organise the city's biggest Rath Yatra. Three chariots carrying the deities used to begin their journey from Ram Mandir in Bistupur. The grand procession covering 6km used to culminate at the Dhalbhum Club in Sakchi. But, for the second consecutive year Jamshedpur missed the celebration. Naga Mandir near Beldih Golf Course in Bistupur, which holds the city's oldest Rath Yatra also kept the celebration low-profile. Rituals were performed on a chariot with few devotees attending it. Very few devotees turned up to witness the rituals performed by the priests at  Utkal Association in Sakchi. Similar low- profile Rath Yatra celebration  was also organised at Baradwari, several other places in the city and adjoining Seraikela. Earlier, on June 25 the annual bathing rituals of Lord Jagannath and his siblings, brother  Balaram and sister Subhadra were held  at the Iskcon Temple and other places amid small gatherings. The celebration will end nine days later with Bahuda Yatra or the return journey of the three deities to their temple.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-106
12-07-2021||Jharkhand||Hungry and abandoned German Shepherd rescued by dog lovers in Daltonganj||A sick, hungry and abandoned German Shepherd in Daltonganj has been rescued by a young girl Saloni Singh and her team who rescue and rehabilitate animals in distress. Saloni Singh and her group has set up an organisation called Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and Plants and on an average two to three such cases of animals in distress are rescued and taken care of by this group. Saloni, daughter of a renowned surgeon Dr G.P. Singh, said she loves to take care of the animals in distress. She further said her mother and father do sometimes feel bad for her extreme attachment to animals but she has her way around them. She has teamed with Karan and three more boys and girls who remain on the lookout for any animal in distress. The dog had more maggots in his body than his teeth and was unable to eat and walk. “We got information about this German Shepherd languishing in a heap of garbage near the SBI branch in the campus of the GLA college in Daltonganj,” said Karan. He said Saloni and others reached the spot only to find the dog in a miserable condition. He was hungry and feeble. Karan said the team first pulled out dozens of maggots from his body and gave him food and water. The German Shepherd ate and drank as if he were hungry for days. It is not yet known as to how he stands abandoned, said Karan. “It is just our guess that the family which had this animal, abandoned him to die a slow death or it is also possible that this German Shepherd just got too far away from his master's house and now is unable to reach the master's house,” said Karan. Sources said this group of young boys and girls take care of animals and plants with their own petty savings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-106
12-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand’s Komalika Bari makes it to World Youth Archery Championship||Jharkhand archer Komalika Bari will not leave any stone unturned when she lines up to shoot at the World Youth Archery Championship in Wroclaw, Poland from August 9 to 15. The 19-year-old, a cadet of Tata Archery Academy, has secured a berth in India’s junior women's recurve squad for the Poland event. Komalika is in prime form after claiming team gold with fellow archers Deepika Kumari and Ankita Bhakat at the recently concluded World CupStage 3 in Paris. An integral part of the women’s recurve squad, the bespectacled Komalika had also kissed a gold at the World Cup Stage 1 held at Guatemala earlier this year. She was selected in the Indian squad after the recently concluded selection trials at Sonepat, Haryana. The teen archer is still in Sonepat, undergoing training with the Poland-bound national squad. Hailing from Jamshedpur’s Birsanagar, she rose to fame when she won a gold medal at the World Youth Archery and Cadet Championships staged in Madrid, Spain in 2019. Despite Komalika being talented, her rise was not that easy. She has worked very hard to be regarded as one of the top women archers in the country. Dharmendra Tiwary, her mentor at Tata’s archery cradle, believes that his disciple is expected to clinch the top slot in Poland. “She (Komalika) is currently in top form and the rhythm should continue. She is also high in confidence, especially after the stupendous show in Paris,” the Dronacharya awardee who has worked with top archers, including Deepika and Ankita, added. He maintained that the archer is a fine talent who is set to make impressive progress. “I am very confident that Komalika will win more laurels for the country and Jharkhand,” said the veteran coach about the junior archer who is now also a regular in the national senior recurve side. Despite not qualifying for the Tokyo Olympics, she has all the qualities of making it to the world’s biggest sporting event, maintained her coach. “Age is on Komalika’s side and she has a long way to go. I’m very optimistic about her future,” Tiwary added. Komalika comes from a typical Indian middle-class household. Her father, Ghanshyam Bari, works as an LIC agent while her mother Lakshmi is a homemaker. Earlier, she was a trainee at a cradle run by Indian Steel & Wire Product near Telco township in Jamshedpur. She made it to the Tata cradle in 2016.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-106
12-07-2021||Jharkhand||Three criminals from shooter Aman Singh's gang arrested||Three dreaded criminals were arrested by a joint team of Dhanbad and Bokaro police on Sunday. The trio were part of shooter Aman Singh's gang and were involved in various incidents of extortion demand, violence in colliery and threat calls to businessman, colliery officers and private mining company operators of Dhanbad. The arrested persons- Rajesh Kumar Badhawan (34), a resident of Nawadih in Dhanbad, Bijay Kumar Sinha (42) a resident of Khukhra area of Giridih and Vishal Kumar (21), a resident of Bhuli in Dhanbad- were being hunted by police in connection with two different incidents, one regarding the hurling of bombs at a house of Katras resident businessman Sanjay Loyalka on July 27 and a firing that took place at Damoda Colliery of Damoda area of Bokaro of June 29. Police also seized a motorcycle besides a leaflet left by the criminals at Damoda Colliery on of June 29 demanding extortion from the private coal excavators. Talking to the media at his office today, newly appointed Senior Superintendent of Police of Dhanbad Sanjeev Kumar said, "All the three persons arrested in the case accepted their involvement in the incidents. They also admitted that they were operating for Aman Singh, a Uttar Pradesh based shooter involved in Niraj Singh murder case of March 2017 who is presently lodged in Hotwar Jail of Ranchi." Dhanbad police in association with Bokaro police constituted a joint team under the leadership of Baghmara DSP Nisha Murmu and Bermo DSP Satishchandra Jha which worked on inputs and arrested the three persons. Notably, Aman Singh, arrested from Mirzapur on May 3,2017 as the first shooter of the Niraj Singh murder case was brought to Dhanbad jail from Mirzapur on May 9,2017. Due to receiving several complaints of extortion call and conspiracy in Dhanbad jail, he was shifted to Hotwar Jail of Ranchi by the police but his extortion calls and threat calls to businessman continued from the jail and police had taken him on remand on February 10. Aman Singh's gang was recently also in news in connection with the murder of Wasseypur based property dealer and private school operator, Asharaful Hasan Alias Lala Khan who was killed on May 12 when he was returning home in Wasseypur. Singh’s name later also figured in name of extortion demand from a Govidpur based property dealer, Manzoor Alam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-106
12-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand gets 2.57 lakh Covishield doses, but enough only for a week ||Jharkhand received 2.57 lakh doses of Covishield  from the Centre on Monday afternoon to tide over an acute crisis of vaccines and prevent the immunisation drive against Covid-19 from coming to a standstill, health officials said. However, the vaccines provided on Monday may only last for a week or even less, and the state may have to deal with a shortage again in the last week of July, officials spearheading the vaccination drive in Jharkhand said. The Centre was yet to release the schedule for vaccine supplies in the second half of the month, making it difficult to predict how many vaccines Jharkhand may receive after July 15 if the entire stock of about 3 lakh vaccines is saturated, officials added. “We received 6 lakh Covishield doses on July 2 and today’s (Monday's) supply of 2.5 lakh doses takes the total count of Covishield doses supplied to the state to 8.5 lakh this month,” said Naman Priyesh Lakra, special officer on duty for Covid-19 vaccination in Jharkhand, adding that the state has received about 1 lakh doses of Covaxin and was expecting more. The 2,57,790 Covishield doses delivered on Monday were distributed among all the 24 districts as per the demand, and Ranchi got the highest share of 22,200 doses, a report shared by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As many as 21,190 doses were sent to Dhanbad, 16,500 to East Singhbhum and 16,400 to Bokaro. At least 15,200 doses were allotted to Palamau and 11,800 to West Singhbhum. The immunisation drive in Jharkhand lost momentum due to shortage of vaccines in the past couple of days. The state vaccinated more than 1 lakh residents daily from July 2 to July 7, but had to slow down the campaign from July 8. On Sunday, the state managed to administer Covid-19 vaccines to only about 18,000 beneficiaries, the least in a day this month. An official actively involved in the vaccination drive in Jharkhand said that the available stock of vaccines may not last for more than five to six days even if the state administers fewer vaccines than its capacity. As per government data, there are 3,377 vaccination sites in Jharkhand and the state can vaccinate more than 3 lakh residents every day if the Centre ensures sufficient supplies on time, the official added. Jharkhand has so far vaccinated over 76 lakh residents, about one-fourth of the state’s total population of 3.29 crore, as per the 2011 Census.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-106
12-07-2021||Jharkhand||Outgoing Jharkhand governor Droupadi Murmu bids farewell ||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-106
12-07-2021||Jharkhand||No Rath Yatra in Jharkhand this year due to Covid situation, announces Hemant Soren||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren has requested people in the state to worship Lord Jagannath at their homes as Rath Yatra will not be taken out this year due to the prevailing COVID-19 situation. Hemant said that Rath Yatra could not be allowed for the second consecutive year as the coronavirus threat is still looming large in the state. "It pains me to not allow Rath Yatra but many stern steps have to be taken to secure our tomorrow. Celebration of many festivals had to be subdued due to COVID-19. Seek blessings of Lord Jagannath from the safety of your homes," the chief minister said in a statement issued late on Sunday night. Jharkhand's coronavirus tally stands at 3,46,279, of which 423 are active cases, while 3,40,737 people have recovered from the disease and 5,119 patients have succumbed to the infection to date.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-106
12-07-2021||Jharkhand||DMC to organise camps to realize rent from shops||Dhanbad Municipal Corporation has decided to organize camps for rent realization of its shops situated in different parts of the district. The move is intended at mopping up revenue realization through a wide range of activities, including through incentive offers for rent payment, The series of camps beginning with the camp scheduled at Park Market Hirapur on July 15 is being organized in association with different local units of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce including the Park Market Chamber of Commerce and Sindri Chamber of Commerce are aimed at collecting the long pending rent by offering concession of five percent on full payment  of pending rent before July 31. The notice issued by Satynedra Kumar, Municipal Commissioner also announced a five percent concession on advance payment of annual rent for the financial year, 2021-22. While the rent realization camp at Park Market and Hirapur Hatia will  be organized on July 15 and 16 respectively, the camp for rent realization of DMC shops at Sindri will be organized on July 17. Notably, around 250 shops of DMC are situated in Park Market and Hirapur Hatia while around 300 shops are situated in different parts of Sindri including at Saharpura Market of Sindri and Jaihind More of Sindri. Welcoming the move, Sanjeev Chaurasia, president of Park Market Chamber of Commerce, said, “we are cooperating with the civic body in organizing the camp and have informed all the shop keepers of Hirpur Hatia and Park Market in advance about the camps scheduled at respective places on July 15  and 16 respectively.” “The camp will help the shopkeepers avoid unnecessary harassment of making rounds of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation office for paying their due rents,” said Chourasia. Echoing sentiments, President of Sindri Chamber of Commerce, Deepak Kumar Dipu said, “The camp scheduled at NAC Market complex of Sindri on July 17 will prove a golden opportunity for shop keepers of Sindri to pay their pending dues in hassle free manner and enjoy concessions and at the same time. The activity will also help the DMC realize the rent in bulk manner including the rent of some of the shopkeepers lying since several years.” “The trade body is all out to extend support to the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation but we at same time will also use the opportunity to draw the attention of civic body authorities to address the long pending issue of water logging in Saharpura market due to pending construction of around 500 meter of drain,” Dipu said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-107
12-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand amid vaccine crisis, barely 20,000 get their doses on Sunday||Jharkhand on Sunday managed to vaccinate less than 20,000 residents against Covid-19 and only 359 vaccination sites remained operational  across the state owing to a shortage of vaccines, as per late-night provisional data released by the health department . The state has at least 3,377 session sites for the immunisation campaign against Covid-19 and only about 10 per cent of those opened their doors on Sunday. The state may have to manage with less than 50,000 doses of vaccines in stock until fresh supplies arrive, officials said. As per data shared by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Sunday administered the first dose of vaccine to 12,548 residents, while the second dose was administered to 5,563 beneficiaries. Over 12,000 beneficiaries who got jabbed on the day were younger than 45 years. Jharkhand, as per government data, has received 76,54,340 doses of vaccines from the Centre so far and utilised 76,54,583 of them. The state had 49,690 doses of vaccines in stock by Sunday evening. The figure, officials said, may further drop as different centres make entries on the Co-Win portal till midnight. As per calculations done by the health department, the vaccines available in stock may last for half a day (0.6) only. Meanwhile, the active caseload of Covid-19 continued to dip in Jharkhand as recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection on Sunday. As per a bulletin released by the NHM, at least 61 Covid patients recovered from the infection on the day against 49 people testing positive for Coronavirus, and the active caseload dropped to 411. At least 10 districts – West Singhbhum, Saraikela, Pakur, Lohardaga, Godda, Giridih, Garhwa, Dumka, Deoghar and Chatra – did not report fresh Covid cases on the day, NHM data highlighted. None of the 24 districts in the state reported a double-digit-spike on Sunday. With eight cases, Hazaribag reported the highest spike among the districts. At least 12 recoveries against two cases brought the active caseload in Ranchi down to 57, while East Singhbhum reported 12 recoveries against six cases and the active caseload there dropped to 59. The state did not report fresh Covid casualties on the day. Jharkhand on Sunday tested swab samples of 38,868 residents and 0.12 per cent of them were found infected by the lethal virus, which has claimed at least 5117 lives in the state. So far, 3.46 lakh people have been infected by the virus in Jharkhand and 98.40 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of the patients have died.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-107
12-07-2021||Jharkhand||Stan Swamy's custodial death unites anti-BJP forces in Jharkhand||The death of Father Stan Swamy in custody has brought together and galvanised anti-BJP parties and social organisations in Jharkhand. A day after they met at Bagaicha, the organisation founded by Fr Stan at Namkum in Ranchi, for a condolence meeting, leaders and representatives of these parties assembled again on July 9 under the banner of the Father Stan Swamy Nyay Manch. The meeting, held at the local CPIML office, discussed plans to march to the Raj Bhavan in Ranchi on July 15 with the pledge of “Akrosh ko anjaam tak pahunchayenge (We will take this anger to its end)”. They also decided to strengthen their demand for scrapping of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and release of all political leaders and social workers held under the UAPA. “Not only the country but the whole world considers it a State-sponsored murder,” CPIML general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya, who chaired the meeting, said about the death of the octogenarian Jesuit priest in a Mumbai hospital on July 5 while awaiting bail. “To teach all agitators a lesson, the Modi government displaced and put under trial a person who had fought for undertrial prisoners and displaced persons all his life,” he added. “Jharkhand should take the lead in giving voice and a political direction to the protests that are being held across the country,” Bhattacharya said, adding that the UAPA should be scrapped and all non-BJP governments of the country bear “the responsibility of treating the undertrials well”. JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya too described Fr Stan’s death as State-sponsored murder and added that “the Modi government wants to run the country as a monarchy by treating the citizens as its subjects and doesn’t want them to raise their voice”. CPIML MLA Vinod Singh, Prakash Viplab of the CPM, Mahendra Pathak of the CPI and Rajesh Yadav of the RJD too spoke at the meeting, as did some other political and cultural activists such as Dayamani Barla, Xavier Kujur and Premchand Murmu. They sought justice for Fr Stan and demanded an independent probe into his death to fix accountability. They also demanded that the use of the UAPA against those who protest government policies be stopped and all political leaders and social workers held under the law acquitted. “The treatment meted out to Fr Stan that culminated in his unfortunate death has moved everybody who knew about him or his work,” said Nadeem Khan of the All India People’s Forum, adding that many people from rural areas are expected to join the march to the Raj Bhavan on July 15.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-107
