13-07-2021||Jharkhand||IIT (ISM) collaborates with Coal India Limited||Dhanbad-based technical institute, IIT (ISM) joined hands with Coal India Limited (CIL) for exchange of technology and resources for environmentally safe, economical, sustainable, efficient and smart coal mining. A memorandum of agreement (MoA) in this regard was signed during a virtual meet which was attended by Director of IIT (ISM) Rajiv Shekhar and Director (Technical) of Coal India Limited, Binay Dayal in presence of Chairman of Coal India Limited, Pramod Agarwal and a host of Coal India Limited’s officials. Several Head of Department of Mining Engineering of IIT (ISM), AK Mishra were also present. Sharing the details of the association, Dhiraj Kumar, professor of Mining Engineering department, who is also the dean (International relation) and alumni affairs of IIT (ISM) said, “MoA will help us to set up a CIL Innovation and Incubation Centre at IIT (ISM) to engage budding technocrats and community at large in innovation and entrepreneurial activities. It will also support start-ups specialising in core business areas of CIL.” The centre that will operate under the aegis of Dean (Innovation, Incubation and Entrepreneurship) will promote research and development aimed at solving the technological problem of CIL in mining activity through provision of indigenous technology. “With changing times coal companies are facing the problem of deep seated deposits of mineral resources. There is a need to establish balance between the mining activity and observing environmental norms,” elaborated Kumar. He added, “As part of the initiative CIL will provide financial support to IIT (ISM) to establish the centre; providing a conducive environment, infrastructural facilities and other value-added services in an equitable fashion to accelerate the growth and spread of innovation in the country.” The CII Centre is also being established with the objective of nurturing innovators who can ideate in the domain of Technology Innovation and Community Skill Development. It also aims at providing opportunities to innovate and design unique and incentivized solutions for the immediate beneficiaries like local community peoples, contract workers of CIL, students & employees of the institute, industry, society and nation as a whole. The centre will organize events like workshops, seminars, tech fests and publish quarterly or half-yearly newsletter to promote and encourage stakeholders with latest technological advancement and then applicability in the mining sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-105
13-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Twin burglaries make Bistupur cops swing into action ||Jamshedpur: Separate criminal gangs decamped with cell phones and cash worth over Rs 10 lakhs from a mobile phone shop in Bistupur market and a temple at Ranikuda area in the intervening night of Tuesday. The thieves took away the Kali temple’s donation box by breaking open the temple’s lock. While those raiding the mobile shop, dismantled its tin-roof and false ceiling to break into the shop. The shop owner, Sandeep Barwalia said, “I had closed the shop at 8 pm last night, but when I opened the shop at about 9 am today, I found the shop’s roof torn apart. Soon I saw things lying scattered on the floor and the new stocks of mobile phones as well as the old ones missing from shelves. Rs 8,000 which was kept in the cash-box was also missing,” said the shop-owner while talking to this website. Barwalia said he had to suffer a loss of over Rs 10 lakhs due to the burglary at his shop. On getting information Bistupur thana OC, Vishnu Rawat visited the spot. Deputy superintendent of police (Composite Control Room) Animesh Gupta also inspected the burgled shop. “The burglary must have been committed in the small hours of Tuesday. We are trying to detect the case by taking the CCTV footage from the adjoining shops,” said the OC while talking to The Telegraph Online. He also confirmed the burglary at the Kali temple. (Kumud Jenamani) Dhanbad: Around 60 illegal settlements, including makeshift houses and huts built on the land belonging to the railway were razed by East Central Railway administration during its anti-encroachment drive, which was conducted at Patherdih’s Traffic colony, which falls under the Sudamdih police station area of Dhanbad. The drive was conducted under the joint supervision of BK Pandey, Assistant Divisional Engineer of East Central Railway and Shyamlal Manjhi, Jharia Circle inspector. The drive began around 11 am today, but the officials had been appealing before the residents to vacate the government land for the past four days. The eviction drive is part of a Rs 30 crore station re-modelling project of Patherdih railway station of Dhanbad Division of East Central Railway. Talking to the media, one of the encroachers while requesting anonymity said, “We had received formal notice from the railway administration ahead of the pandemic in February, 2020 and but as our income has been affected because of Covid-19 we could not shift.” Mahendra Sharma, another protestor, “We are not averse to the drive. We are ready to shift but the selective approach of demolition has left us aghast.” BK Pandey, assistant divisional engineer of railway, however, refuted all charges. (Praduman Choubey) A female Sambar deer died at Jawaharlal Nehru Biological (JNB) Park on Tuesday. This is the second death reported within a span of 65 days at JNB popularly known as Bokaro Zoo. “I have assessed and confirmed that Sambar died of heat stroke. He was five-and-a-half-year-old," said Mukesh Kumar, a government vet who conducted the post-mortem. During this hot and humid season, the Sambar seems to have lacked proper care, which led to its death. The right medication, glucose, and water could help it survive. A zoo officer said, “The Sambar had dashed the iron nets of its enclosure and escaped on the very next day of arrival from Ranchi zoo. It was found near a canal with a head injury. The wound was treated and it recovered. However, on July 11, the animal showed extreme weakness. Zoo vets administered lifesaving drugs to the animal but it died.” (Our Correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-105
13-07-2021||Jharkhand||Left Front leaders demand probe into Stan Swamy’s death||Over 50 activists affiliated to different Left Parties in Jharkhand staged a massive demonstration at Dhanbad’s Randhir Verma Chowk, near the district headquarters demanding a high level probe into the death of the Jesuit priest and tribal right activist, Stan Swamy. The demonstrators were led by Hari Prasad Pappu, district president of Marxist Coordination Committee (MCC). They were seen holding banners and posters. They also raised slogans against the central government while demanding the immediate release of all political prisoners lodged at different jails across the country. The agitators accused the central government of misusing Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) to target activists fighting for the rights of the underprivileged, oppressed and the marginalized. The hour-long demonstration which began at around 11am and continued till around 12 noon witnessed active participation from leaders of different Left Parties including CPI, CPI (M), CPI (ML), MCC, Forward Bloc and Socialist Unity Centre of India (Communist). Talking to The Telegraph Online at the demonstration site, Pappu, said, “This demonstration was part of the nationwide protest - Pratiwad Diwas (Potest Day) which has been called by the Left Parties to raise voice against the death of the octogenarian activist, Stan Swamy who had been implicated in the Bhima Koregaon violence case of 2012, as part of conspiracy” “He was subjected to atrocities during his jail term and put in Corona Ward. He was even denied the basic medical facilities despite his ill health and that eventually led to his death,” added Pappu. His death in judicial custody diminishes the highest institution of the judicial system. “We are demanding a comprehensive independent probe covering all aspects, right from his implication in a case of violence to his arrest, injustice against him in jail and his subsequent death in judicial custody” Echoing similar sentiments, Suresh Prasad Gupta, district secretary of CPI (M) Suresh Prasad Gupta said, “The 84-year-old activist was at no fault other than working among the tribal, oppressed, marginalized, deprived by visiting in the remote villages of Jharkhand. He has been victimized as part of a political conspiracy through the misuse of UAPA leading to his death.” “His death in judicial custody is an attempt to gag the voice of ground level activists working for the poor,” further added Suresh Gupta. He maintained that the activist’s death would not go in vain and would rather spark off a nationwide protest compelling the government to respond on the misuse of UAPA to victimize its opponents. Feroz Raza, town president of CPI said “Stan Swamy’s death in not a natural death but rather a murder which needs to investigated and culprits must be booked.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-105
13-07-2021||Jharkhand||Nabbed: Ambulance driver accused of raping mentally challenged woman||Sanjay Kumar Das, the ambulance driver, accused of raping a mentally challenged woman patient of Sahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College and Hospital, was arrested today. Das was nabbed from his friend’s residence in Bhuli area, where he had taken refuge. However, the police on the basis of mobile tower location combed the area to arrest him in the wee hours. According to sources, Das had tried fleeing from the site by driving away the ambulance on spotting the police, only to be nabbed and produced before the court. Earlier, the victim during the interaction with a counselor of the Mahila Kosang, Lopa Mudra Chakraborty, had narrated the incident of rape, following which the police formed a team to conduct raids. Meanwhile, taking strong note of the incident, a high level team of both the district administration and police led by Kumar Tarachand, Additional District Magistrate (Law and Order), and others including the likes of, Surendra Kumar-Sub Divisional Officer and Manoj Swargiyar, Additional Superintendent of Police visited the site and reviewed the security arrangement and gave necessary instruction to the hospital administration. The team, which held a marathon meeting with the hospital administration led by superintendent, Arun Kumar Chaudhary and Principal, Dr Shailendra Kumar took details of existing security arrangement of home guard personnel’s deputation and also sought reasons for allowing private ambulances to be parked inside the hospital campus and details like number of eateries and tea stalls operating inside the hospital and more. The team also instructed the hospital administration to immediately repair the broken boundary wall of the hospital to prevent the unauthorized entry of outsiders. They even asked them to have a system in place to ensure registration of all visitors. Addressing the media, after the security review Kumar Tarachand said, “We have conducted a comprehensive review of the security arrangement of the hospital as per the instruction of Deputy Commissioner, Sandeep Kumar in the wake of yesterday’s heinous incident and will submit a report.” He added, “We will strengthen the security arrangement in light of discussions held today with the hospital administration as per the instruction of Deputy Commissioner, Sandeep Kumar.” Sub-divisional officer, Dhanbad, Surendra Kumar, said, “We have taken into account all aspects of security issues including the presence of tea stalls and eateries inside the campus and parking of private ambulances parked inside the hospital campus, during the meeting and will improve the present state of affairs soon.” Meanwhile, R Ramkumar, City SP of Dhanbad confirmed the arrest of ambulance driver, Sanjay Kumar Das in connection with the rape and said that the accused has been sent to jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-105
13-07-2021||Jharkhand||Former cyclist  Avtar Singh is secretary of Jharkhand Para Sports Association||Avtar Singh, a former international cyclist and veteran coach of intellectually impaired, has been elected as secretary of Jharkhand Para Sports Association (JPSA). Seventy-one-year-old Singh was elected during the 20th annual general meeting and election which was held virtually on Monday. Two representatives each from 24 districts of the state attended the meeting under the supervision of returning officer and Patna High Court lawyer Madhu Srivastava. Besides Jamshedpur-based Singh, others who were elected include Shashi Ranjan Prasad Singh (president), Baijnath Sharma, Usha Manaki (vice-presidents), Deepa Choudhary (joint secretary), Sugandh Narayan Prasad (treasurer) and Niranjan Kumar Mandal (member). The elected office bearers have promised to take JPSA to new heights by working at the grassroots in village, panchayat, block, district and state level to promote the challenged and help them win medals in national and international competitions. Expressing happiness, Singh, a resident of Jamshedpur’s Sonari area and a seven- time national cycling champion, said, “I will utilise my vast experience in promoting the challenged in Jharkhand and also try to bring them to the social mainstream,” he added. The septuagenarian captained the Indian cycling team in the 1982 Asian Games in New Delhi and has been adjudged fastest cyclist of the country several times. He has coaching diplomas from National Institute of Sports (Patiala), Germany and Malaysia. He is the only trainer from Asia to be invited as a technical official for three Special Olympics World Summer Games in Shanghai (2007), Los Angeles (2015) and Abu Dhabi (2019) by the Special Olympic Games organising committee. He has progressed from community, state, national and a regional trainer of Asia Pacific countries. He was honoured with the Eunice Kennedy Shriver Award in lifetime category by Samarpan and Bihar Disabled Sports Academy. After retiring from the sport, Singh dedicated his life to the cause of special athletes. He has been training and channelising the lives of the special athletes for over three decades now. He has produced 10 athletes who have won medals in international competitions organised under the banner of Special Olympics International (SOI). Singh runs Jeevika, an NGO involved in promotion of the mentally challenged, with his wife Sukhdeep Kaur. “We use the NGO to bring our students to the social mainstream. Some of our students have got married and are leading a happy life. Besides sports and fitness drills, we train them on how to make Diwali diyas, paper bags and rakhis. We have also taught them the importance of social distancing, greet people with namaste and to regularly wash their hands,” the seasoned mentor signed off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-105
13-07-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant unveils plan to plant trees across vacant government land||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Tuesday directed the forest department to roll out plantation drives on all unused and vacant government land to boost the state’s green lungs and conserve the ecology. Speaking at the formal launch of the 72nd Van Mahotsav, a month-long tree plantation drive organsied by the department at Gandhigram near Getalsud dam in Ranchi on Tuesday afternoon, Hemant stressed that planting trees and safeguarding them must be the job of every individual. “While we celebrate yet another Van Mahotsav this year we must take a vow to restore our jal, jungle and jameen (water, forest and land) which our ancestors have conserved for future generations. Now, it is time to do our bid for our next generation. Forests are our state’s identity. If they are lost, we will lose everything,” he said. For this year's Van Mahotsav, the forest department has set a target of planting 1.67 crore saplings. In Ranchi, over a lakh saplings will be planted, said officials. Hemant said, “I have directed officials to convert all unused and vacant government land into green lungs on priority basis. It will not just enhance the greenery and local ecology of the area but will also offer people avenues to spend time in the lap of nature.” He added that the government was already running a plantation scheme titled CM Van Jan Bhumi Yojana under which anyone can begin plantation of fruit-bearing trees on private (raiyati) lands. “the government is providing incentive and assistance of up to 75% of the total cost of plantation. The person on whose land plantation is done will continue to be the owner of those plants/trees,” he explained. Expressing concern over issues such as global warming, melting of glaciers, drying up of rivers, choking of dams and the like, Hemant said that only by everyone’s cooperation, humanity can be saved from the vagaries of such calamities. “Concrete jungles in the form of infrastructure and development are certainly leading to declining of natural forests. We have to decide if we will be able to sustain development at the cost of nature and the environment without replenishing it,” he stressed, appealing to people to play their part. Among those present at Tuesday's programme were Rajya Sabha MP Dhiraj Sahu, Khijri MLA Rajesh Kachchap and officials from the forest department. In a symbolic gesture, the chief minister also provided saplings to five van-samitis and planted a sapling at Getalsud.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-105
13-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand gets 40,000 Covaxin doses, total stocks now enough for a week||At least 40,000 doses of Covaxin were delivered to the Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi by an Indigo aircraft on Tuesday morning and subsequently sent to the National Health Mission (NHM) store at Namkum from where the 4000 vials were distributed among districts as per demand. Jharkhand received over 2.57 lakh Covishield doses on Monday and the 40,000 Covaxin doses delivered on Tuesday take the total stock of vaccines in the state to over 4 lakh, enough to step up the immunisation drive for at least five to six days, health officials said. Ranchi got the highest share of 3,400 Covaxin doses from Tuesday's fresh stocks, while 2,900 doses were sent to Dhanbad and 2,600 to East Singhbhum. Giridih received 2,700 doses, while 2,200 doses were sent to Palamau, data shared by the NHM highlighted. Pakur and Ramgarh got 1,100 doses each, while 1,000 doses were sent to each of Lohardaga, Latehar, Jamtara and Simdega districts. “The vaccination campaign will regain momentum now as we have sufficient vaccines in stock to administer shots to over 75,000 beneficiaries every day for about a week,” said an official involved in Covid-19 vaccination drive, adding that the state will receive fresh supplies once the Centre finalises the schedule for the second half of July. The immunisation campaign against Covid-19 hit a new low on Monday as the state managed to vaccinate only 14,000-odd residents owing to an acute shortage of vaccines. Even though Jharkhand received a supply of 2.57 lakh Covishield doses on Monday, the availability of vaccines in stock did not boost the vaccination drive as the vaccines arrived in the afternoon and were distributed among the districts till midnight, officials involved in vaccine logistics said. Jharkhand has received close to 9 lakh Covishield doses and almost 1.5 lakh Covaxin doses from the Centre this month. The state administered vaccines to over 1 lakh beneficiaries daily from July 3 to July 7 after 6 lakh Covishield doses were supplied to Jharkhand on July 2. However, the vaccination drive could not regain the same momentum since July 7 due to vaccine crisis, officials said. As per government data, Jharkhand has administered 76,75,389 doses of vaccines to eligible beneficiaries since the launch of the nationwide immunisation programme against Covid-19 on January 16. The state has so far received over 14 lakh Covaxin and more than 63 lakh Covishield doses in total. Besides, some Sputnik V doses were also administered at private hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-105
13-07-2021||Jharkhand||Sniffer dog dies, jawan seriously hurt in IED blast in Jharkhand||A sniffer dog was killed and a jawan of the 203 Cobra battalion seriously injured following an IED blast in the Marwa forests under Kurumgarh police station of Gumla district on Tuesday during an anti-Naxalite operation. Jharkhand police spokesperson and IG A. V. Homkar told reporters that the injured jawan, Vishwajeet Kumbkar, was airlifted from the spot of the incident and admitted to Ranchi’s Medica hospital. The jawan sustained injuries in his hand, legs and face and is said to be serious. Tuesday’s operation was jointly rolled out by CRPF, Cobra and district police in the dense forested and mountainous zone of Gumla after a tip-off about the presence of armed rebels in the area. The injured jawan was the handler of the sniffer dog. “During the course of the operation, the dog zeroed on the IED but had stepped on it. The handler (Vishwajeet) was at a few distance away from it. The dog halted at a site after spotting the IED. As the handler approached it to take a closer look, the IED exploded even before the bomb disposal squad could be activated,” said a Gumla police officer. A statement from the state police headquarters in the afternoon maintained that the operation was still underway after evacuation of the injured jawan. “Rebels have laid vast traps of IEDs in the entire vicinity. In the past, a few villagers had died while grazing cattle in similar blasts of  IEDs laid by rebels in the forests," said a  statement from police headquarters, adding that in May this year, security forces had neutralized a rebel in an encounter in the same forest and recovered a stolen police pistol, .303 rifle, 63 live cartridges and 24 can-bombs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-105
13-07-2021||Jharkhand||Three more black fungus deaths in Ranchi  ||At least three more Jharkhand residents died of Covid-induced mucormycosis on Monday, taking the black fungus toll in the state to 29, while three more confirmed cases of the fungal infection took the tally to 98, figures compiled by the health department revealed. All the three casualties, as per data compiled by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), were reported in Ranchi, the district which has so far seen 11 black fungus deaths – the highest in Jharkhand. As per government data, at least five residents of East Singhbhum have died of Mucormycosis so far, while the toll in Ramgarh was three. Dhanbad and Godda have reported two casualties each. So far, the state has reported 98 confirmed and 58 suspected cases of Covid-induced Mucormycosis. At least 78 patients have recovered from the fungal infection in Jharkhand, IDSP data highlights. The Jharkhand government notified mMucormycosis as an epidemic last month and directed all districts to report all data related to the disease to the IDSP every day. Mucormycosis is a rare but lethal fungal infection caused by exposure to mucor mould found in soil, plants, manure and decaying fruits and vegetables. The disease has an average fatality rate of 50 per cent and Covid patients who were administered high dosage of steroids, especially those suffering from diabetes, were more prone to this infection, say doctors. Meanwhile, the vaccination drive against Covid-19 hit a new low on Monday as the state managed to administer vaccine jabs to only about 14,000 residents, the lowest in a day this month. As per provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the first jab was administered to 10,372 residents, while the second dose was administered to 3,749 beneficiaries only. More than 9,000 residents below the age of 45 years got the Covid-19 jabs. As per a bulletin from NHM, at least 13 districts – West Singhbhum, Simdega, Saraikela, Pakur, Lohardaga, Latehar, Khunti, Hazaribag, Godda, Giridih, Garhwa and Chatra – did not report fresh Covid cases. The active caseload of Covid-19 dropped to 390 in Jharkhand on Monday as the state reported at least 64 Covid recoveries against 43 cases of infection, NHM data highlighted. While no Covid casualties occurred in the state on Monday, East Singhbhum was the only district to report a double-digit-spike. At least 10 cases against nine recoveries took the active caseload in East Singhbhum to 60, while eight cases against zero recoveries took the active caseload in Ranchi to 65. As per government data, over 3.46 lakh Jharkhand residents have been infected by SARS-CoV-2 so far and 98.40 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of the patients have died. The doubling rate of cases in the state jumped to 5044.22 days on Monday against the national average of 708.51 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-105
13-07-2021||Jharkhand||Civil society organisations, trade unions, and political parties seek probe on Stan death||Members of trade unions, non-BJP parties and civil society organisations will jointly submit a memorandum to Jharkhand governor Ramesh Bais on July 15 demanding a judicial probe into the alleged “medical negligence” at Taloja Central Jail that led to Father Stan Swamy’s death. Fr Stan, 84, died in judicial custody on July 5 while awaiting bail in Mumbai. The Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist was an accused in the Elgaar Parishad-Maoist links case. The trade unions, non-BJP political parties and civil society organisations will take out a silent march to the Raj Bhavan on July 15 under the banner of the newly formed outfit, Shahid Father Stan Swamy Nyayik Sangarsh Morcha. “We formed this front on July 11 and are coordinating with trade unions, student unions, farmer unions, non-BJP political parties and civil society groups for the joint peace march on July 15. We will demand a judicial probe into the cause of death of Father Stan Swamy in custody. We will also attach reports of medical negligence faced by the 84-year-old man suffering from Parkinson’s disease and having other ailments, and not being sent for treatment despite showing Covid symptoms and finally testing positive at the hospital,” said Praful Linda, CPM leader and president of the Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sangharsh Samanvyay Samity. The Samity was formed last year to coordinate the farmers’ agitation in Jharkhand against the Centre’s new farm laws. Fr Stan had sought bail four times citing his failing health and the poor medical facilities at the Taloja jail, where he had been kept since October 9, 2020, after his arrest from his Bagaicha residence in Namkum near Ranchi the previous day by the National Investigation Agency. “Fr Stan was not even treated by an MBBS doctor in the jail. We have been told that an Ayurveda doctor was looking after him. He was even administered the vaccine despite showing Covid symptoms and eventually tested positive at the Holy Family Hospital. Fr Stan was not taken for an RT-PCR test despite several jail inmates testing positive for Covid in May. All these things led to the deterioration of his health. We would want all these things to come out in an independent judicial probe so that the guilty are punished,” said Linda. Leaders of the Aituc, Intuc and Citu and those from the JMM, Congress, RJD, CPM and the CPI, along with several social organisations, have shown keenness to take part in the rally. Aloka Kujur, another member of the Morcha, said the outfit would also seek “martyr” status for Fr Stan from Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren when he visits Bagaicha to pay his last respects on July 15. Father Jerome Cutinha, Provincial of the Jamshedpur Jesuit province, confirmed that Soren would pay his last respects to Fr Stan on July 15. “The ashes will be kept at Bagaicha on July 15 morning for the masses to pay their last respects to Fr Stan. We have got confirmation that chief minister Hemant Soren will also be coming to pay his last respects on that day. Some of our members too will take part in the march on July 15,” said Fr Cutinha. Fr Stan’s ashes will be interred in the first week of August in Jamshedpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-105
