14-07-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI's longest serving director dies of cardiac arrest||Former director of XLRI, Jamshedpur Fr. E. Abraham passed away on Wednesday morning due to a cardiac arrest at XIM, Bhubaneswar, where he was a member of the Governing Board. He was 70 and an alumnus of XLRI's 1978 batch (Post Graduate Diploma in Personnel Management and Industrial Relations course). Fr. E. Abraham was the longest-serving director of XLRI. His total tenure as director spanned over 16 years across two terms, from 1989 to 1994 and from 2008 to 2019. All India Management Association (AIMA) conferred on Fr. E. Abraham the "AIMA - Kewal Nohria Award for Academic Leadership in Management Education" in 2019. Fr. Abraham was also conferred the 'AIM - ASMA Lifetime Achievement Award' at the 3rd ASMA Annual Convention & Awards -2019. Fr. Abraham was highly regarded as a champion of India's management academia and an eminent thought leader in academic governance who has immensely contributed to management education in India. He was the founder-secretary of the National HRD Network and the founder-president of the Indian Association of Autonomous Business Schools. He was also on the International Association of Jesuit Business Schools and Association of Asia Pacific Business Schools boards. He has been the president of the Association of Indian Management Schools and was a board member at Institute of Rural Management Anand (IRMA). He has also been a member of the National Board of Accreditation(NBA) and member of the All India Board of Management Studies. Fr. Abraham served as a member of the Board of Governors at many Indian and foreign business schools, like XLRI Jamshedpur, St Xavier University Calcutta, St Xavier University Bhubaneswar, and Asian Institute of Management, Manila. He has received numerous accolades for his contribution to management education. Funeral service The funeral service will take place between 10.30 am 12 noon  on July 16, Friday at Jamshedpur. The faculty, staff and alumni members of XLRI will pay homage to Fr Abraham  at  Fr. Prabhu Hall in XLRI campus. The XLRI family will organise a memorial prayer service. Between 12.30 pm and  2 pm homage will be paid to Fr Abraham by religious clergy and faithfuls at the Loyola School Chapel. Burial at Jesu Bhavan Jesuit Cemetery at 3.30pm XLRI officials said Covid-19 protocols will be followed strictly in every place.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-103
14-07-2021||Jharkhand||16-year-old Jharia local drowns in river, family suspect foul play||The body of 16-year-old Purushottam Prasad Chauhan of Baniahir area of Jharia was found at Chhath Ghat in paltun area under Sudamdih police station about 20 km from Dhanbad district headquarters on Wednesday afternoon. Purushottam died due to drowning in river Damodar at Amlabad police station area on Tuesday evening. A team of Sudamdih Police station led by officer in charge, Aditya Kumar Nayak reached the site after getting information from local residents and sent the dead body for post mortem at Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital. Chiranjeevi Prasad, father of deceased suspected the murder of his son conspired by three teenaged girls of Patherdih area who accompanied his son during a trip to the river bank on Tuesday for the occasion of his birthday. Family members of the deceased, his relatives, local residents and sources in police said that Purushottam went out of his house on Tuesday morning on the pretext of celebrating his birthday and reached the bank of river Damodar under Amlabad police station on his bike. While the three teenage girls were sitting on the bank of the river, Chauhan went to take a bath in the river and suddenly came in contact with the strong current of water and got carried away in the river. Though, the girls cried for help but despite the effort of local residents he could not be saved. Family members of the deceased came to know about the incident when one of the girls reached their home on the bike of the deceased boy and informed them about the incident on Tuesday evening. Though the rescue operation was stopped last evening due to bad light, his body was recovered on Wednesday. Chiranjeevi Prasad, while talking to media at the river bank on Wednesday said, “My son went out of house yesterday morning and we came to know about the his death last evening through one of the girls who accompanied him.” “Though, we are not aware of how the girls were associated with my son, we suspect the three girls behind the death of my son,” said Prasad. Narendra Sinha, Circle Inspector of Chandankiyari, who reached the site said, “The boy probably died due to drowning but postmortem report will further throw light on cause of death and we will initiate action after the arrival of report.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-103
14-07-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town water kiosk on busy road for commuters||Intended at providing clean and safe drinking water to pedestrians and commuters, the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation in association with social organisation Marwari Youth Brigade on Wednesday installed a water kiosk at Randhir Verma Chowk near the Press club. The kiosk, fourteenth in a series equipped with a reverse osmosis (RO) plant, a water cooling machine and a water tank of about 2000 litres capacity, will be functional round the clock everyday where people can drink water and a local youth has been deputed with the task of maintaining it. Speaking during the occasion, Satyendra Kumar, Dhanbad Municipal Commissioner said, “The water kiosk launched today is in the series of kiosks established by Marwari Youth Brigade on the land provided by Dhanbad Municipal Corporation.” Lauding the effort of Marwari Youth Brigade, Kumar said, “Providing safe pure drinking water is the prime responsibility of the civic body and we are thankful to social organizations like Marwari Youth Brigade who have helped us in fulfilling our responsibility.” Convenor of Marwari Youth Brigade Nandlal Agarwal who is noted industrialist of Dhanbad, said, “We have established altogether 14 water kiosks so far as part of our initiative launched on June 23, 2019 and planning to establish the 15th Kiosk at Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital next month.” “The selection of sites for establishing the water kiosk are being made on the basis of survey and priority is being given to such places which witness large number of commuters and pedestrians,” said Agarwal and added they have plans to establish altogether 50 kiosks in all the five circle of Dhanbad, including, Jharia, Dhanbad, Sindri, Katras and Chhatatand. “Randhir Verma Chowk situated near the heart of town, is one of most busiest place of district where large number of people including students, office goers, passengers of auto rickshaw and buses congregate so the place is one of the most ideal site for establishment of water kiosk,” said Agarwal. While the infrastructure for the kiosk including the building, RO plant and Water Coolers etc have been provided by the Marwari Youth Brigade other support of land, free of cost water connection and free electricity for operation of RO plant have been provided by Dhanbad Municipal Corporation. Out of the thirteen other kiosks, three each have been established at Bank More and Jharia while one kiosk each is lying  at Dhanbad, city center, Loyabad, Bastacola, Govindpur, Dhansar and Bekarbandh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-104
14-07-2021||Jharkhand||11-year-old steel city player at chess world cup ||Jharkhand's Souryadipta Sarkar will display his prowess at the Online Rapid World Cup (Cadets & Youth) for under-12 age group to be held between August 6 to 10. The 11-year-old from Jamshedpur's Sonari locality made it to the team by the virtue of his performance in the recently concluded online nationals to select Indian players for the different age group events. Souryadipta finished in the nationals. All Jharkhand Chess Association (AJCA) Secretary Neeraj Kumar Mishra, an International Master, said it is proud moment for the chess fraternity of the state. "Souryadipta is a talented player who is expected to perform well at the World Cup. We congratulate Souradipta, his parents and East Singhbhum District Chess Association (ESDCA) for the feat achieved," he added. Sourayadipta joins Radha Krishna Kamath, Dolan Champa Bose, Grandmaster  Deep Sengupta, IM (Elect) Abhishek Das, Priyanka Kumari, Vatsal Singhania, Ananya Sarkar, Malvika Singh and Vishal Sareen from Jharkhand who have represented the country in any World age group meet. ESDCA treasurer and chief coach at Tata Chess Centre Jayant Kumar Bhuyan said Souryadipta is a very good player who makes smart moves across the board. "He (Souryadipta) is smart and makes intelligent moves. I have seldom come across a child of Souryadipta's talent. I have also heard similar comments from other chess mentors and senior players," he added. Souryadipta was a trainee at the Tata cradle and is now working under the guidance of Neeraj Kumar Mishra. Souryadipta started chess a little over two years back and has shown good progress. He is a standard V student of DBMS English School. The upcoming player lives with his parents Shankar and Ruam Sarkar. Besides chess, he also likes to play cricket and has a keen interest in computer hardware and software. Souryadipta has competed in the 8th National School Chess Championship held at Raipur in 2019 and attained 19th rank. He has also represented Jharkhand in National Under-12 Championship and has also won district events.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-104
14-07-2021||Jharkhand||Renovated Hazaribagh temple now a tourist attraction ||Renowned Mumbai architect Rohit Kumar has been roped in to design a Rs 7 crore temple on two acres of land in a remote village of Daru block in Hazaribagh. Construction materials have been brought from different states for the grand temple situated in Punai village. The temple is situated between Ichak and Daru block and accessible by taking the Ranchi-Patna highway crossing Ichak Bazar, Chanda and Kariyatpur village. Another route is through Giridih-Bokaro road taking Punai from Jhmura. From both routes, the distance is almost 30km. A former banker Anil Deo is spearheading the project. He said it took almost ten years to get the Sankatmochan Hanuman Mandir ready. People donated generously to make this temple a reality in this remote village. Sources said an expert from Makrana of Rajasthan, Babu Chaudhary, designed the interiors. Masons from Calcutta stayed here and completed the construction work. Marbles came from Makrana and bricks were brought from Didargunj of Bihar and Chandauli of Uttar Pradesh. The temple has two giant grand gates with a huge dome. The boundary walls have pictures depicting Ramayana stories. Idols were brought from Rajasthan. Sources said as the temple opened its gate for devotees four days ago, people started coming here from different districts making it the hotspot of the district. One of the devotees, Sanat Kumar of Barkatha said he came here after word of mouth. “It is a new attraction in the district,” he added. Senior BJP leader Bateshwar Prasad Mehta said Ichak is known for its 250 ancient temples. Punai was earlier in Ichak till a few years back. When Daru block came into existence, Punai became a part of it, he added. Each temple in Ichak with trees and ponds is called a place of 3Ts. “Punai situated close, the new temple also falls in the same circuit which will be easy for devotees to visit in one go. I request the state government to develop and maintain all the ancient temples of Ichak,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-104
14-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand jab recipients face problems with dowloading certificates ||Faulty data entry on the Co-WIN platform is leading to a host of problems for vaccine beneficiaries: some are not able to download their certificates, while some who have got both doses of the vaccine are getting a certificate that only confirms them as first dose recipients. Bhagirat Mahto, a 47-year-old resident of Sonahatu in suburban Ranchi, got his first jab from a government-run session site at Morhabadi on June 12. He walked in at the vaccination centre and got the first dose of Covishield without booking a slot online in advance. Bhagirat was given a handwritten chit, which carried the date and the vaccine name on it, at the session site and told that his vaccination certificate would be available on the Co-WIN platform. Cut to July 14, Bhagirat, who works as a security guard at an apartment on Kanke Road, was worried after he logged in with his registered mobile number on Co-WIN to check the date for his second dose. The website showed him as a non-vaccinated resident. “I only have this handwritten parchi (chit) to prove that I have received the first dose. I need to get my vaccination certificate as people in my Panchayat have decided not to give ration to those who do not get vaccinated,” said a visibly anxious Bhagirat. Bhagirat, however, is not the only vicitm of “human error” made allegedly by "overburdened" data entry staff at vaccination centres in Jharkhand. A 45-year-old resident of Ratu Road, who did not wish to be named, recently got his second dose of the vaccine at a government-run session site. However, after logging in to Co-WIN, he noticed that the platform has once again registered him for a second jab, counting his latest dose as the first of two. An information technology staffer from United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), who has been assisting the government in web-based management of the immunisation programme, said that there was no way to make backlog entries on the Co-WIN platform. “The problem is clearly caused due to faulty data entry or intermittent internet connectivity. People who are facing such issues should immediately visit the vaccination centre they got vaccinated at and ask them to make an entry on the current day. This might delay their second jab by a few days, but they will still get it within the stipulated time period,” the UNDP staffer said. With such largescale immunisation going on across the state, minor errors in data entry and faulty updates due to technical glitches may have to be accepted as part and parcel of the programme, he said, adding that such errors also occurred on the websites of some of the leading global e-commerce giants during delivery of products. State immunisation officer Dr Ajit Prasad was unavailable for comment on Wednesday. Another vaccination official, not authorised to talk to the media, said that people who have not received a certificate for their first dose can directly go for the second dose carrying any documentary evidence of their first jab. Jharkhand has administered Covid-19 vaccines to over 7.73 lakh residents since the launch of the nationwide immunisation programme on January 16.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-104
14-07-2021||Jharkhand||Congress protests against fuel price hike, organises cycle rally||Workers and activists associated with the district unit of the Congress Party’s minority cell organised a cycle- rickshaw rally near Dhanbad district headquarters. The demonstration was part of the party’s nation-wide protest against sharp rise in petrol- diesel and LPG price. The protestors led by Jahir Ansari, district president of the minority cell of Congress even conducted a signature campaign, demanding immediate roll back of hike in fuel and LPG prices. The rally began at 11.30 am from Randhir Verma Chowk under the joint leadership of Shamsher Alam, state executive committee member of Congress, Pintu Turi, state convenor of scheduled caste cell of Congress. It concluded two hours later near Green View Petrol pump and was followed by the signature campaign. The agitators were seen holding banners and posters. They even chanted slogans like ‘Narendra Modi, sharm karo-aam janta par raham karo; diesel-petrol ka daam kam karo’ along with other slogans. Talking to The Telegraph Online at the protest site, Jahir Ansari said, “At a time when the common man is buckling under financial repercussion of the 16-month-long pandemic, such steep hike in petrol, diesel and LPG prices, is more of a curse for them.” He added, “During the protest, we organised a symbolic cycle rally today to express our anger against the hike in fuel and LPG prices. The rising price is hurting us all.” He further explained his point, “The general public is having difficulty in managing the household expenses. Many have been compelled to discontinue their child’s education as the reduced income has made it difficult for many to pay the school fees.” Echoing a similar sentiment, Shamsher Alam, said, “The BJP government at the centre led by prime minster, Narendra Modi came to power with the promise of ‘achchhe din’but now the common people are experiencing the worst kind of achchhe din where petrol and diesel prices have touched Rs 100 per litre, while mustard oil cost around Rs 200 per litre. Similarly, the cooking gas price is hovering around Rs 1000 per cylinder.” Alam maintained that the BJP leaders during the UPA rule used to resort to chest beating campaigns when there a price hike by 25 paise per litre. He reminded, “These very people are now oblivion to steep hike and are distracting people from the core issue in the name of jingoism,” he said. Pintu Turi on other hand accused the central government of having policies that only benefit the capitalists. He said, “All the policies of the BJP-government are aimed at benefitting its capitalist partners, right from the hike in fuel prices to the anti-farmer law.” He added, “We will continue our agitation and compel the anti-poor government at the centre to roll back the hike.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-104
14-07-2021||Jharkhand||Tata foundation to hold second edition of kids' adventure camp||The Tata Steel Adventure Foundation (TSAF) is all set to organise the second edition of online adventure camp for kids from July 17. The programme focuses on social and emotional well-being, satiate curiosity and help learn new skills for 6 to 11 years age group. Beginning from July 17, the 10-session learning programme over 5 weekends spanning till mid-August will encourage participating children to take part in every learning and fun activities.  The course has been curated by TSAF mountaineering experts with over 20 years of experience. This fun and learning journey will help participants to expand their exposure to the world beyond the confined walls of their respective homes with the correct guidance and motivation.  The elite Jamshedpur-based adventure outfit defines a healthy and happy kid, who not only has knowledge about the world and capacity to face real life problems and work out solutions besides being physically fit and good in academics. "The programme also includes some outdoor activity along with physical workouts like kids’ yoga, meditation, fun workouts in virtual mode," a TSAF official said.  The adventure boot camp 2.0 is open to children between 6-11 years of age. They can join as individuals or with their siblings. To register, one can write to info@tsafindia.org or get in touch with 7062441380.  Notably, the first season was a great success with participation of 150 kids from different parts of the country. The guardians of the kids who participated in the first season were of the view that the course design was completely unique and noble while the sessions on mountaineering, first aid and environment were very enriching for kids.  TSAF has been conducting virtual programmes to keep kids busy in Covid times. It had conducted virtual lessons to help children between the ages of 5-9 remain tuned to sport climbing while at home last year. Wooden boards called ‘monkey boards’ measuring 2x2 ft were handed over to the children and fixed at their respective homes. The activity was aimed at strengthening the hands and core muscles of the kids.  The adventure outfit also conducted a virtual programme for school students last month with the aim to motivate and keep them engaged in the comfort of their homes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-104
14-07-2021||Jharkhand||Derailment of goods train halts services at Tatanagar||Train services were affected in Tatanagar - Chakradharpur and Tatanagar - Kharagpur section of South Eastern Railway due to derailment of an empty rake of a goods train at Tatanagar railway yard in the early hours of Wednesday. According to railway authorities the derailment took place at around 3.45 am and soon train movement in that section came to a grinding halt. The derailment caused cancellation, diversion and rescheduling of several trains. The trains which were cancelled included 68010 Chakradharpur-Tatanagar Passenger,  68006 Tatanagar-Kharagpur Passenger, 68005 Kharagpur-Tatanagar Passenger, 68035 Tatanagar-Hatia-Passenger, 68036 Hatia-Tatanagar Passenger,  78031 Tatangar-Badampahar Passenger and 78032 Badampahar-Tatanagar Passenger The 08477 Puri-Yog Nagri Rishikesh Special was made to run on a diverted route via Kharagpur-Midnapur-Adra-Chandil-Sini and Chakradharpur. The 02801 Puri-New Delhi Purushottam Special ran on a diverted route via Kharagpur-Midnapur-Adra and Purulia while the  02517 Howrah-Titlagarh Ispat Special ran diverted route via Kharagpur-Midnapur-Adra-Chandil-Sini and Chakradharpur. The 02096 Howrah-Mumbai CSMT Special was diverted via Kharagpur-Midnapur-Adra-Chandil-Sini and Chakradharpur while the  03288 Rajendra Nagar-Durg Special ran on a diverted route via Chakradharpur and Jharsuguda. The 02586 Anand Vihar-Santragachi Special  ran on a diverted route via Adra-Midnapur and Kharagpur  while 02876 Anand Vihar-Puri Special ran on a diverted route via Adityapur-Chandil-Adra-Midnapur and Hijli. The 02820 Anand Vihar-Bhubaneswar Special was diverted  via Tatanagar-Chandil-Adra- Midnapur and Hijli. The 02259 Mumbai CSMT-Howrah Special was diverted via Sini-Kandra-Chandil-Adra-Midnapur and Kharagpur. The 02896 Ranchi-Howrah Special was diverted via Purulia-Adra-Midnapur and Kharagpur while the 02833 Ahmedabad-Howrah Special train ran on a diverted route via Sini-Kandra-Chandil-Adra-Midnapur and Kharagpur. The 08183 Tatanagar-Danapur Special train was rescheduled by four hours. The train left  Tatanagar railway station at 12.15 pm instead of 8.15 am today. Vijay Kumar Sahu, divisional railway manager ( DRM), Chakradharpur and other senior railway officers rushed to the derailment spot and restoration work began in full swing. Snacks and water bottles were provided to passengers because the trains in the Kharagpur-Tatanagar section were  running behind schedule due to diversion. For the convenience of the passengers of diverted trains, two 60 seater buses and three SUVs were  arranged for travel to Tatanagar from Kandra station by road. Help desks were also set up at Tatanagar, Chakradharpur and Rourkela railway stations for helping passengers and providing them information about train services. Railway officials said normal train services were expected to be restored late in the evening. Chakradharpur railway division also initiated a probe so as to ascertain what led to the derailment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-104
14-07-2021||Jharkhand||Ramesh Bais sworn in as 10th governor of Jharkhand||Ramesh Bais on Wednesday succeeded Droupadi Murmu as the 10th governor of Jharkhand by taking oath of office at the Raj Bhavan. Jharkhand high court’s chief justice Rajiv Ranjan administered him the oath. Prior to this, chief secretary Sukhdev Singh read the warrant of appointment of Bais issued by the President of India on July 6 setting the stage for the swearing-in ceremony. Speaking briefly with a few electronic media after the ceremony, Bais said that he will try to work as a team with the state government, which is led by JMM. He said, "I believe in work and nothing else. That will be my focus. I am told the chief minister that we can sit down to understand issues of the state whenever he is free to do so. I have told CM that I am here to work as a colleague keeping state's interest above everything." Chief minister Hemant Soren and his cabinet ministers were present during the meeting. Other justices from the high court, senior bureaucrats of the state government, a few BJP MPs, Ranchi mayor Asha Lakra were among the attendees. Bais, 74, was the governor of Tripura before being transferred to Jharkhand. He originally hails from Chattisgarh, and has been a member of the Bharatiya Janata Party and served as a Union Minister of State (Independent charge) for Environment and Forests during late Atal Bihari Vajpayee's government from 1999. He was elected to the 9th, 11th, 12th, 13th, 14th, 15th and 16th Lok Sabha from Raipur. Chief minister Hemant Soren extended greetings to Bais by handing him a bouquet after the ceremony. He said that both state government and Raj Bhavan will work together to turn the wheels of development in the state. BJP MP from Ranchi, Sanjay Seth said that Bais’s long and illustrious political experience will be fruitful for the development of Jharkhand. “We all welcome the new governor and I am sure that his presence here will go a long way in taking the state forward. He has been a long term lawmaker and has immense political experience which will be advantageous for Jharkhand,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-104
14-07-2021||Jharkhand||Over 1.4 lakh get vaccinated in Jharkhand after days of slowdown ||Jharkhand on Tuesday vaccinated over 1.4 lakh residents against Covid-19 after the arrival of fresh doses from the Centre allowed the state to intensify the immunisation programme, health officials said, blaming the lack of vaccines in stock for the unprecedented drop in vaccination figures in the past couple of days. As per provisional data shared by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Tuesday evening, the state administered the first dose of vaccines against Covid-19 to 86,005 residents, while the second jab was administered to 56,001 beneficiaries. Almost 75,000 residents in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years were inoculated on the day. According to data available on the Co-Win platform, at least 1,091 vaccination sites were operational in the state on Tuesday, 82 of them in Ranchi. The number of vaccination centres that administered vaccines was, however, more than what Co-Win dashboard showed, officials said. Less than 500 vaccination centres opened their gates for beneficiaries on Saturday, Sunday and Monday. Elsewhere, a resident of Bokaro died of Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the Covid toll in the state to 5,120, as per NHM data. The state reported 70 Covid recoveries against 40 fresh cases and the active caseload in Jharkhand dropped to 347 on Tuesday. At least 13 districts – Simdega, Saraikela, Pakur, Lohardaga, Latehar, Khunti, Jamtara, Godda, Giridih, Garhwa, Dumka, Deoghar and Chatra – did not report fresh Covid-19 cases on the day, while none of the 24 districts reported a double-digit-spike in cases. Ten recoveries against seven cases brought the active caseload in Ranchi down to 50, while 10 recoveries against four cases brought the active caseload in East Singhbhum to 54, NHM stated in its bulletin. Bokaro reported seven cases against five recoveries and Dhanbad reported four cases against zero recoveries on the day. The state on Tuesday tested swab samples of 58,266 residents and 0.6 per cent of them were found infected by the novel coronavirus. So far, over 3.46 lakh people have been infected by the deadly virus in Jharkhand and 98.42 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 of patients could not survive. No fresh cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis were reported in the state on Tuesday after three confirmed cases and three fatalities in hardly 48 hours triggered panic among residents and health officials. As per data compiled by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), the state has reported 98 confirmed and 58 suspected cases of the fungal infection so far and 29 patients have died, while 78 have recovered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-104
14-07-2021||Jharkhand||UAPA: Pan-India movement call by Shahid Father Stan Swamy Nyayik Sangarsh Morcha||Trade unions, farmer unions, student unions and social organisations protesting against the death of Father Stan Swamy in judicial custody will form a coordination committee to submit memoranda to governors of different states for the repeal of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and release of rights activists arrested under the anti-terror law on allegedly flimsy grounds. Members of the newly formed outfit, Shahid Father Stan Swamy Nyayik Sangarsh Morcha, have held discussions with the All India Trade Union Congress (Aituc), Indian National Trade Union Congress (Intuc), Students Federation of India (SFI) and social organisations for a pan-India coordination committee. “We discussed with our comrades and friends in like-minded unions and social bodies on a joint move to exert pressure for repeal of draconian laws like the UAPA under which intellectuals, academics, writers and human rights activists have been languishing in jail without trial for years and elderly person like Father Stan had to die for lack of proper medical treatment in jail. State units will form coordination committees and submit memorandum to governors of their respective states demanding repeal of the UAPA,” said Jharkhand Aituc general secretary P.K. Ganguly. “We will be submitting a memorandum to the Jharkhand governor (Ramesh Bais who will take charge on July 14) on July 15 demanding repeal of the UAPA, judicial probe into the custodial murder of 84-year-old Fr Stan, besides drawing attention to the rising fuel prices. The state committees will finalise their own dates and draw up memoranda for submission to their respective governors. The common point would be repeal of the UAPA and release of all those persons jailed under this act for long periods without trial,” said Praful Linda, CPM leader and president of the Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sangharsh Samanvyay Samity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-104
