15-07-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city NGO Red Paws gets injured stray back on its feet ||The Jamshedpur Red Paws Rescue Foundation has arranged a walker for a stray dog whose hind legs were crushed in a road accident. Fondly called DJ, the around four-month old female stray is now able to move with the help of the lightweight walker fitted with wheels. The stray is under treatment at a shelter being set up at Pardih near Mango by the Foundation, a steel city-based NGO. "DJ was badly injured in a recent road mishap at Jugsalai. One of our volunteers informed us about the incident. The stray was writhing in pain when we reached Jugsalai, we subsequently brought it to the shelter," said Aniz Patel, founder of the NGO. According to him, the stray was not able to walk and was in unbearable pain. We thought of doing something to help the stray walk. One of our volunteers, Piyush Agarwal, made a lightweight walker with plastic pipes and also fitted  wheels. The walker weighs around half-a-kg and has been made by keeping the weight of the stray in mind. DJ is now moving with the help of the walker. We feel immensely happy watching it move," Patel added. He informed that the injury has healed fifty per cent and the pain has also somewhat subsided. “DJ is under treatment by a vet and volunteers are taking care of it. Volunteers give DJ the prescribed medicines. We are hopeful that she would be able to walk sans the walker," Patel said, adding DJ has nerve issue as a result of the accident. "There is no fracture in the legs as such." She moves with the walker for four hours in the morning and evening. Rest of the time she stays inside a cage. "DJ needs rest since the injury has not fully healed. The more she rests more is the chances of recovery of the injury So we keep it in a cage. DJ lives in the company of 11 other canines, including a labrador, which was found abandoned near the Dalma hills on Wednesday evening. We feed rice, soyabean and dog food to the rescued canines," Patel said. According to him, they were yet to formally inaugurate the shelter. "We have arranged the shed and cages. We thought of utilising the facility since we were spotting strays who needed urgent help. We plan to inaugurate the shelter sometimes next month," Patel added. It is the second animal shelter of the state. One of the members of JRPRF has provided land measuring 150x30 ft. Around 40 strays can be accommodated at the facility. The Foundation is generating funds for the shelter. A number of strays fall victim to road mishaps in the city. Some even die or are badly injured and eventually die. “We try our best to save strays but it is not always possible. After all, we are not experts in providing treatment for critical cases. Hence, an animal shelter was the need of the hour,” a member said. Besides feeding strays, the foundation also conducts anti-rabies vaccination camps in periodical intervals at different localities. It also puts reflective collars on strays to protect them from road mishaps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-102
15-07-2021||Jharkhand||Centre promises Jharkhand over 16 lakh vaccine doses by July 29||The Centre has assured Jharkhand that it will get over 16 lakh vaccine doses in the second half of July to continue its immunisation programme against Covid-19, health officials said on Thursday, adding that the vaccines would be delivered in at least six installments. According to the schedule of vaccine supply shared by the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW), Jharkhand will be provided at least 14,66,300 doses of Covishield and 1,35,100 doses of Covaxin between July 15 and July 29. The first lot of 3,16,980 Covishield doses reached the state by air on Thursday and was subsequently distributed among the 24 districts, officials said. After a lull of several days, the vaccination drive in Jharkhand regained momentum after about 3 lakh doses were sent to the state earlier this week. The state, as per government data, has about 4 lakh doses in stock, enough to inoculate about 1 lakh residents daily until fresh supplies arrive, officials said. As per the schedule fixed by the Centre, on July 21, at least 2,13,340 Covishield doses and 31,130 Covaxin doses will be delivered to Jharkhand. The state will receive 2,30,430 Covishield doses and 35,570 Covaxin doses on July 24. At least 2,53,580 Covishield doses will be delivered to Jharkhand the next day and 4,51,970 Covishield doses will reach the state on July 29. The state will also get 68,400 doses of Covaxin on the same day. “The vaccination drive will be intensified as we will have enough doses in stock to go all out with the campaign if deliveries are made as per the schedule,” said Naman Priyesh Lakra, special officer on duty for Covid-19 vaccinations in Jharkhand. As per government data, the state has so far received about 80 lakh doses of vaccines and administered the jabs to over 78 lakh residents. Jharkhand is also expecting supply of 1,47,740 doses of Covishield on August 4, but it will be included in the quota for the next month, officials said. Jharkhand, as per the schedule of vaccine supply fixed by the Centre last month, was promised supply of 25 lakh doses in July. However, the state received only about 10 lakh doses until Thursday. As per records with the National Health Mission (NHM), Jharkhand has at least 3377 session sites for vaccination and the infrastructure to inoculate around 3 lakh people on a day. However, due to vaccine crisis, almost half of the session sites have been non-operational this month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-102
15-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jubilee Park of to stay open mornings and evenings ||The Jubilee Park reopened with certain guidelines on Thursday bringing some good news for morning walkers, joggers and yoga enthusiasts. State health minister Banna Gupta, deputy commissioner of East Singhbhum Suraj Kumar and Jusco (or Tata Steel Utility and Infrastructure Services Limited) managing director Tarun Daga were present at the occasion. Daga said the park will open every day for four hours in the morning from 5am to 9am and three hours in the evening from 4 pm to 7 pm for morning and evening walkers and other visitors. People can enter either from the Sakchi or the Bistupur- end gate. "For security reasons and contact tracing as the pandemic is continuing, those entering the park will have to show their Aadhaar Card as identity proof at the entrance gate. The Jubilee Park Road will continue to remain closed for vehicular movement as per the directives of the district administration, "said Daga. Deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar appealed to people to follow the Covid - 19 standard operating procedures while entering and exiting the park. "The threat of Covid-19 is not yet over. There is a possibility of a third wave. Hence, the visitors to the park have to follow all the necessary Covid protocols. Those entering the park would have to tell their names and produce Aadhaar Cards so that if required in case of spread of the Covid-19 infection, contact tracing can be done," said the deputy commissioner. He went on to say that the facility of paid cycling will be available for visitors inside the park. Moreover, battery operated cars would also be made available for elderly visitors. Health minister Banna Gupta thanked Tata Steel and Jusco, which looks after the upkeep of the park for reopening the picturesque park for the people. He urged Jusco to start yoga and a meditation centre for the benefit of steel city residents. Park regulars were happy. "We were forced to go to Marine Drive for morning walk where some of the stretches are polluted. We welcome the decision of Tata Steel and Jusco for reopening the park where we can now go daily for a walk in fresh air, "said Sangeeta Dubey, a teacher by profession and a resident of Aambagan in Sakchi. Notably, Tata Steel had closed down the green lung in March last year following the state government’s  directive to close public places as a precautionary measure for Covid-19. Following relaxations in lockdown rules, malls and other parks in steel city had  reopened last week. But, Jubilee Park remained closed. Jubilee Park and other parks and stadiums including JRD Tata Sports Complex, Jubilee  Nicco Amusement Park, Children’s Corner, Tata Steel Zoological Park, Bhetya Park and Nildih Park, were shut down on March 17 last year because of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-102
15-07-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant intervention brings back 32 migrant workers from Kerala||Altogether 32 migrant workers, including 15 women of Bhalsumar Panchayat of Ramgarh block of Dumka, accompanied by their five children who were trapped at Idukki district of Kerala since June 29 were brought back to state at the initiative of State Migrant Control Room and NGO Shubh Sandesh through the Alappuzzha-Dhanbad express. Senior officials of the district administration led by Additional Collector, Shyam Narayan Ram who received them at Dhanbad Railway Station in the presence of Tundi MLA, Mathura Prasad Mahto and others later sent them to Dumka, through buses and SUVs after carrying their mandatory test where they will be put in institutional quarantine for five days before being sent back to their respective places. The incident comes close on the heels of the Jharkhand government last month rescuing 33 tribal migrant workers and their nine children who were forced to live like bonded labourers in a brick kiln in Uttar Pradesh. This month alone the Jharkhand government rescued a total of 47 children from Delhi who had been trafficked. "Thirty two workers and their five children hailing from Santhal Parangana region were rescued from Kerala at the intervention of Chief Minister Hemant Soren," a state government spokesperson said. On CM's intervention, a joint initiative by the Labour Department's State Migrant Control Room and a social organisation PHIA Foundation helped rescue 32 workers from Jharkhand and their five children from Kerala. Anita Marandi, a resident of the Dumka district in Jharkhand thanked CM Hemant for listening to her plea when she and other migrant workers found themselves in a problematic situation in Kerala. The workers were promised a daily wage of Rs 400 per person but due to the difficult geographical location, the workers were not ready to work there and were forced into it, a statement from the state government said. The 32 labourers departed from Dumka on a bus along with a bus driver of Kerala on June 27 on the promise of providing them job of Rs 6000 per month in a factory but after reaching Idukki, the bus driver failed to provide them with a job and on the other hand taken their Aadhar card and compelled them to work for some forest clearance work without pay. The labourers somehow contacted the State Migrant Control Room at Ranchi which in turn contacted the local administration of Idukki through NGO Shubh Sandesh which first provided food to the trapped persons and then arranged for their return journey to Jharkhand. Talking to the media, Ram said, “We are extending help as part of state government instruction to every person lying trapped in any other state and facing difficulties there and today brought 32 such persons lying trapped in Idukki along with their three children.” He further said the migrant labourers were brought as an effort of the State Migrant Control Room in association with Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development, Ernakulam, India Care and Labour department. Tundi MLA, Mathura Prasad Mahto who was also present at Dhanbad Railway Station, said, “The state government is committed to provide all necessary facilities to the laborers within the state and in process of generating employment opportunities for the people within the state” Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Daniel Ponraj, Chief Executive Officer of NGO Shubh Sandesh, who also present at the Dhanbad Railway station to receive the migrant labourers, said, “After receiving information through the state migrant control room we contacted the local police and district administration of Idukki which took up the issue very seriously and arranged for food as the labourers were even deprived of sufficient food as instead of Rs 6,000 per person they were only provided a cumulative one time money of Rs 15,000.” “The local administration then arranged for their repatriation back to Jharkhand and they reached today at Dhanbad from where they were sent to Dumka” said Ponraj and added they have also arranged for food to migrant people at various intermediate stations like Chennai, Vizag etc during their return journey. Mahendra Prasad, one of the rescued migrant labourers of Dumka in his interaction with media said, “We were taken in the name of providing jobs at a factory but instead we were asked to clear forest and not given any money.” As many as eight lakh calls had been received by the state authorities from such workers who were in distress during the pandemic and the state government also ensured the return of 1,176 migrant workers from abroad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-102
15-07-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI commences new academic session, freshers attend online classes||The new batch of XLRI students at both the Jamshedpur and Delhi- NCR campus for the academic session 2021-2023 have started attending classes on an online mode. The new batch has 179 students in Business Management and 178 students in Human Resource Management at the Jamshedpur campus. The Jamshedpur campus has another 114 students in its Executive  Postgraduate Diploma in Management course, 14 students in Fellow Programme in Management (FPM)  and 20 students in Executive Fellow Programme in Management (EXEC-FPM). The B-school's Delhi-NCR campus has 108 students in the Business Management  stream. Fr. Paul. Fernandes, director, XLRI- while welcoming the new batch of students of both the campuses recently emphasised the four essential hallmarks of Jesuit education. Elaborating on the four themes, he said, "XLRI’s successful growth over seven decades has been guided by these four important hallmarks of Jesuit education, and we will continue to place a strong emphasis on them. The first aspect being excellence - to strive continuously for the best, without getting easily satisfied and without becoming complacent with our achievements; the second aspect being integrity coupled with ethics - which describes the ethos of XLRI. One cannot achieve excellence, long-term success without integrity and ethics which go hand in hand; the third aspect relates to growth. Growth of an individual across intellectual, social, emotional and spiritual levels and the fourth hallmark being social consciousness-to be sensitive to the needs of the less privileged around us." He went on to say that the new campus in Delhi-NCR, from its very inception, was conceived as an integral part of XLRI Jamshedpur. "Our two campuses remain part of the same registered society, the same governing board, and have the same treasurer for all the campuses," he added. Every year the first-year students of XLRI undergo compulsory village exposure programme and the outbound adventure programme. Both programmes have been specially designed for students to create awareness about the realities of rural India and foster a sense of team spirit. This year due to the pandemic, both the programmes were cancelled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-103
15-07-2021||Jharkhand||Today's activists must gather strength from Stan Swamy's ideals: Hemant Soren||Chief minister Hemant Soren asked one and all to learn and gather strength from the values and virtues that Father Stan Swamy stood for while working for the welfare of adivasis. Speaking at a gathering organsied by Ranchi archdiocese and Bagaicha, an outfit formed by Swamy in Namkum, Hemant said the 84-year-old jesuit priest’s demise was an addition to the illustrious chapters of great souls who laid down their lives in service of the poor and marginalised in Jharkhand and elsewhere. “Jharkhand has a rich history of people who have laid down their lives in service of poor tribals. Right from Bhagwan Birsa Munda to Stan Swamy, people here have seen and learnt about them. The future generation must also be aware about it,” he said, adding that the values and virtues which Stan Swamy stood for must continue to live through the work of today's activists. Swamy, who was battling Parkinson's disease, died in judicial custody in Mumbai early this month while awaiting bail on health grounds. He was arrested in October last year by NIA in connection with the violence in Bhima Koregaon in 2018 and was booked under UAPA for alleged links with Maoists. He was among the dozen other human rights activists who were arrested in the case from across the country by NIA causing global uproar. Recalling his experience of meeting Swamy for the first time years ago, Hemant said, “I wasn’t aware about his journey back then _ his sacrifices and works. But gradually, I have discovered how great he was in his mission to serve society, mainly tribals. Such people come once in ages.” The chief minister said that had Swamy not been arrested and booked under anti-terror law UAPA, he would have lived among us today. “He was one of the voices who was opposed to the attempts of several wrongdoings by certain forces in the country. I don’t think he was surprised to be jailed but the way the system tortured him, I think sooner or later, there will be more voices from within society against such attempts to thwart dissent,” he said. Among the others present at Thursday's gathering were Archibishop of Ranchi Felix Toppo, Bishop Theodore Mascarenhas and several social and tribal activists. Thanking the chief minister for speaking out, especially after Swamy's midnight arrest, Mascarenhas said, “Our CM has been one of the few voices who strongly opposed Stan Swamy’s arrest. He was also critical of the powers that be after his demise. We now urge our CM to also work with other chief ministers to create a consensus against revoking UAPA as it is used mostly as a political tool. Equally, cases of sedition against tribals and others must also end." Mascarenhas mentioned Hemant's decision to withdraw sedition cases against Pathalgadhi activists. "I don’t know if that has been done or not but we request you to consider withdrawing cases against poor people,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-103
15-07-2021||Jharkhand||Special jab camp for leprosy patients||Leprosy patients Barmsia Rehabilitation and Training Centre, Bhuda received their first dose of Covishield on Wednesday during a special jab drive conducted by the district administration. These patients were facing difficulty in getting vaccinated against Covid-19 partly due to their inability to visit vaccination centres and partly because of social taboos associated with leprosy disease. The initiative to organize the camp was taken by Tundi MLA, Mathura Prasad Mahto and was executed under the supervision of District Reproductive and Child Health Officer, Dr Vikas Rana. This was the fifth special vaccination drive conducted by the district administration. Earlier 60 physically and mentally challenged individuals were vaccinated on June 9 at Pehla Kadam school. It was the first special vaccination camp, and was soon followed by the vaccination of 60 kids at the delinquent child reformatory centre on June 16. Following that 80 petrol pump staff were vaccinated on July 4 and over 150 auto rickshaw drivers and LPG delivery men were inoculated on July 9. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Rana said, “The special vaccination drive which is of a kind in the state and aims at inoculating the vulnerable population from Covid infection, as well as helping those who couldn’t visit the vaccination centre.” “We are thankful of Tundi MLA, Mathura Prasad Mahto who raised the issue of vaccination of inmates of Barmasia Rehabilitation and Training Centre (BRTC)” said Rana. He added that a similar camp would be organized at the centre for the second dose after the completion of 84 days. “We have vaccinated various vulnerable groups by conducting special drives earlier as per the availability of vaccines and are planning to vaccinate the rickshaw pullers by organizing a special drive soon” elaborated Rana. Echoing a similar sentiment, father Ajay Tiru, Director of Damien Social Welfare Society which operates from Barmasia Rehabilitation and Training Centre since 1980, said, “We were concerned about the safety of the inmates of this centre as the infection is spreading in the surrounding areas. We are thankful to the Tundi MLA, who helped us out.” “Convincing the inmates for the benefits of the vaccine was a challenging task as a majority of them are uneducated and had various apprehensions about the vaccination procedure,” said Tiru. He added that along with leprosy patients other staff of the centre were also vaccinated. Samir Sheikh (55), one of the patients, received the first dose along with his wife Munni Sheikh (52) during the camp. He said, “We have been living at the centre for 20 years and are engaged in producing bed sheets, operation theatre gown, gamcha and lungi. We were concerned about our safety during the pandemic. After being jabbed, we are feeling secure.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-103
15-07-2021||Jharkhand||Sindri residents seek Hemant help for road repair||Sindri residents on Wednesday appealed to chief minister Hemant Soren and Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Kumar demanding immediate repair of the deplorable condition of the over 3km stretch from Gaushala More to Kalapana Talkies Chowk. Two separate tweets have been made by Deepak Kumar Dipu, president of Sindri Chamber of Commerce to Hemant Soren and Sandeep Kumar, drawing their attention towards the lack of apathy of civic body Dhanbad Municipal Corporation towards the repair of roads leading to repeated accidents. In a related development, a group of retired employees of Sindri Fertilizer factory on Wednesday also met Meena Minz, Executive Officer of Sindri Circle of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) demanding improvement in civic amenities of Sindri township. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Dipu who is also the president of citizen’s rights organisation, Sindri Bachao Morcha, said, “The condition of the road has turned from bad to worse since the last 1 and a half years as our repeated demands to carry out repair has fallen on deaf ears.” “Such is the condition of the road that even four wheeler drivers sometimes lose balance while the two wheeler drivers always face the risk of falling on the road due to the large size of potholes,” said Dipu. “The condition aggravates during monsoon when the potholes are covered with water and the riders could not properly gauge the depth of potholes leading to accidents,” said Dipu and added that the condition of around 2 km stretch of total 3 km from Mayur Gate to Rohra Bandh in Sindri is more dangerous. “Heavy vehicles carrying over 50 to 60 tonnes of clinkers of Associated Cement Company (ACC) plant at Sindri are primarily responsible for the bad condition of roads,” said Dipu and added that the poor quality of material used during the repair of road more than two years ago led to the damage of road. “If the situation continues even after the normalisation of Covid period and reopening of schools, the school students may become the victim of the bad condition of roads and thus we demand immediate repair of the road,” said S. Mishra,71, a retired employee of fertilizer factory of Sindri. Sindri old timers led by Sewa Singh, former Public Relation Office of FCI Sindri, during their meeting with Meena Minz, raised the issue of poor state of civic amenities in Sindri, particularly water logging, clogged drains, non functional street lights etc.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-103
15-07-2021||Jharkhand||Another patient of mucormycosis dies in Jharkhand||Another mucormycosis death, reported in Giridih, took the black fungus toll in Jharkhand to 30 on Wednesday, while two more suspected mucormycosis patients got hospitalised for further diagnosis, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. The casualty reported on Wednesday was the first death caused by the fungal infection in Giridih, a district which has reported five confirmed and two suspected cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis so far. As per data compiled by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), Jharkhand has so far reported 98 confirmed and 60 suspected cases of mucormycosis. At least 81 patients have recovered from black fungus in the state so far. Mucormycosis, a rare but potentially lethal disease caused by exposure to mucor mould found in soil, plants, manure and decaying fruits and vegetables, has an average fatality rate of 50 per cent. Covid patients who were administered high dosage of steroids, especially those suffering from diabetes, are more prone to this fungal infection, say doctors. Covid cases continued to drop in the state. At least 68 people were found infected by the SARS-CoV-2 virus in Jharkhand, while 71 Covid patients recovered from the viral infection on Wednesday, bringing the active caseload in the state down to 344, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. Jharkhand on Wednesday tested swab samples of 49,245 residents and 0.13 per cent of them were found infected by coronavirus. As per government data, over 3.46 lakh people have tested positive for Covid-19 in the state so far and 98.42 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of patients could not survive. As per NHM data, at least nine districts – West Singhbhum, Simdega, Saraikela, Palamu, Pakur, Khunti, Giridih, Garhwa and Dumka – did not report fresh Covid cases on Wednesday. At least 14 Covid recoveries against 11 cases brought the active caseload down to 47 in Ranchi, while the active caseload in East Singhbhum dropped to 50 as the district reported eight recoveries against four fresh cases of infection. No fresh Covid casualties were reported in Jharkhand on Wednesday and the Covid toll remained 5,120. The growth rate of Covid-19 was 0.01 per cent against the national average of 0.09 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state was 5403.12 days against the national doubling rate of 737.01 days. The state on Wednesday vaccinated over 90,000 residents against Covid-19. As per provisional data released by NHM, the first dose of vaccine was administered to 56,166 residents, while 34,655 residents received their second jab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-103
15-07-2021||Jharkhand||Stan Swamy death: Brinda to lead delegation to Jharkhand governor||CPM politburo member Brinda Karat will lead a delegation to the Jharkhand governor on Thursday to submit a memorandum protesting against the custodial death of Father Stan Swamy and demanding repeal of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. “Brinda Karat will arrive in a flight to Ranchi on Thursday morning. She will reach Shahid Chowk at Ranchi around 11am and lead the delegation to meet new governor Ramesh Bais and hand over the memorandum addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind protesting against the custodial killing of tribal rights activist and Jesuit priest Fr Stan Swamy and demanding the repeal of the UAPA,” said Jharkhand CPM secretariat member Prakash Viplav. The delegation will also have tribal rights activist and writer Dayamani Barla and leaders of non-BJP parties. “We have got confirmation from the RJD and the Congress and are also expecting leaders from the JMM to be part of the delegation. All non-BJP parties have endorsed our demand for the repeal of the UAPA and the release of rights activists lodged in jail under the law. But we will have to limit the attendance at the rally near the Raj Bhavan due to Covid restrictions,” Viplav said. The rally from Shahid Chowk to the Raj Bhavan in Ranchi will have members of trade unions, farmers’ organisations, student unions, social outfits, Jesuits and academics, apart from political parties, converging under the banner of Shahid Father Stan Swamy Nyayik Sangarsh Morcha. Similar memoranda addressed to the President will be submitted to the governors of other states by a central-level coordination committee comprising members of trade unions, student and farm unions on different dates this month. “The death of 84-year-old Father Stan Swamy was nothing but a custodial killing done by the central government to suppress the voices of dissent. We would not sit idle and raise our voice against this act across the country till action is taken against officials responsible for his death,” said Jharkhand Aituc general secretary P.K. Ganguly. Father Stan had been lodged in Taloja Central Jail since October 9, 2020, after his arrest from his Bagaicha residence in Namkum near Ranchi the previous day by the National Investigation Agency in connection with the Elgaar Parishad-Maoist links case. He was charged under UAPA provisions. However, there was not a single trial and his bail petition citing health issues and poor medical facilities at the jail was denied by the NIA special court four times. Father Stan passed away on July 5 while undergoing treatment under custody at the Holy Family Hospital in Mumbai. Chief minister Hemant Soren will pay his last respects to Fr Stan at a memorial service on Thursday at Bagaicha, the social integration organisation set up by the priest at Namkum near Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-103
15-07-2021||Jharkhand||Five lakh trees planted in during 72nd Van Mahotsava in Jharkhand||Over 5 lakh trees were planted, including over a lakh in Ranchi, on Tuesday during the 72nd Van Mahotsava (forest festival) organised by the Jharkhand forest department. Sources in the state forest department said that this was the highest target of trees planted on a single day since the creation of Jharkhand during the Van Mahotsava, an annual tree planting festival celebrated in July across the country to spread awareness on forest conservation and environment protection. Additional principal chief conservator of forest (APCCF) Jharkhand N.K. Singh said that since the creation of Jharkhand (2000) the state forest cover has increased by 1,625 sq km. “As per the latest Indian State of Forest Report-2019 (a biennial exercise) Jharkhand forest cover had increased by 65sqkm and since the creation of the state our forest cover has increased by 1,625 sq km. We had set a realistic target of planting over 5 lakh trees across all 24 districts of Jharkhand with 1 lakh only for Ranchi on Tuesday. We would ensure that the trees planted are protected and nurtured too,” said Singh, who is also the managing director Jharkhand State Forest Development Corporation (JSFDC). Nearly 34 per cent of the state area is covered with forest and the department has set a target of planning 1 crore 65 lakh saplings in 2021. Chief minister Hemant Soren, who was the chief guest during the van mahotsava programme at Angara Block in Ranchi after planting a sapling on the banks of Subernarekha river at Gandhigram, said the state forest department will try to plant trees on all vacant and barren government lands. “The forest department will be planting saplings on vacant government lands and also distribute fruit bearing saplings for plantation to those interested so that they are made aware about important of environment. There is need to increase green cover in the city along with infrastructure development,” said Soren.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-103
15-07-2021||Jharkhand||Security forces guide killed in Maoist blast in Jharkhand||A 35-year-old villager guiding the security forces conducting a search operation in a dense forest in the Maoist-affected Gumla district of Jharkhand was killed in an IED blast on Wednesday morning, police said. The incident occurred a day after a CoBRA (Commando Battalion for Resolute Action) jawan was injured and a sniffer dog was killed in an IED blast in the same Marwa forest in Karagani hills under Kurumgarh police station in Chainpur block of Gumla district, over 180km from state capital Ranchi. According to police sources, the villager identified as Rameshwar Munda was accompanying the security forces to guide them during the search operation conducted jointly by the CRPF, CoBRA (a special unit of the CRPF which specialises in anti-Maoist operations and jungle warfare) and district police personnel when he accidentally walked over the IED. Munda succumbed to his injuries on the way to hospital, the police said. “There are hundreds of IEDs planted by Maoist zonal commander Budheshwar Oraon in the dense forest area. A CoBRA jawan (Vishwajit Kumbhar) was injured yesterday (Monday) during the search operation and is recuperating at a private hospital in Ranchi. “Today an IED blast killed a villager during the search operation. The injured villager was being taken to the Sadar Hospital but died on the way. We will be giving compensation according to government norms and a job to the kin of the victim,” said Gumla superintendent of police H.P. Janardhanan. Sources in the Jharkhand police headquarters said according to the central government norms, the family of any person killed in Maoist-related incident would get a compensation of Rs 3 lakh and a government job. “The villager, Rameshwar Munda, got injured in the IED blast and was evacuated immediately from there, but succumbed to his injuries before he could be taken to a doctor. Being a local, he was taken along by the security forces to guide them in the dense forests,” said Janardhanan. The squads of Oraon, who carries a reward of Rs 15 lakh on his head, are said to have planted several IEDs in the Marwa jungles of Gumla to deter security forces from entry and they have also warned the villagers against venturing into the forest. However, the security forces use the villagers who are well-versed with the topography of the area to guide them. In February this year, a CRPF jawan had lost his legs in a similar blast while villager Mahender Mahto was critically injured in another IED explosion that occurred in the Marwa Karagani jungles in Gumla. “We are conducting an intensive search operation in the last few months and this will continue. We have diffused and neutralised several IEDs earlier which are used primarily to disturb the movement of our troops,” said Janardhanan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-103
