16-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Missing woman's body found in a well at Hazaribagh lake||Hazaribagh: The body of NTPC's additional general manager Subhash Prasad Gupta’s wife was found from a well in Hazaribagh after she went missing on Wednesday. Investigation revealed that Ranjeeta Gupta, 39, was the victim of an accident during her morning walk where she fell into the well. Sources said the family lives in a rented house on Lake Road. Ranjeeta was in the habit of going on a morning walk every day to the Hazaribagh Lake. On Wednesday, when she didn’t return, her husband Subhash went out in search of her. But not finding her anywhere, he rushed to Lohsigna outpost informing officials about his missing wife and requesting them to launch a search. But all efforts to find her failed. On Thursday evening, relatives spotted flowers in a carrybag near a well at Hazaribagh Lake. They suspected that Ranjeeta might have fallen into the well as it did not have a boundary wall. A search was started in the well and soon her dead body was fished out. Relatives said she may have slipped and fallen into the well while trying to cross the road in a hurried manner. Police officials said this was a tragic incident and they have registered a case of unnatural death. “We have handed over the body to relatives after the post mortem,” they added. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Daltonganj: The Jharkhand government is promoting duck farming among tribals to augment their income under its scheme called Mukh Mantri Pashu Dhan Vikas Yojna said sources. A total of 37 tribal families from the villages of Dhadhu, Basiya and Oley Paath under the Balumath block in Latehar district were given 15 ducklings each under the Mukh Mantri Pashu Dhan Vikas Yojna said Dr Suryavansh Thakur, the Balumath block animal husbandry officer. A total of 555 ducklings were distributed among the 37 tribal families at the rate of 15 ducklings each family. Among the 15 ducklings thirteen are females and two are males. The ducklings are 15 days old and in good health. It takes 45 to 60 days to become adult said the veterinarian Thakur. The breed of the duckling is popular Indian Runner which has a long survival and adaptability traits. Mukh Mantri Pashu Dhan Vikas Yojna is a 90 percent subsidised income generating scheme where a beneficiary is to pool in his or her 10 per cent of money. The 15 ducklings cost Rs 1,670 which has 90 per cent subsidy worth Rs 1,503 and a beneficiary pools in his 167 rupees as his 10 per cent contribution said the veterinarian Thakur. Sources said the tribal are encouraged to have ducks which, if reared properly, can provide Rs 200 a week to a tribal family. Vetenarian Thakur said the ducks are vulnerable to bacterial infection and hence 37 tribal families who have been given 15 ducklings each have been advised to have a neat and clean space for the ducklings and the ducks. As ducks are a social animal it is a curse if they are forced to live single and hence ducks are always given in a dozen or so that ensures their survival. (Our correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-101
16-07-2021||Jharkhand||Twin facilities introduced at Tata Steel Jharia plant||Tata Steel’s Jharia division commissioned two new facilities on Thursday including a 2 Million Tonnes Per Annum (MTPA) capacity Coal Preparation Plant and 400 kilovolt-ampere (kVA) Uninterrupted Power Supply (UPS) system for its Main Mechanical Ventilator at Jamadoba Colliery. The twin facilities were inaugurated on Thursday at Jharia by D.B. Sundararamam, Vice President (Raw Materials), Tata Steel in the presence of  Mr Sanjay Rajoria, General Manager, Jharia Division, Tata Steel. The facilities are in line with its mechanisation and modernisation programme. “Introduction of appropriate technology is key to the success of underground mining. At Tata Steel, we leverage our innovation capabilities, technology leadership with focus on safety and sustainability to create long-term value. State-of-the-art beneficiation plant not only addresses issues like productivity, safety and environment but at the same time ensures production of coal at a competitive price,” Sundararamam said. “Built from cutting-edge technology, the 2 MTPA Coal Preparation Plant has been transformed from the oldest running washery in Asia (in operation since 1952) to one of the most modern washeries across the globe,” reads a press release sent by Tata Steel this afternoon. The washery (also known as Coal Preparation Plant) is a major upgradation from conventional set-up that packs Dense Media Cyclone circuit for coarse, intermediate circuit for reflux classifier and flotation for fines circuit to improve production efficiency. This is also the first washery in the country with a 100% dewatering facility built within the plant, thereby completely eliminating the need for a tailing pond, auto sprinklers and dry fog systems. The giant UPS installed today, meanwhile provides uninterrupted power supply to the 450 horsepower mine fan and automatically changes over during power failure from DVC and keeps it running for 40 minutes, giving enough time for power restoration or change-over to captive supply. The battery back-up UPS is the first of its kind in the country for any mine ventilation fan”further claimed in the press release and added that the set up is expected to enhance the safety and ergonomics within the mines and will also provide a more comfortable environment for the miners to work. Tata Steel’s Jharia Division has earlier introduced Chair Lift Man Riding System, Cooling plant, Low Capacity and Low Cost Continuous Miner with the haulage system as part of its modernization effort of underground mining in the country. This apart Jharia Division has taken several initiatives for automation and digitalization which helped in improving operational excellence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-101
16-07-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city records first dengue case since 2019||A 29-year-old woman who was admitted in Tata Main Hospital on Tuesday has tested positive for dengue on Friday. East Singhbhum district officer for integrated disease surveillance (IDS), Sahir Pall confirmed about the detection of dengue in the steel city. "The patient who has tested dengue positive on Friday is a 29-year-old woman. She is a resident of ECC Flat area in Kadma and is presently admitted in the Tata Main Hospital, "said Pall to The Telegraph Online. The district IDS officer said this was the first dengue case here in the steel city this year and now they will have to deal with both dengue and pandemic Covid-19. He pointed out no case of dengue had been reported from the city in 2020. "The district health department will have to call a meeting of health and sanitation officials so that necessary steps can be taken to stop the disease from getting spread, "Pall said. A person who falls victim to dengue develops symptoms like high fever, headache, pain in muscles and joints as well as rashes. In severe cases the patient suffers from bleeding and shock which may become life threatening. Dengue is caused due to the bite of the Aedes Aegypti mosquito which breeds in stagnant rain water. Despite the city reeling under the deadly coronavirus infections, the management of Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services Ltd which maintains the city had started a drive against the stagnant waters in residential areas from the month of May. Ironically, the first case of dengue was detected from ECC Flat area which comes under the Tata Steel command area. Generally, the vector-borne disease like dengue remains dominant in the steel city's fringe area like Bhuiyandih, Parsudih, Bagbera and Mango.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-101
16-07-2021||Jharkhand||World Snake Day: steel city rescue team felicitated by forest division||The steel city's snake rescue team was honoured by the Jamshedpur forest division for their contribution towards the society at a function at Patel Bagan in Sundarnagar on Friday. The Jamshedpur forest division organised the programme as part of a week-long Van Mahotsav as well as World Snake Day. World Snake Day is an important day when it comes to increasing awareness about the different species of snake all around the world. Snakes tend to have a negative connotation. A lot of people are scared of snakes. Snakes are important in the ecosystem. There are more than 3,500 species of snakes out of which around 600 are venomous. There are only 200 species of snake that pose a considerable risk to human life. JMM's Potka legislator Sanjeev Sardar felicitated the team by presenting a snake rescue kit. Jamshedpur forest division DFO Mamta Proyaradshi and other forest personnel were present at the occasion. The kit included a tong, hook and a bag. The snake rescue team of Mithilesh Srivastava also known as Chhotu, Tarun Kalindi alias Chiku, Rahul Singh, Veer Gope and Bishnu Srivastava. Rajni Lahal, also a member, could not make it to the felicitation programme. Sardar appreciated the work being done by the snake rescue team and said the members were an important part of the society. "The snake rescue team is not only saving the snakes from being killed but also spreading awareness about the dos and don'ts while spotting a reptile. I feel happy presenting the team a snake rescue kit," he added. Five hundred saplings were also sown at Patel Bagan during the event. Mithilesh Sriuvastava, a veteran snake catcher, thanked the MLA and Jamshedpur forest division and said the team was trying to increase the members of the group. "We are only six members, including a woman. We are trying hard to increase the number of members so that we can effectively cover the city and its surrounding pockets," he added. Sometimes it is seen that people even kill non-venomous snakes. "People kill snakes due to lack of awareness. Fear forces them to kill snakes. We spread awareness and ask people to contact us instead of killing the reptiles. We reach to rescue snakes once we receive calls. The snakes are rescued and released in the jungles," said Veer Gope, a team member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-101
16-07-2021||Jharkhand||Harassment charges against former driver of health minister Banna Gupta||A 34-year-old woman on Friday approached senior SP M. Tamil Vanan complaining about inaction of Kadma thana in arresting the former driver of health minister Banna Gupta in a harassment case registered on the instruction of the civil court. The victim, a mother of two minor girls, is being allegedly harassed by the driver Munna Singh repeatedly after a case was registered with the Kadma thana against him. According to the victim, the accused Munna had befriended her in 2012 and had developed a relationship promising to marry her. "Not only did Munna physically exploit me but also took Rs 6.5 lakh on the pretext of buying an excavator. But after getting the money, he snapped ties and evaded paying my money back," she said. The victim said the Kadma police had not accepted the FIR which she wanted to lodge against Munna in April, leading her to knock at the door of the court in May. Though the case was registered a month ago, the police are yet to arrest the accused. As Vanan was not in the office, the victim met the deputy superintendent of police (Headquarters-II) Kamal Kishore and submitted a petition demanding his arrest. "Initially, the Kadma thana did not accept my FIR and when I filed a complaint with the court, leading the court to instruct the Kadma thana for registering the case, the police were not arresting the accused. I wanted to know from a senior police officer exactly why the accused is not being arrested, "said the woman. The victim who is a resident of Bhatia Bustee in Kadma said since the case was registered with the Kadma thana, the accused Munna Singh is visiting her house and pressuring her to withdraw the case. The OC of Kadma thana, Manoj Thakur admitted a case has been registered against Munna Singh on a court complaint. "As the case has been registered under SC/ST Act besides other sections, the case is being investigated by DSP (Headquarters-II) Kamal Kishore. Necessary action will be taken against the accused once the investigation is over, " said Thakur to The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-101
16-07-2021||Jharkhand||For the first time this season, Jharkhand logs deficit rainfall ||For the first time this monsoon, Jharkhand entered a rain deficit phase on Friday with the state recording a shortfall of one per cent . Statistics revealed that against a normal of 364.9 mm, the state has so far recorded 360.3 mm rain. According to Met data, as many as 50 per cent districts, ie, 12 out of 24, figure in the rain deficit list as of Friday. The districts that are facing a rain deficit are Chatra,  Bokaro, Garhwa, Godda,  Gumla,  Khunti, Latehar , Ranchi,  Pakur, Seraikela- Kharsawan, Simdega and West Singhbhum. Chatra and Gumla are facing the maximum rain deficit of 32 and 29 per cent respectively. Notably, around mid-June, soon after the onset of the south-east monsoon, the surplus rain in Jharkhand had touched 109 per cent. At that time, the monsoon was described as being "vigorous" in nature. Towards the end of June, the rainfall activity over the state reduced as the monsoon entered into a weak phase. Monsoon revived and became active around July 7, resulting in widespread rain till July 11. After that rainfall activity again got gradually reduced. Head of Ranchi Meteorological Centre Abhishek Anand said reduced rainfall during the past few days led to the deficit. "Most districts of Jharkhand have been experiencing very light rain for the last few days. The reduced rainfall activity has led to deficit rain in several districts, " he said. Only five IMD observatories across the state, those at Chaibasa in West Singhbhum, Arki in Khunti, Panchet in Dhanbad , Kuru in Lohardaga, Mandar in Ranchi and Palkot in Gumla, recorded light rain during the past 24 hours. Weathermen said no significant whether system prevails over the state and that southerly wind was dominating for the last two days. The Ranchi Met Centre issued an alert of light to moderate thundershowers activity accompanied by lightning at isolated places over Jharkhand during the next three days. Weathermen said most districts would witness cloudy sky with one or two spells of light rain. Met data suggests that due to reduced rainfall activity the day's readings witnessed a rise. On Friday, most districts recorded a maximum temperature of two to three notches above normal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-101
16-07-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city to get Calcutta-style food vending zones||Nightlife in steel city is all set to change post-Covid as the district administration has planned to bring about vending zones similar to the street food markets in Calcutta. To begin with, the administration has identified two places at Sakchi for the vending zones. East Singhbhum deputy commissioner, Suraj Kumar, whose brain-child is the food vending zones concept, even carried out spot inspection for it along with the special officer, Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC), Krishna Kumar on Wednesday. The places where the food vending zones are proposed to be set up are the area near Jubilee Park's Sakchi gate and the place in front of the landmark Bashant Cinema. "Food vendors are operating in a scattered way at a number of places which remain crowded with people. But we want them to do their business in an organised and decent way so that it may get convenient for the people and will also give a decent look to the city, "said Kumar. The deputy commissioner said they have already started talks with Tata Steel to make the sheds at the two places in Sakchi. "It may take three months or so for getting the sheds ready and by that time the spell of Covid must have been over. With the food vending zones in place, the people of the steel city may enjoy the same ambience like the people do at the street food markets in Calcutta during the night," Kumar pointed out. He said they are going to get the food vending zone concept executed at Sakchi now, but they have plans to set up three similar vending zones elsewhere in the city for which the work of site selection is on. During the spot inspection at Sakchi, the deputy commissioner talked to the food vendors as well as the customers and advised them to strictly follow Covid protocols.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-101
16-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand T20 tournament from Saturday, matches to be livestreamed ||Enthused by the success of its first edition, Jharkhand T20 will be held this year too, from July 17 to August 3, with matches being livestreamed to compensate for the bar on spectators because of the ongoing Covid pandemic. Jharkhand State Cricket Association (JSCA) has said 33 matches will be played during the tournament and there will be two matches a day. The semi-finals are slated for August 2, followed by finals the next day. All matches can be viewed on the Fan Code app from 9am-5pm. The tournament will have six teams vying for the championship trophy. “This tournament is strictly for registered state players and there is no franchise owner or prize money involved. Neither will there be mentors,” said JSCA secretary Sanjay Sahay. He said JSCA was taking all necessary precautions to ensure strict adherence to Covid guidelines. “All the officials and players will enter the premises after undergoing requisite tests and registration. Thereafter, they will need to report to the medical desk where they would need to submit their CCovid (RT-PCR negative) reports. After the submission, a personal sanitization kit shall be handed over to them,” he said, adding that detailed SOPs had been dispatched to all stakeholders of the tournament. All players and match officials will camp inside the stadium premises till the end of the tournament as a safety measure. “However, if any member is required to step out of the stadium complex due to unavoidable circumstances, he is required to obtain prior permission in writing from the JSCA secretary. Upon his return, he shall be isolated from the rest of the squad and medically assessed before being allowed back in the team environment,” reads the SOP. As for training and match play, all players/support staff will require to arrive dressed and ready to train/officiate/play matches to minimise the use of dressing rooms, washrooms and common areas. “Use of washrooms and dressing rooms/match official’s room for post-training activities (showers, recovery, etc.) shall be minimised with a “arrive, train, depart” policy. Anyone requiring to use the shower can carry their own liquid soap bottles to the ground,” says the SOP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-102
16-07-2021||Jharkhand||Mucormycosis tally reaches 100-mark in Jharkhand||The mucormycosis tally in Jharkhand reached the 100-mark on Thursday after two suspected patients were diagnosed with the fungal infection, figures released by the health department highlighted. As per figures compiled by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), East Singhbhum and Giridih reported one each of the two confirmed cases, which took the tally to 22 in East Singhbhum and six in Giridih. So far, the state has reported 100 confirmed and 58 suspected cases of black fungus, and 30 patients have died. The vaccination campaign against Covid-19 failed to gain pace on Thursday despite fresh supplies of vaccines from the Centre. Provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted that the state managed to vaccinate hardly 40,000 residents on the day. As per NHM data, the first dose of vaccines was administered to 27,998 residents while the second jab was administered to 11,547 beneficiaries. More than 22,000 beneficiaries in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years got jabbed on the day. Meanwhile, the active caseload of Covid-19 dropped further down to 336 as at least 62 Covid patients recovered on Thursday while 54 fresh cases of coronavirus infection surfaced in the state, the health department stated in its daily Covid-19 bulletin. At least nine districts – West Singhbhum, Simdega, Pakur, Khunti, Jamtara, Godda, Giridih, Garhwa and Chatra – did not report fresh Covid cases on the day, while Bokaro reported the highest spike of 14 cases. As per NHM data, Ranchi reported five cases against 10 recoveries, which brought the active caseload here down to 42. At least 10 recoveries against eight fresh cases brought the active caseload in East Singhbhum down to 48, the NHM bulletin further stated. Jharkhand on Thursday tested swab samples of 50,649 residents and about 0.1 per cent of them were found infected by novel coronavirus. So far, over 3.46 lakh people have been infected by the deadly virus in Jharkhand and 98.42 per cent of them have recovered. However, about 1.47 per cent of the patients could not survive. The state did not report fresh Covid casualties and the toll in the state remained 5120. Ranchi, as per government data, has reported 1585 Covid deaths, the highest among the districts. On the other hand, as many as 1040 residents have died of the viral infection in East Singhbhum. The doubling rate of cases in the state reached 5421.40 days against the national average of 779.99 days on Thursday, while the growth rate of cases in Jharkhand was 0.01 per cent against the national average of 0.09, government data highlighted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-102
16-07-2021||Jharkhand||Brinda Karat accuses NIA of custodial ‘killing’ of Stan Swamy||CPM politburo member Brinda Karat termed the National Investigation Agency (NIA) a “national criminal agency”, accusing it of the custodial “killing” of Father Stan Swamy. “It is not NIA — National Investigation Agency — but NCA — national criminal agency — as it is responsible for the killing of Fr Stan Swamy. All of us know that not a single officer in the NIA moves without orders from (Union home minister) Amit Shah and it is clear who is behind the death of Fr Stan Swamy,” Brinda said during a march to the Raj Bhavan in Ranchi in the afternoon to protest the death of the octogenarian and ailing Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist while awaiting bail in judicial custody in Mumbai on July 5. “We demand a judicial probe into the custodial killing of Fr Stan Swamy and the lodging of an FIR against those responsible,” the CPM leader added. A former Rajya Sabha member from Bengal, Brinda accused the NIA of fabricating and implicating rights activists in false cases. “The NIA is used to target rights activists, academics and writers who have raised voices of dissent against the Centre, and despite their fragile health they are lodged behind bars on fabricated charges and the NIA is constantly opposing their bail despite some of them being in jail for several months,” she said. “The same thing happened with Fr Stan Swamy, too, and he was denied basic medical facilities despite repeated pleas in a NIA special court,” Brinda added. She warned that the joint agitation by rights activists, social organisation and trade unions would intensify if the Centre did not accede to their demand for a judicial probe into the death of Fr Stan, an accused in the Elgaar Parishad-Maoist links case. The Hemant Soren government should review the cases of poor tribals who are languishing in jails in Jharkhand for petty crimes and release them, Brinda said. Fr Stan had fought to get such prisoners, accused of collecting fuel and fodder from forests, released. Brinda said many of these cases had not been heard for years. “Releasing such undertrial prisoners will be like paying a genuine tribute to Fr Stan Swamy,” she said. Fr Stan, who had been suffering from Parkinson’s disease, had been in Taloja Central Jail since October 9, 2020, after his arrest from his Bagaicha residence in Namkum near Ranchi on October 8 by the NIA. He was booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), which he had later challenged in court. An NIA special court denied Fr Stan bail on four occasions, with the elderly priest having cited health issues and poor medical facilities at the jail. Fr Stan died while undergoing treatment at Holy Family Hospital in Mumbai. Nearly 400 rights activists, supporters of non-BJP parties, student and trade union members under the aegis of the newly formed Shahid Father Stan Swamy Nyayik Sangarsh Morcha marched from Shahid Chowk in Ranchi to the Raj Bhavan carrying placards and shouting slogans demanding justice for Fr Stan. Later, tribal rights activist and writer Dayamani Barla, former CPI MP Bhubaneshwar Mehta and a few CPM leaders submitted a memorandum to new governor Ramesh Bais around 2.30pm. The memorandum calls for a judicial probe into the death of Fr Stan, punishment for those found responsible, grant of “martyr” status for him, recommending his name for the Bharat Ratna, immediate release of all rights activists, social workers and academics imprisoned on false charges under the UAPA and repeal of the “draconian” law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-102
16-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand salutes Stan Swamy’s fight for the oppressed classes||Father Stan Swamy was likened to tribal icon Birsa Munda and Jesus Christ at a memorial service on Thursday for his untiring fight for the cause of the oppressed and eventual victimisation and death. Speaking at the service, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren referred to the “martyrdom” of Birsa Munda and Fr Stan. “Jharkhand has never been behind in martyrdom; people have seen the likes of Bhagwan Birsa Munda and Fr Stan Swamy,” Soren said. Birsa Munda had fought the British during the tribal movement. He was arrested along with other activists in criminal cases foisted on them by the Raj and died in prison while awaiting trial on June 9, 1900. Fr Stan, accused in the Elgaar Parishad-Maoist links case, died in a Mumbai hospital on July 5 while awaiting bail in judicial custody. “The coming generations should know that Fr Stan Swamy had always been sensitive towards Adivasis, Dalits and the marginalised and when the time came, he stood up for them and did not succumb to the oppressors,” Soren said. At the memorial service at Bagaicha, the social integration centre at Namkum near Ranchi that the Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist had founded and where he lived, the chief minister’s voice choked with emotion as he said: “Fr Stan Swamy is not among us. Had he not been arrested he would have been with us. I had met him once but didn’t realise then the enormity of his long (nearly five-decade) struggle for tribals and the oppressed.” Taking a dig at the Centre and certain media outlets, Soren said: “The present ruling system is adding new chapters of suppression in the country by arresting under the UAPA those who raise the voice of dissent. Several writers, student leaders and social workers are facing consequences for speaking against injustice, and the big media channels remain silent as they do not consider those who raise their voice for Adivasis, Dalits and the oppressed as important.” Soren added: “His life was not easy and he always chose to guide and empower people. Such people come once in ages and leave an indelible mark through their actions. As a chief minister from the tribal community, I am duty bound to implement any scheme keeping in mind its impact on tribals, Dalits and the marginalised.” Felix Toppo, who was named as the Ranchi Archbishop by Pope Francis in June 2018 and installed in August the same year, paid tributes to Fr Stan by drawing a parallel with Jesus Christ. “Fr Stan Swamy was one such great man who decided to imbibe the teachings of Jesus Christ and followed in his footprints. Like Jesus Christ who raised his voice for the poor and the oppressed, faced opposition and false charges, and was tortured and crucified, Fr Stan Swamy spoke for the tribals, especially on displacement and the usurping of land and illegal detentions, was opposed, tortured in jail on fabricated charges, and finally died in custody,” Fr Felix said. The archbishop said a true homage to Fr Stan would be to imbibe his ideals and take up the cause of the poor and the oppressed in the face of any opposition. Ranchi auxiliary Bishop Theodore Mascarenhas offered two proposals to the chief minister. “The UAPA — a draconian act which does not even allow a sick person bail on medical grounds — is not required for our country…. Using the UAPA only to take advantage of it for politics is not appropriate. I would request the chief minister to kindly discuss this topic with other chief ministers,” Bishop Mascarenhas said. “Sedition cases have been continuing since the time of the British. To use this law made by outsiders against our countrymen and arrest them is not appropriate. All sedition cases on (the) Pathalgadi (movement by tribals) and other such cases should be lifted and there should be freedom of expression,” he added. Welfare economist and social scientist Jean Dreze described Fr Stan as a close friend. “I knew him for the last 15 years. Since he was already 70 years old by then, I have only experienced a small glimpse of his life. We met often during struggles and protests. He was an ideal social activist, showing simplicity and courage,” Dreze said. “I learnt something from him, to love the oppressed, the powerless, the Adivasis, Dalits, women. He was full of love but he was also angry with all injustice. He wanted struggle, not service. He had this philosophy of only standing with the oppressed and exploited who would stand up for themselves. I think we all need to learn, understand and continue his work.” Tributes were also paid by old associates of Fr Stan, Sway Ajita S. George from the Brinda Institute of Research and Social Action, Ranchi, and Father Tony Herbert.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-102
16-07-2021||Jharkhand||13-year-old drowns while bathing in Subarnarekha ||A 13-year-old boy drowned while taking a bath at Baridih ghatna in Subernarekha River along the Sidhgora thana area of the city on Thursday afternoon. The victim, Ankit Sharma, drowned in the swollen river alongside three of his friends at about 1pm on Thursday. The victim was a resident of Meera Road in Baridih Bustee, just 500 metres away from the river ghat. Though the deceased's friend succeeded in rushing him to MGM Medical College Hospital in an auto-rickshaw, but on reaching the hospital, the doctors on emergency duty declared him dead. A doctor who attended to Ankit said that had he been given necessary therapy like chest compressions followed by breath-giving repeatedly on the spot, then perhaps he would have survived. "But instead of giving the drowning victim the necessary therapy, his friends brought him to the medical college hospital by travelling about 8km. The boys who brought him here must not be aware about the therapy, "said the doctor to The Telegraph Online. The OC of Sidhgora thana, Ravi Ranjan Prasad Singh confirmed the death. "The victim's father Umesh Sharma has in a statement said that his son had gone to take bath in the river along with his friends and drowned accidentally. We have seized the body and have shifted it to the MGM Medical College mortuary for post mortem, "said Singh to The Telegraph Online. "My son would hardly go to take bath in the river, but he went over to the river ghat on being asked by his friends who reside in the same locality,” said bereaved Umesh Sharma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-102
16-07-2021||Jharkhand||Kafeel Khan flags child delivery risks, holds free medical camp in Jharkhand ||Paediatrician Kafeel Khan, a Gorakhpur doctor who was arrested twice by the Uttar Pradesh government and has emerged as a symbol of resistance against State oppression, held a free medical camp for children here on Thursday. “This is my eighth camp in Jharkhand and I will attend two more — one at Madhupur and another at Godda — this time,” Khan told The Telegraph. The Ranchi camp, held at the Haj House, was the 94th held across the country in the past three months, since Khan and a like-minded doctor Harjit Singh launched a child-health initiative called “Doctors on Road” on April 14, he said. “We organise these camps in rural and slum areas where they need medical assistance more and also try our best to provide the required medicines,” Khan said. He added that they organise the camps with help from the Smile Foundation and also local NGOs that extend logistic support. “The healthcare system is usually poor in such areas but things have become worse during the pandemic, affecting newborns the maximum,” Khan said. “Earlier, about 70 per cent of the total deliveries would be institutional deliveries. But the percentage dropped drastically during the pandemic when untrained maids handled deliveries at home that created many health problems,” he said. He said some of these deliveries at home may lead to birth asphyxia that may later turn into cerebral palsy. “There were two such babies among the first 10 I examined here,” the child specialist said to strengthen his observation. He said such cases may also happen at rural health centres or small hospitals where a paediatrician may not be immediately available at the time of birth. Asked about the diseases he found among the children residing in rural areas and slums, Khan said: “Half of our rural children are malnourished and that, in turn, makes them vulnerable.” “Besides, almost half the women in reproductive age group are anaemic which also makes the situation complicated,” he added. “We examine around 300 children on an average and also give them medicines at these camps,” Khan said, adding that he is usually joined by other doctors who volunteer at the camps. “Dr Khan was alone but still attended to about 155 children single-handedly,” said Tanweer Ahmad, founder of The Friends of Weaker Sections, a local NGO that helped organise the Ranchi camp. Khan, who had been accused of the deaths of 70 children from oxygen shortage in August 2017 while serving as an academic doctor at Gorakhpur’s BRD Medical College and Hospital, was eventually acquitted of all charges but re-arrested under the National Security Act for his controversial speech against the Citizenship Amendment Act at Aligarh Muslim University early last year. After seven months in Mathura jail, he was released on September 1, 2020, after Allahabad High Court dropped charges against him terming his arrest “illegal”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-102
