17-07-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI holds virtual annual convocation for batch of 2019-21||One of the country's premier B-school XLRI, hosted its 65th annual convocation on Saturday evening. The virtual convocation ceremony was held to bid a final farewell to the 2019-21 batch. Sandeep Kataria, global CEO, Bata Corporation, graced the convocation ceremony as the chief guest. T. V. Narendran, chairman, Board of Governors at XLRI  managing director Tata Steel, Fr. Paul Fernandes, director of XLRI,  Ashis K. Pani, dean, academics at XLRI, graduating students and their parents connected virtually. On this significant day, 506 XLRI students virtually received their graduating certificates and medals, including  178 and  181 students of Postgraduate Programmes in Management - BM, and HRM; 101  students of 15-months PGDM (General Management) Program; 06 students of Fellow Program in Management (FPM) and  40 students of the 2018- 2021 batch of  PGDM-BM Programme (Evening). On the occasion T. V. Narendran, chairman, Board of Governors, XLRI, in his address said,  "It is indeed a privilege for me to witness the 65th Convocation ceremony as the chairman of the Governing Board . XLRI was established in 1949, soon after India gained Independence, and for over seven decades has consistently striven to uphold its mission to help shape competent business leaders yet upholding high personal values and societal concerns. The industrial township of Jamshedpur is indeed fortunate to have such a progressive management school that offers much more than management-centric education programs. XLRI has always placed high importance on its students adopting ethical conduct, cultivating a values-driven culture, and shaping an integral character formation of its students." Congratulating the students on their graduation day, Narendran said, "It is rare that we come across multiple large challenges in such a short period - a life-threatening pandemic, climate weirding as a consequence of climate change and an economic downturn. In these trying times, I wish each of you all the very best in all your future endeavors, and I urge you to remember these times shall also pass, and we shall overcome these challenges as a business school, as a nation, and as a global family." Fr. Paul Fernandes, director, XLRI, congratulated the graduating students and advised them to uphold the values they have imbibed at XLRI  to be responsible leaders who are extraordinary professionals with a sensitive conscience. "It is indeed my pleasure to extend a warm welcome to all of you. This is the second time the convocation is being held virtually due to Covid restrictions. We would have been delighted to see all of you on the campus witnessing the graduates receiving your medals and diplomas physically. We are proud of your achievements and brilliant accomplishments, and my heartfelt appreciation to the faculty and staff of XLRI for assisting you on your academic journey, "he said. This year XLRI conferred the prestigious Sir Jehangir Ghandy Medal for Social and Industrial Peace on Sandeep Kataria, Global CEO, Bata Corporation. He also delivered the convocation address. Accepting the medal Kataria said, "I am truly humbled and feel privileged to accept the Sir Jehangir Ghandy Medal for Industrial and Social Peace.  I want to express my gratitude to the governing board of XLRI for bestowing on me the prestigious Sir Jehangir Ghandy Medal for Social and Industrial Peace. While any recognition is a privilege, one received from the alma mater is truly special. I am told that I am the first alumni to be bestowed upon this honour and while I humbly accept this esteemed medal, I am sure there are many more deserving alumni members. We will be seeing more familiar names on this list soon”. Delivering the convocation address to the students he said, " Hearty congratulations as you graduate from this prestigious and outstanding institution. Despite the challenges that the pandemic has thrown at you, I am sure through your hard work and innovativeness, along with ample help from the hard-working faculty members, you have grown tremendously. You are ready to take on the new normal." Sir Jehangir Ghandy Medal for Industrial and Social Peace, instituted by XLRI in 1966, in honor of the Late Sir Jehangir Ghandy, former Chairman of the Board of Governors- XLRI is awarded to those business leaders who have contributed towards the growth of their respective organizations and also impacted the growth of our nation in a significant way. The medal was instituted by XLRI in gratitude for Sir Jehangir Ghandy's yeoman contribution to XLRI and the society at large. One of the oldest medals instituted by a higher education institution, the medal is awarded during XLRIs annual convocation ceremony to recognize outstanding contributions in the field of industrial and social peace in the country. In the past years, the medal was conferred on eminent business leaders like  N R Narayana Murthy, chairman emeritus, and chief Mentor, Infosys Technologies Ltd. in 2012, Shiv Nadar, founder and chairman HCL and Shiv Nadar Foundation in 2013,  Arundhati Bhattacharya, former chairman, State Bank of India in 2014,  Mallika Srinivasan, chairman and CEO, TAFE (Tractors and Farm Equipment Limited) in 2015,  Sunil Kant Munjal, joint managing director of Hero MotoCorp and chairman, Hero Corporate Services Pvt. Ltd. in 2016,  Adi Godrej, chairman, The Godrej Group in 2017,  Anu Aga, former Chairperson of Thermax Ltd in 2019 and Sanjiv Mehta, chairman and managing director of Hindustan Unilever Ltd in 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-100
17-07-2021||Jharkhand||Two new walk-in coolers double Jharkhand's vaccine storage capacity||Two new walk-in coolers, inaugurated at the National Health Mission’s (NHM) vaccine store at Namkum in Ranchi on Saturday, will double the vaccine storage capacity of Jharkhand and help intensify the ongoing immunisation programme against Covid-19, officials said. “The new walk-in coolers will double our vaccine storage capacity and help us in strengthening the statewide immunisation programme against Covid-19,” said NHM director Umashankar Singh. Until Saturday, the state had three walk-in coolers of 16 cubic meter capacity each which could store a maximum of 10 lakh vaccine doses at a time, an engineer working with the NHM’s cold storage system said. The new walk-in coolers are 40 cubic meter in size and each of them can accommodate at least six lakh vaccine doses, the official added. “With the addition of these two bigger walk-in coolers, we will be able to store around 22-25 lakh doses of vaccines at a time,” the NHM engineer, not entitled to speak to the media, said. Walk-in coolers are used for storing vaccines at a temperature of 2 degrees Celsius to 8 degrees Celsius, optimum for vaccine storage in Indian climate. Covishield and Covaxin, the two Indian vaccines delivered from the Centre to the state, should be stored within these temperatures in order to ensure efficacy. Jharkhand is likely to receive at least 12 lakh more doses of vaccines this month and the vaccine supply from the Centre is also likely to gain momentum in the days to come, officials said. Having a storage capacity of more than 20 lakh doses will help the state in terms of logistics to step up the immunisation programme. As per latest data with NHM, the state has about 1.75 lakh doses of vaccines in stock. So far, Jharkhand has inoculated over 81 lakh residents against Covid-19. Amid the fear of a possible third wave of Covid-19, health experts in the state have said that intensifying the vaccination campaign was the only way to prevent fatalities in future. As per the schedule of vaccine supply, on July 21, at least 2,13,340 Covishield doses and 31,130 Covaxin doses will be delivered to Jharkhand. The state will receive 2,30,430 Covishield doses and 35,570 Covaxin doses on July 24. At least 2,53,580 Covishield doses will be delivered to Jharkhand the next day and 4,51,970 Covishield doses will reach the state on July 29. The state will also get 68,400 doses of Covaxin on the same day. Besides the two walk-in coolers, the NHM director also inaugurated a walk-in freezer on Saturday, which will help in storage of polio vaccines during campaigns to be run in future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-100
17-07-2021||Jharkhand||Commander of banned rebel outfit killed in encounter in West Singhbhum||The zonal commander of banned outfit People's Liberation Front of India (PLFI) was killed in an encounter with paramilitary forces under Gudri thana area in West Singhbhum district about 180 km away from here on Friday night. The slain PLFI zonal commander, Sanichar Surin, 38, was carrying a reward of Rs 10 lakh on his head. The encounter took place at Badakesel jungle under rebel-infested Gudri thana area bordering Khunti district at about 9.30 pm. Additional superintendent of police, West Singhbhum, Umesh Kumar confirmed the killing of Sanichar Surin in an encounter with the police and paramilitary forces. "Sanichar Surin who was zonal commander of the outlawed PLFI and was carrying a reward of Rs 10 lakh on his head has been gunned down in an encounter with the police and paramilitary forces in Gudri thana area on Friday late night.  A police contingent led by West Singhbhum SP, Ajay Linda, which had gone to Gudri for carrying out a joint operation with the neighbouring Khunti police is yet to return," said Kumar to The Telegraph Online.  The additional SP said the police and paramilitary forces had conducted a combing operation in the Badakesel jungle where the encounter took place. He said, therefore, it is still not clear whether the police have recovered any firearms or anything from the encounter site. According to police sources, police in Rania thana area of the Khunti district came to know about the PLFI squad's presence in a jungle near Pending village on the Khunti-West Singhbhum border on Friday evening. "On getting the information, the Khunti police carried out an operation causing an encounter at Pending jungle. But the rebels had retreated in the face of superior firepower of the paramilitary forces. By that time, the police and paramilitary forces from the West Singhbhum also joined the Khunti police and carried out a search operation," said a senior police officer. Later in the night when the search operation was still on, the police and paramilitary forces were shot at from the adjoining Badakesel. In retaliation, the police and paramilitary forces opened fire, causing one of the rebels to get killed. The police officer said the identity of the killed rebel could be established on Saturday morning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-100
17-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand upset with Border Roads Organisation for flouting norms while hiring labour||The Jharkhand government has questioned Border Roads Organisation (BRO) on the welfare of the state's migrant workers engaged in its projects and accused the central agency of failing to comply with mutually agreed terms for employing labour from the state. The state labour, employment, training & skill development department secretray, Pravin Kumar Toppo, sent a strongly-worded letter to BRO director Lt Gen Rajeev Chaudhary on Friday seeking details of the current workforce hired from Jharkhand. It has asked BRO for the total number of migrant workers it has engaged so far, the condition under which they were working, details of those who had died between March, 2020 and June 30, 2021 amid the Covid-19 pandemic and the nature of compensation paid to them. Chief minister Hemant Soren’s office released the contents of the letter on Saturday and expressed its concern over the role of middlemen in engaging workers and inadequate pay given by BRO. “In regard to the yearly induction of casual paid labourers (CLPs) from Jharkhand by BRO, the state government has been informed about thousands of migrant workers working as CLPs since March 2021. We have received multiple reports, including from media, about the precarious living and working conditions faced by our workers during the second wave of Covid-19, including the deaths of 11 CLPs during an avalanche in Uttrakhand in April. This comes as a surprise to us considering the mutually agreed upon terms of engagement of CLPs between both the parties last year,” Toppo said in his letter. As per the terms of reference signed by BRO and the Jharkhand government on June 13, 2020 for the engagement of paid labourers from 2021-22 onwards, it was agreed that BRO would apply for registration as an "establishment" in accordance with existing rules of the state government. It was also decided that an MoU would be signed between both the parties following the approval of the defence ministry (BRO is under the defence ministery) for inter-state migration of workmen. BRO had also agreed to comply with all the provisions of Jharkhand's Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act-1979 for inducting 11,815 workers as CLP through the mutually agreed framework. “However, it is surprising that migrant workers from Dumka are being taken for BRO projects through mates (middlemen), which is in violation of the mutually agreed terms, and without the knowledge of the state government,” noted Toppo. “By when does BRO intend to apply as an 'Employing Establishment' under Inter State Migrant Workmen Act 1979/Occupational Safety Health and Working Conditions Code-2020 with the state government for yearly induction of migrant workers? When does BRO intend to share a draft of the MoU for discussion with the state government and sign? How many migrant workers have died since March last year working on projects, and what the compensation paid? What are the current number of workers engaged in BRO projects, their status and entitlements provided?,” Toppo has asked in his letter. The labour secretray concluded his letter by reiterating the state government's commitment to upholding the rights and dignity of workers who toil hard to serve the country by  working in remote border areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-101
17-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand teen inches closer to International Master title at chess meet||Jharkhand's Vatsal Singhania inched closer to the International Master title with a satisfactory performance at an International Open Tournament which concluded at Paracin in Serbia on Friday. The 18-year steel city-based Vatsal, a FIDE Master and arguably the best chess hand in Jharkhand, earned his second IM norm in Paracin. He scored 5.5 points out of 9 rounds with a performance rating of 2500. He scored three wins, including one over top seed Armenian GM Ter-Sahakyan Samvel  in the second round, drew 5 games against 3 IM's and 2 FIDE Master's.  Vatsal added 32 Elo rating points. His present rating is 2371, said All Jharkhand Chess Association (AJCA) secretary Neeraj Kumar Mishra, an IM. The teen scored his first IM norm after clinching the title at the Marienbad Open held in Czechoslovakia from January 18 to 25 last year. Vatsal needs to earn one more IM norm and must also have a 2,400-plus international rating to be eligible for an IM. A player needs an international rating of 2,500 to become a Grandmaster (GM). Vatsal, who was a student of Carmel Junior College in Sonari, decided to relocate to Chennai in 2017 to pursue his chess prospects under Grandmaster R.B. Ramesh. He won his maiden international title at the Commonwealth Chess Championship in New Delhi in 2017. He also participated in the World Youth Chess Championship held in Montevideo, Uruguay, the same year. The promising chess player has played four Open tournaments at Barcelona in Spain in 2017 besides finishing third (Under-18 section) in the Aerrflot Open International Tournament in Moscow, also in 2017. He was adjudged the best junior player below international rating 2200 in Cannes, France, in 2018. Vatsal also bagged three team gold medals in rapid, blitz and standard formats, besides an individual silver in standard format, at the Asian Youth Chess Championship held in Chiang Mai, Thailand, in April 2018. He became eligible for a FIDE Master title (accorded by The Fédération Internationale des Échecs) for his performance in Thailand. FIDE Master ranks below the title of International Master but ahead of Candidate Master. The most usual way for a player to qualify for the FIDE Master title is by achieving an Elo rating of 2300 or more. Vatsal, who idolises Grandmaster Viswanathan Anand gets unwavering support from his parents Anil and Asha Singhania. His mother accompanies him to most of the offshore tournaments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-101
17-07-2021||Jharkhand||Palamau farmer busts myths, grows apples in hot climate||A farmer from Sarsout panchayat under Harihurganj block has proven that apples can be grown at a hot place like Palamau where the temperature  ranges between 42 degrees Celsius and 44 degrees Celsius. Ajay Mehta said that various experiments in apple genomics have broken the myth that apples grow only in cold, wet climates like Himachal Pradesh and Kashmir. He asserted it can be grown in hotter places too. Sources said the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology Hyderabad has played a major role in getting apples out of the wrap of the cold and wet climate category fruit. Ajay said he opted for apple growing here in 2019 with only 15 trees and this July he has enough apples hanging in his apple trees. He made it clear this yield is not for any commercial gains but to reassure himself that apple growing is possible in Palamau in future. A renowned apple farmer, Harimans Sharma of Himachal Pradesh, couriered him 25 apple saplings in 2019 said Mehta. He used 15 apple saplings here in Palamau and 10 in his other farm house in Bihar's Aurangabad district where all these 10 apple saplings withered for 'various reasons'. The apples in Palamau will be ready for consumption by the end of July. Sources said the apples face stiff resistance from the guava and papaya in Jharkhand as the middle class family's first choice is guava and papaya which come in plenty and are affordable price wise. Mehta said he is growing Thai Pink variety of guava in 60 acres of land with 42,000 guava trees at his Sarsout panchayat and sells his guavas in Bihar and UP. He said around 100 quintal a day of Thai Pink guavas goes out for sale now. The market price of his guava is Rs35 to Rs40 a kilo. Mehta has one complaint. He has not been given any support by the state or the district administration in his progressive farming. About the impact of the Coronavirus on his fruit business he said, "It has broken the system in the hardest way.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-101
