18-07-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town youth sustains burn injuries after falling into mine crater||A 28-year-old youth of Gansadih locality of Kenduadih Police station sustained 80 per cent burn injuries after falling into a crater that suddenly developed in the mine patch of a private coal excavator UCC infra, working on behalf of BCCL on Sunday morning. The incident took place at around 5am when Umesh Paswan was going to relieve himself but fell into a crater. Local residents somehow brought him out of the crater but his body sustained more than 80 per cent burn injuries and was first admitted to Patliputra Medical College and Hospital from where he was referred to Bokaro General Hospital. Meanwhile, local residents expressed their anger for the incident and held the BCCL management responsible for the incident and alleged flouting of norms responsible for the incident. Shiv Kumar, another resident of Ganasadih said, “I was going towards Kenduadih when I suddenly saw him falling into a crater and tried to bring him out but failed and then another youth of our locality also came and both of us brought him out but his body was badly burnt in the incident.” Contacted, Binod Oraon officer in charge of Kenduadih Police station confirmed the incident and said that he is undergoing treatment at Bokaro General Hospital. Earlier a similar incident took place on December 18 when Kalyani Devi, wife of a daily wage earner, a resident of Bastacola in Jharia was buried alive in a crater on December 18, 2020 in Industry colliery area of Dhanbad. On May 24, 2017 in a similar incident, Babul Khan and his 13-year-old son Rahim Khan were buried alive in a crater that developed on Jharia Dhanbad road near Surrant locality. Though, rescue operation continued after the incident for several days and even National Disaster Response Force team was pressed into service but the bodies of the duo could not be recovered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-99
18-07-2021||Jharkhand||Latehar man travels 28km to donate blood for critically ill patient||The scarcity of blood donors has hit Latehar district severely during the coronavirus pandemic. A 30-year-old man of Chandwa city travelled 28 km by car on the national highway to reach Latehar on Saturday to donate a unit of blood for a critically ill patient at the Sadar Hospital. Navin Singh came, donated blood and returned to Chandwa after meeting the ailing patient Ajay. Navin's labour and pain in coming over to Latehar from Chandwa for donating blood has won him all the accolades. Deputy commissioner Latehar Abu Imran said "We wish more and more eligible and energetic people should come forward to donate blood. It is a real service to humanity." Imran said, "I saw a text in a WhatsApp group in this regard and I immediately wrote back to the ailing one in dire need of blood that he well be taken care of and on learning that a young man from Chandwa has donated blood my conviction that there are still too many donors around and the need of the hour is to tap such blood donors gets further bolstered." The secretary of the Red Cross Society Latehar, Vikas Kant Pathak, said he had to request a co convener of their Voluntary Blood Donor Association Latehar, Kumar Nawneet who lives in Chandwa to visit Navin Singh to prepare him to travel for the blood donation in Latehar. Pathak said Nawneet met Navin and persuaded him to save the life of the patient. Navin just couldn't say no to it and got ready to come over to Latehar for donating blood. Nawneet brought Navin in a car and made the back and forth journey from Chandwa to Latehar. Speaking to The Telegraph Online, Navin said this was his second blood donation and he would be doing it all for "humanity". “As of today we have just 8 units of blood available in the blood bank of Latehar,” said Pathak. He said there are 46 patients of thalassemia and sickle anemia in the district for whom the Voluntary Blood Donor Association is always ready in times of shortage of blood.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-99
18-07-2021||Jharkhand||Telco shelter home abuse: co-accused and wife of Harpal Singh Thapper demands CBI enquiry into his death||Pushpa Rani Tirkey has demanded a CBI enquiry into her husband Harpal Singh Thapper's custodial death even as the East Singhbhum deputy commissioner ordered for a magisterial enquiry into the death which is shrouded with mystery. The 46-year-old Harpal Singh Thapper died of a cardiac arrest, but injury marks on his body mentioned in the inquest report led the deputy commissioner to order for a magisterial enquiry. Thapper, Pushpa Rani and two others were arrested in June for alleged molestation and forced labour case registered with the Telco thana following a complaint lodged by two minor girls who stayed at the shelter home, the couple would run. On Saturday, Thapper fell seriously ill at the central jail and later died at the MGM medical college hospital. The doctors who had attended Thapper at the hospital mentioned it to have been caused by cardiac arrest. The post mortem was done by a medical board under video surveillance in presence of executive magistrate Chandra Deo Prasad. The autopsy report will be prepared by Tuesday. "Following the order by the deputy commissioner for a magisterial enquiry, I will visit the Ghaghidih Central Jail after the autopsy report is obtained. I will talk to the fellow inmates of the ward where Thapper was lodged, "said Prasad to The Telegraph Online. Thapper's body was on Sunday cremated at the Subernarekha crematorium in Bhuiyandih. The deceased's wife Pushpa Rani Tirkey who was on a six hours parole from the central jail attended his last rites. Pushpa Rani has demanded for a CBI enquiry into the circumstances leading to her husband's death. "My husband had never taken pills for blood pressure as he was a healthy person. How can he die of a heart attack. Moreover, I had met him on Monday during a hearing through video conferencing for our bail from the court. He was absolutely alright then, but how did wounds develop in his legs in just five days," said Pushpa Rani, who is chairperson of Child Welfare Committee (CWC), Jamshedpur and head of the Mother Teresa Welfare Trust. The CWC chairperson said she wants a CBI enquiry into her husband's custodial death as he seemed to have died due to foul play meted out to him in the jail. Former Jamshedpur MP and Congress leader Ajoy Kumar and several leaders from the Sikh community have also demanded a high-level enquiry into the custodial death of Thapper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-100
18-07-2021||Jharkhand||Heavy rain forecast across Jharkhand in the next three days||Several regions of Jharkhand, especially in the southern and northern parts of the state are expected to witness heavy showers during the next 72 hours. IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre said on Sunday that the intensity of the rain will be more in south-western and northern Jharkhand covering three districts of the Kolhan region - East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan _ Chatra, Koderma, Latehar, Deoghar, Dumka and Godda. "The monsoon has become active over Jharkhand and this will result in moderate to heavy showers in several parts of the state during the next three days," said Abhishek Anand, head of IMD's Ranchi Met Centre. It also issued a warning of light to moderate lightning and thunder in isolated areas during the next four days. On Sunday, Jamshedpur, Khunti and several other places in southern Jharkhand experienced a good spell of rain,  ranging between 10 mm and 20 mm. the showers were accompanied by winds blowing at an average speed of 20-25kmph. Overcast conditions prevailed in several other districts in central and northern parts including Ranchi, Koderma, Hazaribagh and Ramgarh. Statistics revealed that several places like Dumka, Pakur, Bokaro, Jamtara , Ramgarh and Deoghar, experienced intermittent showers since Saturday evening due to an active monsoon. The rainfall brought respite from humid weather conditions, which most parts of the state had been witnessing for the last few days. Met office forecasts suggest no significant change in maximum temperatures during the next four to five days. Most districts across Jharkhand have been witnessing maximum readings between 32 and 35 degree Celsius for the last two days. So far, Jharkhand has received 369.1 mm of rain against a normal of 388.9 mm, which works out to a deficit of five per cent. Jamshedpur, Dhanbad, Deoghar , Hazaribagh, Palamu, Koderma and several other districts figure in the rain gainers list while Ranchi , Bokaro, Chatra, Pakur, Garhwa, Godda, Gumla, Latehar, Simdega, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan district figure in the deficit list.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-100
18-07-2021||Jharkhand||State child chess prodigy wins national school championship||Jharkhand's chess prodigy Adhiraj Mitra claimed the National Under-9 Open National School Online Chess Championship held on July 13 and 14 to once again stamp his authority across the board. The 9-year-old from Jamshedpur scored 8.5 points out of 9 games, conceding a draw to the eventual runner-up in the last round. With this national title, Adhiraj will represent the country in the Asian School Chess Championship for Under-9 to be played from July 29 to 31. "The final result after the clearance from fair play was announced on Saturday late night. Adhiraj has produced first performance at the national level, which is just a beginning what many are assured. We congratulate Adhiraj for the success and wish him the best for the Asian School Meet as well as for future events," said All Jharkhand hess Association (AJCA) secretary Neeraj Kumar Mishra, an International Master. "Adhiraj is a smart player who makes intelligent moves. It's just a start. Watch out for this boy who is going to take long strides in chess," said Jayant Kumar Bhuyan, an international arbiter and chief coach at Tata hess Centre. Adhiraj, a class IV student of Loyola School, is a trainee at Tata cradle. He bagged the under-18 title, under-12 and under-10 titles at the recently concluded chess festival organised by AJA, besides finishing runner-up in the under-14 age category. A resident of Sonari, he is the youngest in Jharkhand to achieve an international rating. Adhiraj started playing chess two-and-a-half-years back and loves to beat players of higher age groups. Adhiraj, who idolises Norwegian Grandmaster Magnus Carlsen and is a big fan of Viswanathan Anand, devotes 10-12 hours for the games. "I feel happy about winning the national school title. I Will try to give my best in the Asian School Meet," he said. The young talent had met Viswanathan Anand when the Grandmaster was in Jamshedpur to promote his book Mind Master in February last year. He had always wanted to play with the five-time world champion. The dream came true when Adhiraj went up to Anand at the JRD Tata Sports Complex where Vishy was meeting 200 chess enthusiasts and requested the Grandmaster for a game. To the boy’s utter delight, Anand said yes. He gets the required support from his parents Uttam and Runa Mitra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-100
18-07-2021||Jharkhand||Cartoons, play areas make up child-friendly ICUs in Jharkhand govt hospitals||Colourful curtains, cartoons painted on walls and a play area with slides adorn the 27-bed Paediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) and a 24-bed High Dependency Unit (HDU) set up at the Sadar Hospital in Ranchi to cater to young patients in the wake of a possible third wave of the  Covid-19 pandemic. The child-friendly décor, however, does much more than adding cosmetic appeal to these facilities, say doctors. The colourful and attractive interiors of the ICUs, they say, help in easing anxiety in children and aid secretion of endorphins, the feel-good hormone, which may improve the pace of recovery. “Aura plays an important role in recovery of Covid patients. Children suffering from the viral infection would be staying away from their parents and home during the treatment, so the child-friendly facilities have been given a makeover to ensure that the kids feel comfortable and distracted from the stress of being in a hospital,” said Ranchi civil surgeon, Dr Vinod Kumar. Stress and fear trigger the secretion of cortisol, which often worsens the symptoms in Covid patients and may lead to prolonged illness, said Dr Kumar, adding that children in particular are extremely sensitive to stress and the hospital administration was making all possible arrangements to ensure a positive atmosphere for them. The Jharkhand government had earlier directed each of the 24 districts in the state to set up at least a 20-bed special ICU for children to combat the third wave of the pandemic. An expert committee of doctors and health officials constituted by the government suggested setting up at least 1000 ICU beds for children in the state. While 500 beds would be set up in government hospitals, the remaining 500 should come up in private facilities, the committee recommended. So far, government and private hospitals in Ranchi, East Singhbhum, Koderma, Hazaribagh and Giridih have come up with child-friendly ICUs. Besides Sadar Hospital, Ranchi Children Hospital in the state capital also houses a child-friendly ICU with colourful and attractive interiors. Dr Ajit Kumar, who has been treating Covid patients at Sadar Hospital in Ranchi, admitted that a positive environment played an important role in healing and children may recover faster if they get positive vibes during their treatment. It is feared that around 7 lakh of the 1.43 crore population in the age bracket of 0 to 18 years may get affected by Covid-19 in the third wave in Jharkhand. While 2.86 lakh of the patients are likely to be symptomatic, about 8610 of them may show severe symptoms and need intensive care, the expert committee for tackling the third wave of Covid-19 in Jharkhand has predicted on the basis of trends across the world and in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-100
18-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand launches mobile RT-PCR testing labs in five districts ||Jharkhand on Saturday launched five mobile RT-PCR testing laboratories to intensify Covid-19 testing across five highly populated and Covid-affected districts as a part of its “five-pronged strategy for containment of Covid-19”, which aims at testing, tracking, isolating, treating and vaccinating residents. With the launch of these mobile vans, Jharkhand became the fourth Indian state to use mobile RT-PCR testing laboratories. So far, such labs were being used in Maharashtra, New Delhi and Karnataka, health officials said. On the basis of the current positivity rate of infection and population density, the state has launched the mobile RT-PCR lab facility in Ranchi, East Singhbhum, Dhanbad, Palamu and Hazaribag. “Each mobile lab will conduct at least 1,000 Covid tests every day,” said state health secretary Arun Kumar Singh. As per records with the health department, Jharkhand has so far conducted 37,42,193 RT-PCR tests, 15,15,264 TrueNat tests and 53,27,502 rapid antigen tests. On Saturday, the state tested swab samples of 60,579 residents and 61 of them were found to be Covid positive, highlighted government data. The state on Saturday reported 64 Covid recoveries against the 61 fresh cases of infection and the active caseload dropped to 337, the National Health Mission (NHM) stated in its daily Covid-19 bulletin. However, the active caseload jumped to 55 in Ranchi as the district reported 17 fresh Covid cases against only six recoveries on the day. At least nine districts – Simdega, Saraikela, Sahebganj, Palamu, Pakur, Khunti, Godda, Giridih and Garhwa – did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 on the day. Ranchi was the only district to report a double-digit-spike on Saturday. The state did not report fresh Covid casualties on the day and the toll remained 5120. As per government data, over 3.46 lakh people have been infeccted in Jharkhand and 98.42 per cent of them have recovered while 1.47 per cent of patients have died. The growth rate of Covid-19 in Jharkhand was 0.01 per cent against the national average of 0.09 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state was over 5000 days against the national average of close to 800 days. The state on Saturday vaccinated almost 70,000 residents against Covid-19, taking the total count of vaccinated residents above 82 lakh, a report released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. At least 57,579 residents were administered the first dose of vaccine, while 21,654 got the second jab on the day. Around 48,000 residents below the age of 45 years were inoculated on Saturday in Jharkhand. The state did not report fresh mucormycosis cases on the day. So far, Jharkhand has reported 100 confirmed and 58 suspected cases of the fungal infection. While 92 patients have recovered from the lethal disease, at least 30 patients could not survive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-100
18-07-2021||Jharkhand||Father Stan’s name to be added to the list of 52 tribal martyrs ||There was no dais or chief guest, no expensive floral decorations. Not even a speech. Just veneration for a man whom the gathering had never seen but who it believed had lived and “died for the poor”. A man whom the Indian State accused of waging war against it and held captive for nine months till, aged 84 and suffering from Parkinson’s and other ailments, he died in custody on July 5. A series of remembrances have since been held in honour of Father Stan Swamy, Jesuit priest and defender of the rights of Jharkhand’s tribal communities, with Church leaders, social activists and even the chief minister in attendance. But Saturday’s event was unusual. The venue was not an auditorium but an open courtyard at a settlement of people whose forefathers made up some of society’s worst outcasts and who even now live in grinding poverty. A small group of young and old sat on the ground at the Bankati Kusht Colony, a settlement of leprosy patients in Jharia, 8km from Dhanbad and about 145km from Father Stan’s hometown of Ranchi. A framed portrait of the Jesuit priest hung from a nail driven into a tree trunk, the single garland of marigold around it speaking of the organisers’ lack of means. In front of it had been placed a bright orange, bare plastic stool. “Father Stan Swamy kabhi yahan aaye nahi theh, hum sune hain unke baare mein. Khana aur paisa toh bahut log dete hain, par garibo ke liye marna humne Father Swamy se sikha hai (Father Stan Swamy never came here, but we have heard about him. Many people donate food and money but he has taught us how to die for the poor),” said Rahul Sharma. Rahul, a man in his mid-30s who earns a living by painting houses, was not giving sound bites to this newspaper. He was explaining the occasion to a group of fellow colony residents when this reporter walked in. The colony is home to some 200 people from 35 families, whose ancestors were leprosy patients. A few of the residents still have the disease and are under treatment. Most of the residents even now beg for a living near religious places and markets and at community functions. Philanthropists and social organisations often visit the colony to provide rations. “People do give us food and sometimes alms, considering it charity. But it’s rare for anyone to stand up to ensure justice for us and be prepared to face torture and even death for us,” Rahul said. “We have heard that Father Swamy could have easily led a comfortable life by surrendering to the will of those in power. But he chose to die for the poor and the oppressed. This is why we have installed his portrait, so it can inspire us and the coming generations.” Father Stan, who had spent five decades defending the rights of the tribal communities and other oppressed classes in Jharkhand, was arrested in the Elgaar Parishad-Maoist link case from Bagaicha in Namkum near Ranchi last October 8. Severely ill and treated unsympathetically in Mumbai’s Taloja Central Jail, he died waiting for bail, with social activists calling his death “judicial killing”. Father Stan’s name is set to be added to those of 52 tribal martyrs on a huge stone slab at Bagaicha, the priest’s social action centre and home. “The names of 52 tribal martyrs are already written on the stone slab, and Father Stan’s name will be added on Sunday,” said Father Tony PM, who is in charge of Bagaicha. The stone slab was installed as part of the Pathalgadi movement by tribal youth, which started in 2017. The youths travelled from village to village, putting up stone slabs inscribed with a summary of the Panchayats (Extension to Scheduled Areas) Act, 1996, which upheld self-governance through the traditional gram sabhas and made their permission a condition for non-tribals to buy tribal land. The movement was inspired by tribal families’ age-old tradition of demarcating their ancestral plots by erecting on their boundaries stone slabs etched with the names and contributions of their forefathers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-100
18-07-2021||Jharkhand||Telco shelter home abuse case: undertrial Harpal Singh Thapper dies in jail||Harpal Singh Thapper who would run an NGO and was lodged in Ghaghidih Central Jail after being arrested in a molestation case died under mysterious circumstances at MGM Medical College Hospital on Saturday morning. The 46-year-old undertrial was in the central jail since June 16. He fell sick at at about 2 am, leading the fellow inmates to raise an alarm. The jail administration soon shifted him to the jail hospital but as his condition continued to deteriorate, the administration rushed him to the medical college hospital in Sakchi where he succumbed to his illness at about 4 am. Thapper along with three others, including his wife Pushpa Rani Tirkey were arrested on June 16 for alleged involvement in a molestation case with the Telco thana on June 6. Both Thapper and his wife would run a shelter home under Mother Teresa Welfare Trust at Kharangajhar in Telco. Two of the minor inmates of the shelter home had alleged Thapper and a 20-year-old youth, Aditya Singh to have molested them after fleeing from the shelter home on June 5. On the complaint of the two minors, police had registered a case under POCSO Act. After the case was registered, all the four accused fled the city, but were arrested from Singroli district of Madhya Pradesh on June 15 and were brought on a transit remand to Jamshedpur on June 16. The doctors who attended Thapper observed that he might have had a heart stroke. Sakchi thana OC, Kunal Kumar under whose jurisdiction the medical college hospital falls confirmed about the undertrial's death. "An undertrial prisoner, Harpal Singh Thapper was brought to the medical college hospital in a critical condition at the wee hours today, but he succumbed to his illness at 4 am," said Kumar to The Telegraph Online. The Sakchi thana OC said the conditions under which the undertrial fell sick can be said by the central jail administration only. Superintendent, Ghaghidih Central Jail, Narendra Kumar Singh did not respond to the calls for his comment despite repeated attempts by this website. A magisterial inquest is in process for the post mortem of the body.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-100
