19-07-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren raises concern over under-employment of locals in AIIMS Deoghar||Upset over "under representation of local people" in the staff employed at AIIMS Deoghar, Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Monday sought urgent intervention of the Centre to ensure job to the natives in the premier institution. In a strongly worded letter to Union Health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, Soren said it is not "conducive" that 90 per cent of the security personnel employed there are from outside the state. "The government of Jharkhand is committed to providing employment to its people. Accordingly, we have introduced The Jharkhand State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2021, wherein there is a 75 per cent reservation in private sector jobs with a salary of up to Rs 30,000 for locals. "Unfortunately, it has come to my attention that 90 per cent of the security personnel at AIIMS Deoghar are from outside the state of Jharkhand," Soren shot off a letter to Mandaviya on Monday. Terming this as not conducive to the public good, Soren said AllMS Deoghar should be hiring locally as far as possible so that they get employees who better understand the community they serve. In this way AIIMS Deoghar will also contribute to the economic upliftment of the region. "I request you to look into this issue as a matter of great urgency and importance and ensure that the local people of Jharkhand are employed to ensure engagement with the local community," the letter mentions. Requesting for considering representation of the local people of Jharkhand at AIIMS Deoghar, he said it is with "concern regarding the under-representation of the local people of Jharkhand in the staff employed at AIIMS Deoghar" that he was forced to write the letter. The CM mentioned that setting up of premier institutes such as AIIMS has multifarious benefits as they serve humanity by providing excellence in medical care as well as imparting the highest quality of medical education. "However, a lesser known but equally necessary collateral benefit is the generation of jobs for the community," he asserted. Meanwhile, Soren in a tweet said,"For Jharkhand, especially in and around Santhal Pargana, AIIMS Deoghar will be a platform of excellence in both medical education & public health. "However, I have raised my concerns @ Mansukhmandaviya Ji on under representation of our local people in employment of staff in AIIMS." In the 2017-18 union budget, the centre announced an AIIMS in Jharkhand. Later, the state government identified a 236.92-acre plot in Deoghar to set up the hospital. In May 2018, the union cabinet approved funds to the tune of about Rs 1,000 crore for the project after which Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone. It started inducting MBBS students since 2019. It admitted 50 students in the first batch and increased it to 62 last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-99
19-07-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad police arrests vehicle lifters' gang ||Dhanbad police arrested six persons of a vehicle lifters’ gang and recovered a pickup van, motorcycle, a toy pistol and five mobile phones from them. The arrested persons during the police interrogation accepted their involvement in a recent pickup van loot incident that took place in Govindpur area on the night of July 13. Sharing details with media, Sanjeev Kumar, Senior Superintendent of Police of Dhanbad said, “The arrested criminals on July 13 looted a pick up van from near the Mahindra Showroom of Govindpur by attacking and injuring the driver of the pick-up van.” “We constituted a special team under the leadership of Amar Pandey, DSP Govindpur, comprising of others including the officer in charge of Govindpur Gangasagar Ojha and the team working to the tip off first arrested three persons including, Rohit Kumbhkar, Rahul Kumbhkar and Rahul Kumar from Govindpur area,” said Kumar and added that the trio revealed the entire modus operandi of their gang. Based on the information provided by them, police also arrested three remaining persons of the gang, including, Jitendra Rawani, Sikandar Kumar Sao and Sanjay Kumar Sharma. “All the six criminals had criminal antecedents and while one of them, Rahul Kumar, was involved in the incident of rape, others, including Jitendra Rawani and Sikankar Kumar Sao are accused of robbery and illicit liquor trade etc,” said Kumar and added that gang has only six members, all of which have been arrested by police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-99
19-07-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town bus operators face double blow||The dismal occupancy of buses has failed to improve till date, nineteen days after the intrastate bus operations resumed following the lockdown restrictions. Out of 150 of the total 250 buses presently operating on various intrastate routes from Dhanbad, the occupancy is about 40 to 45 per cent and several are lying grounded due to lack of passengers. A host of factors, including lack of permission for operation of interstate buses, high fuel prices compelling bus operators to carry out a 10 per cent hike in bus fares and fear of Covid are responsible for the low occupancy. “The lack of permission for interstate bus operation is primarily responsible for the low occupancy of operational buses,” said Sanjay Singh, Vice President of Dhanbad bus owners Association, to The Telegraph Online. “Many of the people to remote areas of adjoining Bihar working in adjoining districts like Giridih, Jamtara, Godda, used to reach Dhanbad through buses for catching buses to their hometown but since interstate bus operations are lying suspended they are not moving from one district to another leading to low occupancy in buses,” said Singh. “We demand the state government to allow interstate bus operation in Jharkhand as there is no logic of denying permission for operation of buses for such routes in which trains are already operating,” said Singh. “Such is the condition of low occupancy that after completing the trip on several days when fuel cost and labour charges are calculated against the fare income, the fare income proves much lower than the cost,” said another bus driver Sunil Singh who is also the joint secretary of Dhanbad Bus Owner’s Association. Further explaining the difficulties he said many of operators who turn to bus depot during the morning for running buses had to park their buses by afternoon due to not receiving even 20 per cent of booking. “Though, the government has not allowed any hike in fares but the double blow of high fuel prices and low occupancy has left bus operators with no option other than to carry out 10% hike in fare,” said a bus operator and added the during the lockdown last year they were given a road tax waiver but this year there is no such announcement as yet. Sumit Singh, Operator of Bundela Bus Service which operates buses between Dhanbad to various, Bihar districts including Patna, Biharsarif and Aurangabad said, “Majority of bus operators engaged in interstate bus operation are more hit by the lockdown but the others are also not in a good position.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-99
19-07-2021||Jharkhand||Palamau villages on high alert after jumbo invasion||Palamau tiger reserve officials have sounded alert in about a dozen villages falling in the contiguity of the Mandal Dam following the presence of 70 to 80 elephants there, said sources. Sources said the elephants are in three to four herds and are twenty or more in numbers in each herd. The elephants are placid in mood, said sources. The Mandal Dam comes under two forest ranges of the tiger reserve. Its one side is under Chhipadohar range while the other side is under Kutku range. Kumar Ashish, deputy director North division of the tiger reserve here, said the elephants assemble every evening at the Dam. This has aroused the interest and curiosity of the villagers. “Here we have asked our trackers and forest guards to tell villagers not to go near the herds of the elephants,” said Ashish. One source said there are a couple of elephant calves too in the herds and where there is a calf of elephant the entire herd becomes aggressive and protective all for the calf. Asked if the herds belong to the adjoining state Chhattisgarh, the deputy director North division said, “We believe it is ours. There are around 300 elephants in the PTR and they keep moving.” He however agreed that Mandal Dam has access to the elephant corridor of Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh as well. He said there is no report of any of these elephants intruding into human habitation or causing any destruction of human property like huts etc. “We have plenty of bamboos and lots of water and both are relished by the elephants like anything,” Ashish said Elephants love water games and bathing and the Dam water comes too handy. July is the month of bamboo as there sprouts shoots which attract elephants the most. Ashish said the ground staff workers have been asked to be on high alert for any tusker in the lot. A tusker is most vulnerable for its tusks which can fetch any price in the international or national black market.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-99
19-07-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Immunisation drive grinds to a halt in Ranchi||The immunisation campaign against Covid-19 came to a standstill in the Jharkhand capital on Monday as almost all the government-run sites remained non-operational owing to a shortage of vaccines, health officials said. Even though the Centre's Co-Win portal showed that at least four government-run vaccination centres administered jabs to beneficiaries in Ranchi, Ranchi civil surgeon civil surgeon Dr Vinod Kumar clarified that none of the government session sites opened its doors for vaccine beneficiaries on Monday. “All government-run session sites were closed today (Monday). We will get fresh supplies on Wednesday, and the vaccination campaign cannot regain pace until we receive more vaccines,” said Dr. Kumar. Highly placed sources in the health department said that data displayed on the dashboard of Co-Win portal is often different from the actual situation in the state as vaccination figures are updated gradually from different parts of the state. According to the official website of Co-Win, at least 10 session sites – six private and four government-run – were operational in Ranchi on Monday. At least 766 Ranchi residents were administered vaccine jabs against Covid-19 by 5.49 pm, as per the Co-Win dashboard. Local residents struggled to book vaccination slots on Monday and many beneficiaries went to private facilities and paid for the vaccines due to unavailability of slots in government-run centres. Tushar Rishi, 27, eventually got a dose of Covishield at Medica Advanced Diagnostics Centre at Bariatu for Rs780 after failing to get a slot in a government-run vaccination centre. According to Rishi, only Bero Community Health Centre and Chanho Community Health Centre were open for free vaccination, and none of the two CHCs had slots available since Sunday evening. “None of the government vaccination centres in urban areas were open today. Who would travel 20-30 kilometers outside the city to get jabbed at a CHC? The government should do something about the situation as not everyone can afford paid vaccination at private clinics,” said Rishi, a working professional. As per data shared by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Monday evening, the state had only 71,980 doses of vaccines in stock, enough to last a little more than a day. So far, the state has received 82,69,110 doses of Covishield and Covaxin from the Centre and administered 83,18,231 doses, including Sputnik V procured separately by private hospitals, to Jharkhand residents. Only Medanta Hospital administered Sputnik V doses in Ranchi on Monday. As per the schedule of vaccine supply, on Wednesday, at least 2,13,340 Covishield doses and 31,130 Covaxin doses will be delivered to Jharkhand. The state will receive 2,30,430 Covishield doses and 35,570 Covaxin doses on July 24. At least 2,53,580 Covishield doses will be delivered to Jharkhand the next day and 4,51,970 Covishield doses will reach the state on July 29. The state will also get 68,400 doses of Covaxin on the same day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-99
19-07-2021||Jharkhand||7-year-old state chess champ comes 5th at school meet||Jharkhand added one more feather to its cap as Dishita Dey secured fifth place in the recently concluded Online National School Chess Championship for Under-7 girls. The 7-year-old tied for the third to seventh spot with 7 points out of 9 rounds but failed to get the bronze as her tie-break point was less than two others. The winner of the event, Charvi A. of Karnataka had a 100% score, one point ahead of Telangana's Samitha Pungavanam who managed 8 points. The third place went to Ira Bohara of Maharashtra. On the basis of this performance, Dishita is eligible to represent India in the forthcoming Asian School Chess Championship for Under-7 Girls. Dishita is the daughter of former Jharkhand women champion Alka Das. Dishita opted to play for Jharkhand and is registered with the state chess association. "The success of Dishita, Souryadipta Sarkar, Vatsal Singania and Adhiraj Mitra in the last four days would create a new wave in Jharkhand chess," said All Jharkhand Chess Association (AJCA) secretary Neeraj Kumar Mishra, an International Master. While Souryadipta made it to the Indian team for Online World Under-12 Rapid Chess Championship (Cadets & Youth), Vatsal earned his second IM norm after a satisfactory performance at a just concluded International Open Tournament at Paracin, Serbia. Adhiraj, on the other hand, claimed the National Under-9 Open National School Online Chess Championship held on July 13 and 14 and made it to the Indian outfit for the Asian Championship to be played from July 29 to 31. All are Jamshedpur-based players. Chess prodigy Adhiraj is a cousin of Dishita who stays with her parents Jyotirmoy and Alka Dey in Calcutta. Dishita's mother Alka said she feels very happy that her daughter was going to play for the country. "It's a proud moment for me. I am leaving no stone unturned to help her make progress in chess," she told The Telegraph Online over phone from Calcutta. According to her, Dishita got attracted to chess after watching her play. "I used to take Dishita whenever I went to play in the national championships. She watched me play and developed a keen interest," Alka recalled. Dishita hones her chess skills under her Jamshedpur-based maternal uncles Dushyant and Abhishek Das. Karnataka Grandmaster M.S. Thejkumar also chips in with guidance to the kid, a student of standard II at Narayana School in Calcutta. Alka said they were planning to shift to Jamshedpur where she, along with her brothers Dushyant and Abhishek, has set up a chess cradle. "I was born and brought up in Jamshedpur and intend to produce top chess players for Jharkhand. There is no dearth of talented players in Jharkhand who can be guided to become top players," she added. Dishita, who also loves dancing, has won the recently concluded online state championship in the under-10 age group and has also represented Jharkhand in virtual under-10 and under-12 national events.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-99
19-07-2021||Jharkhand||Protest at steel city hospital over death of mother and newborn||About 100 protesters created a ruckus at the MGM Medical College Hospital after the mother and her newborn died at the hospital on Monday morning. The fracas continued for about two hours from 9am against alleged negligence by the doctor and nurses posted at the Gynaecology department of the hospital. The woman who died of post-delivery complications was 23-year-old Guddi Mukhi, wife of Bimal Mukhi. "I got my wife admitted at the medical college hospital on Sunday afternoon after her labour pain. She gave birth to a male child at about 5.30 am today but the child died a few minutes after his birth.  Subsequently, my wife was shifted to the maternity ward where she complained of acute pain in her abdomen. I approached a doctor and nurses to attend to her. But despite repeated requests neither the doctor came nor any of the nurses. Ultimately, my wife succumbed to her pain at 6.10 am," narrated Bimal while talking to this website. The bereaved man pointed out that, whereas a doctor said to wait for her visit, three nurses who were in the gynaecology department were busy with their smartphones. The protesters, including family members of the victim, were demanding the hospital superintendent to take immediate action against the doctor and the nurses allegedly responsible for the deaths of mother and child.  They were also demanding compensation to the members of the bereaved family. The protest was so intense that the hospital administration had to call in police who tried to disperse the mob. But as the protesters defied the police's attempt to get them dispersed, the hospital superintendent, Sanjay Kumar turned up before them and assured of necessary action against the doctor in question and nurses after carrying out a probe. The protesters who had come from Bhalubasa Harijan Bustee, the locality the deceased woman hailed from, had dispersed. "It was my wife's first child delivery and this is why I was taking utmost care despite my poor financial condition. But due to the medical negligence I lost my wife, " Bimal, who works as a sanitation worker under Mango notified the area committee. Superintendent, MGM Medical College Hospital, Sanjay Kumar said,"I am aware about the alleged medical negligence death of a young woman today. I have ordered an inquiry. If the allegation is proved, I will definitely take necessary departmental action against the guilty staff," said Kumar to The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-99
19-07-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant has an idea: turn Assembly premises into an orchard||Chief minister Hemant Soren on Monday mooted the idea of using the sprawling  Jharkhand Assembly premises to grow an orchard of fruit-bearing trees, urging officials to think out of the box to promote greenery in Ranchi. Speaking on the occasion of the state's 72nd Van Mahotsav on the premises, Hemant said, “The assembly is spread across 50-60 acres. I suggest the Assembly Speaker consider developing the area as an orchard. The Assembly can generate its own resources just by selling those fruits and taking up innovative farming activities on campus. If it can be done, ours could be the first assembly in the country to become self-sufficient in generating it's own resources.” Speaker Rabindranath Mahto, rural development minister Alamgir Alam, agriculture minister Badal Patralekh, several MLAs and officials of the  forest and other departments were also present on the occasion. All of them planted saplings too. Reiterating  the need to commit oneself for the sake of ecology, Hemant  said that although the government held  plantation drives every year and ran several schemes,  the need of the hour was for individuals to take  responsibility. “Each one should plant one tree and take care of it. That should be the mantra. "Today, old  trees get uprooted in the name of building infrastructure and development. But to balance it, we must ensure that we take up plantation as an individual responsibility. If we plant one fruit tree today, it will take care of  generations to come,” he said. Lauding the idea, Speaker Mahto maintained that trees weren't merely for providing oxygen. They also help strengthen our rural economy. “I remember that in my constituency (Nala), a few years back, a group of villagers planted trees on a barren chunk of land. During the Covid-19 pandemic, they were able  to sell the timber from it,” he said. The state forest department launched this year’s van mahotsav on July 13 and set a target of planting 1.67 crore saplings. In Ranchi, over a lakh saplings will be planted. At the launch ceremony, Hemant  had directed the forest department to roll out plantation drives on unused and vacant government land to boost the  state’s green lungs and conserve local ecology.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-99
