20-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand gets 2.13 lakh Covishield doses, but most jab sites stay shut||Jharkhand received over 2 lakh Covishield doses on Tuesday, day prior to the scheduled date of delivery to tide over the ongoing vaccine crisis, health officials said. However, most of the government-run session sites remained non-operational across Jharkhand, including capital Ranchi, where about 500 doses were administered by private hospitals alone until 4.30pm, as per Co-Win portal. “We received 2,13,340 Covishield doses today (Tuesday) and we are expecting over 31,000 Covaxin doses tomorrow (Wednesday). The 2.13 lakh Covishield doses were scheduled for delivery on July 21, but we got it a day prior to the scheduled date to overcome the current crisis,” Jharkhand’s immunisation officer, Dr. Ajit Prasad said. The fresh lot of vaccines would be distributed among  districts by the end of Tuesday, and the vaccination drive is likely to regain some pace from Wednesday onwards, said Dr. Prasad, adding that Jharkhand was expecting at least 10 lakh more doses of vaccines this month. Jharkhand residents, however, had a tough time booking slots at session sites and get jabs on Tuesday, the second day in a row owing to the vaccine crisis. As per data available on the Co-Win portal, only 263 of the 3377 government-run session sites opened their doors for beneficiaries, while as many as 16 private hospitals offered vaccinations. No government-run session sites were operational in Ranchi for the second day in a row. As per Co-Win portal, only three private vaccination centres and military hospital had slots available in Ranchi. While the vaccination at Medica Diagnostics Centre, Medica Hospital and Paras Hospital were paid, vaccination at Military Hospital was only open for army personnel. The situation was worse in East Singhbhum, where only one private vaccination centre, Red Cross Hospital, was open on Tuesday for paid jabs. In Dhanbad too, only Asarfi Hospital was open for paid vaccination on the day, while no session sites were operational in Bokaro and Chatra. Four government-run session sites were, however, open in Deoghar district. As per data shared by National Health Mission (NHM), the state had as many as 45,370 doses of vaccines before the vaccination process began on Tuesday. Jharkhand, as per NHM data, has received over 82 lakh doses of Covishield and Covaxin from the Centre so far. The state has administered over 83.54 lakh doses, including Russian vaccine Sputnik V, which was procured separately by private hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-98
20-07-2021||Jharkhand||Lovers found dead in Jamshedpur’s Bankasole jungle||Dead bodies of a young couple were found at Bankasole jungle falling under Ghatsila police station area on Tuesday morning. The man was hanging from a tree, while the woman’s body was found lying under the same tree. The dead couple was noticed by Some villagers who had gone to collect firewood from the jungle. It was they who alerted the police. Following which the OC of Ghatsila police station, Indradeo Ram visited the spot. “Two unidentified bodies were found in the Bankasole jungle this morning. From the preliminary investigation it could not be ascertained whether this is a case of suicide or murder. But it is for certain that the love affair led to the couple’s death,” said Ram while talking to The Telegraph Online. He said the woman appeared to be 25-year-old whereas the man was around 30-year-old, and both the deceased appeared to be hailing from decent families. He pointed out there was no mark of injury in the woman’s body except for a lacerated mark on her neck. “It might be possible that the man had first strangulated her to death and later he committed suicide by hanging himself from the tree. The fact can be unfolded after the post-mortem is conducted,” said OC. The police shifted the bodies to the MGM Medical College mortuary. According to police, the bodies will be kept there for the next 72 hours so that they can be identified before the autopsy. The finding of the couple's bodies in the jungle close to Bankasole village has triggered a sensation in the nearby villages leading to a large number of people visiting the spot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-98
20-07-2021||Jharkhand||Singh Mansion feud spills over to trade union legitimacy||The ongoing war of attrition between the descendants of the Singh mansion has shifted from the political front to trade unionism. Siddharth Singh alias Manish Singh, youngest son of former MLA of Jharia, Late Suryadeo Singh today staked claim in the property claiming to be the genuine representative of trade union Janta Mazdoor Sangh, established by his father. He also ruled off his uncle Bachcha Singh’s claim over Janta Mazdoor Sangh, clubbing it as a false claim. He even cited the recent grant of registration to Janta Mazoor Sangh, headquartered at Bihar Building Jharia given by the registrar, Labour Union of Jharkhand Government, Ranchi as a proof for his claim as the genuine representative of Janta Mazoor Sangh, which is affiliated on Central Trade Union, Hind Mazdoor Sabha. Notably, at present two different factions of Janta Mazdoor Sangh are operating in every colliery of Dhanbad. One faction - Janta Mazoor Sangh (Kunti faction) led by his mother Kunti Singh and another called Janta Mazoor Sangh (Bachcha Singh faction) led by his uncle. To validate his point, he elaborated on the history. He mentioned about the Bihar government in 2017 having cancelled the registration of 980 labour unions of Jharkhand registered in Bihar. Sustained talks between the labour unions and Jharkhand government, eventually led to these labour unions being allowed an opportunity to apply for fresh registration as trade union with the Jharkhand Government. “While we had applied for the registration within the allotted time for (October 2019), Bachcha Singh didn’t even apply and has instead challenged our application,” Said Singh. “Following the protracted two-year long fight over the objection of Bachcha Singh, our union has finally been provided registration on July 16, 2021, proving the Bachcha Singh led Union is fake,” claimed Singh. Showing the certificate of registration provided by the registrar labour union, Singh claimed the registration of his faction will end the debate of which union is genuine. “Now we will not allow any other person to use our trade union letter pads or documents by putting a bracket of any faction and take legal recourse against any misuse of the name of our trade union,” said Singh. Being the joint-secretary of Janta Mazdoor Sangh (Kunti faction) he added that there is only one Union, which is led by his mother. Notably, war of supremacy between the family members began 15 years after the death of Suryadeo Singh (1991). Bachcha Singh who joined politics in 1991 and lost two consecutive elections in 1991 and 1995 from Jharia Assembly and finally won in 2000 to become first Urban Development Minister. Relationship between Bachcha Singh and Kunti Singh, wife of Late Suryadeo Singh soured when Kunti won from Jharia in 2005 on a BJP ticket against the wishes of her brother in law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-98
20-07-2021||Jharkhand||Mission Kartavya to tackle ‘third wave’ in Jharkhand||The state health department has initiated efforts to reactivate and strengthen a well-coordinated platform between government and civil society organisations/NGOs across all the 24 districts as part of its move to step up ground works for the effective management of Covid-19 pandemic ahead of the anticipated ‘Third Wave’. Health department has named the initiative as Mission Kartavya under which every district is mandated to set up Go-CSO (government-civil society organisation) coordination committees on priority basis. The deputy commissioner has been directed to review the progress regularly and also address the shortcomings through different interventions by striking coordination with the state level committee (health department). The health department is to be updated daily about GO-CSO’s progress. A letter in this regard has been dispatched to all the districts of the state by the additional chief secretary of health department, Arun Kumar Singh. Details concerning the standard operating procedures under the mission have been mentioned in the letter. “Covid second wave posed new challenges for us and therefore strategies are being made to prevent and respond to the emerging situation of a possible third wave. A more coordinated effort of CSOs (civil society organisations) and government is the need of the hour for which key directions have been issued to every district,” he said. In Jharkhand, a mechanism for GO- CSO coordination was put in place, on the direction of Niti Aayog during the first wave of Covid-19 but later it was discontinued due to various reasons as a result of which government’s handling of the pandemic turned chaotic during the initial phase of the second wave, which led to the piling of cases, which eventually led to heavy mortalities. Health department is now putting its act in place, way in advance to address the unforeseeable threat judiciously. “Mission Kartavya is an initiative to reactivate and strengthen GO-CSO coordination platforms in the state to concert the efforts of government and CSOs with a set of planned interventions to meet the demands arising from changing scenarios in the light of the impending third wave,” he said. Under this mission, the state nodal agency of UNICEF will work closely with district nodal officers and mother CSOs identified by the district administration. At each district, administration and civil society organizations (GO-CSO) coordination committees will be set up to perform hosts of activities with an aim to track, trace and prevent the spread of the virus. Detailing on some of the objectives, Singh said, “The key tasks will include interventions required for bringing down the impact of the virus on common people and the vulnerable sections including children, migrant workers, women headed families etc during the pandemic. Concert the efforts of CSOs and government for co-ordinated, quick, and effective response, taking help from civil society organizations and community-based organizations or agencies for emergency response, mobilising and pooling resources available with CSOs and government towards co-ordinated action, measure and monitor the progress on a regular basis and also document efforts and results achieved.” The department has also drafted several ‘to-do’ things under this mission. “At district levels, district support centres (DSCs) will be established which will be further linked with block support centres and panchayat centres. The volunteers list of the district, block, panchayat and village will be available with the DSC. On the other hand, DSC will be linked with emergency services or helplines available at the district for carrying out co-ordinated works at the grassroot level,” informed another official. “This apart, activities like social mobilisation, creation of awareness, providing support to migrant workers and vulnerable families hit by Covid, identification of Covid orphans among a host of other activities will also be performed under this mission,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-98
20-07-2021||Jharkhand||Koderma: Home Guard commits suicide, kin hold commandant responsible||Rajesh Sharma, a resident of Karma West Lane of Jhumritilaiya town in Koderma district, chose to end his life, during the wee hours of Monday. The family of the deceased jawan is holding Home Guard commandant Dhiraj Jha accountable for forcing Sharma to take such an extreme step. According to his brother Sanjeet Sharma, the jawan was not being commissioned any duty by his senior Jha. This, Sanjeet believes disturbed his brother mentally. Accusing Jha of being corrupt, Sanjeet further added, “The duty commandant was charging money to assign work. My brother had taken Rs.3000 from his mother in the recent past to pay his senior. Again he made a demand of Rs.5000, on not getting it, he was not assigning work to my brother.” According to Sanjeet, Rajesh went to sleep after having dinner with the family the previous night. Early morning when his wife Sumitra Kumari woke up, she saw him hanging from the ceiling fan in another room of the house. Following which she raised an alarm, which led to people assembling at the jawan’s residence and the police being informed. Assistant sub-inspector Luv Kumar who reached the house to send the dead body for post-mortem to Sadar hospital said, “A probe has been initiated to know the reason behind Rajesh ending his life. The statement of family members has been recorded.” Koderma deputy superintendent of police, Sanjeev Kumar confirmed suicide. He said, “We have not received any complaint regarding him being tortured by commandant for duty.” However, he added that a probe would be initiated, if someone approached the police officially.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-98
20-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand asks centre to allot 95 % jabs through govt channel||Citing ‘challenging circumstances’ in vaccinating its entire population amid limited availability of private hospitals, Jharkhand has once again urged the Centre to alter the ratio and allot at least 95 per cent of the Covid-19 shots through the government route. This comes close on heels of the Jharkhand government last month asserting that ‘artificial’ tie-up of 25 per cent vaccination in private hospitals may result in many citizens missing the jabs and emphasising the need for reducing the allocation to private hospitals to 5 per cent from 25 per cent. “We have again requested the Centre to reduce the allocation to the private hospitals to 5 per cent as a major constraint in the state is limited availability of private hospitals to cater the rural and tribal population,” said Additional Chief Secretary Health, Arun Kumar Singh. Private hospitals have made requisitions for procuring barely 1.20 lakh vaccine doses out of 8.28 lakh allocated for them for the month of July, he said, adding these requisitions came from hospitals in three districts only. The state government has been emphasising that the mandate for 75:25 allocation format of Covid vaccines to the government and the private institutions needs to be reconsidered keeping in view the doctrine of colourable legislation (What cannot be done directly, should also not be done indirectly). Singh in a letter to the Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote: “This is to bring to your kind notice that in order to achieve 100 per cent vaccination, a major constraint in the state is limited availability of private hospitals to cater to rural and tribal population. ...it was requested to reduce the share of vaccination in private hospitals from 25% to 5% for the state of Jharkhand, against which, response is yet to be received.” Asserting that the state left no stone unturned in vaccinating eligible population in least time frame, Singh said private hospitals in the state have made request for procuring less than 15 per cent of the allocation earmarked for them for the month of July. He also mentioned that only 19 private health facilities from three districts have come forward for procurement out of 24 districts in the state. “As per allocation received from Government of India ..., 8,28,390 doses of Covid-19 vaccine are earmarked for private hospitals for the month of July 21. Against the aforementioned allocation, till date, requests from only 19 private facilities across 3 out of 24 districts of the state have been received from procurement of vaccines aggregating only 1,20,600 doses for the month of July which is less than 15% of the quantity earmarked by Government of India,” the letter mentions. The state urged the Centre to correct the anomaly expeditiously to facilitate total vaccination of all the eligible beneficiaries. “In light of the above facts and challenging circumstances, it is once again requested to reduce the share of vaccination in private hospitals and allocate 95% vaccines to the state of Jharkhand from the government route to enable equitable distribution of vaccines,” the letter said. The state government has earlier pleaded that its more than 75 per cent population living in the rural areas have negligible reach to private hospitals. Earlier, the Odisha government had also sought tweaking the share of vaccines to 95:5. The state had said, even in cities where private hospitals are available, on account of lack of purchasing parity, demand for Covid-19 vaccine on payment basis is very limited as Below Poverty Line (BPL) population across the state is more than 37 per cent. It said the overall objective of the government is to achieve 100 per cent vaccination, leaving no one behind, at the least possible time frame. The revised guidelines for implementation of the National Covid Vaccination Programme issued by the Government of India states that vaccine manufacturers shall provide 25 per cent of the production to private hospitals who can administer the vaccine on payment of vaccine purchase price and applicable service charge per dose. In Jharkhand of the 24 districts in the state, 13 districts are notified as Tribal districts and 19 districts are listed as Left Wing Extremism (LWE) affected districts wherein hesitancy in vaccination has been a key challenge in the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-98
20-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand trend: Covid cases, fatalities rise, vaccinations fall ||The active caseload of Covid-19 increased in Jharkhand on Monday while two more patients died after weeks of recording a downward trend in both active cases and fatalities. Jharkhand reported 64 cases against 53 Covid recoveries and the active caseload reached 336 on Monday, data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. The two fresh casualties, both reported in Bokaro, took the Covid toll in the state to 5,122. At least six cases against two recoveries took the active caseload in Ranchi to 67, while 22 cases against zero recoveries took the active caseload in Godda to 26. East Singhbhum reported seven recoveries against three cases which brought the active caseload there down to 40. Bokaro, on the other hand, reported 10 cases against seven recoveries and the active caseload in the district rose to 30. At least nine Jharkhand districts – Saraikela, Palamu, Pakur, Lohardaga, Khunti, Jamtara, Gumla, Giridih, Garhwa and Chatra – did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 on the day. The state on Monday tested swab samples of 59,751 residents and 0.10 per cent of them were found infected by Coronavirus. As per government data, over 3.46 lakh people have tested positive for Covid-19 in the state so far and 98.42 per cent of them have recovered. However, 1.47 per cent of patients could not survive. While Covid cases saw an upward trend, Jharkhand also failed to achieve satisfactory vaccination figures for the second day in a row on Monday as less than 30,000 beneficiaries were inoculated against Covid-19. As per provisional data released by the NHM, at least 20,396 residents were administered the first dose of vaccine, while the second jab was administered to only 6,309 beneficiaries. As per government data, the growth rate of Covid in Jharkhand was 0.01 per cent against the national average of 0.09 per cent on Monday, while the doubling rate of cases in the state reached 5034.75 days against the national doubling rate of 760.17 days. No fresh cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis were reported in the state on Monday, while the black fungus toll also did not rise. As per data with the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), the state has reported 100 confirmed and 59 suspected cases of mucormycosis so far and 30 patients have died, while 95 have recovered. Special training Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Monday gave his go-ahead to a special Covid-19 healthcare frontline workers training programme in seven Jharkhand districts – Ranchi, Koderma, Hazaribag, Chatra, Palamu, Dumka and Deoghar – to prepare manpower for combating a possible third wave of the pandemic. Under this programme, frontline and healthcare workers would be imparted a special 21-day training followed by a three-month on-job experience in hospitals, a press communique from the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) stated. The training sessions will be conducted under the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY) following the Centre’s directive to all the states and Union territories to impart special training to their healthcare and frontline workers for better management and treatment of patients during any future wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-98
