21-07-2021||Jharkhand||3-year-old elephant calf found dead in Palamau||A three-year-old male elephant calf was found dead with an abdominal abscess on Tuesday in the jungles of Bhajna under Kutku range of the Palamau tiger reserve, said the deputy director north division, Kumar Ashish. The wound pocket was found replete with maggots. The body was sent for post mortem on Wednesday July 21 and buried at the same spot where it was found dead, said Ashish. Ashish said the mother and other elephants remained with the deceased for hours on Tuesday but on Wednesday there was no mourning around the corpse. The burial site is the same as the death site for any wild life following a standard protocol of disposal of the wild life. The abscess could have proved fatal for the calf opined Ashish. He said the calf might have eaten something which caused this abscess or wound in his abdomen that took a toll on him. Asked if this calf had any gun shot or external wound to which he said there was none except that he had an abdominal abscess. There is no foul play he said with confidence. Ashish said poaching for a calf is highly unlikely as they don’t have tusks. “We rule out this casualty to be any man - elephant conflict just because he was a calf and villagers have special feelings for the calves of the elephants,” said Ashish. Sources said villagers may cause harm to adult elephants in sheer anger or revenge for the loss of their huts or standing or stocked food grains but spare their calves on religious grounds. Sources said the herd of the elephants tries hard to prop up the dead but when convinced that the dead will not rise abandon it faithfully.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-97
21-07-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city to host first state para sports event||The recently constituted managing committee of Jharkhand Para Sports Association (JPSA) has chosen Jamshedpur as the venue for its first event to be organised on Thursday. The bocce competition for students of steel city's special schools will be conducted at Children's Park in Sonari from 8 am to 11.30 am. The event is being organised jointly by Jamshedpur Para Sports Association (an affiliated unit of JPSA) and Jeevika, an NGO working for the promotion of intellectually impaired. Bocce is played with eight large balls and one smaller target or object ball called a pallina. For one player teams, each player throws four balls. When there are multiple players in a team, a playing rotation is determined at the start of a game and is maintained throughout the entire game. "We have invited all special schools operating in Jamshedpur. Intellectually, orthopaedically and visually impaired students will be part of the bocce competition," said JPSA secretary Avtar Singh. According to him, the event will generate interest among the challenged. "We have started organising an event with Jamshedpur as a venue. We will subsequently conduct similar competitions, including other disciplines as well, across different districts of Jharkhand," added Singh, also president of Jamshedpur Para Sports Association (JPSA). Two students each from invited special schools will take part in the competition. "We are expecting around 30 students (boys and girls)," he said. Singh, a seven-time national cycling champion who has also captained the Indian team in 1982 Asian Games in New Delhi, said the venue has been decked up for the competition. "Marking would be done before the start of the event. Special students would enjoy the competition," he added. The organisers have invited deputy superintendent of police (traffic) Babban Singh as the chief guest. Sonari-based Jeevika has been conducting bocce competitions for years and the JPSA thought it wise to include it as joint organiser.  “Joining hands with Jeevika would help us in conducting the event in a hassle-free manner. We would also like to work with the NGO while organising future events,” a JPSA functionary said. The state para sports outfit will be working at the grassroots in village, panchayat, block, district and state level to promote the challenged and help them win medals in national and international competitions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-97
21-07-2021||Jharkhand||JAC asks schools to hold pending practicals by July 26||Jharkhand Academic Council has asked all affiliated schools and colleges to conduct all pending practical examinations from July 23 and upload marks on the council's website latest by July 26 so that the year’s matriculation and intermediate results can be declared on time. JAC’s directive was issued on Wednesday after it received a nod from the state disaster management department on Tuesday to go ahead with the remaining practical exams. Around seven lakh students had enrolled for this year’s matric and intermediate exams. Before the lockdown was clamped in the state in April in the wake of second wave of Covid-19, JAC had already conducted offline practical exams for more than 70 per cent students. In the second week of June, the state government announced cancellation of exams because of the pandemic and directed JAC to develop a mechanism to evaluate board aspirants and publish results on time. JAC began the evaluation process from July 3 by asking all schools to send marks of internal/practical exams completed before the lockdown. It also submitted a proposal to the state disaster management department on clearing the pending practicalexams. JAC has devised 80:20 formula. For both classed 10 and 12, 80 per cent marks will be based on student’s performance in the previous year while the remaining 20 per cent will be based on internal assessments or practical exams coducted by schools. “Before the lockdown, practical exams were already held for more than 70 per cent eligible students. Only a few are left, and exams for them can easily be completed now. Schools were asked to be ready to hold practicals anytime. Everybody was just waiting for formal orders,” said an official. JAC chairperson Arvind Prasad Singh has said that the evaluation process was on track and that the council was trying to publish results by this month- end. “We began the work fixing July 31 as the target date. If all goes well, we hope to achieve it,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-97
21-07-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town leprosy patients get new lease of life||More than 100 leprosy affected persons are producing and selling a wide range of products like, bed sheets, operation theatre gowns, gauze bandage, gamchha, lungi etc at Barmasia Rehabilitation and Training Centre (BRTC). Courtesy the training and other infrastructural support in the form of machineries, like powerloom provided to them at the BRTC as part of their comprehensive rehabilitation carried out at the centre by Damien Welfare Centre. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Fr Ajay Tiru, Director of Damien Social Welfare Centre said, “We have 18 power looms, 25 charkhas, one rolling machine, two sewing machines at the centre through which production takes places on regular basis and products are sold to different hospitals and nursing homes of Dhanbad.” “All the inhabitants of the colony are the leprosy cured (Leprosy negative) persons so there is no risk of any spread of any infection due to use of products made by them,” said Tiru. Echoing Tiru’s sentiments, Shaligram Tandon, Manager of Barmasia Rehabilitation  and Training Centre said, “The basic aim of training provided to them at the centre is to make the inmates of the centre self dependent and to bring them into the mainstream of society and training centre cum workshop has three large halls besides, two store rooms etc.” “Besides training support and machinery, free water and power supply is provided to them at 35 cottages lying in the centre,” said Tadon and added that the toilets have been constructed by Dhanbad Municipal Corporation at the centre. “We also arrange for education of around 20 children of these leprosy cured persons at different adjoining private schools and because of the fact they have brought into the mainstream of society through their activities, these children are leading a normal life with other children,” said Tandon and added that their centre operates not like a commercial organization but rather  as a welfare activity. “We carry out the production despite sometimes suffering losses as part of our effort to bring these people into the mainstream of society, who once due to the diseases were compelled to live at the fringe of the society,” said Tandon. Shankari Mahto, one of four permanent staff of the centre, who looks after the maintenance work of the centre said “all the inmates of the centre live in quite cordial manner as part of a family despite belonging to different socio-economic and religious backgrounds.” Samir Sheikh, 55, one of the residents of the centre who is a native resident of Nawada but living at the centre since last 20 years along with his wife Munni Sheikh, 50, said, “All the staff and manager treat us at the centre as our family members so we could not leave the centre despite our family members at our native place now requesting us to return back to Nawada.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-97
21-07-2021||Jharkhand||Recovered patients fear relapse, stay away from govt post-Covid care centres||The fear of a relapse and lack of awareness about post-Covid health complications are keeping those who have recovered  away from the dedicated post-Covid care centres across Jharkhand, health officials said on Wednesday, claiming that not even 1 per cent of the over 3.41 lakh people who have survived the lethal ailment have visited the government-run centres in the state. “Only about 900 Covid survivors have visited the government-run post-Covid care centres across Jharkhand so far. The number is quite low if we take into consideration the total number of Covid survivors in the state,” said Dr. Ranjit Mandal, the nodal officer for post-Covid care management in Jharkhand. Lack of awareness about post-Covid complications was one of the reasons for the fewer visits at the post-Covid care centres, admitted Mandal, adding that the health department was running awareness campaigns about post-Covid health disorders and encouraging people to seek medical advice in case of complications following recovery from Covid-19. The state has not reported any post-Covid fatalitiesy following the directive of the health department on July 10 to maintain daily records of people suffering from post-Covid ailments, said Mandal. A source involved in post-Covid management admitted that people with severe post-Covid symptoms may not have undergone treatment at any of the post-Covid care centres in the state. “They (Covid survivors) may have directly gone to specialist doctors,” the source said. As per government records, as many as 3,46,778 people have been infected by the SARS-CoV-2 virus in Jharkhand and 3,41,336 of them have recovered. If officials working with the post-Covid management system in the state are to be believed, then hardly 0.26 per cent of the Covid survivors have visited post-Covid care centres in the state so far. “Since Covid-19 primarily affects the respiratory system, post-Covid management of a patient often involves physiotherapy, which includes breathing exercises,” said Dr. Mandal The Jharkhand government has set up post-Covid care centres in Sadar Hospitals of all the 24 districts in the state. Besides, Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), Tata Main Hospital (TMH) and many private hospitals also run dedicated post-Covid care centres. Most Covid survivors who seek medical help suffer from shortness of breath, muscle cramps and fatigue. Cases of arrhythmia, lung fibrosis and severe cardiac problems have also been reported in some Covid survivors in the state, say doctors. However, Jharkhand has not reported any case of post-Covid bone death or avascular necrosis, which causes death of bone tissues due to lack of blood supply, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-98
21-07-2021||Jharkhand||Health minister's one-time driver held for exploiting woman||State health minister Banna Gupta's driver, Munna Singh, accused of exploiting a woman on the pretext of marrying her was arrested on Wednesday morning. A resident of Bhatia Bustee in Kadma, Singh, 45, was arrested from his house at 7am by a team from Kadma thana. He was sent to Ghaghidih Central Jail after being produced before a judicial magistrate. "Munna Singh was arrested from his house in Bhatia Bustee this morning. The accused was arrested after investigation into an alleged physical exploitation case in which he was accused was completed by deputy superintendent of police (Headquarters-II) Kamala Kishore, " said the Kadma thana OC, Manoj Thakur to The Telegraph Online. Thakur said as the victim belonged to Scheduled Caste community and the case had been registered under SC/ST Act beside other relevant Sections of the IPC, it was investigated by a DSP rank officer. He pointed out this was the reason it took so much time for the arrest of the accused. The victim, mother of two minor girls, had initially wanted to lodge an FIR against Munna Singh with the Kadma thana in May, but after the police refused to accept the complaint allegedly due to his influential background, she had filed the complaint with the court. In June, the court had instructed Kadma thana to register a case against the accused. Significantly, Munna Singh was the personal driver of the health minister Banna Gupta for the past eight years. But the minister discharged him from driving service after Munna's name figured in the exploitation case. The accused had been exploiting the victim since 2012 and had even taken Rs 6 lakhs from her during this period. But when she pressured the accused for the marriage in January this year, he snapped of the relationship. Later on when the Kadma police had to register a case against Munna Singh on the instruction of the court, the accused had started pressurising the divorcee to withdraw the case. The victim had on July 16 approached the office of the senior superintendent of police, M Tamil Vanan demanding the arrest of the accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-98
21-07-2021||Jharkhand||Barely 15,000 able to get jabs in Jharkhand as free doses remain scarce ||Jharkhand managed to vaccinate barely 15,000 residents against Covid-19 on Tuesday owing to the crisis of vaccines in the state. As per provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), 11,254 residents were administered the first jab, while 3,975 beneficiaries received the second dose on the day. As per NHM records, the state has managed to vaccinated only about 50,000 residents in the past three days. A majority of vaccine beneficiaries had to rely on private facilities to get the jabs on Tuesday, officials involved in the immunisation campaign said. Meanwhile, the active caseload of Covid-19 dropped in the state on Tuesday. As per a bulletin released by the NHM, at least 33 fresh cases of coronavirus infection surfaced in the state in the past 24 hours, while 49 Covid patients recovered during the same period. The active caseload in the state dropped to 320. As per data compiled by the health department, at least nine districts – Pakur, Koderma, Khunti, Gumla, Godda, Giridih, Garhwa, Dumka and Chatra – did not report fresh Covid cases on Tuesday, while almost all the 24 districts witnessed a dip in the active caseload. Fresh cases, however, outnumbered recoveries in Bokaro and the active caseload there rose to 33 as the district reported eight cases against three recoveries. Ranchi, on the other hand, reported one fresh case and one recovery. Two persons were found infected in East Singhbhum, while eight Covid patients recovered there. The state did not report fresh Covid casualties on Tuesday and the mortality rate in Jharkhand remained 1.47 per cent against the national average of 1.30 per cent. Covid-19 has claimed 5,122 lives in Jharkhand so far. Jharkhand on Tuesday tested swab samples of 53,185 residents and 0.06 per cent of them were found infected by the deadly virus. So far, over 3.46 lakh people have tested positive for Covid-19 in the state and 98.43 per cent of them have recovered. The growth rate of Covid in the state was 0.01 per cent against the national average of 0.09 per cent on Tuesday, while the doubling rate in Jharkhand rose to 5624.92 days against the national doubling rate of 814.53 days, highlighted government data. While active Covid cases dropped in the state, Jharkhand did not report fresh cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis on Tuesday. As per government data, Jharkhand has so far reported 100 confirmed and 59 suspected cases of the fungal infection. Black fungus has claimed at least 30 lives in the state, while 95 patients have recovered from the disease, notified as an epidemic by the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-98
