22-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharia farmer kills pregnant daughter for inter-caste marriage||A Jharia based vegetable retailer killed his 20-year-old pregnant daughter for marrying a man from another caste of his locality on Wednesday night. The accused, Rajkumar Sao, a resident of Barfkal in Jharia took his daughter and wife to Nawatand area of Govindpur police station on the pretext of showing them a newly purchased land where he attacked the daughter from behind and fled. Sunita Devi, mother of the deceased, lodged an FIR against her husband for killing his daughter. Police later reached the site and recovered the body of Khusi Kumari alias Khusbu Kumari and collected other evidence and sent the body for post mortem. Khusi Kumari married Karan Bauri, a petrol pump staff of Saraidhela and a neighbour of Rajkumar Sao at Barf Kal, eight months ago against the wishes of her father by eloping to Bengal. Sunita Devi, shocked by the incident, first reported the incident to Jharia police but was later sent to Govindpur police station where she narrated the entire story after which  police swung into action, recovered the dead body and launched raids to arrest him. Sources in the Barfkal locality said that Rajkumar Sao, suffered a setback due to his daughter’s marriage with a youth of another caste of his locality and he tried in vain to convince his daughter to leave Bauri. Sao, who was nursing a grudge against his elder daughter, arranged and solemnized the marriage of his younger daughter on July 16 with a youth of his caste. “Nobody knew what was going in his mind although he was in depression after the marriage of his elder daughter,” said a relative of Rajkumar Sao at Jharia. The DSP of Govindpur, Amar Kumar Pandey, said,“The accused was not happy with the marriage of her daughter with a youth of his locality and prima facie it seems that he killed her as part of a conspiracy on Wednesday night and later fled the site.” “We have sent the dead body for post-mortem and began raids to arrest him on the basis of a complaint lodged by the deceased's mother,” said Pandey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-96
22-07-2021||Jharkhand||Visually impaired team wins first state para event||The four-member visually impaired team sprung a big surprise by emerging champions in the first bocce competition for students of special schools organised by Jamshedpur Para Sports Association at Children's Park in Sonari on Thursday. The team of Krishna, Sanjana, Ramdhan (Divyajyoti Netrahin Vidyalaya and Anita (National School for the Blind) exhibited a great sense of hearing while competing in the event. It received a huge round of applause from the guests, including chief guest and deputy superintendent of police (traffic) Babban Singh. The team members rolled the ball nearest to the target while stamping their authority. The participants walked home with a cash reward. Bocce is played with eight large balls and one smaller target or object ball called a pallina. For one player teams, each player throws four balls. When there are multiple players in a team, a playing rotation is determined at the start of a game and is maintained throughout the entire game. "The performance of the visually impaired team surprised us a lot. It was unbelievable and a great achievement to say the least. All members of the team are totally blind and sense the target on hearing the sound of a bell. Plaudits to the team." said Jamshedpur Para Sports Association president Avtar Singh. Singh, a seven time national cycling champion who captained the Indian team in 1982 Asian Games in New Delhi, added that the visually impaired generally don't get an opportunity to perform. They can very well display their talent if given an opportunity," he pointed out. Singh, who also happens to be the secretary of Jharkhand Para Sports Association (JPSA), promised that the state association would provide ample opportunity to the visually impaired and help them perform. The visually impaired outfit edged out joint team Jeevika and School of Hope (intellectually impaired) and La Gravitea (hearing impaired) who finished second and third, respectively. The competition was organised jointly by Jamshedpur Para Sports Association (an affiliated unit of JPSA) and Jeevika, an NGO working for the promotion of intellectually impaired. Former international cyclist Inderjeet Singh, social worker Jawaharlal Sharma, ND Subramaniam and Sushant Singh were among those present on the occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-96
22-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Congress seeks judicial probe into Pegasus affair ||Over a hundred Congress party members, holding banners and posters against the Modi government at the Centre, marched to Raj Bhavan and held a sit-in there for over two hours on Thursday to demand the resignation of Union home minister Amit Shah and a judicial probe into the Centre's alleged attempts to snoop on  journalists, activists and politicians using Pegasus, an Israel-made spyware. The Congress, which is part of the ruling JMM-led alliance government in Jharkhand, denounced the Centre for attacking individual’s right to privacy. "The party will settle for nothing less for the illegal acts committed by the Modi government," said state party president Rameshwar Oraon. "One by one, the Modi government has been denting democratic institutions and now people’s right to privacy, enshrined in the Constitution, is also being violated. The Supreme Court must take cognizance and institute a judicial probe and the home minister must go,” he demanded. Over 150 party men took part in the political congregation. State agriculture minister and Jarmundi MLA Badal Patralekh wondered if anyone was safe in the country today. “From bedroom to bathroom, we are being watched by Modiji. He is so terrified and insecure that no one seems to be safe in this country,” he said. Notably, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) too attacked the Centre after the controversy surfaced, demanding a joint parliamentary probe (JPC) to unearth the truth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-96
22-07-2021||Jharkhand||Twin fires at old airport building, police headquarters in Ranchi||Fire broke out at two high-security buildings in Ranchi, one at Birsa Munda Airport and the other at Jharkhand Police Headquarters in Dhurwa, on Thursday, triggering panic among staff members. While fire-fighting teams swung into action and doused the flames within minutes at both buildings, the reason behind the fires was yet to be ascertained by the time this report was filed. No casualties were reported in any of the two buildings. However, furniture and other items were gutted at both places, said eyewitnesses. At about 11.15 am, airport staff saw smoke emanating from the room of the Chief Airport Security Officer (CASO) situated in the old airport complex, used as as an office now. Firefighters rushed to the spot to douse the fire, while airport staffers moved jet fuel tankers away at a safe distance from the site. “The fire did not affect flights scheduled for take-off and landing on Thursday,” said the airport director. “With god’s grace, we managed to avert a major tragedy and no casualties were reported. Our fire fighters swung into action as soon as possible and doused the fire within 15 minutes,” said Ranchi airport director Vinod Sharma, adding that some sofa sets and tables were gutted in the incident. A highly placed source at the airport said that at least five jet fuel tankers were at a distance of less than 100 meters from the site of the incident when the fire broke out and moving them away at a safer distance was the first priority of the airport staff. “We kept our calm and simply followed the rule book for fire fighting to avert a disaster,” he said. Barely a few hours later at 2pm, another fire broke out at the Tracking, Network & System (TNS) section on the second floor of the Police Headquarters. The staff members had to use emergency fire extinguishers available on campus to prevent the fire from spreading. Eyewitnesses said there was no major loss of property in the incident, but some old files were burnt to ashes . Although fire tenders reached the police headquarters within 30 minutes, staff members had already controlled the blaze by then, sources said. Sources said that a short circuit could be the reason behind the fire incidents in both buildings. However, no official statement regarding the cause of the fire or losses incurred due to it was issued by the airport authorities or Jharkhand police till evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-96
22-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharia residents stuck in vulnerable coal zones as Covid stalls rehab||The Jharia rehabilitation has once again taken a backseat due to the second phase of Covid after some spate of activity between December 2020 and March 2021. The gravity of the situation can be ascertained from the fact that not a single family’s rehabilitation has been carried out from the fire affected areas to safer places after April, although more than 20 incidents of gas emission, subsidence and house collapse have taken place since the onset of monsoon. In one of recent incidents, a 28-year-old youth of Kenduadih had sustained 80 per cent burn injuries after falling into a crater on July 18. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, Rajendra Paswan, a resident of Kujama area of Jharia, one of the underground fire affected sites said, “The coal company BCCL has been given responsibility to carry out some temporary shifting in view of any incident during monsoon but not a single shifting has been carried out by Jharia Rehabilitation and Development Authority (JRDA), the agency meant for executing Jharia Master plan.” Murari Sharma, an octogenarian resident of Jharia who is also the working president of Jharia Coalfield Bachao Samiti, a citizen's group said, “Discussions were held with a few residents on January 16, this year for preparing a revised master plan as the existing Jharia master plan has completed its tenure of 12 years with rehabilitation of only around 5 thousand families out of total 1.04 lakh families.” “We are not hopeful of any movement forward as there is no comprehensive policy with regard to shifting of Legal Title Holders (owners of land and property) and until and unless lucrative package is announced for them the rehabilitation is not likely to accelerate,” charged Sharma and added that under the original Jharia master plan they were offering a 50 square meter land for the Legal Title Holders which was not an acceptable proposal. Notably, only 6358 quarters have so far been constructed by JRDA at Belgarhia for rehabilitating non legal title holder (encroachers) of fire affected sites at Belgarhia area of Baliapur block. S.K.Choudhary, Chief Manager of Jharia Rehabilitation and Development Authority, said, “Construction of 8000 more quarters are in progress at Belharia for non LTH families under three different phases of work out of which 88% work of 2000 quarters in complete, while 70% work of m more 2000 quarters is also ready while 50% work of remaining 4000 quarters has been completed and work is still under progress.” He accepted that Covid had slightly affected the pace of civil as well as rehabilitation work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-96
22-07-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant inaugurates coal town varsity's new campus ||The Binod Bihari Mahto Koyalanchal University (BBKKU) on Thursday inaugurated its own campus spread across 25 acres of Bhelatand Mouza at its first convocation after operating from the abandoned building of Government Polytechnic Institute Nirsa ever since its inception more than four years ago. The seven-storey administrative building along with the five storey academic block was inaugurated virtually by chief minister Hemant Soren from Ranchi in the presence of lawmakers, ministers and university officials, degree recipients, teachers and researchers at Bhelatand. Notably, both the buildings constructed at a cost of around Rs 348 crore by Jharkhand State Building Construction Corporation Limited are part of a series of buildings, including the Central Library, Vice Chancellor’s Bungalow, Examination department building, central auditorium planned at Bhelatand, for which construction is on. Addressing the gathering online from Ranchi, Chief Minister Hemant Soren said, “At the time of pandemic when almost all the activities have been affected, continuing education is also a big challenge when university, colleges and schools are also lying closed.” “Though, online mode of education is practice but everyone is not able to take full benefit of online education due to various constraints and we are working to ensure the full benefit of online education for all through technological infrastructure development,” said Soren. He also exhorted the universities to launch such courses, which can fulfil the manpower requirement of various government departments and cited the example of shortage of Amin’s in revenue department as found during a recent review of the revenue department and suggested the BBMKU,Vice Chancellor, Anjani Kumar Srivastava to launch the course of Amin so that the manpower shortage can be meted out. Ramesh Bais, Jharkhand governor cum chancellor of state universities, in his pre-recorded statement said, “The degree recipients and pass outs of the university with receipt of the degrees have been entrusted today with the responsibility of solving the challenging issues facing the society, nation and humanity at large through the knowledge earned by them during the course of their education.” “In the era of globalisation and commercialisation when new challenges are being posed before the society everyday besides the opportunities the onus of turning all the challenges into opportunities lies upon the academia” further said Bais. Vice Chancellor Anjani Kumar Srivastava in his address to students, teachers, researchers and degree recipients, apprised them about the journey of the last four years and challenges that turned into the opportunity of establishing a university deprived of its own building, senate, syndicate which were gradually overcome one by one. Notably, altogether 51 toppers of two successive batches of  Post Graduation ( 2017-19 batch, 2018-20 batch) and under graduation (2016-19, 2017-20) were provided gold medals during the offline function at CIMFR auditorium while degrees to around 60,203 students were awarded online through the colleges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-96
22-07-2021||Jharkhand||IMD warns of heavy rain, flash floods till Saturday in Jharkhand ||IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre has issued an alert for heavy rains with the possibility of flash floods in several areas across Jharkhand for the next 48 hours, pointing out that the monsoon trough was passing through Ranchi. "The active monsoon trough, coupled with a cyclonic circulation and low- pressure zone, would result in heavy rain, especially in central, north western and southern Jharkhand during the next two days," a duty officer at Ranchi Met office said on Thursday, terming the warning as a "yellow alert", issued when there are chances of heavy rain with the possibility of flash floods. The monsoon trough at mean sea level was on Thursday  passing through Firozepur, Rohtak, Aligarh, Churk, Ranchi and  Balasore, extending upto 0.9km above mean sea level.  A cyclonic circulation was also prevailing over west Uttar Pradesh extending between 1.5km and 3.1km above mean sea level. Weathermen said a  low- pressure area was also persisting over northwest Bay of Bengal along with an associated cyclonic circulation extending upto 7.6km above mean sea level. Ranchi Met office also warned of moderate thunder and lightning in several districts of the state during the next two days. Statistics indicated light to moderate rain at many places over Jharkhand during the past 24 hours. The highest amount of rainfall was recorded at Koderma (57.2mm), followed by Ranchi and Ramgarh (30mm) and Chatra and Gumla (25mm). As many as 60 per cent IMD observatories across the state wtinessed rain during the last 24 hours. Data revealed that 15 observatories recorded around 10mm rain during the past 24 hours. The forecast for the next four days indicated no major changes in maximum readings which was hovering between 31 and 34 degree Celsius in most districts. So far, after the onset of the monsoon, Jharkhand has actually received 414mm rain against a normal of 431mm, a deficit of four per cent. Data suggests that as many as 14 districts, including Ranchi, Dhanbad, Dumka and Palamau, figure in the rain surplus list while 10 districts figure in the rain losers list. Weathermen said the heavy rain during the next 24 hours will help in minimising the deficit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-97
22-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand vaccinates 1 lakh residents after three-day lull||Jharkhand administered jabs to around 1 lakh residents on Wednesday using fresh supplies of vaccine doses from the Centre, a decent improvement from the barely 50,000 innoculations it had managed in the past three days due to an accute shortage of vaccines. The state, as per provisional data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), administered the first dose of vaccine to 65,272 residents, while at least 29,326 beneficiaries received the second dose. As many as 52,500 residents below the age of 45 years got the first jab, while 1,755 residents in this age group got the second. As per data shared by the NHM on Wednesday evening, Jharkhand had 1,74,370 vaccine doses in stock. The state has so far received 84,82,450 doses of vaccines and utilized 83,72,693 of them, records with the health department show. The active caseload of Covid-19 dropped to 315 in Jharkhand on Wednesday as the state reported 46 cases against 51 recoveries, according to an NHM bulletin. However, the active caseload rose to 73 in Ranchi as the district reported 10 cases against four recoveries, the bulletin highlighted. At least 11 districts – Saraikela, Ramgarh, Palamau, Pakur, Lohardaga, Latehar, Jamtara, Giridih, Garhwa, Dumka and Chatra – did not report fresh Covid cases on Wednesday. Barring Ranchi, no other district reported a double-digit-spike in Covid cases on the day. At least seven recoveries against four cases brought the active caseload in East Singhbhum down to 31, while nine cases against five recoveries took the count of active cases in Bokaro to 37 on Wednesday. At least three districts – Garhwa, Giridih and Khunti – had zero active cases of Covid-19 by Wednesday evening, government data highlighted. The state on Wednesday tested swab samples of 52,218 residents and 0.08 per cent of them were found infected by SARS-CoV-2 virus. As per government data, over 3.46 lakh people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand so far and 98.43 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of the patients could not survive. No fresh casualties were reported in Jharkhand on Wednesday and the Covid toll in the state remained 5,122. The Covid growth rate, as per government data, was 0.01 per cent in Jharkhand against the national average of 0.09 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state was more than 5780 days against the national doubling rate of 792.80 days. No fresh cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis were reported in the state for the third day in a row on Wednesday. So far, 100 confirmed and 59 suspected cases of the fungal infection have been reported in Jharkhand and at least 30 patients have died, while 98 have recovered, highlights data compiled by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-97
22-07-2021||Jharkhand||Pan-India protest to seek justice for Father Stan Swamy||The People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) along with other tribal rights and social organisations will organise a series of protests across the country from July 23 demanding justice for Father Stan Swamy. “Though PUCL units will be organising protests on their own across the country on July 23, in Ranchi, which was the karmabhumi (workplace) of Father Stan Swamy, we will form a human chain on the same day, with adherence to Covid protocols, at the Albert Ekka Chowk. Different tribal and human rights organisations and civil society groups have decided to join our protest,” said Arvind Avinash, national organising secretary of the PUCL. He said that a delegation would be going to the Raj Bhavan to submit a memorandum after the human chain protest. “After taking part in the symbolic human chain agitation, a small delegation will go to the governor’s house following all Covid protocols and submit a memorandum addressed to the President (Ram Nath Kovind) demanding justice for Father Stan who was killed in custody by the NIA, a unit of the Union government, and the prison authorities,’ said Avinash, who is also the general secretary of the PUCL Jharkhand unit. The memorandum will also demand the repeal of draconian legislation like the UAPA and sedition, release of all political prisoners, compensation to the family members of undertrial prisoners and action against authorities for lodging fabricated cases against innocent people and withdrawal of sedition cases lodged against Fr Stan and other tribals by the erstwhile Raghubar Das-led BJP government. “The PUCL units in other 24 districts of Jharkhand will also be organising a similar agitation demanding justice for Fr Stan. On August 9, which is observed as World Indigenous Day, we will also be staging agitation in different parts of Jharkhand. On August 15, we will protest against the attack on voices of dissent by the federal government by taking out candlelight marches in different parts of Jharkhand,” Avinash said. “Apart from Jharkhand, similar protests will be held on July 23, August 9 and 15 across the country. However, the other state units have been given liberty to determine the nature of agitation. They can organise a silent march, stage dharna or form a human chain. Our objective is to stage our protest in a peaceful manner,” he added. “We will be staging an agitation in Bokaro on July 23,” said Gautam Bose of PUCL Jharkhand. The PUCL, founded by social activist Jai Prakash Narayan, has been raising its voice against human rights violations across the country. The New Trade Union Initiative (NTUI), a non-party union having pan-India presence, has decided to stage an agitation across the country on July 23 demanding repeal of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, withdrawal of the new labour codes and rescinding of the Essential Defence Services Ordinance, 2021, among others. Father Stan, who had spent nearly five decades raising voices for rights of tribals and oppressed in Jharkhand, was lodged in Taloja Central Jail since October 9, 2020, after his arrest from his Bagaicha residence in Namkum near Ranchi the previous day by the National Investigation Agency in the Elgaar Parishad-Maoist link case. He was charged under the UAPA provisions. However, there was not a single trial and his bail petition citing health issues and poor medical facilities in the central jail was rejected by the NIA special court on four occasions. Father Stan died while undergoing treatment under custody at Holy Family Hospital in Mumbai on July 5.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-97
22-07-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Jharkhand govt prohibits Shravani Mela and Kanwar Yatras ||The Jharkhand government has decided on prohibition of Shravani Mela and Kanwar Yatras at Baba Baidyanath Dham temple in Deoghar district because of the  Covid pandemic for the second year in succession. Nearly 40 lakh devotees draw holy water from River Ganga at Sultanganj (in Bhagalpur, Bihar) and travel almost 109km to Deoghar to offer it at the Baidyanath Dham during the holy month of Shravan which commences from July 25. “Considering the recent Supreme Court decisions on prohibiting devotees for Rath Yatra in Puri and forcing withdrawal of Kanwar Yatra in Uttar Pradesh due to the Covid pandemic we have decided against allowing Shravani Mela and Kanwar Yatras,” confirmed Deoghar deputy commissioner Manjunath Bhajantri. However, the government is making efforts to ensure devotees see the rituals at the temple online. “We will be arranging for showing live the rituals held in the temple 45 minutes in the morning against 45 minutes in the evening through www.JharGov.tv (Jharkhand’s own web television and portal) for the convenience of the devotees. We hope to start showing it from the morning of July 25 itself,” the deputy commissioner said. Incidentally, deputy commissioner of Deoghar is the ex-officio chairman of the Shravani Mela committee which oversees the month-long spiritual fair, one of the longest spiritual fair of Asia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-97
22-07-2021||Jharkhand||Human chain against Stan death in Latehar and Gumla districts||The seeds of resistance sown by Father Stan Swamy continue to bear fruit even after his death in custody as more than 500 villagers took part in a human chain protest on Tuesday in Latehar and Gumla districts of Jharkhand. The symbolic human chain stretching over 2km was not only a protest against the custodial “killing” of the 84-year-old Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist but also strengthened the resolve of the villagers to continue their agitation against any attempts to acquire land for the proposed Netarhat firing range. The tribals under the aegis of Kendriya Jan Sangarsh Samity, Latehar-Gumla, which has been spearheading agitation against the Netarhat field firing range pilot project, formed the human chain from Chatakpur (near Mahuatand, Latehar) to Chainpur in Gumla district. “Father Stan Swamy was with us during our agitation in the early 90s (1993-94) against land acquisition for the firing range. He had been a pillar of strength advising us on strategies and helping us know our constitutional rights and legal provisions. We have come to know how the frail elderly man was literally killed in custody, denied bail and was sent to hospital in critical condition where he died on July 5. The agitation is a small token of our tribute to Father Stan,” said Jerome Kujur, secretary of the Samity and a resident of Gumla. The protest against the firing range has been going on since the 1990s, when the Union government had earmarked about 1,471sqkm in Netarhat hills spread over Gumla and Latehar to build a firing range for the army, prior to the formation of Jharkhand. Two state notifications of November and March 1992, under section 9(1) of the Manoeuvres Field Firing and Artillery Practices Act, 1938, notified this area for periodical field firing and artillery practice for 10 years. Separate notifications in 1992 and in 2002 extended the field firing and artillery practice till 2022, according to reports. Owing to enormous resistance in 1994, practice in the range and the displacement of over 2 lakh tribals across 245 villages was stopped. However, as the deadline for the renewal of the notification nears, the Adivasi community has renewed its struggle. The villagers who would be displaced by the firing range braved the rain and abided by Covid rules during the human chain protest on Tuesday maintaining social distance and wearing masks. They raised placards and shouted slogans against the death of Fr Stan. Separate delegations submitted memorandum to officials at three places. “Memorandum was submitted to the Mahuatand sub-divisional magistrate (in Latehar), the Chainpur sub-divisional magistrate (in Gumla) and the Gumla sub-divisional magistrate,” said Kujur. The memorandum, which was addressed to governor Ramesh Bais, demanded a judicial probe into the death of Fr Stan, ensure punishment to those allegedly responsible for his death, immediate release of human rights activists and political prisoners who have been detained on fabricated charges, repeal of draconian laws like the UAPA and accord martyrdom status to Fr Stan. The protesters said they will follow the path shown by Fr Stan and continue to raise their voices of dissent against any attempts to displace villagers for the firing range. Tributes were also paid to Fr Stan by members of Johar (a tribal organisation with which he was associated) at Chaibasa in West Singhbhum district on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-97
22-07-2021||Jharkhand||Cry against FIR delay by Latehar police in encounter death ||A conglomeration of human rights organisations in Jharkhand is planning to take legal recourse over the delay by Latehar police to lodge an FIR against security forces who allegedly shot dead a villager after accusing him of being a Maoist. The Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha has been forced to take the step as it has been three weeks since Jiramani Devi submitted an application with the Garu police station (on June 29) demanding that an FIR be registered against security forces allegedly responsible for the death of her husband Bramhadev Singh, 24. “The FIR is yet to be registered by the police which is a violation of the constitutional right of an individual. The gram sabha has also written to chief minister Hemant Soren asking for action against the security forces for the fake encounter of innocent villagers,” said Siraj Dutta, a member of the Mahasabha. A team of human rights activists under the aegis of the Mahasabha had visited Piri village under Garu block in Latehar district where Bramhadev was shot dead on June 12. The team in its fact-finding report released on June 23 claimed that innocent villagers carrying single-shot country-made guns were taking part in an annual hunting festival when they were fired at by security forces. “The security forces took Bramhadev Singh, 24, to the edge of the forest and fired three shots at him, which led to his death,” states the report, a copy of which has been submitted to Latehar deputy commissioner Abu Imran. A copy of the report is available with The Telegraph. The report said the incident was not an “exchange of fire”. “Innocent villagers were fired upon by the security forces. The six Adivasis associated with the incident (including Bramhadev) were out on a traditional hunting ritual, as every year for the Sarhul festival. They all carried a Bhartua gun, which has been in their families from generations. This single-fire gun is used to hunt small animals and birds like rabbits, pigs and chickens and to protect crops from animals,” the report says. “Suddenly, the security forces started firing without any warning. The villagers, however, did not fire any shots from the Bhartua gun they were carrying. They instead raised their hands, shouted that they are common people, not Maoists and requested the police to not shoot. But the security personnel kept firing. One of the bullets fired by them hit one of the villagers Dinanath in the hand. Another bullet hit Bramhadev in the body,” it says. The firing continued for about half an hour. Five of the men fled from the forest fearing for their life. Thereafter, the security forces took Bramhadev to the edge of the forest and fired three shots at him, which led to his death, according to the report. The villagers also told the team of activists that none of the six victims were associated with the Maoists. “The FIR does not mention Bramhadev’s death by the police firing. According to the FIR, this incident was an exchange of fire in which the first shot was fired by the group of armed villagers and some people fled into the forest. The FIR also mentions that Bramhadev’s body was found at the edge of the forest. These statements are contrary to the facts,” the report states. It also says the police have filed a case against the six Adivasis, including Bramhadev, under various sections (including the Arms Act). “This too exposes the true intention of the police — it wants to maintain pressure on the villagers to prevent them from questioning the police firing and the murder. In the police station, all the five victims were made to sign (or put their thumb impression) on many pages (some blank and some written) without informing them about the content of these pages,” the report says. The team also urged the deputy commissioner to ensure an FIR was lodged against the security personnel and officials responsible for the killing of Bramhadev and firing on the villagers. They also demanded the FIR registered by the police against the six Adivasis be quashed and administrative action against the local police and senior officials for filing wrong statements and FIRs. Latehar superintendent of police Prashant Anand said the case has already been handed over to the CID for investigation and that they are complying with all norms of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC). “The case had already been handed over to the CID for investigation. We are complying with all norms laid out by the NHRC,” said Anand. However, Dutta of the Mahasabha said: “Even if the case has been handed over to the CID, there should be an FIR registered on the basis of complaint lodged by the victim’s wife as it is a constitutional right.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-97
