23-07-2021||Jharkhand||Pegasus shows Modi govt's true colours, says Hemant||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren has said  that the Pegasus snooping controversy is testimony to the Narendra Modi-led government’s sustained attempts at violating the privacy of individuals enshrined in the Constitutional. Talking to reporters at  Project Building on Saturday evening, Hemant  said, “The uproar across the nation over illegal spying by the Modi government is justified and natural as people’s right to privacy has been challenged once again. Whatever is happening in the country, if you ask me, I genuinely don’t know which way  our country is headed  under this regime.” On the IT raids on the  Dainik Bhaskar Group on Thursday in various cities, the chief minister said, “I am of the view that all  constitutional institutions of the country are now only working as weapons of the Union government.” Hemant,  who is the executive president of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) that is leading an alliance government along with Congress and RJD in the state, has been one of the most vocal critics of  the Modi regime. He has criticized and blocked the Centre's  attempts to allow commercial mining blocks in the country,   questioned the government on the alleged mishandling of the Covid-19 pandemic since its outbreak last year, and trained guns against the three contentious farm laws.h His party, the  JMM, has also criticised the Union government over its response to deaths of Covid-19 patients due to oxygen scarcity in the ongoing monsoon session of  Parliament while the Centre has maintained that no casualties occurred due to O2 scarcity. Calling the Centre’s response as a farce, JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattarcharjee said, “When it comes to taking credit of giving rations, vaccines and the like,  Modiji merrily puts his photograph in hoardings across the country. But it hides behind concocted data and interpretations when the time comes to own up for  failures." Taking a dig at ICMR and the Union health ministry, which has been regularly issuing circulars since the outbreak of the pandemic last year, he said, “Everyone knows that when the pandemic Act is in force, all matters related to its handling is governed and directed by the Centre. ICMR, and the health ministry has been regularly issuing protocols right from identifying Covid victims to its hospitalization to medication and even burial/cremation. Has it ever issued protocols to identify the cause of death? NO. "But now the Centre claims that states haven’t given data and is blaming the latter stating health is a state subject. JMM has been demanding audit of all the deaths in the country. Why is Modi government running away from it?,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-95
23-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Parents' group asks Hemant to reopen schools ||Ranchi: Members of a parents's organisation met chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday and urged him to consider reopening schools in the wake of a fall in fresh Covid cases, citing a crisis among lakhs of people dependent on educational institutions for their livlihood. After the meeting, Private Schools and Children's Welfare Association (PSCWA) president Alok Dubey said, “We have urged the state government to work out a dynamic mechanism to reopen schools now so that classes can be regularized. One can initially begin with senior classes. We have also proposed that every school must ensure that before being allowed to reopen, all their staff is duly vaccinated.” (Our Correspondent) Bokaro: A major fire broke out in the Blast Furnace-2 of Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL), a unit of Steel Authority of India Limited, after a torpedo ladle carrying hot metal got punctured. Hot metal of 1300 degree celsius leaked out of the torpedo shooting up fire at the spot. The flames rose so high that they engulfed the entire torpedo. About half a dozen fire tenders took about two hours to douse the flames. Senior officials of the BSL plant reached the spot. Fortunately, no casualty has been reported. The incident took place when the locomotive was ferrying hot metal-laden torpedoes to Steel Melting Shop (SMS). Due to this incident the production of Blast Furnace-II has also been affected. The movement of locomotives from the blast furnace to SMS remained affected for several hours. The damage assessment in the incident is yet to be done. Chief of communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan said, "At about 8.40am, due to a leakage in the Torpedo Ladle in Blast Furnace-2, hot metal spilled over on the tracks and caught fire. No personnel were affected in this incident." "The fire tenders were immediately pressed into service and in about one and a half hours, the flames were completely doused. A portion of the cables in the cable gallery was affected by the fire. Normal operations resumed within two hours of the incident," he added. The BSL plant is seeing a rise in accidents in the past few months. Recently a contract worker fell in a ladle having hot metal. Earlier, two employees sustained burn injuries with the radiation of hot metal that spills from the ladle at Steel Melting Shop (SMS)-2. (Our Correspondent) Jamshedpur: Seven youths were caught with 94 packets of "brown sugar" from near drum factory under Adityapur thana area in the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district about five km from here on Friday. Of those arrested, six were from Ranchi and had come to Adityapur for procuring the narcotic drug from a local with links to the peddlers' network. Those arrested were identified as Sunny Verma, Vishal Kumar, Nitesh Jha, Saheed Akhtar, Abhishek Singh, Sunny Tirkey and Mohammed Tahir, all in their twenties. According to Seraikela-Kharsawan district superintendent of police, Anand Prakash, till recently the brown sugar sale racket was confined to Adityapur Muslim Bustee only, but now it has spread to new localities in Adityapur and also in several parts of the steel city. "When youngsters from Ranchi can come here for the drugs, the network of the drug-peddlers must have spread upto Ranchi," said the superintendent of police, adding that they will work to dismantle the network soon. (Kumud Jenamani) Dhanbad: Cricketers and other citizens of Dhanbad on Friday congregated at Jealgora Cricket stadium to wish success to the India team representing the nation in Tokyo Olympics. The special programme was organised by Jealgora Cricket Academy, one of the oldest cricket clubs, in association with Jharia based social organisation Youth Concept. Besides waving of tricolour to cheer for Indian team, more than a dozen saplings were also planted to spread the green message. “The country has high expectations from the players who went to Tokyo Olympic and we wish them all success in different sporting events,” said Abdul Karim Ansari, patron of Jealgora Cricket Club. Ritam Dey, a level I coach of BCCI, present during the occasion said, “As four players of our own state, including three girls are part of Indian contingent this time to the Olympic games being held in Tokyo, we expect better results for the team.” Shamil Kaul, one of the under-14 team player of Jealgora Cricket Club girls team said, “It’s time for the Indian team to prove that who we are and what we area since the Indian team has the hunger to perform and hunger to achieve goal we are confident our players will come out of the game with flying colours.” (Praduman Choubey) Jamshedpur: The traffic wing of the district police on Friday stripped four-wheelers off the VIP plates in a special drive along with the helmet-checking at Sakchi locality of the steel city. As the act of intercepting VIP cars and stripping the number plates was a tough job, deputy superintendent of police (Traffic) Babban Singh was himself present during the drive which continued for two hours from 11 am. During the drive, the traffic cops caught two cars which were found fitted with VIP plates that were stripped off and the car drivers were penalised. On one of the VIP plates that was removed was inscribed "Ex-police inspector" whereas on the other VIP plate was a symbol of Trinamul Congress beside the designation "district general secretary." The senior traffic cops said they had earlier carried out awareness campaign about the drive against those using VIP plates. "We have started the drive against the vehicles using VIP plates because during a traffic drive such vehicles would easily skip the checking points even if the drivers would violate the seatbelt norms, attracting wrath from other car owners, "said the traffic DSP, adding that the special drive will continue. Hundreds of four-wheelers can be seen on the roads with VIP plates, sporting designation of the political parties they belong to. Owners of such vehicles also tend to use tinted glass without paying heed to the traffic rules. (Kumud Jenamani)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-95
23-07-2021||Jharkhand||Two steel city lakes to resume angling next week||Angling in the steel city is all set to resume next week after it was suspended for over a year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The activity will resume at Beldih lake (near Dhatkidih) and Bara lake (near Sidhgora). The aquatic population at all the lakes had ample time to grow since angling was suspended. The Catlas at the lakes weigh between 40-50 kg. Ruis and mirgals weigh around 35-40 kg. The Jamshedpur Angling Club (JAC) has requested Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services Limited (TSUISL) to give permission for resuming the activity. The company is the custodian of city lakes. "The company had asked us to submit a letter for granting permission. We have already submitted the same. We are sure to get the necessary nod for resuming angling from next week," said JAC general secretary Sukumar Ghoshal. According to him, angling would resume at Beldih and Bara lakes only as Jayanti Sarovar in Jubilee Park will still remain out of bounds. "It's good that angling is going to resume at other water bodies at least. The members were very keen about it," Ghoshal added. He said the Club would celebrate Bharat Ratna JRD Tata's birth anniversary on July 29 in a symbolic manner. "We host an annual angling competition to mark the occasion. However, we won't conduct the competition this year too. We'll celebrate the day by garlanding the photo of the great man near the Beldih lake," Ghoshal said. The angling competition, which witnesses participants from Calcutta, Kharagpur and Bhubaneswar among other cities, was a non-starter last year due to the pandemic. Jayanti Sarovar is the usual venue for the competition. Though the landmark Jubilee Park has re-opened for morning and evening walkers but TSIUSL has still kept the Jayanti Sarovar out of bounds for anglers. It is not clear when JAC would be permitted to use it for angling. "I am looking forward to testing my patience at Beldih lake. Very happy that angling will resume next week. Fish stock is very impressive. Hope I'll be able to net a big one," said Md. Sarfaraz, a Club member. Other members also expressed happiness more so because of fish stock at both Beldih and Bara lakes. Most of them have already kept their fishing rods ready and would also prepare the bait in a day or two.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-95
23-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand High Court orders Dhanbad MLA's jail shift||The Jharkhand High Court on Friday instructed the Dhanbad jail administration to ensure that former Dhanbad MLA Sanjeev Singh is returned from Dumka Central Jail to Dhanbad Divisional Jail within two weeks. The instruction was given by a high court bench of Justice S.K. Dwivedi while pronouncing judgment on the petition of Sanjeev Singh. Sanjeev Singh was arrested by Dhanbad Police on April 11 in connection with the murder of former Deputy Mayor Niraj Singh of March 21, 2017. On April 20, 2017 Singh was also shifted to Birsa Munda jail of Ranchi for security reasons owing to enmity with various local gangs and was brought to Dhanbad Divisional Jail on February 28, 2018 after a protracted legal battle. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Md Javed, lawyer of Sanjeev Singh, said that the order has vindicated their stand on the issue that the transfer of Singh to Dumka Central Jail was uncalled for and unjustified. The bench simultaneously rejected the criminal petition filed by Dhanbad jail administration against the lower court order of February 25 to return Sanjeev Singh to Dhanbad divisional jail. Dhanbad Jail administration on February 21, shifted Sanjeev Singh from Dhanbad divisional jail to Dumka Central Jail on security grounds. Sanjeev Singh through his lawyer Md Javed filed two petitions on February 22 in Dhanbad court including one seeking show cause notice against Dhanbad jail Superintendent Ajay Kumar for transferring him in haste and other seeking immediate transfer back of Sanjeev Singh to Dhanbad jail. The Dhanbad court of Additional District and Session judge, Ravi Ranjan ordered the transfer back of Sanjeev Singh while hearing the petition of February 25 but the Dhanbad Jail administration on March 20 moved a criminal petition in Jharkhand High Court against the lower court order of transfer back of Sanjeev Singh. Meanwhile, Sanjeev Singh through his lawyer also filed a petition in high court in April demanding his transfer back. The high court completed the hearing on both the petitions on July 5 and reserved its order which was passed on Friday. The transfer of Sanjeev Singh to Dumka Central Jail also witnessed political connotations as BJP leaders of the district led by his wife Ragini Singh and others comprising of Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha and district president of BJP Chandrashekhar Singh staged a day-long dharna on February 23 opposing the transfer to Dumka Central Jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-95
23-07-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant unveils projects worth Rs 84cr to spruce up Ranchi and its outskirts||Chief minister Hemant Soren laid the foundation stone for a slew of urban projects, worth over Rs 84 crore, for various wards of Ranchi on Saturday, directing officials to ensure their timely completion to provide the state capital with a much-needed facelift. As many as 45 projects, across the length and breadth of the capital, covering both Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) and Ranchi Regional Development Authority (RRDA) limits, will now be initiated. These include lanes, drains, beautification of some roundabouts and installation of street lights, among others. The projects also include renovation of some of the historical and landmark sites of the capital. For instance, Ranchi Lake (Bada Talab) will be cleaned up and beautified, the dilapidated Jaipal Singh Stadium in the heart of the city in Kutchery will be given a facelift, the Rock Garden at Kanke Road will be renovated with a new entrance and Morabadi ground will be equipped with a new sound system. Hemant appealed to residents to keep the city neat and clean and act as gatekeepers of society by highlighting wrongs. “Ranchi being the capital of the state must look like one. My government is working towards this mission so that people coming to this city are in awe of the place. At the same time, residents here will have access to proper facilities,” he said. “Earlier, this place used to be the summer capital because of its pleasant weather, and greenery. Over the years, it has lost that identity. Everyone must work together to restore the city’s green lungs by planting saplings wherever they can. I have already directed officials to do so on all empty government land,” he said. Hemant spoke of how unplanned development, coupled with increasing population, had led to urban chaos. "Many localities are such that even two-wheelers can’t enter, let alone an ambulance," he said and appealed to owners of plots in the city to voluntarily part with at least 5 ft space (gift deed)  to the government so that such problems can be addressed. Friday's function was held at Jaipal Singh Stadium. Among the others present were MLAs C.P. Singh (Ranchi), Naveen Jaiswal (Hatia) and officials of the state urban development department, RMC and RRDA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-95
23-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharia social worker promotes dance among his students||Jharia based private tutor Pinaki Roy, engaged in providing free education to more than 200 coal picker children, has recently constituted a professional dance troupe called Nrirtyanna with 20 of his students. The 49-year-old tutor has arranged for their training and other gadgets like music system to help them become self dependent with the income earned through dance performances. The troupe is led by 19-year-old Suman Kumari, daughter of a private security guard of Kendua and a beneficiary of Pinaki Roy’s education programme. She has started uploading their dance videos on Youtube and other social media platforms to garner followers. “I learnt dancing, watching television etc and have not received any formal training but the encouragement given by Pinaki Roy sir propelled us to train others of my locality,” said Kumari, a student of History honours at SSLNT women’s college. “All our dances are based on inspirational songs, classical or dances based on patriotic songs etc,”she said. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Roy, an alumnus of Vishva Bharati University, said,“During the teachers day programme last year, Suman hesitatingly sought my permission to stage a dance which I readily gave and got stunned with their astounding performance.” “The idea of developing a professional dance troupe of these children suddenly clicked in my mind for which some honing of their skill and gadgets were required,” said Roy and added he arranged a music system and dresses for dance performances for these children through his contacts. Notably, Roy who acts as a guide and translator for foreign visitors to Jharia also sought their help to fund for the dance troupe. “Gradually a troupe of around 20 children was formed all of whom carry out regular practice at their respective places from 11am to 1pm from Monday to Friday while on Saturday –Sunday training by Suman Kumari is conducted at my place,” said Roy and added that they are seeking sponsors for troupe which has been constituted with the aim of breaking the traditional stereotypes in the society besides making these children self dependent. “While carrying out the dance practice, these children also have to continue regular work of coal picking to support their family income as all of them belong to an extremely backward section of the society,” said Roy. “I will also try to seek the support of my alma mater Vishva Bharati University for their dance training,” said Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-95
23-07-2021||Jharkhand||Students, activists form human chain to demand justice for Stan Swamy||Braving heavy rain, over 50 people comprising activists, intellectuals, students and representatives of civil rights groups came together at Albert Ekka Chowk here  on Friday to form a human chain to protest against the “injustice” meted out to Father Stan Swamy, the Jesuit priest who died in judicial custody in Mumbai early this month after being denied bail on health grounds. Holding placards and banners, the protestors termed Stan’s death "institutional murder" and demanded the anullment of UAPA to stop unending attacks on the right to dissent by the ruling regime. Prominent social and tribal activist Dayamani Barla, who was in the gathering,  said that the event was part of a national campaign to seek justice for Swamy being pu together by over 100 organisations. “The way an 84-year-old person, who worked all his life for the cause of the poor and tribals, was arrested by NIA and later treated in jail, despite his age and his ailments, speaks volumes of the way the Centre disregarded human rights violations of people who have been critical of its anti-people policies. Despite this, Stan Swamy continued to fight till his last breath. But several like him, who were embroiled in false cases for political reasons, are continuing to face the  ire of draconian laws like UAPA. We demand the repeal of UAPA and the release of rights activists and innocent people jailed in sedition cases,” she said over phone. A delegation of rights activists is scheduled to submit a memorandum to Jharkhand governor Ramesh Bais on Saturday, said an activist associated with Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha (JJM). Siraj Datta of JJM said, "Our memorandum will place half a dozen demands before the governor. We demand justice for Stan Swamy, repeal of UAPA, sedition act and other draconian laws, the release all political prisoners, restoration of the right to bail, accountability for filing false cases and compensation to victims, immediate withdrawal of pathalgadi cases and end of police repression in Jharkhand,” he said. Swamy was arrested in October last year by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the violence in Bhima Koregaon in 2018 and was booked under UAPA for alleged links with Maoists. He was among a dozen other human rights activists across the country arrested by the NIA in the case causing global uproar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-95
23-07-2021||Jharkhand||Fresh case in Ranchi takes black fungus tally to 101 in Jharkhand  ||One more case of Covid-induced mucormycosis surfaced in the state capital Thursday, taking the black fungus tally in Ranchi to 38 and that in Jharkhand to 101, latest data released by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) highlighted. However, the deadly fungal infection did not cause fresh casualties on Thursday. As per government data, the state has so far reported 101 confirmed and 59 suspected cases of black fungus. While 98 patients have recovered from the infection, at least 30 could not survive, IDSP data reveals. While mucormycosis cases rose, the state reported a drop in active cases of Covid-19 on Thursday. As per the daily Covid-19 bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), at least 32 Covid recoveries against 22 cases brought the active caseload in Jharkhand down to 305. None of the 24 districts reported a double-digit-spike in cases, while Deoghar reported the highest spike of five cases. At least seven recoveries against three cases brought the active caseload in Ranchi down to 69, while eight recoveries against one fresh case brought the active caseload in East Singhbhum down to 24, the NHM stated in its bulletin. At least 13 Jharkhand districts – West Singhbhum, Sahebganj, Pakur, Lohardaga, Latehar, Khunti, Jamtara, Hazaribag, Godda, Giridih, Garhwa, Dumka and Chatra – did not report fresh Covid cases.  As per government data, there were no active cases of the viral infection in Giridih and Garhwa. The state on Thursday tested swab samples of 64,119 residents and 0.03 per cent of them were found to be Covid positive. Of the over 3.46 lakh residents who have been infected by coronavirus in the state so far, at least 98.43 per cent have recovered and 1.47 per cent have died. Jharkhand reported zero Covid casualties on Thursday and the toll remained 5122. Meanwhile, the doubling rate of cases in the state jumped to 6520.47 days, which is about eight times higher than the national doubling rate of 780 days. Jharkhand on Thursday vaccinated around 65,000 residents against Covid-19. As per data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the first dose of vaccine was administered to at least 43,452 residents, while the second jab was administered to 21,346 beneficiaries. Around 40,000 of the total beneficiaries vaccinated on the day were younger than 45 years. As per NHM data released on Thursday evening, the state had 1,44,280 vaccine doses in stock. So far, Jharkhand has received 84,82,450 vaccine doses from the Centre and utilized 84,72,387 of them. Besides Covishield and Covaxin doses supplied from the Centre, some private hospitals have also procured Sputnik V vaccine and administered them to locals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-96
23-07-2021||Jharkhand||HC raps Jharkhand hospital for death of patient ||The Jharkhand High Court castigated the state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) on Thursday while hearing a case on the death of a woman patient of black fungus due to medical negligence and called for an investigation. A division bench of Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan Prasad noted that while doctors had done an excellent job while treating Covid-19 patients since the outbreak of the pandemic, there have been several instances of apathy and inadequate treatment of patients. The case pertains to Usha Devi, a black fungus patient who died early this month apparently due to delays in much-needed surgery at RIMS despite being in the hospital for over a month. Her children  wrote to  chief minister Hemant Soren and the chief Justice, seeking their intervention. Ultimately, the court took cognizance after which her surgery was conducted at RIMS, but within days she died. “Many times attendants of patients live in the dark over the line of treatment and progress of the health condition of the  patient as hospitals tend to not inform them properly. The doctors must understand that they are Covid warriors fighting the virus and not their patients,” the bench opined. The court also asked RIMS director Kameshwar Prasad to explain the reasons behind  her death. The director told the court that Usha Devu's operation went well but that she succumbed  due to post-surgery complications. Lashing out at RIMS for delaying her surgery in the first place, the court ordered the director to hold an inquiry and furnish a report via an affidavit. As on date, 101 confirmed cases of black fungus have been reported in the state while 59 are classified as suspected. As many as 98 have been discharged while 30 people have died, as per a health department bulletin issued on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-96
23-07-2021||Jharkhand||Freelance journalist on potential snoop list to move Supreme Court||Rupesh Kumar Singh, a freelance journalist based in Jharkhand whose phone number and the numbers of his two family members figure in the leaked list of potential targets of surveillance by the Israeli firm NSO Group’s Pegasus spyware, has decided to move the Supreme Court against the Centre for alleged breach of privacy. The list of the potential Indian targets of a snooping operation that deploys Pegasus spyware accessible only to government agencies includes 40 journalists. Rupesh, 35, who is based in Ramgarh, over 50km from state capital Ranchi, is already in talks with a senior Supreme Court advocate on filing the petition. “I am waiting to see if any journalist group from Jharkhand will take up my cause. If not, then I will file a petition on my own as the right to privacy of mine, my wife and my sister-in-law, which the Supreme Court has termed as a fundamental right under Article 21 of the Constitution, has been breached,” alleged Rupesh, who was released in December 2019, after spending six months in a Bihar jail on “fabricated” charges of being a Maoist. Rupesh, who has been contributing articles since 2014 for Hindi magazines and news portals like Media Vigil, Gauri Lankesh News, The Wire and Janchowk, among others, has already had a discussion about his petition with Colin Gonsalves, a senior Supreme Court advocate and founder of the Human Rights Law Network (HRLN). “I am being targeted by the Union government for my reports on violence by security forces against Adivasis. This happened more after my report about a tribal man, Motilal Baskey, of Giridih district, whom the security forces claimed to be a Maoist carrying a reward of Rs 10 lakh. He was killed by the CRPF in an encounter in June 2017. But when I started investigating, I found that Baskey was a porter ferrying pilgrims to the Parasnath Hills. There was a massive protest on the issue by Opposition party leaders (Raghubar Das-led BJP government was in power in 2017), including current chief minister Hemant Soren and now BJP leader Babulal Marandi (who was then the JVM chief),” said Rupesh, a native of Bhagalpur in Bihar. The allegation about innocent tribals being killed by security forces was also raised in the Lok Sabha by JMM MP and former chief minister Shibu Soren and in the Rajya Sabha by JMM parliamentarian Sanjiv Kumar. “I continued to write on the displacement of tribals, suppression of tribal rights and their arrest on false charges after branding them Maoists. I think all these reports made me the target not merely of surveillance by Pegasus software but also led to my arrest in June 2019 under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) after security forces planted gelatin sticks and detonators in front of my eyes in my car,” Rupesh alleged. He was released on bail in December 2019 from the Gaya jail after Bihar police failed to file a chargesheet in the case even after the stipulated 180 days lapsed since the filing of the complaint. Rupesh said he had noticed signs that his phone was being tapped. “In 2018, whenever I called my sources to tell them that I am reaching the spot to meet them, some people used to reach there before me and ask my sources what was the reason of my visit. Apart from this, whenever I picked up my phone there would be a beeping sound. I then decided to go by my gut feeling and started using my phone less. It is likely that during this time my wife and later her sister’s phones were also put under surveillance,” he alleged. In June 2019, around 10 men claiming to be Intelligence Bureau officials halted their vehicle and took him, his friend Mithilesh Kumar Singh (a Ramgarh civil court lawyer) and the driver under detention while they were travelling to Aurangabad in Bihar. “We had parked the car and gone to relieve ourselves in Hazaribagh. When we returned we saw the men who caught and blindfolded us. While they put me in their SUV, my driver and friend were kept in our car which was driven by the IB personnel. When they removed our blindfolds, we found that we had reached Gaya in Bihar. The IB men talked in an Andhra accent and the entire operation was done without the knowledge of Jharkhand police,” claimed Rupesh. On the way, the IB personnel allegedly threatened and even coaxed Rupesh to stop his “negative journalism” and instead help the security forces to locate the top rebel leaders, he said. When he refused to relent, he saw the IB personnel calling Gaya police after allegedly placing gelatin sticks and detonators in their car, Rupesh said. He said that when he was lodged in jail, his wife’s car, which used to be parked outside their house in Bokaro, was found to be fitted with a GPS device, a chip and a camera right underneath the steering wheel. “It was noticed at the showroom by the mechanic and were removed. When I came to know about it, I had a hunch that my wife’s mobile was also under surveillance. But I was surprised to know that even her sister’s mobile was being tapped,” said Rupesh. A reporter from The Wire called him a week back to inform that the leaked database contained the phone numbers of Rupesh, his wife and his wife’s sister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-96
23-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: National highway blocked after 2 die in accident||Bokaro: Two persons were killed when a speeding truck first hit a bicycle rider and then a person riding a scooty near the Bari-Cooperative intersection under City police station of the district. The scooter rider has been identified as Arun Ojha, a resident of Bari Cooperative. He was working in a contract company in BSL plant and was going for duty. The cycle rider Dhananjay Kumar was also a resident of Bari Cooperative and was going to get milk. The truck was caught but its driver managed to escape. Following the incident, the local residents blocked the National Highway-23 (Bokaro-Ranchi) demanding the installation of a breaker at the spot so that such mishaps can be avoided. The agitators kept the bodies on the road and blocked it for about two hours. It was only after SDO Chas Dilip Pratap Singh Shekhawat, DSP City Kuldeep Chaudhary, Circle Officer and MLA Biranchi Narayan came to the spot and assured possible help to their demands the jam was lifted. (Our correspondent) Jamshedpur: The Dobo-Kanderbera road linking steel city's Sonari area with NH-33 in adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district is to be converted into a four-lane from a double-lane. Set up in 2018, the Dobo-Kanderbera road passes through the Domuhani Bridge over Subernarekha River along Sonari. As the distance to reach upto the point of Kanderbera on the NH-33 has reduced by 20km for the commuters going to Chandil, Ranchi and even for Patna route, more and more cars, buses and other commercial as well as industrial vehicles from the steel city tend to ply through the Dobo-Kanderbera road. The Road Construction Department's (RCD) Seraikela-Kharsawan division has sent a proposal to this effect to the department's state authority recently in view of increasing vehicular traffic on the Dobo-Kanderbera road. "In response to the circular, we stressed on the Dobo-Kanderbera road for converting into four-lane lane and even have sent proposal to this effect,"said Nirmal Singh, Seraikela division executive engineer, to The Telegraph Online. The executive engineer said they have mentioned in the proposal the need of converting this double road into a four-lane because the vehicular traffic movement on it has increased manifold and will continue to be so in the days to come. Elaborating on the proposal, Singh said that the seven-kms-long Dobo-Kanderbera road has not only been proposed to be four-lane, but installation of a street lamp system has also been proposed. He stated that once the proposal is granted the department will start preparing a detailed project report for it. (Kumud Jenamani) Daltonganj: The National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) Delhi has restrained Palamau tiger reserve authorities from 'releasing' an adult sambhar in the wild said sources. There are 17 sambhars in the 'Sambhar Soft Release Centre' in the Bareysarn range of the tiger reserve. The Sambhars were brought in here from the Bhagwan Birsa Zoological Park Ormanjhi in Ranchi in 2016 -17. Mukesh Kumar deputy director South division of the tiger reserve Palamau said, "The NTCA has put an embargo on 're-wilding' of the Sambhars." He said the NTCA has a point that these sambhars are of the zoo and hence they can't be released in the jungles where it will be too difficult and hazardous for them to survive the rigour of the wild living. Mukesh Kumar said, “This embargo of the NTCA has left us in a no win situation.” Sources said sambhars are the most sought after preys of the tiger after the deer but PTR has no sambhar except these 17 which are in the soft release center in the Bareysarn range of the Palamau tiger reserve. These sambhars are beyond the preying of the carnivores as their enclosure is well walled and wired where big animal like elephant or treacherous hyena or jackal or faster leopard can't afford to get in as this enclosure is under 24x7 watch of the trackers here round the year. Snakes are exceptions. (Our correspondent) Dhanbad: Pramod Agarwal, chairman of Coal India Limited, who was on a two-day trip to Dhanbad on Thursday visited Block-2 of BCCL in Baghmara block and inspected the ongoing construction of Madhuban Coal Washery of five MT capacity. He held a detailed discussion on the site with the functional directors of M/S HEC Limited, entrusted with the task of developing the plant on behalf of BCCL, and instructed them to complete the project on time which has already been delayed. “Though the washery project is delayed but we expect that the testing work from the washery would begin from September and finally the production is likely to begin from December this year,” he said. The project worth Rs 3.28 crore was also kept as top priority during the second term of Narendra Modi government with a deadline of September 2019 but could not be completed till date due to several procedural hurdles. (Praduman Choubey)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-96
