24-07-2021||Jharkhand||Fruit-seller among three held for 'trying to topple' Jharkhand government||The arrest of three persons with Rs 2 lakh cash and air travel documents of a few MLAs led to whispers of a "political conspiracy" in Ranchi through Saturday with police adding to the intrigue by charging them with attempting to "destablise an elected government". While the ruling JMM, which is heading a coalition government in the state with the Congres and the RJD, accused the BJP of resorting to horse trading of MLAs, the Opposition party hit back by dismissing the allegations and ridiculing the ruling parties for creating a storm over such a meagre amount of money. Ranchi police have been scanning hotels since Thursday following a complaint filed by Congress MLA Kumar Jaimangal. In his July 22 (Thursday) complaint at Kotwali police station, he accused unidentified persons of attempting to lure MLAs of the ruling party. “I have received a tip-off about some persons and groups who are camping in different places in the city doing hawala transactions. They are also working as a part of a big political conspiracy and trying to purchase MLAs of the ruling parties to topple the government,” Jaimangal said in his  complaint. At 11pm on Friday night, the three persons were picked up along with Rs 2 lakh cash, and few documents. They haVe been identified as Abhishek Singh, Amit Singh and Nivaran Prasad Mahto. Amit and Nivaran are from Bokaro while Abhishek is from Ratu Road in Ranchi. Police have booked them under various sections of IPC, Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the Prevention of Corruption Act. Senior police officals were incommunicado. But Kamlesh Kumar, an inspector rank official at Kotwali police station who is investigating the case,  noted, “All the three arrested persons have confessed about planning a political conspiracy to topple the elected government in the state.” The JMM accused the BJP of resorting to unwanted political adventurism. Addressing a press conference, party general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee said, “We have learnt that police have arrested three persons on charges of trying to destablise the government. Investigations are underway, but we suspect that it could be the handiwork of te BJP to topple the government. It is in their nature to usurp power wherever they lose elections. But it won’t be successful in Jharkhand." Bhattacharjee said saffron party leaders had often theatened the state government. “If you remember, last year during the by-elections and also thereafter, BJP leaders have been openly saying that the government will change soon. But their attempts won’t succeed,” he said. Congress’s spokesperson Rakesh Sinha also blamed the BJP. “BJP has been trying to resort to horse trading for long but it won’t be successful,” he said. BJP MP from Godda Nishikant Dubey hit back. “Going by police and government’s logic, it seems that just in Rs 2 lakh, MLAs of ruling alliance can be bought. This means, chief minister’s MLAs are priced at meager Rs 10,000 each. Rate of a goat during Bakrid is even more than the state government MLAs here. Salute CM, salute to his MLAs and salute to Ranchi police,” he tweeted. Relatives of those arrested cried foul play, accusing police of booking innocent people in false cases. Nivaran's cousin Bhim Mahto said his brother was a small time fruit seller in Bokaro. “In the morning, we learnt that Nivaran was arrested from a hotel in Ranchi trying to topple the government. How can this be possible as Bokaro police picked him up from the home on Thursday night. Since then, we have been running to various police stations in Bokaro only to learn in the morning that he has been sent to Ranchi. Why is Ranchi police claiming he was arrested from a city hotel when he was picked up from Bokaro? Moreover, can a small time fruit seller topple the government?,” he said while waiting outside Kotwali police station in the evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-94
24-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur sporting association's football sub-committee gets new chairman||Chanakya Choudhary, vice-president (corporate services) of Tata Steel and president of Jamshedpur Sporting Association, has appointed Mukul Choudhari as chairman of the football sub-committee. JSA are organisers of the local soccer league. JSA secretary Avinash Kumar said Rohit Kumar Singh, manager (youth teams and operations,JFC) has been appointed  assistant secretary. The chairman post fell vacant following the demise of incumbent S. Zubair Alam in April this year. Choudhari, an experienced football administrator, is also the chief of sports excellence in Tata Steel. A few more changes in the JSA set up is also expected. The Association is patronised by Tata Steel. The local football league is one of the oldest sporting fixtures in the eastern zone. The league has been conducted in Jamshedpur for over seven decades now. It is played for nearly two months, with around 80 matches. As many as 44 clubs and institutions compete in the tournament held in the Premier Division, the Super Division and ‘A’ Division. The fixture could not take place last year in view of Covid-19 pandemic. Though the league is likely to meet the same fate this year too but officials are hopeful that the tournament was possible due to relaxation in Covid restrictions. “The Covid-related situation has improved and sports activities have resumed . We are hopeful about the tournament taking place. However, we don’t want to make any decision (about organising the league) in a hurry. We would like to wait  before taking any decision related to the fixture,” the JSA functionary said. Logistics involved in conducting the event, grounds, fixtures and registrations etc,  needs to be worked out first before going ahead with the tournament.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-94
24-07-2021||Jharkhand||Bird with fractured wing rescued by 3 youngsters ||Three young girls of an NGO Adhikari Foundation for Nature Conservation rescued and treated a Black Kite bird whose wing was badly fractured in the Jail Hata locality in Daltonganj, said sources. The bird, weighing 812 grams, looked exhausted, emaciated, stressed and shocked. Its humerus bone was split and was found grovelling in acute pain and dirt. An unidentified bird lover rang one of the girls and soon two of them, Sonali and Anishka, rushed to the location and recovered the bird. Sources said the district animal husbandry office here which runs the cattle hospital has no expertise in dealing with injuries and traumas to birds and snakes etc. The third member, Jyoti, said she phoned Dr Vishal Patel, a renowned name in rescue, treatment and rehabilitation of wildlife including the birds in the USA and a Gujarat based popular veterinary surgeon Dr Divya to know how to proceed with the treatment of the black kite. “The fracture point of the humerus bone had too many red ants further rendering the life of this bird miserable,” said Jyoti adding that red ants can't be removed with water and need to be removed by hand. Any use of water to drain out the red ants would have run the risk of water entering the lungs of the bird which would have meant instant death. Sonali and Anishka removed the red ants with painstaking efforts and, on the advice of the two doctors, fluid was transfused through subcutaneous tissues. The right fractured wing was bandaged and the black kite was fed and kept in a comfortable room. The black kite bird is making spectacular recovery and it is hoped this bird will be up on her wings in a couple of days. Sources said the girls had saved a bird cattle egret about seven or eight months ago whose one leg was amputated and after fifteen days of caring for the bird, it took to its wing with one leg in the vast space.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-94
24-07-2021||Jharkhand||Covaxin doses reach Jharkhand, but not enough to meet rising demand||Jharkhand received 35,570 Covaxin doses on Saturday, a delay in supply of which left several second dose beneficiaries of this Bharat Biotech-made vaccine worried, said health officials. As per government data, the state was left with barely 7,000 doses of Covaxin in stock until Saturday and several beneficiaries of the second jab of the vaccine were kept waiting for fresh supplies. “We received 35,570 Covaxin doses today (Saturday) morning. We are expecting around 70,000 more doses of this vaccine by the end of July to ensure that second dose beneficiaries are not kept waiting,” said Dr Ajit Prasad, the immunisation officer of Jharkhand. The number of Covishield doses administered in the state so far was at least six times the number of Covaxin doses, latest data with the health department highlighted. The state has administered Covaxin doses to over 13.76 lakh residents and Covishield to around 71.62 lakh beneficiaries. However, many of the almost 14 lakh residents who were administered Covaxin as their first dose struggled to find slots for the second dose of the vaccine due to poor supplies in the past week or so, health officials said. Even though the state had a limited supply of Covaxin, the demand for this vaccine has been growing among locals, primarily due to the shorter gap between the two doses as compared to Covishield. As per Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines, Covaxin requires a gap of only 28 days between the two doses, while the second dose of Covishield is administered at least 84 days after the first dose. “The shorter gap between the two doses of Covaxin has led to a sudden rise in its demand. Many people are willing to wait for weeks to get this vaccine, and not go for other options available,” said a vaccination staff at Medanta Hospital in Ranchi. While the immunisation campaign against Covid-19 has been a bumpy ride in Jharkhand this month with periods of extreme crisis and surplus dose availability, the health machinery has relied heavily on the easily available Covishield vaccine to prevent the vaccination drive from coming to a standstill, officials said. Jharkhand received 5,30,430 doses of Covishield on Friday and an additional 2.61 lakh on Saturday to run the immunisation campaign for the remaining period of July, officials said. While the state received over 15 lakh doses of Covishield this month, hardly 1 lakh doses of Covaxin were supplied from the Centre. A highly-placed source involved in the immunisation drive against Covid-19 said that the health department has asked vaccination centres to prioritize administering Covaxin to second dose beneficiaries over people willing to get the first jab of the vaccine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-94
24-07-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad criminal wanted for BJP leader's murder surrenders||Vikash Singh, a notorious criminal of Dhanbad, facing several  murder and extortion cases, surrendered in connection with the murder  of BJP Kendua mandal president Satish Singh on Saturday. Satish’s murder took place on August 19, 2020. He was a close aide of Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha. Vikash was identified as the main conspirator in the murder and was evading arrest. Police had earlier searched several places including his house at Ambikapuram and also attached his properties. His bail application was rejected by the high court. Vikash, a resident of Ambikapuram Colony of Dhanbad, is also the main accused in the murder case of owner of Bundela Travels Sudhir Singh on October 31, 2013. Vikash Singh’s lawyer Jaya Kumar told the Chief Judicial Magistrate's court on Saturday that the bail application will be submitted later. Satish Singh, who was in real estate business and also used to deal with the private mine excavators working on behalf of BCCL, developed animosity with Vikash Singh and others in connection with money transaction due to which he was killed on August 19, 2020 in broad daylight at Vikash Nagar area of Matkuri when he was heading towards Vikash Nagar on foot after disembarking from a car. CCTV footage obtained from the site revealed that two persons arrived on bike and the pillion driver shot him in his head from point blank range and fled from the site. Police first arrested a driver of Putki Lalan Kumar Das on September 4, 2020 and later on his indication arrested four other persons on September 17, including three of Baliapur, Uttam Mahto, Baburaja Chandraprakash also known as Siddhant Singh, Gaur Rawani and Hrishikesh Paswan of Damodarpur. The arrested persons later revealed to police that the murder of Satish Singh was carried out after a dispute over some money transaction between Satish Singh and Baburaja Chandraprakash also called Siddhant Singh and Vikash Singh played the role of key conspirator in the case. Notably, Baburaja Chandraprakash and Uttam Mahto are also accused of the 36 kg gold loot and Rs 11 lakh case loot case of Muthoot Finance which took place in Asansol Benachatti Market on February 1, 2013 and the consignment was later recovered from the house of one Dasrath Mahto at Tundi. The duo were on bail following the relief provided by the Bengal court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-94
24-07-2021||Jharkhand||Covid-19: active cases drop below 300 in Jharkhand ||The active caseload of Covid-19 came dropped below the 300 on Friday as at least 45 Covid patients recovered on the day, while 39 fresh cases of the viral infection surfaced in Jharkhand, the National Health Mission (NHM) stated in its daily Covid-19 bulletin on Friday. The active caseload now stood at 299 in the tribal state. At least 10 districts – Chatra, Dumka, Gumla, Jamtara, Lohardaga, Pakur, Palamu, Ramgarh, Sahebganj and West Singhbhum– did not report fresh Covid cases on the day, while none of the districts reported cases in double digits, the NHM bulletin further stated. As per government data, Ranchi reported five cases against 11 recoveries, which brought the active caseload here down to 63. At least six recoveries against nine fresh cases brought the active caseload in East Singhbhum up at 27. The state on Friday tested swab samples of 61,196 residents and about 0.06 per cent of them were found infected by novel coronavirus. So far, over 3.46 lakh people have been infected by the deadly virus in Jharkhand and 98.43 per cent of them have recovered. However, about 1.47 per cent of the patients could not survive. The state did not report fresh Covid casualties for the fifth day in a row and the toll in the state remained 5122. Ranchi, as per government data, has reported 1585 Covid deaths, the highest among the districts. On the other hand, as many as 1040 residents have died of the viral infection in East Singhbhum. The doubling rate of cases in the state reached 7129.33 days against the national average of 815.44 days on Friday, while the growth rate of cases in Jharkhand was 0.01 per cent against the national average of 0.09, government data highlighted. The immunisation campaign against Covid-19 could not gain pace on Friday as less than 35,000 were inoculated across the state. Provisional data released by the NHM highlighted that the State managed to vaccinate 33,502 residents on the day. As per NHM data, the first dose of vaccines was administered to 25,153 residents while the second jab was administered to 8,349 beneficiaries. More than 20,633 beneficiaries in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years got jabbed on the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-95
24-07-2021||Jharkhand||Stan Swamy: Human rights activists stage agitations in Jharkhand, Delhi and other parts of the country||Human rights activists, civil society groups, mass organisations and trade union members staged agitations in Jharkhand, Delhi and other parts of the country on Friday in protest against the “institutional murder” of Father Stan Swamy. More than 70 people, including academics such as the development economist Jean Dreze, students and representatives of trade unions and the People’s Union for Civil Liberties, braved the rain to form a 1km human chain on the Main Road near the Albert Ekka Chowk in Ranchi. The protests are part of a series of public observances called by rights groups, trade unions, Christian organisations, Left parties and their student and youth wings over the next five weeks to protest against the government’s treatment of Father Stan and push for a more humane policing and justice system. The 84-year-old, ailing Jesuit  and tribal rights activist from Ranchi had died in custody in Mumbai while waiting for bail nine months after the National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested him in the Elgaar Parishad-Maoist links case. “(Friday’s protests in Jharkhand were) part of the national campaign called by more than 120 organisations,” PUCL organisational secretary Arvind Avinash said. “A delegation will be submitting a memorandum addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind through Jharkhand governor Ramesh Bais with a charter of demands.” The demands include the repeal of “draconian” legislation such as the anti-terror law UAPA, the sedition law and the National Security Act; the release of all political prisoners; fixing accountability on law-enforcement and investigative agencies for filing false cases; and compensation for victims of false cases and police atrocities. Another demand is the immediate withdrawal by the Jharkhand government of all the cases lodged against Father Stan and others in connection with the Pathalgadi tribal rights movement. “There were agitations in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Delhi and other states on Friday demanding justice for Father Stan and calling on the judiciary to restore dignity to Father Stan and give him justice at least in death,” PUCL national general secretary Kavita Srivastava told The Telegraph from Jaipur. She said the month-long campaign would witness an agitation on August 9 to mark World Indigenous Day and the launch of the Quit India Movement of 1942. On August 15, a pledge would be taken to defend democracy and the Constitution with a countrywide reading of the Preamble. “There are also plans for a countrywide mass hunger strike between August 15 and 27,” Srivastava said. “There will be a nationwide protest on August 28, too, as it is the day when five people in the Bhima Koregaon (Elgaar Parishad) case were arrested three years ago. There are plans to end the campaign with a candlelight vigil for all jailed comrades (political prisoners).” The Jesuit Conference of India has called on its followers and friends to mark July 28 as National Justice Day in memory of Father Stan, and invited people irrespective of religious identity to join in paying homage to the priest. Civil society groups will hold a candlelight march across Jharkhand on August 15 to protest the Centre’s crackdown on dissent. Several Left groups held protests in Delhi on Friday on the sidelines of the Kisan Sansad at Jantar Mantar. Prasenjeet Kumar, working general secretary of the CPIML Liberation’s All India Students Association, said: “The new revelations about the Pegasus spyware have brought into common knowledge the kind of surveillance and repression Indian people are being subjected to. Governments are colluding in order to oppress people.” He added: “The death of Father Stan Swamy is another example of how inhuman the RSS-BJP regime is. We demand an independent inquiry and immediate release of all political prisoners.” The other participants in Delhi included CPM student arm SFI, the CPIML’s Liberation and Red Star factions and their fronts, several Far-Left student groups, and the National Confederation of Human Rights Organisations. “Mass movements are built by the masses. No matter how many leaders are taken political prisoner by the central government, many more will come from the masses and take their place,” SFI Delhi state committee member Varkey Parakkal told the gathering. The New Trade Union Initiative (NTUI) too held meetings and protests across the country on Friday. “All trade unions, irrespective of political affiliations, and all organisations of farmers, women, students, and communities that are discriminated against besides democratic rights organisations joined our daylong protests across the country in memory of the fearless Father Stan,” NTUI general secretary Gautam Mody said. “The objective was to defend our democracy, workers’ right to strike, our right to dissent and, above all, the idea of a plural and progressive India.” In Bombay High Court, a judge who praised Father Stan’s work withdrew his oral observations in response to a law officer’s request. PTI quoted additional solicitor-general Anil Singh, who appeared for the NIA at the hearing of a plea challenging the denial of bail to the Jesuit, told Justice S.S. Shinde: “We have all condoled the death of Mr Swamy, but any personal comments or private comments coming from the judges or any law officer, especially in the open court, are normally being twisted by the press and social media.” Justice Shinde, who heard the case along with Justice N.J. Jamadar, said: “If you want, I take my words back. Our endeavour is to stay fair and balanced always. That should be the end of the matter.” Father Stan’s counsel Mihir Desai asked the court to monitor the mandatory magisterial probe into the custody death that is yet to begin. The NIA opposed this on the ground that as the priest was dead, the appeals on his bail stood abated and this is where the hearing should end. The court asked Desai for a written submission and adjourned the matter till August 4. The bail plea of lawyer-activist Sudha Bharadwaj, a co-accused of Father Stan, too was adjourned to August 2 by the same bench after the Maharashtra government and the NIA argued she shouldn’t be granted default bail on a technicality. Bharadwaj’s lawyer had sought bail on the ground that the prosecution had erred by getting an additional sessions judge, and not the designated special judge of an NIA court, to take cognisance of her chargesheet. Additional reporting by PTI from Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-95
24-07-2021||Jharkhand||BJP pat for Hemant’s new projects ||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday launched a slew of urban development projects for the state capital at a function at the Jaipal Singh Stadium here. An apparently routine function became significant because Soren had three Opposition BJP leaders for company on stage who all hailed the initiative, speaking in the same tune as the chief minister. “Small things can bring in big changes,” Soren said at the launch of 45 urban development projects for Ranchi that would involve an expenditure of over Rs 84 crore. “The executing agencies must ensure the quality of work so that the developed sites look impressive and last longer,” the chief minister, who also holds the urban development department, said. He added that the erring officers would be taken to task if any lapses were found. “It’s really a good initiative that so many projects are being launched together,” Ranchi BJP legislator and former urban development minister C. P. Singh said. He added that “there should not be any compromise with the quality and quantity of work so that taxpayers’ money is utilised properly”. “Ranchi is facing tremendous pressure as more and more people from villages are coming here for earning livelihood,” Singh claimed, adding that the state capital needed proper infrastructure support for tackling the population pressure. “We can’t stop people from coming here but long-term planning would surely help address the problem,” Soren said. He said that people should also cooperate as “government programmes alone can’t change much”. “Our cities are being developed at the cost of environment and are becoming concrete jungles,” he further said, informing that his government has initiated a plantation drive for Jharkhand’s cities. “If we create problems, we should also try to create solutions,” Soren said, adding that only long-term projects could establish a sustainable system. “Ranchi must look impressive as a capital city but we all have responsibilities for maintaining it,” said Naveen Jaiswal, BJP legislator from Hatia. Sanjeev Vijayvargiya, Ranchi’s deputy mayor and a BJP leader, also appreciated that the urban developments projects were initiated. “Some more funds may be required for some of the projects but let the work begin and progress first,” he said on an optimistic note. The projects include renovation of the Jaipal Singh Stadium and Morabadi Grounds, beautification of Ranchi Lake, construction of an urban haat at Kanke Road and bio-toilet complexes at four different places in the city, besides widening of roads and construction of drains in different wards within the corporation area. The projects will be executed under the supervision of the Ranchi Regional Development Authority and Jharkhand Urban Infrastructure Development Company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-95
