25-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Ruckus at Dhanbad vaccine centre due to Covaxin shortage ||Dhanbad: The shortage of Covaxin doses in the district led to ruckus at one of the vaccination centres at PG block of Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College of Dhanbad on Sunday morning. The beneficiaries who stood at a long queue outside the vaccination centre since the early morning at around 5 am lost patience at around 10.30 am and tried to break open the gate charging the staff including the computer operators and nurses of taking bribe to provide vaccines to other persons who were not in queue on priority basis by ignoring those who were standing in queue since the early morning. Dr Vikash Rana, District Reproductive and Child Health Officer, who was also present at the site said, “The charges of favouritism levelled against our staff are baseless and we tried to convince the trouble makers about the nitty gritty of online and offline slot booking priorities but they were not ready to listen.” He however accepted the shortage of Covaxin doses in the district and expressed hope that the situation will normalise with the arrival of more doses. “We are planning to discontinue the offline registration process due to regular hullabaloo at different centres and instead provide vaccines through online booking only for vaccination centres of Jharia, Dhanbad and Baghmara block where maximum rush is witnessed,” said Rana. Covaxin was allotted to five centres of the 76 vaccination centres of the district, including SNMMCH PG block, ISM Shopping complex, Bara Gurudwara, UPHC Kankani and UPCH Bhuli. (Praduman Choubey) Daltonganj: Around 55 saplings were planted around a nearly 20-year old pond at the Shahid Bhagat Singh locality in Daltonganj in fond memory of the legendary Tree Man and Chipko movement leader Sunderlal Bahuguna. The residents offered their 'tree tribute' to the veteran environmentalist. Fifty residents of the Shahid Bhagat Singh locality crowdfunded Rs 1,100 for it said a senior CPI leader Rajiv Kumar. Each of the 55 saplings planted here bears the name of the 'near and dear ones who have long ago gone into the eternity.' The saplings are of neem, gul mohar, ounla, peepal, kadam etc. Sources said the residents have a plan to develope and beautify the pond with a park. “We are working on it to bring in facilities like benches for the seniors to sit in the evening, a baby hammock etc,” said Kumar. “There is a three acre land in and around the pond that can be further upgraded,” said Kumar.  (Our Correspondent) Dhanbad: A group of youths on Sunday celebrated Sawan by planting saplings at different temples of coal town on the first day of the month-long festival. The group, under the banner of social organisation Youth Concept which is already carrying out plantation since over a fortnight as part of their drive, began their Sawan drive from Maa Nilkanth Vasini temple of Jharia in the morning at around 8am during which they planted five saplings of Pipal and Bar (Banyan) plants. They moved to other temples of Jharia including, Shiva Temple of Tiwari Muhalla in Chouthai Kulhi locality; Janta Shiva Temple of Chouthai Kulhi and concluded the drive with the plantation carried out at Shiva temple of Katras More in Jharia. Talking to The Telgraph Online, Akhlaque Ahmad, convenor of Youth Concept said, “We also apprised the devotees present at the temples about the significance of environmental conservation through tree plantation and provided saplings to such persons who have space at their home or surroundings for plantation.” Savita Devi, a resident of Rajbari Road locality of Jharia, who received the plants during the course of worship on first day of Sawan today at Maa Nilkanth Vasini Temple said, “We can serve the god in better manner by protecting the nature with and thus I received one Pipal and one Banyan tree each today and planted them in the courtyard of my house.” (Praduman Choubey)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-93
25-07-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro Steel purchases first freight train ||The steel giant Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) purchased its first goods train (rake) for the transport of iron ore. The entire train of 59 wagons costs around Rs 20crore. The company will save more than Rs 4lakh per trip by having its own freight train to transport iron ore from its Kiriburu and Meghataburu mines for its steel production. However, BSL already owned 40 railway locomotives and now for the first time purchased a goods train of 59 wagons. Chief of Communications, Manikant Dhan said that BSL has entered into an agreement with Texmaco Rail & Engineering to procure 6 rakes (Box N HL) under GPWIS (General Purpose Wagon Investment Scheme) approved by the Railways. The flag-off of the first rake procured by BSL under this agreement was done by Director-in-Charge, BSL, Amarendu Prakash. On this occasion, Executive Directors of BSL, Chief General Managers and senior officers of the Traffic Department were present. The total cost of this project of Bokaro Steel Plant is around Rs 110 crore. These rakes will be operated on the route from Kiriburu-Meghataburu to Bokaro Steel Plant. Bokaro Steel Plant will also get a 10 per cent rebate from the Railways for 15 years on the transportation of iron ore by these rakes. Accordingly, BSL is expected to get a discount of about Rs.4 lakh per freight from the Railways for the next fifteen years. Besides this, BSL will also save substantial revenue incurred on account of payment of demurrage charges to railways due to delay in loading and unloading of rakes earlier provided by Railways. The colour coding of these wagons is bottle green, being made distinctly different from the wagons of the Railways. This step by BSL will also resolve the problem of non-availability of rakes and ensure timely transportation of raw material from the mines to the plant. It is noteworthy that under this project of SAIL, 6 rakes are being procured by Bokaro Steel Plant, 4 rakes by Bhilai Steel Plant and 3 rakes by Durgapur Steel Plant. BSL has got the distinction of getting the first rake among them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-93
25-07-2021||Jharkhand||East Singhbhum to establish libraries for village students||The East Singhbhum district administration is going to set up as many as 30 libraries shortly for enhancing educational standards among students living in rural areas of the district. The proposed libraries will have books donated by steel city residents. With the intention of accumulating as many books as possible, the deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar has instructed the civic body, Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee's (JNAC) to start a campaign of old books collection and deposit them at the district development office. For this noble cause, the deputy commissioner has roped in all the government departments not only for providing logistic support but also to ensure donation of as many old books as possible. District Mineral Foundation Trust has been assigned to reconstruct or modify dilapidated government buildings for developing them into libraries. The JNAC special officer, Krishna Kumar on Sunday made the civic body's city manager, Ravi Shankar Bharti nodal officer for the old books collection campaign. "The kind of books that we intend to collect include old course books beginning from class I to class XII, books and periodicals meant for competitive exam preparation, story and poem books and reference books," said Bharti to The Telegraph Online. The city manager said the libraries will be set up in 10 of 11 blocks of the district for which they will require a huge number of books. "Hence we will have to mobilise support among the educated masses living in the city so as to come forward for this noble cause," the JNAC official said. The district administration had recently launched a campaign for making people donate their used smart phones at various police stations so that it may offer them to the poor students for carrying out their online classes during the ongoing pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-93
25-07-2021||Jharkhand||Training camps for special athletes to resume next month||Special athletes in Jharkhand can look forward to resume outdoor activities next month. The Special Olympics Jharkhand (SOJ) will begin organising training camps for intellectually impaired athletes (boys and girls) who were hitherto confined to their homes for over a year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. SOJ assistant area director Satbir Singh Sahota said training camps would first start in cities like Jamshedpur, Ranchi, Dhanbad and Bokaro in the first week of August. "The Covid situation has now improved and stadiums have re-opened. We intend to resume the camps in Jamshedpur, Ranchi, Dhanbad and Bokaro because these cities have the required infrastructure," he added. Sahota, a former international cyclist, said they would touch rural pickets of the state in due course of time. "We will be holding counselling sessions for special athletes living in rural pockets. They have remained indoors and most would not like to resume their activities," he said, adding that the intellectually impaired need proper handling with utmost care. According to him, they would first focus on individual sports, including athletics, badminton, roller skating, swimming and cycling, before going for team events. "Though special schools across Jharkhand are yet to re-open, we would go for intellectually impaired athletes who don't go to any institutions. We are in touch with parents of such athletes. We will inform the parents (about the camp) on our Whatsapp group. Most of the parents of special athletes are keen for training to resume," Sahota, also resource person (for cycling) of Special Olympics Bharat, a national organisation which promotes intellectually impaired, added. He said basic fitness of special athletes would be evaluated before they are allowed to train. "We think most of the special athletes would be unfit since they have been staying indoors for over a year. It would be quite difficult to straightaway put them on tracks," Sahota said, adding the volunteers would be shortly informed about the training camp. The SOJ had asked the parents to keep their wards busy while at home when the Covid-related restrictions were in place earlier this year. However, most parents did not pay any heed. The special athletes wasted their time doing nothing. The SOJ, an affiliated unit of Special Olympics Bharat, wants to bring its athletes back in shape since national competitions should be resuming later this year. Special athletes from Jharkhand have won medals in national and international competitions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-93
25-07-2021||Jharkhand||Marandi wants HC judge to probe 'plot to topple JMM-Cong' govt||BJP legislature party leader Babulal Marandi accused chief minister Hemant Soren of arresting three persons on false charges on Sunday and asked for a special investigation team under a sitting high court judge to look into allegations that they were involved in a conspiracy to topple the JMM-led state government at the behest of the BJP. Marandi also accused Jharkhand police of acting as an "agent of the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha" and advised them to do their job judiciously. Marandi's demand comes a day after police announced the arrest of three persons with cash and travel documents of a few MLAs from a city hotel. Police said the three,  identified as Abhishek Singh, Amit Singh and Nivaran Prasad Mahto, were arrested on Friday night following a complaint by  Congress’s Bermo MLA Kumar Jaimangal, alleging hawala transactions and a  political conspiracy to lure MLAs. While Nivaran is a fruit seller by profession, Amit is a contractual worker in BCCL and Abhishek runs a small-time shop. The Congress has backed ally JMM's accusations and also accused the BJP of orchestrating attempts to destabilize the government through horse trading. Reacting to the allegations of the ruling parties, Marandi told reporters in the afternoon on  Sunday, "Let there be a judicial inquiry by a high court sitting judge and an SIT be formed to probe the whole matter. We won’t demand CBI probe because JMM-Congress will then say that the agency is under the Central government. Have your own judicial probe and let the truth come out.” Marandi also the questioned police’s silence so far. “It is very surprising that immediately after the arrest, JMM holds a press conference but not police. If Ranchi police got such a major breakthrough to prevent the state government from being destabilized, shouldn’t it be their responsibility to brief the details? Three persons were booked for treason and sedition and no SP or DGP holds a press conference to highlight their achievement. Why have they gone numb?” remarked Marandi, adding that the whole affair seemed stage-managed. “Last night (Sunday) police came up with an insignificant press release announcing the arrest of three persons from a hotel in Ranchi. However, their family members have claimed that two were picked from Bokaro from their homes two days ago. So how did they land in the hotel and begin plotting after booking a room?,” he asked, demanding the release of all the three "innocent" persons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-93
25-07-2021||Jharkhand||Lone Sindri health centre in dilapidated condition ||The lone public health facility of Sindri, Community Health Centre, situated at Gaushala Bazar is lying in extremely bad shape due to lack of seating arrangements, drinking water facility and other amenities. More than 1 lakh residents of Sindri and adjoining areas have been deprived of any other medical facility since the closure of the 205-bed FCI hospital in 2003. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday, Narendra Bhai Joshi, a tile shop owner and social worker of Sindri said, “Such is the situation in CHC that the nurses working in the hospital are compelled to work in inhuman condition due to lack of proper ceiling fans and are even deprived of drinking water facility.” “Though, a lady doctor occasionally visits here from the Community Health Centre of Jharia at Chasnala but even nurses are not regular in duty at the centre due to lack of basic facilities at the hospital,” said Joshi. “Even proper lighting arrangement is not there at the site where Covid vaccination is being carried out causing great difficulty to the beneficiaries as well as nurses and computer operators,” elaborated Joshi and added that when complained about the state of affairs to Dr Pratima Dutta in Charge of Chasnala based Community Health Centre about absence of doctors she expressed her helplessness as appointment of doctors is not made at centre. The situation of another Health Sub Centre situated near Bara Gurudwara at Saharpura is also similar as it is deprived of doctors and other basic infrastructure. Rajkishor Sao, a road side restaurant owner of Gaushala Bazar said, “The condition of Health Centre having magnificent single storey building infrastructure comprising over 20 rooms is a glaring example of mismanagement of resources.” “While the Community Health Centre of Chasnala is operating from a congested space the Community Health Centre of Gaushala despite endowed with such a spacious building is lying useless due to the lack of staff and other facilities while Sindri residents are compelled to visit distant Dhanbad situated 25 km from here for attending to medical exigencies,” said Munna Giri a tea stall owner of Gaushala Bazar area of Sindri. Dr Pratima Dutta, Medical officer in Charge of Jharia who is also the in charge of Gaushala Bazar based Community Health Centre said, “We have written to the district administration as well as government several times earlier for the appointment of doctors and other staff at the CHC Gaushala Bazar but no step has so far been taken either for the appointment of doctors or other staff and also for the beefing up other facilities like seating arrangements etc.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-94
25-07-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town street vendors to get smart identity cards||The Dhanbad Municipal Corporation is carrying out a survey according to the state urban development department’s directive to provide street vendors a QR Code based Smart Identity Card. The vendors face regular eviction in the name of anti encroachment drive due to lack of any identity document and will not have to face any further difficulties. The survey is being conducted through the Cluster Resource Persons and Town Vending Committees members in all the five circles of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation including, Jharia, Dhanbad, Sindri, Katras and Chhatatand and is aimed at providing a QR code based Smart certificate of Vending which will help them get space allotment at the upcoming vending zones of the civic body. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday, Chandra Shekhar, City Manager of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) looking after the survey work said, “All relevant data including name, age, address, mobile number, place of vending, items being dealt by street vendors, years of his operation are being collected as per the survey and all the data can be accessed by scanning the QR Code based Smart Identity Card.” “The Smart Identity card will make them eligible for all the government sponsored welfare schemes meant for the street vendors under the national urban livelihood mission or any other relevant schemes like the PM Street Vendors Atma Nirbhar Nidhi Yojna,” said Chandra Shekhar. A previous survey was also conducted by the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation in 2017 as per which identity cards were provided to around 3978 street vendors but a large majority of the street vendors were left out in the survey and the cards provided then also contained several factual errors. “The QR based smart identity card as well as QR based Smart Certificate of vending will also shield them against any harassment by police or administration or even the civic body or any other authority in name of any anti encroachment drive,” said Chandrashekhar. He added that during the survey being conducted for over a fortnight at different places like Railway station road, Big Bazar, SSLNT, Digwadih, Jharia, Loco Bazar and Police Line Hirapur, they have already collected data of over 1000 street vendors. The QR based Smart Identity Card and QR based Smart Certificate of vending will also serve as a document for the street vendors to get loans from the banks under the different welfare schemes meant for street vendors. Sneham Sinha, district coordinator of National Association of Street Vendors of India (NASVI) who is also coordinating with clusters resource persons of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation in the ongoing survey for smart card said, “The survey during which the Aadhar Card or Ration Card or Voter Id Card of the street vendors is being taken as proof is likely to completed in a month and will help to provide Identity to all such street vendors of the district who were left previous survey of 2017.” “We are also collecting documents and data of such street vendors during the survey who have received the loan worth Rs 10,000 under the PM Street Vendor’s Atma  Nirbhar Nidhi Yojna so that they can provide further loan of Rs 20,000,” said Sinha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-94
25-07-2021||Jharkhand||Over 1.5 lakh get their jabs in Jharkhand as fresh vaccine supplies arrive||Jharkhand on Saturday vaccinated over 1.5 lakh residents against Covid-19, the highest in a day this month, after fresh supplies from the Centre allowed the state to intensify the immunisation campaign, figures released by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Saturday administered the first dose of vaccine to at least 1,11,529 residents and the second dose to 40,398 beneficiaries. At least 91,000 residents below the age of 45 years received the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 on the day, while 1,375 beneficiaries in this age bracket got their second jab. At least 1,202 session sites were operational in the state on Saturday, as per the dashboard of the Co-Win portal. As many as 85 session sites, including 78 sites run by the government, were operational in Ranchi, while 87 session sites opened their doors in East Singhbhum. At least 78 session sites in Dhanbad inoculated residents on the day. The immunisation campaign in the state lost momentum earlier this week due to shortage of vaccines and most of the government session sites remained non-operational. The state had around 7 lakh Covishield and 40,000 Covaxin doses in stock by the end of Saturday, health officials said. While the vaccination campaign regained momentum on Saturday, the state also reported two Covid casualties after a gap of at least a week. The two deaths, one each in Bokaro and East Singhbhum, took the toll in the state to 5,124 and that in East Singhbhum to 1,041. At least 282 people have died of Covid-19 in Bokaro so far. The active caseload of Covid-19 dropped further down to 276 in Jharkhand as the state reported 54 recoveries against 33 fresh cases of Coronavirus infection. As per NHM data, six recoveries against four cases brought the active caseload in Ranchi down to 61, while the number of active cases in East Singhbhum dropped to 26 as the district reported six recoveries against five fresh cases. At least 11 districts – West Singhbhum, Saraikela, Palamau, Pakur, Koderma, Hazaribag, Gumla, Godda, Garhwa, Dumka, Deoghar and Chatra – did not report fresh Covid cases on the day. The active caseload in Garhwa reached zero on the day as the lone Covid patient in the district recovered from the infection. The state on Saturday tested swab samples of 70,596 residents and 0.04 per cent of them were found infected by the deadly virus. So far over 3.46 lakh people have been infected by Coronavirus in the state and 98.44 per cent of them have recovered. However, 1.47 per cent of the patients could not survive. The doubling rate of cases in Jharkhand rose to 7,099 days against the national average of 806 days, while the growth rate in the state remained 0.01 per cent against the national growth rate of 0.09 per cent, highlighted government data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-94
25-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: 20-year-old shot dead at Sakchi||Jamshedpur: A 20-year-old youth was shot and killed by an acquaintance near Delhi Metro Mall on crowded Sandline Road under Sakchi thana area on Saturday afternoon. The victim was identified as Prabhakar Kumar also known as Bucchu, a resident of Teachers' Colony at Ulidih in Mango. Kumar was shot by Rahul Yadav who was inebbriated and was fleeing the crime scene on a bike but was caught by some local residents from a short distance from the spot. 23-year-old Rahul was thrashed before being handed over to police. Kumar was rushed by the residents to MGM Medical College Hospital where the doctors on emergency duty declared him as brought dead. City SP, Subhash Chandra Jat who visited the spot said they are interrogating the assailant Rahul at the Sakchi thana. "We have arrested the assailant identified as Rahul Yadav who is drunk. We have seized the pistol he used in the murder and are trying to find out the reason behind the murder, "said Jat to The Telegraph Online. According to sources, Kumar ran a business of breeding and selling pedigree puppies and the murder was committed due to some monetary dispute between the murder victim and Rahul. (Kumud Jenamani) Dhanbad: A 50-year-old woman of Palma village of Tundi block, Fuku Devi, about 40km from Dhanbad district headquarters was trampled to death by two elephants of a herd of 22 on Friday night when she was heading towards the adjoining village to meet a relative. A team of forest department led by Topchanchi Ranger, Ajay Kumar Manjul recovered the body and kept it at the house of the deceased and sent it for post mortem to Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital on Saturday morning at around 10 am after completion of formalities. Ajay Kumar Manjul, Tundi Forest ranger, said, “We have provided an ex gratia amount of Rs 25000 as immediate relief and remaining amount would be provided after the completion of all medical and documentary formalities.” “Though, there was a proposal for developing elephant corridor in Tundi, Topchanchi area which would have helped avoid human elephant clash but the proposal is yet to be approved by the government leading to regular loss of life and property,” said Raimuni Devi, member of Zila Parishad. (Praduman Choubey)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-94
25-07-2021||Jharkhand||South Eastern Railway transports 200 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen to Bangladesh||South Eastern Railway on Saturday became the first among the 18 zones of Indian Railways to transport liquid medical oxygen outside the country. A total of 200 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) stored in 10 cryogenic containers was sent from the Jamshedpur plant of Linde India Limited (a leading manufacturer of industrial and medical gases) to Benapole in Bangladesh through the Oxygen Express, which started from Tatanagar station. “It is the first time that any railway zone of the country has sent LMO through Oxygen Express outside India to meet the need for Covid-19 patients. The Oxygen Express left from Tatanagar station, which caters to Jamshedpur in Jharkhand, at around 10.15am carrying 200 tonnes of LMO,” said Geeta Sarkar, chief public relations officer, South Eastern Railway. She said the Oxygen Express service started from April 24 this year. The cryogenic containers can each carry up to 20 tonnes of liquid oxygen. Manufacturers prepare liquid oxygen with 99.5 per cent purity, which is then stored in large tankers and transported to distributors in cryogenic tankers at a specified temperature. It’s then converted back into gas and filled into cylinders by distributors. These cylinders are then dispatched to hospitals. These containers can also act as interim storage in remote areas which are facing oxygen scarcity. Sarkar further said that since April, South Eastern Railway has transported around 19,000 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen to 12 states and Union Territories — Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Assam, Haryana, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Uttarakhand, Kerala, Punjab and Delhi. These Oxygen Express trains originated from Tatanagar, Rourkela and Bokaro Steel City stations under the South Eastern Railway. “The Oxygen Express train will be reaching Benapole in Bangladesh in nearly 24 hours and will go through Adra, Asansol and Sealdah divisions before being handed over to Bangladesh,” said a senior official of the Chakradharpur division of South Eastern Railway, under which Tatanagar falls. A statement from the railways said: “Oxygen Express trains were announced in April and began operations on the 24th of that month, as hospitals from across the country reported an acute shortage of liquid medical oxygen amid the devastating second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. According to official figures, a total of 480 such trains have supplied more than 35,000 tonnes of LMO to various states, till now.” A special branch team of Jharkhand police arrested three men from a hotel in Ranchi on Saturday on a complaint filed by a Congress MLA alleging that they were trying to destabilise the Hemant Soren-led UPA government. The complaint was lodged against Abhishek Dubey from Palamau and Amit Singh and Niwaran Prasad Mahato from Bokaro for allegedly luring ruling party MLAs with cash.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-94
