26-07-2021||Jharkhand||JMM defends police slilence on topple plot, says probe on right track ||The Jharkhand Mutki Morcha (JMM) defended the police’s silence on the arrest of three persons for allegeldy trying to destabilise the state 's coalition government headed by it, saying law enforcement agencies seldom comment on ongoing investigations, especially when the charges are so serious in nature. Addressing a press conference on Monday in response to BJP legislature party leader Babulal Marandi’s accusation that police had arrested three innocent persons, the JMM general secretary, Supriyo Bhattarcharjee, said, “Babulalji, who was the first CM of the state and is also a lawmaker, must know that police never comment on such issues. Unlike other crimes, this was an attempt by the BJP to destabilise the government in which three persons were held. Therefore, unless entire probe is over, I don’t think any investigating agencies will comment. This is not a case of mobile theft, but an attempted political crime.” Taking a dig at the BJP, the JMM spokesperson added that if Marandi was confident that the three were innocent, he should help them get a good lawyer and fight their case. “Rather than trying to threaten police officials, Babulal should help his friends get lawyers and fight in court,” he said. On Sunday, Marandi had demanded a judicial probe by a sitting high court judge into the allegations that the trio was working to topple the state government. Bhattarcharjee did not mention that, but claimed police investigations were on the right track. “In their confessional statement before police, the accused have admitted that they were lobbying for the BJP and trying to prey on ruling party MLAs. Once the probe is over, police will take further action,” he said. The spokesperson  reiterated that the JMM-Congress-RJD alliance was intact and the government was here to stay for five years. “Even though a few names of Congress MLAs have found mention in the media as being targeted by BJP agents, none of our MLAs has received any offer. JMM workers know their responsibilities... they know how to counter such attempts.” The three arrested persons have been identified as Abhishek Singh, Amit Singh and Nivaran Prasad Mahto. Amit and Nivaran are from Bokaro and Abhishek is from Ratu Road In Ranchi. Police have booked them under various sections of IPC, Representation of the People Act, 1951, and Prevention of Corruption Act, besides sedition. The three have apparently told the police that on July 15, three MLAs—two Congress and one Independent—had travelled with them on a  flight from Ranchi to Delhi to broker a deal. They didn’t name the MLAs but alleged that several BJP leaders  from Maharashtra had approached them to negotiate with MLAs in Jharkhand to try and topple the state government. Police, however, are yet to issue a formal statement on the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-92
26-07-2021||Jharkhand||Katras night food drive for street dwellers and daily wagers||A group of Katras residents led by a young BCCL officer, Dev Kumar Verma, are running a free night food service for the street dwellers of the town. The night food service programme is aimed at helping a large number of people whose income has been adversely affected due to the pandemic induced recession and closure of different industrials units and offices. The food is being distributed under the ni shulk bhojan vitran programme of Lions Club Katras outside the premises of Katras Railway station from 7.30 pm to 8.30 pm. Talking to The Telegraph Online today Verma who also operates three schools in Katras to impart free of cost education to coal picker children said, “As around 50-60 street dwellers live in the surrounding areas of Katras railway station so the food distribution is being carried out near the station where needy people from surrounding areas like Katras Bazar also visit to avail the benefit of free food.” “Large majority of station vendors besides rickshaw pullers, other daily wage earners deprived of day’s income and beggars are the major beneficiaries of our food distribution programme,” said Verma. “The food menu keeps changing on different days ranging from puri-sabji to chawal dal sabji and some times of puri sabji khir,” said Verma. The night food service launched by them is an extension of free food distribution programme carried out last year in Katras. “The food distribution during the night is most suitable time to reach the real beneficiaries as majority of daily wage earners, rickshaw pullers and porters remain away on work during the day time and return back to their place during the night, so maximum people can take benefit,” said Verma. Dr Sudharshan Kumar a renowned physician of Katras who is chairperson services of Lions club of Katras and takes active part in free night food service said,“ When we started the drive on July 1 there were only 40-50 beneficiaries but as the information spread we now distribute more than 100 packets on a daily basis for which a cost of Rs 2,000 is incurred per day.” Three professional cooks prepare the food at a rented kitchen near Swastik Talkies Cinema Hall of Katras. “Besides the beneficiaries, the number of donors for night food service programme has also increased as many people celebrate their birth, marriage day etc by sponsoring the special foods cooked on the day,” said Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-92
26-07-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad industries seek respite from  power cuts||Over 60 MSME industry owners have demanded better industrial infrastructure including uninterrupted supply of power, sufficient water supply provision and better transport arrangement at the industrial parks of Kandra and Sindri area of Jharkhand Industrial Area Development Authority. The demands were made at a recent meeting of MSME industry owners with Kriti Sriji, regional director of Jharkhand Industrial Area Development Authority. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Monday, noted industrialist of Dhanbad, Rajiv Sharma who is also the general secretary of Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association said, “The demand for regular power supply was on the priority list as despite the fact that around 20 hours of electricity supply is carried out every day but a power cut for four hours takes place during the crucial commercial hour causing great production loss for us.” “We demanded the regional director of JIADA to coordinate with Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited to avoid the power cuts during the crucial commercial hours,” said Sharma and added prior information about the power cut schedule can help in avoiding losses to a great extent. “We also demanded to coordinate with the DVC to ensure direct connection for industrial units so that the disruption to plant operation due to repeated power failure can be avoided,” said Sharma and they simultaneously demanded solar plate connection arrangement for all streetlights at Sindri and Kandra based industrial parks. “The second most important requirement  for industry is water requirement both for drinking purpose and also for industrial usage but due to scarce water supply the industrials units situated at Kandra and Sindri Industrial parks had to face a lot of difficulties” said Sharma who himself owns a small electrical equipment manufacturing unit at Kandra Industrial Area of Govindpur. “We can’t understand the reason for the improper water supply arrangement at the industrial parks as the civic bodies can have good source of income by making supply of water at commercial rate to the industrial parks,” said Ashish Dudani another MSME owner of Kandra Industrial park of JIADA and suggested that water supply can be easily augmented at Kandra Industrial area through the Bheltand Based Water treatment plant of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation. He also raised the issue of water logging due to improper drainage system at Kandra and demanded upgradation of the drainage system at Kandra with immediate effect to create an ambience conducive to industrial growth in the park. “The outcome of meeting was quite fruitful as the regional director assured to initiate measures on a number of our suggestions as we simultaneously raised the issue for better transport facility to ensure arrival of workers in the factory from distant areas as well as the transport of raw material and finished goods from and to the industry,” said an Industry owner Harendra Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-93
26-07-2021||Jharkhand||7-year-old comes 6th at Asia school chess meet||Dishita Dey of Jharkhand made an impressive debut in the international arena by securing sixth place in the Asian School Chess Championships for under-7 girls which concluded on Sunday. The event was played online over 9 rounds Swiss rapid play. The event attracted 39 players from 24 countries of Asia. Dishita scored 6 points out of possible 9 from as many rounds. India's Samhita Pungavanam won the gold by pushing her teammate Charvi A to silver on better tie break as both tied with 8 points each. The bronze went to Ventura Gaye Thalia of Philippines who scored 7.5 points. The 4th and 5th spot too went to Indian players Narayanan Rishitha and Ira Bohara who scored 7 and 6.5 points, respectively. The state's chess fraternity congratulated Dishita for her debut performance and wished her a great future ahead. "Dishita played well in her international debut. She will make more progress in future," said All Jharkhand Chess Association secretary Neeraj Kumar Mishra, an International Master. International arbiter and chief coach at Tata Chess Centre in Jamshedpur Jayant Kumar Bhuyan also praised Dishita and said the kid has a bright future. "I am happy with her (Dishita) performance. She will improve her game as she grows," he added. Dishita, who recently stood 6th at the recently concluded Online National School Chess Championship for Under-7 girls and qualified for the Asian Meet, is a student of standard II at Narayana School in Calcutta. She is the daughter of former Jharkhand women’s champion Alka Das. She opted to play for Jharkhand and is registered with the state chess association. Dishita hones her chess skills under her Jamshedpur-based maternal uncles Dushyant and Abhishek Das. Karnataka Grandmaster M.S. Thejkumar also chips in with guidance to the kid. She is the cousin of Jharkhand chess prodigy Adhiraj Mitra who will represent the country in the Asian School Chess Championship for Under-9 to be played from July 29 to 31. The talented Dishita has won the recently concluded online state championship in the under-10 age group and has also represented Jharkhand in virtual under-10 and under-12 national events.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-93
26-07-2021||Jharkhand||Patient death leads to brawl at RIMS emergency ward ||Emergency services at Jharkhand’s largest state-run hospital, Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), came to a standstill for several hours late on Sunday night following a scuffle between junior resident doctors and attendants of a patient who allegedly died of kidney failure. Police from Bariatu  had to rush to the spot around 10pm and use muscle power to bring the situation under control after the emergency ward of the hospital turned into a wrestling ring with doctors and attendants throwing punches at each other, eye witnesses said. “We had to intervene to bring the situation under control. Both parties have lodged FIRs with us and further investigation is under way,” said Anjan Kumar, a sub-inspector at the Bariatu police station. Relatives of the deceased woman, Anita Devi, accused the junior doctors of delaying her treatment on the pretext of documentation, which allegedly led to her death. On the other hand,  doctors have accused attendants of the patient of misbehaving with a woman junior doctor and creating a ruckus at the emergency. As per RIMS records, the patient was brought to the emergency ward of the hospital amaround 12.30 in the afternoon. Both her kidneys were on the verge of failure and the doctors were preparing her for dialysis. She died at around 8.30 pm. The woman was also a Covid suspect and her test results were awaited, said Dr Vivek Kumar, the president of Junior Doctors’ Association of RIMS. While doctors have blamed the attendants of the patient for starting the brawl, the attendants told the police that junior doctors locked up some of them in a room and brutally thrashed them, said police. At  11pm, RIMS Director Dr. Kameshwar Prasad and Superintendent Dr. Vivek Kashyap had to visit the emergency ward and pacify the junior doctors. The doctors have lodged a named FIR against one Aman Kumar, son of the deceased, and some other relatives of the patient with the local police station, while the attendants have lodged an unnamed counter FIR against the junior doctors, said police, adding that normalcy prevailed at the emergency ward of the hospital on Monday. The Indian Medical Association (IMA)  was yet to issue a statement on the incident by the time this report was filed. A member of  IMA Jharkhand, requesting anonymity, said that both parties were at fault and the association stands against all forms of violence, be it with doctors or attendants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-93
26-07-2021||Jharkhand|| Jharkhand vaccinates over 1.5 lakh for 2nd day running||Jharkhand on Sunday vaccinated over 1.5 lakh residents for the second day in succession after a crisis of vaccines slowed down the pace of immunisation in the state for several days last week, data compiled by the health department highlighted. As per provisional vaccination numbers released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Sunday administered the first dose of vaccines to at least 1,18,004 residents, while the second jab was administered to as many as 34,018 beneficiaries. Over 1 lakh beneficiaries who got jabbed were younger than 45 years. At least 94,250 residents in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years got their first jab, while as many as 6,606 beneficiaries in the same age group got their second jab. Data released by the health department on Sunday evening highlighted that the state has received 93,02,030 doses of Covishield and Covaxin doses from the Centre so far. The state has administered vaccines to 87,37,460 residents. Some of these beneficiaries also received the Russian Sputnik V vaccine, procured separately by private hospitals. The state had over 5.3 lakh vaccine doses in stock by Sunday evening. The active caseload of Covid-19 dropped further to 254 in Jharkhand on Sunday as the state reported at least 50 Covid recoveries against 28 fresh cases of infection, an NHM bulletin stated. No fresh casualties were reported, and the Covid toll remained 5,124. None of the 24 districts reported a double-digit-spike in Covid cases on Sunday with Koderma and Hazaribagh reporting the highest spike of four cases each. At least 10 recoveries against one fresh case of coronavirus infection brought the active caseload in Ranchi down to 52, while the active caseload in East Singhbhum dropped to 21 as the district reported five recoveries against one fresh case on the day. As per NHM data, at least 11 districts – West Singhbhum, Saraikela, Palamu, Pakur, Lohardaga, Khunti, Godda, Giridih, Garhwa, Deoghar and Chatra – did not report fresh cases. Garhwa, which had zero Covid patients on Saturday, did not report fresh cases on Sunday. The state on Sunday tested swab samples of 54,968 residents and 0.05 per cent of them were found infected by the SARS-CoV-2 virus. So far, over 3.46 lakh people have been infected by the deadly virus in Jharkhand and 98.44 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of patients have died. The state did not report fresh cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis on Sunday. So far, at least 102 confirmed and 60 suspected cases of black fungus have surfaced in Jharkhand. At least 30 patients have died, while 101 have recovered from the fungal infection, as per data compiled by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-93
26-07-2021||Jharkhand||Olympics: Simdega keeps faith in Indian women's hockey team||The defeat of the Indian women’s hockey team in their opening match in Tokyo Olympics on Saturday failed to daunt the spirited enthusiasts of Jharkhand’s Simdega. They would continue bringing out small processions in villages in support of the team that has two members from Jharkhand — Nikki Pradhan from Khunti and the Simdega girl Salima Tete. “Taking on the world number one, Netherlands, was like playing the final match and our team played rather well,” Hockey Jharkhand president Manoj Konbegi defended the national women’s team despite its 1-5 defeat in the inaugural match. Small children keep the enthusiasm alive in Simdega by going around their respective villages, carrying a banner saying Cheer for India and shouting slogans supporting the team. Nikki didi ko goal bachana hai, Salima didi ko goal marna hai and Bharat ko gold jitna hai are some of the slogans, besides Cheers for India and Chak de India, they shout while roaming around in their villages that produced many hockey stars. Besides shouting slogans, these children also dance to the tune of two songs that have been composed by local artistes recently and also uploaded on YouTube. “One of this was released on Wednesday,” Konbegi informed about a Hindi song lyrics of which runs like Khelenge hockey dilojaan se (will play hockey wholeheartedly), adding it was sung by local artistes Kashinath Nayak and Jagannath Ram. But the other one, a Nagpuri song urging Khelo khelo khelo hockey pura dam lagake khelo (play hockey with all your energy)... that was presented by Laldhan Nayak and launched during the sub-junior national hockey championship held in Simdega last year was more popular. The song became a hit because it is in local Nagpuri dialect and also narrates the achievements of hockey legends from Jaipal Singh, Sylvanus Dungdung and Michael Kindo to Sumrai Tete and Kanti Baa. “This song is played whenever there is a hockey match and even at other gatherings,” Konbegi said about its popularity, adding he also found it playing at social functions. “Even we were inspired by Laldhanji’s song but made it in Hindi as that would be understood by people from outside the state,” Kashillal Nayak replied when asked why they chose to render their song in Hindi instead of Nagpuri. The people of the region, including Simdega, that produced many hockey greats have hockey in their blood, Konbegi reminded, adding they were trying to keep their enthusiasm intact by launching songs and organising small gatherings in villages. “I will speak to Salima and also send her these video clips so that she and her teammates know how seriously these young children support them,” he further informed. “Such things may not impact their game on Tokeyo but will surely motivate these children who are the future of hockey in this part of the country,” Konbegi added to justify their activities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-93
