27-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand hikes DA for government staff to 28 per cent||The Jharkhand government has decided to raising dearness allowances (DA) of its employees to 28 per cent with effect from July 1 this year. The decision to increase DA was taken at a cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren on Tuesday. A total of 19 proposals were taken up at today’s meeting. Briefing the media, cabinet coordination secretary Vandana Dadel said that state government employees will now get 28 per cent DA against 17.5 per cent. The DA of pension holders was also hiked. “Close to 2.5 lakh state government employees will be benefitted by Tuesday's decision,” she said. In another significant decision, the state cabinet cleared amendments in the Indian stamp duty regulations which will allow the government to increase rates of deeds, affidavits, land and property registry, among others. The revised rates are likely to be applicable from August 1. While Dadel did not provide details of the quantum of hikes, she said the state would generate additonal revenue to the tune of Rs 200 crore because of this decision. The cabinet also agreed to engage the National Institute of Hydrology in Roorkee to prepare an action plan for the implementation of the pogrammes of the Union ministry of Jal Shakti. The cabinet also agreed to the state education department’s plan to distribute free textbooks to students of classes IX, X and XI of government schools.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-91
27-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand unveils plan to promote ethanol production||The Jharkhand government is working on a plan to promote ethanol production in the state to boost alternative sources of energy in the field of biofuels. On Monday, the state industries department unveiled a draft policy, titled, Jharkhand Ethanol Production and Promotion Policy 2021, and held a discussion with potential investors. Addressing the gathering, state industries department secretary Pooja Singhal said that the state government was working on several sector-wise policies and hoped to unveil at least seven of them in the next two months. She also spoke of some of the advantages of investing in Jharkhand, like, ease of doing business, a land bank and a host of upcoming industrial parks and special economic zones. On the ethanol sector, she said, “Given the availability of feedstock used for ethanol production, Jharkhand can easily sustain a minimum of 600 KL/day of production for the captive market available in eastern India.” Notably, ethanol is distilled from sugarcane, molasses, maze and agro waste. Since sugarcane cultivation is scare in Jharkhand, investors will need to procure raw material from nearby states like Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and the likes. Explaining the salient features of the draft policy, she said, “The policy proposes a highly remunerative incentive structure including capital subsidy at 25 per cent of the investment made in fixed capital of up to Rs 10 crore for MSMEs and Rs 50 crore for non-MSMEs. This apart, there is also a one-time skill development subsidy at Rs 13,000 per employee for training employees who are domiciled in the state. Also, employment cost subsidy (50 per cent reimbursement for male workers and 100 per cent reimbursement for female workers) of expenditure on account of contribution toward ESI and EPF schemes for a period of 5 years will be provided.” Among others present on the occasion were industries director Jitendra Kumar, deputy commissioner, Department of Excise and Prohibition, Rakesh Kumar, representatives of various trade bodies, including Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-92
27-07-2021||Jharkhand||Centre assures 35 lakh vaccine doses to Jharkhand in August||Jharkhand has been assured supply of over 35 lakh doses of vaccines from the Centre in August to continue the ongoing immunisation drive against Covid-19, the latest supply schedule released by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) on Tuesday said. While the Centre will provide as many as 27,46,930 vaccine doses for free, at least 7,95,250 doses will be made available for purchase by private hospitals and clinics involved in the vaccination drive. With at least 35,32,180 vaccine doses assured, the state will now be in a position to inoculate at least 1 lakh residents daily in August, health officials said. Jharkhand, as per records with the health department, has at least 3,377 session sites for vaccination and the infrastructure to immunize over 3 lakh residents every day. The state, as per government records, received around 25 lakh vaccine doses in July. However, delayed supply of vaccines hit the immunisation drive for several days in Jharkhand as districts ran out of vaccines, officials said. Owing to the crisis of vaccines, the state recorded the lowest single day vaccination figure of barely 13,000 in the month of July. While the increase in the number of vaccine doses in August may help in smooth running of the campaign, many residents desiring to get Covaxin doses or waiting for their second dose of the Bharat Biotech-made vaccine may have to deal with a shortage, sources said. As per the schedule of vaccine supply, Jharkhand will receive 24,08,650 Covishield doses and 3,38,280 Covaxin doses free of cost. At least 6,88,130 Covishield doses and 1,07,120 Covaxin doses will be made available for purchase by private hospitals. The figures indicate that on an average, the state may only get the freedom to administer around 15,000 Covaxin doses every day. The demand for Covaxin, primarily due to the shorter gap between the two doses, led to a ruckus at some session sites in Jharkhand this month. Many beneficiaries of the second dose of the vaccine also complained about the unavailability of vaccines at session sites close to their homes. In the wake of the growing demand for Covaxin, some districts decided to allow only online slot booking for beneficiaries of this vaccine. Jharkhand has so far received 93,02,030 doses of vaccines from the Centre for running the immunisation drive against Covid-19, highlights data with the National Health Mission (NHM). As per NHM data shared on Tuesday evening, the state has so far administered at least one dose of vaccine to 90,32,969 residents, including some who took the Russian Sputnik V vaccine procured separately by private hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-92
27-07-2021||Jharkhand||Miffed with stiff competition posed by online sellers Dhanbad retailers write to PM Modi||Reeling from the impact of pandemic induced slowdown, over lakh traders are facing the survival risk due to the stiff competition being posed by online trade and e-commerce sites. Over six to seven per cent outlets are facing the risk of closure, while 9-10 per cent of staff including the store managers, salesmen and loaders associated with retail sector warehouses and shops are at the risk of losing their jobs. Perturbed by the prevailing situation, retailers and other traders of Dhanbad wrote two separate letters, marked to Prime Minister, Narendra Modi and the Union Commerce Minister, Piyush Goyal demanding to curb the monopoly of a few big players in the e-commerce sector. The aggrieved traders led by vice president of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Surendra Arora said, “We believe in comprehensive development of business, trade and industry in which the inclusive growth of every stakeholder including retailer, wholesaler, common staff and labourers engaged in loading work is ensured.” “While several other countries in the world faced the impact of global recession in a more adverse manner, the impact of recession remained minimal in India due to comprehensive involvement of different groups in the business and trade activity,” maintained Arora. He added that during the lockdown an attempt has been made by a chain of handful of large business houses to adversely affect traditional business houses. Echoing sentiment, Prabhat Surolia president of Bank More Chamber of Commerce said, “Online trade may prove to be a progressive step for the growth of trade and industry but the attempt by a few big players to capture the entire market can’t be part of the government policy.” According to them, if the monopoly of big players continues at the cost of small traders being affected then the central government’s slogan ‘vocal for local’ can’t be realized. “Due to huge overhead costs including the shop and warehouse rent, electricity charges, staff cost the retailers can’t survive the stiff competition being posed by online traders” said Surolia. “The blow suffered by the online trade to the retail sector is not limited to the metropolitan cities or large urban centres. The heat is being felt by traders of smaller towns and rural areas also,” he added. “When trade of several items was restricted in the retail sector during the lockdown such items were freely supplied through online trade in violation with the norms,” charged an agitated Surolia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-92
27-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur hosts sport climbing trials for World Youth Meet||Tata Steel Adventure Foundation (TSAF) in association with Indian Mountaineering Foundation (IMF) East Zone is conducting the national qualifying trials of sport climbers. Those selected will make it to the national squad for the World Youth Championship, which will be hosted by Russia n Voronezh, from August 21 to 31. A total of 24 aspirants, including 9 from TSAF, are trying their luck at the three-day trials which was flagged off at JRD Tata Sports Complex on Monday. The participants have been segregated in accordance with their age into junior and youth (A & B) camp. Siblings Aman and Anisha Verma, Talim Ansari, Suraj Singh Thakur, Sachin Saroj, Abhiskek Rawat, J Purty and Vidula Abhale are among the aspirants from TSAF. The trials are being held in the absence of audience. All safety norms, including Covid protocol, is being followed to ensure safety of everyone. Those selected will continue to getting trained at the training centre. This initiative of TSAF is to promote sport climbing in India and provide exposure to Indian athletes and help them prepare for future Olympic Games. Chanakya Chaudhary, vice-president (Corporate Services), Tata Steel wished good luck to all the participating athletes and supported TSAF’s initiative to provide exposure and opportunity to the promising sport climbers. He also lauded TSAF's efforts to promote sport climbing in India. Debraj Dutta, chairman, IMF East Zone, Hemant Gupta, head, TSAF and co- chairman, IMF East Zone and Bibhas Roy, coach along with officials and volunteers are managing the trials. “Around 10 sport climbers would be selected after the trials. They will train in Jamshedpur before departing for Russia,” said Gupta. TSAF has invested heavily, to develop infrastructure at the training centre for sport climbing in Jamshedpur. Besides JRD Tata Sports Complex, it has also installed 5 modular climbing walls at rural schools around the steel city to increase the reach and awareness of the sport. The premier Jamshedpur-based adventure outfit started developing sport climbing in 2015 and has taken giant leaps over the years. The efforts are already reflecting through the results as TSAF climbers won the zonal and national trophy in 2019. Cadets from TSAF training centre are amongst the best performing athletes in India. Anisha Verma is the current national record holder in speed climbing in girl’s category while her brother Aman Verma is the first climber from India to reach semi-final stage of World Youth Championship a couple of years back. TSAF cadets have won 20 medals at national level while more than 50 at zonal and state level.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-92
27-07-2021||Jharkhand||Belgian Malinois puppies for Tatanagar’s RPF dog squad||Tatanagar’s Railway Protection Force (RPF) kennel which had a lone Labrador sniffer, looks all set for some action, with the unit inducting two puppies on Tuesday. Many believe that the kennel, which had been lacking both in action and charm will soon be hustling with life. With the arrival of the Belgian Malianois puppies from Kharagpur, the number of inmates in the kennel will be boosted to three. Belgian Malinois species are considered to be most dependable and effective for any dog squad. Speaking about the new inducts, Sanjay Kumar Tiwari, inspector, Tatanagar RPF post, said, “Despite being sanctioned to have a three-member dog squad, we till date had a lone dog.” “The Belgian Malinois puppies are just a fortnight-old. After these puppies are trained, they will be inducted into the squad,” said the RPF inspector while talking to The Telegraph Online. Shushil Kumar Mahanta who is an RPF staff and the handler for the squad said the training of these puppies will begin only after they turn five months old. Following which, a slot would be booked for their training at the dog training center. “The puppies are given 32 weeks training at any of the dog training centers in the country. These puppies can be sent to BSF training Institute in Madhya Pradesh or to the RPF’s training center at Pune or newly-established CISF training Institute at Ranchi,” said Mahanta while talking to this website. The handler also pointed out that unlike a labrador or a German Shepherd that are trained for the dog squad, Belgian Malinois happen to be very aggressive. He added that the puppies could be trained for tracking, sniffing or detecting narcotics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-92
27-07-2021||Jharkhand||Over 1.4 lakh get vaccinated in Jharkhand  ||Jharkhand on Monday vaccinated more than 1 lakh residents against Covid-19 for the third day in a row, adding impetus to the ongoing immunisation campaign that was hit recently by a crisis of vaccines. In all, the state administered vaccines to 1,40,385 beneficiaries, provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. The first dose of vaccine was administered to 1,09,085 residents, while at least 31,300 beneficiaries got their second jab. As many as 86,207 residents between 18 to 44 years got their first jab and 5,702 beneficiaries in this age bracket received their second jab on Monday. Jharkhand had over 5.40 lakh doses of vaccines in stock, as per data shared by the health department on Monday evening. The state has so far received 93,02,030 Covishield and Covaxin doses from the Centre and private hospitals have separately procured Sputnik V. The state, as per government data, has vaccinated 88,89,147 residents so far. The active caseload of Covid-19 dropped to 246 on Monday as the state reported at least 45 Covid recoveries against 37 fresh cases of infection. The state did not report any fresh casualties caused by the viral infection, which has claimed 5124 lives in Jharkhand so far. At least 13 districts – West Singhbhum, Saraikela, Sahebganj, Palamu, Pakur, Lohardaga, Khunti, Hazaribagh, Godda, Giridih, East Singhhum, Dumka and Chatra – did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 on the day, while the active caseload dropped to zero in Pakur and West Singhbhum as the only patients in the two districts recovered, the NHM stated in its daily Covid-19 bulletin. None of the 24 districts reported a double-digit-spike on Monday with Bokaro reporting the highest increase of nine cases. At least six recoveries against two cases brought the active caseload to 48, while the active caseload in East Singhbhum dropped to 16 as the district reported five recoveries against zero fresh cases. At least 27 people were battling the viral infection in Dhanbad by the end of Monday as two patients recovered there and one person was found infected on the day. On Monday, the state tested swab samples of 54,215 residents and 0.06 per cent of them were found infected by SARS-CoV-2. Almost 3.47 lakh people have been infected by the deadly virus in Jharkhand so far and 98.45 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of patients could not survive. The doubling rate of Covid cases jumped to 8210.12 days in Jharkhand on Monday against the national average of 756.05 days, while the growth rate in the state remained 0.01 per cent against the national average of 0.09 per cent, government data highlighted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-92
27-07-2021||Jharkhand||Left party protests Stan Swamy custodial death and farm laws||Activists of Marxist Coordination Committee along with the members of trade union Bihar Colliery Kamgar Union, on Monday staged a demonstration near the district headquarters at Randhir Verma Chowk demanding an independent probe into Father Swamy’s death under judicial custody. The protesters led by Hari Prasad Pappu, district president of Marxist Coordination Committee also expressed their ire over the three farm bills brought by Central Government as part of their demonstration and termed the changes in the labour code made by the central government as anti-labour. The agitated workers who shouted slogans against the Central Government also expressed their ire over the hike in fuel prices and resultant price rise of essential food items including mustard oil affecting each and every family. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Pappu said, “No action has been taken in connection with the death of Father Stan Swamy, a tribal right activist who became the victim of a politically motivated probe against him.” “What was the need to arrest such a philanthropic person who had even been denied even basic facilities and due medical attention leading to his death,” said Pappu. “The farm laws brought by the central government are totally against the interest of the farmers and aimed to benefit the corporate houses,” said Pappu. “The farm bills as brought by the central government will allow private parties to hoard essentials items by purchasing them instead of the government authorised agents as per the earlier practice,” said Bhushan Mahto, one of the protesters, and demanded immediate lifting of all false cases lodged against the agitating farmers and social workers during the course of their agitation against the farm bills. “We demand immediate repealing of all three farm bills and waive off all loans of farmers,”said Vivek Kumar another agitator and demanded the government provide legal status to minimum support price for foodgrains. The protesters also expressed their anger over the denial of reservation to the people of deprived sections of society and charged that the central government has denied the opportunity to more than 11,000 candidates of Other Backward Caster to become doctors in the last four years by making clandestine changes in the reservation provisions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-92
27-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Kanpur gem trader arrested for illegal trade||Jamshedpur: A Kanpur-based gem trader was arrested along with two others from Ghurabandha thana area of Ghatsila subdivision in the district for illegally trading in precious gems. The gem trader identified as Vivek Kumar Gupta was arrested while he was striking a deal with a local emerald miner and an agent at a place in Ashti village, about seven kms away from the emerald mines. The police have seized 170 grams of emerald while arresting the three, the other two being identified as Sanatan Shyamal and Mohammed Nizamuddin, residents of Ghurabandha and Mango respectively. Police have also seized a car and a motorcycle from the Ashti village during the arrest. The Ghurabandha thana OC, Prabhat Kumar said that they had got a tip off that two persons, including a gem trader from outside the state are likely to meet a local villager in connection with the precious stones dealing at Ashti village this morning. "Acting on the information, we had swung into action and remained watchful at the Ashti village. This being a tribal-dominated village, we did not have to face much difficulty in tracing the outsiders who were found after a little wait. During the search, we found a stock of emeralds from the trio who were taken into custody immediately, " said Kumar to The Telegraph Online. The OC said during interrogation, it was established that Sanatan would do the mining emerald illegally and would sell the precious stone to outside gem traders through the Mango-based agent, Nizamuddin on a regular basis. The three were sent to Ghatsila Sub-jail after their production before a judicial magistrate in the afternoon. The emerald mines which falls under the forest area is yet to be leased out for mining and does attract a large number of local villagers for illegal mining. "We had taken necessary steps to stop the illegal mining of emerald with the help of the forest department and the police. But still some villagers do manage to collect the precious stone from the emerald deposit illegally.  The process of leasing out the mines is on," said district mining officer, Mohammed Nadeem Shafi to The Telegraph Online. (Kumud Jenamani) Dhanbad: Two unidentified bike borne criminals robbed cash worth Rs 2lakh from a retired BCCL employee on Monday at around 1 pm. The incident took place at Luby Circular Road when, Satish Chandra, 62, was returning home at Lodna in Jharia after withdrawing cash from Koylanagar Branch of State Bank of India. As soon as he reached near Luby Circular Road two unidentified youths who came on a bike from behind pushed him to the ground and fled after snatching the bag containing Rs 2 lakh cash. He later lodged an FIR in Dhanbad Sadar Police station.  (Praduman Choubey) Dhanbad: Two new CNG stations, established with the help of GAIL Gas Limited, will be inaugurated on Tuesday, including one at Nirsa Service Station at Nirsa block and another at Gupta Petol Pump of Putki. Sagar Saxena of GAIL Gas Limited said that GAIL Gas Limited has plans to establish altogether 15 CNG stations across the district and provide piped natural gas connections to 51,000 households. (Praduman Choubey)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-92
