28-07-2021||Jharkhand||7-year-old wins bronze at Asian school championship||Dishita Dey of Jharkhand claimed her debut team bronze in the online Asian School Chess Championships for under-7 girls. India's B team of Dishita, Rashi Warudkar, Krishna Tamhant Jain and Rajan P. Ananya collectively garnered 19.5 points to walk home with the bronze. Dishita, who finished with six points (out of 9 rounds) in the championship which concluded on Sunday, topped the list while Rashi and Krishna scored 5 points each. Rajan, on the other hand, came up with 3.5 points. FIDE (Federation Internationale Des Echecs) released the rankings on Tuesday, two days after the Asian School Meet. India’s A team comprising Charvi A (8 points), Samhita Pungavanam (8), Narayanan Rishitha (7) and Ira Bohara (6.5) won the team gold with 29.5 points. The event attracted 39 players from 24 countries of Asia. It was played over 9 rounds Swiss rapid play Expressing happiness, East Singhbhum District Chess Association (ESDCA) treasurer and international arbiter Jayant Kumar Bhuyan said it is a proud moment for the country as well as Jharkhand. "Claiming team bronze in her international debut is a big achievement for Dishita. Congratulations to her," he added Points of all the four players of India B were added to decide the rankings, Bhuyan, chief coach at Tata Chess Centre in Jamshedpur, explained and added that Dishita topping the list with six points shows she's promising. Seven-year-old Dishita, who recently stood sixth at the recently concluded Online National School Chess Championship for Under-7 girls and qualified for the Asian Meet, is a student of standard II at Narayana School in Calcutta. She is the daughter of former Jharkhand women’s champion Alka Das. She opted to play for Jharkhand and is registered with the state chess association. Dishita hones her chess skills under her Jamshedpur-based maternal uncles Dushyant and Abhishek Das. Karnataka Grandmaster M.S. Thejkumar also chips in with guidance to the kid. She is the cousin of Jharkhand chess prodigy Adhiraj Mitra who will represent the country in the Asian School Chess Championship for Under-9 to be played from July 29 to 31. The talented Dishita has won the recently concluded online state championship in the under-10 age group and has also represented Jharkhand in virtual under-10 and under-12 national events.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-91
28-07-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI to host two-day conclave with Human Resource professionals||XLRI will host KRONOS -21, the B-school's flagship Human Resource Conclave, in a virtual mode on August 1 and 2. The theme for the conclave is "Re-defining the Role of Human Resources for the Future." The two-day conclave will bring leading HR professionals to share experiences and insights on the ever-changing dynamics of the industry. As the boundaries of HR have extended beyond horizons, the way HR practices are managed and run is becoming vigorous, agile, and embedded with digital interventions, said a B-school official. According to him, while there have been discussions on the disruption concerning data and digitalisation, the whole idea of work, workplace, and human resources has evolved in the context of the prevailing Covid pandemic. Dean Academics  Ashish K. Pani, associate dean  Debasis Pradhan and  Anita Sarkar, chairperson, HRM Area, will be present at the inaugural session. The first day of the conclave will see a session by Deepa Narayan, vice- president, Employee Success at Salesforce on Rethinking HRM Amidst Disruptions and a keynote speech on the topic Next-Gen HRM by  Rajlakshmi Saikia, vice-president, Global Learning Operation, Genpact. The first day will also see a speech by Susan Mathew, HR Country Head, Linkedin,  on Human Resources Planning During Covid-19. The first day will end with a session "Experts ki Paathshaala" on HR Analytics and HR Auditing to be participated by Anish Raj, director HR, Sentio, and Vipin Sharma, Head HR  Strategy, Analytics and HR Innovation Lab, Tata Steel. The proceedings on the second day will start with a keynote address on Leadership Agility by Suresh Narayanan, chairman and managing director, Nestle India Ltd and How to be the best candidate for hiring? by  Anurag Patnaik, Head of Human Resource, Nestle. The plenary address by columnist and management consultant Abhijit Bhaduri will be on Careers in a Hybrid Corporate World and a talk by Ma Foi K. Pandiarajan, businessman turned politician post lunch. This will be followed by a session to be participated by executive post- graduate diploma in management (ExPGDM) batch of 2021-22 which comprises 114 professionals with a work experience of more than five years from various industries including IT, Banking Financial Services and Insurance (BFSI), manufacturing and construction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-91
28-07-2021||Jharkhand||On National Justice Day, students and teachers promise to carry forward Father Stan Swamy's legacy||Abhivyakti hamara adhikar hai; Samvidhan hi hamara aadhar hai; Prjatantra ko bachao; Justice is truth in action; One voice can be muffled not millions; A right delayed is a right denied; Our constitution begins with we the people and not us the government. A host of such slogans were raised as the members of Society of Jesuits on Wednesday observed National Justice Day at De Nobili School Bhuli to pay respect to tribal rights activist, Father Stan Swamy and resolved to carry forward his legacy. The half an hour programme held near the main gate of De Nobili School Bhuli  during the morning was part of a nationwide programme organised as per the call of Jesuit Provincial of South Asia, Jesuit Conference of India and Jesuits in Goa. Talking to the Telegraph Online on Wednesday after the programme, Father Sebastian Puthepura, Principal of De Nobili School Bhuli said, “Only members of the school management, some teachers and a few of our support staff took part in the programme held in the morning during which we put a portrait of Fr Stan Swamy near the main gate and observed two minute silence in respect of Fr Stan Swamy. He added that the participants of the programme were holding placards and posters bearing slogans demanding justice for Stan Swamy. De Nobili Group of Schools situated at Digwadih, CMRI, Bhuli, Maithon, Mugma, Gomoh, Koradih, Sijua and Chandrapura are operated by the Society of Jesuits. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Puthepura said, “Stan’s death is not an end; it is yet another moment of awakening in our journey to affirm our faith in the constitution of our country.” “Stan has joined the company of Adivasi martyrs and all those who sacrificed their lives to protect the secular and democratic fabric of diverse cultures of our nation,” said Puthenpura. “Stan’s death is a moment of deep consolation, as he has united people across cultures, religions and nationalities to walk bodly and courageously in path of justice to human family and creation,” further added Puthenpura. “At this moment we profoundly acknowledge and affirm his prophetic spirit that urges us to demand justice for stand and all other accused in Bhima Koregaon case,” said a press release issued by the Jesuit conference of India released during the programme held in the school. “Insistently we ask the central government to free the human right defenders and undertrial prisoners languishing in jails in appalling conditions and above all to defend democracy, to repeal sedition law, unlawful Atrocities (Prevention) Act and repressive state laws and to restore citizens rights of dissent,” further stated the release.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-91
28-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand may escape ravages of third wave, say experts with note of caution ||With more than half the adult population likely to receive at least one vaccine dose by October and many residents naturally developing antibodies due to exposure to the virus, Jharkhand may develop herd immunity against SARS-CoV-2 by the time a potential third wave hits the state, health experts closely monitoring trends have said. Jharkhand has so far vaccinated over 90 lakh residents against Covid-19, and if the immunisation drive continues at the same pace, then at least 1.5 crore of the 2.6 crore adults in the state would have the protection of at least one dose of vaccine by October, said Dr Ajay Kumar Singh, the state coordinator of Indian Medical Association (IMA). “If the vaccination pace continues at the same pace, then we will have at least half the adult population protected against Covid-19. If Covid-appropriate behavior is followed and people are cautious, then the third wave may not even affect Jharkhand at all,” said Singh. While Jharkhand has been strengthening the health infrastructure, especially focusing on the needs of children, the Indian Academy of Peadiatrics (IAP) has said that though children remain susceptible to infection, it was highly unlikely that the third wave will predominantly or exclusively affect children. It also said that there was no evidence to suggest that most children with Covid-19 infection will have severe disease in the third wave. Dr. Prabhat Kumar, the coordinator of the Covid-19 task force at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), said that the severity of symptoms was also gradually dropping with a drop in cases in the state, and a third wave may not have a major impact if Covid protocols were followed. On Wednesday, only two Covid patients were undergoing treatment in the Covid ward of Jharkhand’s largest state-run hospital. The fourth sero survey conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in June found that 61.2 per cent of the population surveyed in three districts of Jharkhand – Pakur, Latehar and Simdega – had Covid antibodies. As per ICMR, of the 1,231 people tested, 753 were found to have antibodies against Covid-19. Dr Kumar, however, said that the government should continue with the current restrictions in order to avert a third wave. “Despite several citizens developing antibodies to fight the virus, Covid restrictions will have to be followed strictly in order to stop the virus from mutating any further and getting stronger,” he said. There are no major festivals that may encourage mass gatherings in the state in the next two months, which may help Jharkhand keep cases under check, said Dr Singh of IMA. “We may also get vaccines for children soon, so the situation can be controlled,” he said. As per government data, as many as 3,47,002 Jharkhand residents have been infected by the coronavirus so far and 5,125 of them could not survive. The state reported at least thrice as many cases in the second wave as in the first one.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-91
28-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Dhanbad district judge killed in road accident ||Dhanbad: The tragic death of Justice Uttam Anand, Additional District and Session Judge (VIII) of Dhanbad, took place during a road accident on Wednesday morning. The incident took place near Golf Ground less than 500 meter from his house at Judge Colony of Hirapur, when he was out for his daily morning walk during which, an unidentified four wheeler hit him. A passerby Pawan Pandey who witnessed the judge lying in a pool of blood rushed him to Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital where he died during the course of treatment. The body remained unidentified in the hospital for some time and a few people suspected the body to be of a policeman after which office bearers of the Police Men’s Association also reached at the SNMMCH but could not identify as any of its members. Family members of the deceased Judge meanwhile raised an alarm at around 7 am when he didn’t return home and informed the police. Police later launched a search for the judge and as per the information provided by police family members and staff deputed at the house of Anand reached SNMMCH where his body guard identified his dead body. A High level team of police led by City SP, R Ramkumar who also reached at the site of incident and collected some evidence from the site and photography and videography of incident site was also carried out as part of investigation into the death. The murder case of Ranjay Singh, close aide of Jharia MLA Sanjeev Singh was pending in his court and Justice Anand had recently rejected the bail petitions of two members of Aman Singh’s gang, a notorious criminal of Uttar Pradesh. Senior civil lawyer of Dhanbad Swapan Mukherjee in his message on social media said,“Shocked and deeply pained to learn about the tragic and premature death of Sri Uttam Anand, District Judge of Dhanbad. I, on behalf of Bar Association Dhanbad condole his death.” (Praduman Choubey) Dhanbad: A CCTV footage showing an autorickshaw intentionally hitting Justice Uttam Anand, additional district and Session Judge of Dhanbad, from behind on a deserted road has raised doubts over his death on Wednesday morning while he was on his morning walk schedule. Bansidhar Tiwari District and Session judge of Sahebganj who is also the secretary of Jharkhand Judicial Service Association on Wednesday demanded Jharkhand High Court conduct a high level probe into the incident as the CCTV footage clearly indicated some foul play  behind his death. Hemant Sikarwal, member of Jharkhand Bar Council, termed the incident as intentional murder of a seating judge and demanded a CBI probe into the incident. In a related development, Health and Family Welfare Minister Banna Gupta on Wednesday also sought a report in connection with the death of Justice Uttam Anand from Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Sadeep Kumar and Senior Superintendent of Police, Sanjeev Kumar. (Praduman Choubey) Daltonganj: A pressure swing adsorption medical oxygen generation plant has been installed at the sub divisional hospital in Hussainabad, 82 km away from Daltonganj. A similar pressure swing adsorption medical oxygen generation plant is yet to be installed in the Daltonganj based Medinirai medical college hospital here said sources. Sources said the installation of the plant in the Medinirai medical college hospital in Daltonganj may take a fortnight or so. The pressure swing adsorption medical oxygen generation plant has been provided from the PM Cares Fund which is yet to arrive here said the medical superintendent Dr K.N. Singh. Civil surgeon Palamau, Anil Kumar Singh, said, “Production of medical oxygen at Hussainabad may take some time but we are sanguine this sub divisional hospital here in Hussainabad will be able to cope with the oxygen need if and when the third wave strikes here.” (Our Correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-91
28-07-2021||Jharkhand||Active Covid cases up in Jharkhand, 2 confirmed cases take black fungus tally to 104||Two more confirmed cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis in Ranchi took the black fungus tally in Jharkhand to 104 in the past 24 hours, as per data released by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) on Tuesday. The state, however, did not report fresh casualties caused by the fungal infection during this period and the toll remained 30. With 40 confirmed patients, Ranchi has reported the highest number of mucormycosis cases in the state so far. The district has also reported 11 deaths, the highest among all 24 districts. As per IDSP data, besides the 104 confirmed cases, the state has also reported 58 suspected cases of the fungal infection. As many as 104 patients, including some under treatment for suspected mucormycosis, have been discharged from hospital so far in the state. Jharkhand reported one more Covid death on Tuesday, which took the toll in the state to 5,125, a bulletin from the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. The active caseload of Covid-19 also increased slightly as Jharkhand reported 39 fresh cases of infection against 37 recoveries. As per NHM data, at least 247 people were battling the viral infection in Jharkhand by the end of Tuesday. The fresh casualty was reported in Bokaro, which took the Covid toll there to 283. Besides reporting one fatality, Bokaro also reported the highest spike of nine cases among the 24 districts in Jharkhand on Tuesday. The state on Tuesday tested swab samples of 60,461 residents and 0.06 per cent of them were found infected by SARS-CoV-2. So far, over 3.46 lakh people have been infected by the deadly virus in Jharkhand and 98.45 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of patients could not survive. Jharkhand on Tuesday vaccinated over 90,000 residents against Covid-19 after managing to inoculate over 1.45 lakh residents daily on an average in the past three days. As per provisional data released by the NHM, the state on Tuesday administered the first dose of vaccine to 70,151 residents, while the second jab was administered to 19,913 beneficiaries. Almost 60,000 residents in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years got inoculated in Jharkhand on the day. As per government records, over 90 lakh residents have at least received one dose of vaccine against Covid-19 so far. The state, as per figures released by the NHM on Tuesday evening, had 4,01,840 doses of vaccines in stock to run the immunisation campaign until fresh supplies arrive. At least 1,074 session sites for Covid-19 vaccination were operational across Jharkhand on Tuesday, as per the Co-Win portal. At least 57 session sites inoculated 7,354 residents in Ranchi, while 4,184 beneficiaries got their jabs at 55 session sites in East Singhbhum. At least 53 session sites were operational in Dhanbad and over 10,000 residents were vaccinated there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-91
28-07-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi Archdiocese of the Catholic Church refutes 'fake news'||Ranchi Archdiocese of the Catholic Church refuted “fake news” by certain electronic channels along with people “bent on creating hatred against Christian community” by spreading rumours of a church built on government school land in Ranchi. Bishop of Khunti Binay Kandulna and Ranchi auxiliary Bishop, Theodore Mascarenhas speaking to the media, expressed hurt at the “fake news” about Catholic church building a church on the land belonging to government school in Sarangloya village under Lapung block of Ranchi. “A certain prominent news channel along with people of a certain shade have gone on an overdrive to spread fake news creating hatred and suspicion against Church and Christian in building a church on land belonging to government school. Both of us visited the school, met with people and ascertained the facts and found the news as false and malafide,” said Bishop Theodore Mascarenhas. The Bishop further said that the Roman Catholic Mission School as it is called was founded in 1936 by a few Catholics with the name of St. Joseph’s school and actually began functioning in a small church building. In 1962, some years after zamindari came to an end 24 Catholic families together bought 35 acres of land for themselves. It is on this land owned by these families that the present school building was built because the families wanted the Church to teach their children. “It may be reminded that the families are the sole owners of the land and only they decide what they wish to have on their land. In the course of time they handed over this school under the care of Fathers. In 2018, the villagers along with the Claretian Fathers decided that they needed a multipurpose hall. Therefore, with the support of the Fathers and contributions and hard labour of the villagers who wanted a place to pray, a multipurpose hall was built,” added Bishop Mascarenhas. When the number of students in the school began increasing considerably and grew from 27 to 75 and then to 220, the multipurpose hall began to be utilised also as classrooms for the children from Class 1 to V on its rolls. “The R.C. Mission School, Sarangloya is a privately owned minority school recognised by the government and it is founded and run by the Catholic church and its people for the welfare of all communities and it is not a government school as claimed by the news channel,” said Bishop Mascarenhas. It was also mentioned that the Catholic Church has been bearing all the costs of running the school. The multipurpose hall in which classes are held on week days and where prayer will be held on Sundays is built on land belonging to the Catholics and is fully in their possession. The Bishop also said that they reserve right to legal remedies if the videos being circulated by the news channels are not withdrawn.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-91
