29-07-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel launches country’s first residential sport climbing academy||Tata Steel inaugurated India’s first residential sport climbing academy, Tata Steel Adventure Foundation Sport Climbing Academy, on the occasion of Bharat Ratna JRD Tata`s 117th birth anniversary on Thursday. The academy aims at helping athletes achieve their dreams, by providing them professional training and support and make the country proud by helping them reach the highest international milestone, the Olympic podium in sport climbing. Chanakya Chaudhary, vice-president (Corporate Services), Tata Steel inaugurated the facility amidst select guests. The academy is housed inside JRD Tata Sports Complex. Sport climbing is an extension of rock climbing and is a popular sport across all the continents of the world. It made its debut in the Tokyo 2021 Olympics for the first time. Although there are no Indian athletes in the ongoing games, TSAF hopes to have athletes from its academy in Olympics 2024/2028. Athletes will get access to professional training support, accommodation, education, food, counselling, travel for international training, gear and infrastructure and everything else that is required for them to bring out their best performance and compete against the best in the world. The vision is to make it the best training facility and ecosystem in the world. Tata Steel has already set up academies for football, archery and hockey in Jamshedpur. Ten cadets (all from TSAF) have been inducted into the cradle as the first batch. They include Aman Verma, Anisha Verma, Talim Ansari, Suraj Singh Thakur, Jonga Purty, Sachin Saroj, Abhishek Rawat, Ronit Banra, Kiran Singh Thakur and Vridula Abhale. All are from Jamshedpur and surrounding areas. All these 10 cadets are already honing their skills at a training centre run by the elite adventure outfit. Tata Group has always been a pioneer when it comes to encouraging and promoting sports in India. The first climbing wall in India was established in New Delhi with the support of JRD Tata. "Our focus would be on sub-junior and junior age groups. The induction would be done on the basis of sport climbers in nationals events. We'll also judge the potential by going to competitons for talent hunting," said Hemant Gupta, head of TSAF. He added the cadets would be given accommodation at thr sports hostel inside JRD Tata Sports omplex. The cadets would pass out every 3-4 years depending upon their performance. According to him, they have spotted some talents during the national qualifying trials for selecting the national squad for the World Youth Championship scheduled in Voronezh, Russia next month. The trial concluded in Jamshedpur on Wednesday. TSAF has installed 5 modular climbing walls at rural schools around Jamshedpur to increase the reach and awareness of the sport. TSAF started developing sport climbing in 2015. The efforts resulted in East zone winning the national trophy in 2019. It was the first time in the history of 25 years where TSAF cadets scored 91% of the winning points. Cadets from TSAF training center are amongst the best performing athletes in India. Anisha Verma is the current national record holder in speed climbing in the female category. Her brother Aman Verma is the first climber from India to reach the semi-final stage at World Youth Championship, a couple of years back. TSAF cadets have won 20 medals at national level and more than 50 medals at zonal and state level. Angling Club remembers JRD Tata Jamshedpur Angling Club garlanded the picture of JRD Tata at a simple function near the Beldih Lake. Cross country for special athletes Special Olympics Jharkhand paid tribute to JRD Tata by hosting a cross country for intellectually impaired at JRD Tata Sports Complex. Around 40 special athletes participated in the event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-90
29-07-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad judge's death: BJP demands CBI probe, attacks Hemant government for lawlessness in state||The Opposition BJP on Thursday demanded a CBI probe into the alleged murder of Dhanbad judicial officer Uttam Anand, who was hit by a speeding auto rickshaw when he was on his morning walk near Randhir Verma chowk on Wednesday. The incident caused a massive uproar among the legal fraternity prompting the Jharkhand high court to take cognizance over the prevailing law and order situation in the state. The divisional bench of the high court of chief justice Ravi Ranjan and Sujit Narayan Prasad while hearing a case in this regard on Thursday morning through an online mode rapped state police stating that the two back to back incident of attack on members of legal fraternity appears that the ‘fourth pillar of democracy’ is under attack. Notably, a Ranchi lawyer Manoj Jha was on July 26 murdered by unidentified criminals in Tamar. Attacking the Hemant Soren dispensation of failing to maintain law and order in the state, BJP president and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash said that the murder of the judge is testimony to the fact that no one is safe in this state anymore. He said, “We demand a CBI probe into this case. There is no law and order situation anymore in Jharkhand. Few months back, a female cop was killed in Sahebganj district, then an advocate got murdered and now a judicial officer. When such people are being killed, imagine the plight of common people.`` He claimed that in the 19 months since the JMM-Congress-RJD government came to power, the state has recorded 3000 murders. “The figures are unprecedented. This is an indication that jungle raj is returning back to this state,” he said. Meanwhile, state police has constituted a Special Investigating Team (SIT) under the aegis of ADG (operations) Sanjay Anand Latekar. In Dhanbad, addressing media on Thursday evening, Dhanbad SSP Sanjiv Kumar said that they have recovered an auto which hit the deceased from Mangrudih in Giridih district last night and arrested the driver Lakhan Verma and Rahul Verma who was in the auto when the incident occurred.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-90
29-07-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad judge’s death: Auto seized; driver, accomplice arrested||Police have arrested an auto driver, his accomplice and seized the vehicle that was used to hit Dhanbad judicial officer Uttam Anand while he was on a morning walk on Wednesday, stepping up investigations into his death that has led to a nationwide outrage among the legal fraternity which believes he was murdered. The Supreme Court, which was informed of the circumstances of Anand’s death on Thursday morning and told that he was hearing a case concerning sharpshooters allegedly working at the behest of a UP ganglord, has taken cognizance. Chief Justice N.V. Ramana said the Jharkhand High Court would be monitoring the investigations and that he had also spoken to the Jharkhand Chief Justice. Later, Jharkhand High Court took suo motu cognisance of Anand’s death on Thursday and rapped the state government for poor law and order in the state. A bench of Chief Justice Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan Prasad observed that even in states such as those of the northeast known for insurgencies, judicial officers and advocates were safe, but in Jharkhand the situation seemed different. “The incident was an attack on the justice system,” the bench said, and maintained that the murder of advocate Manoj Jha on July 26 in Ranchi and that of Anand were indicative that the fourth pillar of democracy was under attack as never before. Dhanbad police, that had set up a special investigation team headed by city SP R Ramkumar on Wednesday, revealed that the two were arrested in the wee hours of Thursday. "Based on all available evidence and CCTV footage, police launched a search operation for the auto-rickshaw and its driver. Finally, we were able to arrest the driver, Lakhan Verma of Sonarpatti, and another person, Rahul Verma of Jorapokhar," said Dhanbad SSP Kumar. Dhanbad police have, however, refused to divulge further details of their investigations. They have also indicated their unwillingness to comment on the motive of the killing given the sensitive nature of the case. Kumar said, “We are investigating the case from all angles. But as the case is sensitive we are not in a position to share any details with regard to our findings until the investigation is completed." He said Coal Belt DIG Mayur Patel had also inspected the site of the incident and had issued necessary instructions to a local forensics team that is also part of the investigations. Asked if the arrested duo had criminal antecedents, Kumar said they may have been involved in a theft earlier, but that police were still collecting details. "We are collecting details as a theft case seems to have been lodged in their names,” he said. Uttam Anand was additional district sessions judge (VIII) of Dhanbad. CCTV footage shows an autorickshaw speeding towards Anand while he was walking on the left side of the road and then hitting him. Anand’s family members had lodged an FIR on Wednesday, calling his death an act of murder. But Kumar has clarified that his family had not named any suspect.  "A case under section 302 IPC has been registered, but nobody has been named in the case,” he said. The auto rickshaw was recovered by police from Giridih district on Thursday and brought to Dhanbad police station where the forensics team conducted a thorough scan. The forensics team visited the site of the accident on Thursday  morning once again and collected more evidence. The auto, police said, bears a route sticker (Dhanbad to Patherdih) on the windscreen and has a heart hologram. Under the aegis of Bank More Chamber of Commerce, traders of Dhanbad district took out a candle light march on Thursday to demand an urgent investigation into the judicial officer’s death so that the culprits could be booked immediately. Members of the BJP youth wing burnt an effigy of chief minister Hemant Soren near the Dhanbad district headquarters, blaming him for the deteriorating law and order situation in the coal belt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-90
29-07-2021||Jharkhand||CII holds virtual annual event on environmental sustainability ||The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) in association with Citizens Foundation on Thursday organised the fifth edition of its annual flagship event, Green Conclave on the theme "Greener and Better Tomorrow." The conclave was organised on a virtual platform. The fifth edition of the Green Conclave deliberated on some important environmental sustainability issues. The forum highlighted and tried to address some immediate gaps where policy intervention can help accelerate implementation of a circular economy, promote resource efficiency and help create a climate resilient Indian Industry. Addressing the conclave Praveen Jha, additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and director (Extension Forestry), South Chotanagpur, stated that in the recent past, extreme climate events such as drought, floods, extreme temperatures have been ruining lives. The direct impact on human life is tremendous and there have been almost five lakh human deaths across the world in the past 20 years. The additional death due to malnutrition, diarrhea, malaria and heat stress would be to the tune of 2,50,000, he said. "There is an urgent need to reduce air pollution and also provide safe drinking water , he said, adding that the Union urban development ministry in the National Clean Air Programme -2020 has stated that there must be a reduction in air pollution by 30 per cent by 2024. Addressing the conclave, Tapas Sahu, vice-chairman, CII Jharkhand State Council and managing director  of  Highco Engineers Pvt Ltd said that in the era of globalization, industries, irrespective of the sector, size or location, should reduce the environmental impacts of their processes and products, by using resources more efficiently, phasing out toxic substances, substituting fossil fuels with renewable energy sources, enhancing corporate responsibility and reducing risks to the environment, climate and people. He pointed out that cities today are facing multiple challenges, emerging from an ever increasing demand for services, crumbling infrastructure and climate change. "Access to safe water, fresh air and sanitation to all is one of the key challenges," he explained. Navin Prakash Srivastava, general manager, SAIL - Bokaro Steel Plant said,"  Our nature has the ability to clean itself, only there is a need to reduce human intervention. Health and environment, both are interconnected and we have to restore the ecosystem. As an industry, we have to be proactive and reduce our carbon footprints." Peeyush Mohit, chief operating officer, O2 Power Private Limited, Prashant Krishnan, head - Environment, Tata Motors Ltd, Siddheshwar Saha, DGM, Tata Cummins Pvt Ltd, Gaurav Anand, chief manager - Business Excellence, Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services Ltd and several other speakers addressed the conclave.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-90
29-07-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad judge was hearing case of UP gang leader arrested for murder ||District and session judge Uttam Anand, who died under suspicious circumatances after being knocked down by a speeding auto while he was on his morning walk on Wednesday, was hearing a case concerning UP gangsters, a fact cited by a lawyer to the Supreme Court on Thursday to appeal for a thorough investigation into what the legal fraternity has alleged was murder. Anand was hearing the January 29, 2017 case on the murder of Ranjay Singh, a close aide of former Dhanbad MLA Sanjeev Singh, who is languishing in jail as the main conspirator in the murder of Niraj Singh. Recently, Anand cancelled the bail application of UP- based shooters Abhinav Singh and Ravi Thakur, two members of a gang headed by Aman Singh, who is under arrest for firing the first bullet on Niraj Singh. Aman Singh, was shifted to Hotwar Jail of Ranchi from Dhanbad Divisional jail earlier this year, is also accused of running extortion rackets and attacking over 30 traders, real state players, politicians, private mine excavators and mining officials. Abhinav Singh is a sharp shooter belonging to the Aman Singh gang. He was arrested from Lucknow on February 10, 2021. During the course of his interrogation by Dhanbad police after he was brought here, he admitted his involvement in a number of attacks against businessman, private miners and politicians on the instruction of Aman Singh. Abhinav also claimed tha they had plans to kill Rajesh Gupta, a close aide of Baghmara MLA Dhullu Mahto. Police had also taken Aman Singh on remand for three days from February 10 to 12. Aman was questioned about Abhinav's claims, but he said he did not know Abhinav. Dhanbad police have arrested a number Aman Singh gang members on several occasions,  including Manjit Singh, a resident of Govindpur; Javed Akhtar, a resident of Gajuatand; Ravi Kumar Thakur, a resident of Tetulmari; Bablu Kumar Mishra, a resident of Putki; and Sheikh Mohammad a resident of Luby Circular Road. Bhola Sao, a resident of Chouthai Kulhi locality of Jharia and member of Aman Singh gang was also arrested by police on  May 31 from Ranchi in connection with the murder of  Ashraful Hasan, a property dealer of Wasseypur, who was killed near Jabbar Masjid on May 12 in connection with an exotrtion demand of Aman Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-90
29-07-2021||Jharkhand||Judge's death: glare on Dhanbad corporation for dithering on CCTV coverage ||The death of district and sessions judge Uttam Anand while on his morning walk in Dhanbad on Wednesday has brought into sharp focus the local civic authorities' dithering over installing CCTV cameras across the district, an initiative that would have  helped police better probe the incident which has now been turned into a murder investigation. Anand's family has lodged a muder FIR with police after CCTV footage showed an autorickshaw intentionally hitting the judicial officer near Golf Ground less than 500 meter from his house at Judge Colony of Hirapur. The brief clip shows him collapsing to his left while the auto speeds away. “Had the CCTV camera been present at all the squares of the district, the movement of the autorickshaw before and after the incident could have been tracked leading to speedy investigation in the case. The  driver could have been easily identified,” said Surendra Arora, former president of Bank More Chamber of Commerce. In 2017, a total of 110 cameras were installed by Dhanbad Municipal Corporation during the tenure of former mayor Chandrashekhar Agarwal with the help of Jamshedpur based agency Maple PC and Peripherals Private Limited at a cost of Rs 3.28crore at 27 squares of district. These included Pan Tilt Zoom Cameras which can rotate to different angles,  besides bullet cameras and automatic number plate recognition cameras (ANPR).  Out of 27 locations where cameras were installed as per the survey of Dhanbad police, 16 were  entry and exit points of the district. The agency which installed the cameras was also entrusted with the task of maintenance for five years. On Novemebr 30, 2018, the DMC at its board meeting held under the chairmanship of Agarwal, passed a proposal for the installation of 100 more cameras at 33 new locations of the district. Some of these plavced were were beyond the entry points of the town for which an estimate was to be prepared. But, neither the estimate nor the the cameras were installed. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, Hemant Kumar, manager (Technical Marketing) of Maple PC and Peripherals Private Limited said, “Though we are maintaining the existing cameras in Dhanbad at 27 sites as per the five-year agreement with DMC, we are also facing some pending payment issues.” Jay Mahto, assistant engineer (Electrical) of DMC, said, “No tender has so far been issued for the installation of more cameras at new sites as the estimate have not been prepared.” He however refused to elaborate on the issue. After the accident, a passerby, Pawan Pandey who witnessed judicial officer Anand  lying in a pool of blood, rushed him to Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital where he died during the course of treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-90
29-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand chief justice looking into 'killing' of Dhanbad judge, says SC||The Supreme Court Thursday said the Chief Justice of Jharkhand High Court has already taken up the matter related to the alleged killing of a judicial officer of Dhanbad and concerned officers in the case have been asked to be present before it. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justice Surya Kant said this after senior advocate Vikas Singh, who is also the president of Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA), mentioned the matter and said this is a brazen attack on the independence of judiciary. Singh said an investigation in the case must be entrusted to the CBI as the killing of a judicial officer, apparently for not granting bail to a gangster is an assault on the judicial system. "We are aware of the incident and we appreciate the efforts of SCBA. I have spoken to the Chief Justice of the Jharkhand High Court. He has taken up the case and has asked the officers to be present there. The matter is going on there. Leave it there," the CJI told Singh. Interference by the apex court in the matter at this stage may not be necessary as the high court has already taken it up on the judicial side, the bench said. Singh, while saying that video of the incident was also shot, told the bench that if "somebody is killed for not granting bail to a gangster, then there will be no judiciary in the country". He was referring to the fact that Uttam Anand was hearing the murder case of Ranjay Singh, close aide of Jharia MLA Sanjeev Singh, and had recently rejected the bail petitions of two members of Aman Singh’s gang, a notorious criminal of Uttar Pradesh. On Wednesday morning, a judicial officer was killed in Jharkhand's Dhanbad district after being hit by a vehicle, police had said. District and Sessions Judge-8 of Dhanbad court, Uttam Anand, was out on morning walk when the incident happened at Randhir Verma Chowk near the district court in the Sadar police station area, a senior police officer had said. Around 5 am, a vehicle hit him from the rear and fled, Senior Superintendent of Police Sanjiv Kumar had said. The judge was found to be lying in a pool of blood by an auto-rickshaw driver, who took him to the Shahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College and Hospital where he succumbed to the injuries, the officer had said. Prior to mentioning the matter before the CJI-led bench, Singh mentioned it before a bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud. Singh termed the incident shocking and said the apex court should take cognisance of the matter. Justice Chandrachud told Singh to mention the matter before the CJI. When Singh said mentioning may not be allowed before the CJI, Justice Chandrachud assured him that he would use his "good office" to bring the matter to the notice of the CJI. After mentioning the matter before the CJI, Singh appeared before Justice Chandrachud-led bench to argue another case which was listed for hearing. Justice M R Shah, who was part of the bench headed by Justice Chandrachud, asked Singh why was the video of the incident was shot as it could be used as evidence. Singh said persons involved in this wanted to terrorize people by shooting the video. This is tyranny. This was brazen and they wanted to terrorize people. The video is not shot from any CCTV cameras but from a video camera as people can be heard talking and it was even zoomed in several times, he said. When Justice Shah said what could be the reason behind the incident, Singh said the judicial officer had passed unpleasant bail order against some gangster. "Anyway, I have mentioned this before the CJI, who said that he has talked to the Chief Justice of Jharkhand High Court. The chief justice of high court is taking up the matter on the judicial side," Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-90
29-07-2021||Jharkhand||Police launch murder probe into Dhanbad judge's death||CCTV footage showing an autorickshaw intentionally hitting Justice Uttam Anand, additional district and Session Judge of Dhanbad, from behind on a deserted road has raised doubts over his death on Wednesday morning while he was on his regular morning walk. His family has now registered a complaint of murder with the police. The incident took place near Golf Ground less than 500 meter from his house at Judge Colony of Hirapur, when he was out for his daily morning walk during which, an unidentified four-wheeler hit him. A passerby Pawan Pandey who witnessed the judge lying in a pool of blood rushed him to Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital where he died during the course of treatment. The body remained unidentified in the hospital for some time and a few people suspected the body to be of a policeman after which office bearers of the Police Men’s Association also reached at the SNMMCH but could not identify as any of its members. Family members of the deceased Judge meanwhile raised an alarm at around 7 am when he didn’t return home and informed the police. Police later launched a search for the judge and as per the information provided by police family members and staff deputed at the house of Anand reached SNMMCH where his bodyguard identified his dead body. A high-level team of police led by city SP, R Ramkumar who also reached the site of the incident and collected some evidence from the site, and photography and videography of the incident site was also carried out as part of the investigation into the death. Bansidhar Tiwari, District and Session judge of Sahebganj, had on Wednesday demanded Jharkhand High Court conduct a high-level probe into the incident as the CCTV footage clearly indicated some foul play behind his death. The murder case of Ranjay Singh, close aide of Jharia MLA Sanjeev Singh was pending in his court and Justice Anand had recently rejected the bail petitions of two members of Aman Singh’s gang, a notorious criminal of Uttar Pradesh. Hemant Sikarwal, member of Jharkhand Bar Council, termed the incident as intentional murder of a seating judge and demanded a CBI probe into the incident. Health and Family Welfare Minister Banna Gupta on Wednesday also sought a report in connection with the death of Justice Uttam Anand from Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Sadeep Kumar and Senior Superintendent of Police, Sanjeev Kumar. Senior civil lawyer of Dhanbad Swapan Mukherjee in his message on social media said,“Shocked and deeply pained to learn about the tragic and premature death of Sri Uttam Anand, District Judge of Dhanbad. I, on behalf of Bar Association Dhanbad condole his death.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-90
29-07-2021||Jharkhand||Vaccination slows down again, only 60,000 get jabs in Jharkhand||The immunisation campaign against Covid-19 witnessed a drop in momentum on Wednesday in Jharkhand as the state managed to inoculate about 60,000-odd residents after achieving daily vaccination numbers of over 1 lakh earlier this week. As per provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), at least 48,746 Jharkhand residents were administered the first dose of vaccine on Wednesday, while 12,271 beneficiaries got their second jab. As many as 39,309 residents in the age bracket of 18 to 44 years received their first jab, while 2,716 residents from the same age group got their second dose, a report from the NHM stated. On Wednesday, the state also received the schedule of vaccine supply from the Centre in the month of August. According to the schedule, Jharkhand will receive 2,74,480 Covishield doses on August 7 and 78,930 Covaxin doses on August 8. On August 11, August 14 and August 15, the state will receive 2,64,200, 2,74,480 and 2,64,200 doses of Covishield respectively. In the second half of the month, at least 90,210 Covaxin doses will be delivered to Jharkhand on August 18, followed by 2,74,480 Covishield doses on August 19. According to the schedule, the state will receive 87,390 Covaxin doses on August 22 and 3,30,250 Covishield doses on August 25. At least 4,62,360 Covishield doses will reach the state on August 26, while 81,750 Covaxin doses will be delivered by the Centre on August 27. Jharkhand reported another Covid death on Wednesday, which took the toll in the state to 5,126, a separate bulletin from NHM highlighted. The new casualty occurred in East Singhbhum, which has reported 1,042 Covid fatalities so far. The active caseload of Covid-19, however, dropped to 237 as at least 36 patients recovered, while 27 people were found infected in the state. As per NHM data, Bokaro reported the highest spike of six cases, and the active caseload there also rose to 21 as only five patients recovered from the infection. At least 10 districts – West Singhbhum, Simdega, Saraikela, Palamau, Pakur, Jamtara, Gumla, Garhwa, Dumka and Chatra – did not report fresh Covid cases on Wednesday. At least seven recoveries against four cases brought the active caseload in Ranchi down to 41, while two recoveries against one case brought the active caseload in East Singhbhum down to 13. The state on Wednesday tested swab samples of 58,148 residents and 0.04 per cent of them were found infected by SARS-CoV-2. Over 3.47 lakh people have been infected by the deadly virus in Jharkhand so far and 98.45 per cent of the patients recovered, while 1.47 per cent died.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-90
29-07-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro Railway Station gets first child helpline||Adra Railway Division’s railway manager Navin Kumar inaugurated the first Child Help Desk at Platform Number-1 of Bokaro Railway Station on Wednesday. Bokaro railway station is one of the most lucrative stations of the South Eastern Railway and has a high footfall of passengers. Jharkhand is witnessing a rise in child trafficking cases, the child help desk will help in curbing it. The DRM informed that there were 95 minors rescued at Bokaro Railway Station by Railway Protection Force (RPF) in the past three years. The trafficking figures and runaway has increased during the Covid pandemic as locals here are lured for job opportunities outside the state. This leads to their exploitation. Bokaro is the only railway station of Adra Railway Division that falls in Jharkhand. Divisional Railway Manager, Navin Kumar along with Divisional Security Commissioner, RPF, Migom Doley inaugurated the Child Help Desk in presence of other officers of railway and RPF. The members of Childline also participate in the function. Child Help Desk is being set up by railway but will be run by Childline, an NGO working for child labour, child trafficking, child abuse, homeless child, etc. The railways has installed the kiosk near RPF Booth. The staff of Childline will remain available round-the-clock. “Child Help desks are being set up at railway stations to rescue children found wandering alone in trains or at stations. It aims at eradicating the exploitation of children and giving them protection and legal assistance,” said the DRM. Childline will extend protection and legal aid to children arriving by train besides helping find missing children. “The child help desk is set for those needing assistance including lost, abandoned, trafficked, and runaway children,” said Migom Doley. Officer in-charge of RPF Post, Bokaro, Rajkumar Sao said "in Adra division, a total of 124 Lady RPF (consisting of 9 SIs, 03 ASI's and 104 Constable) personnel have been posted out of which 03 lady SIs and 26 lady constables at Bokaro, who are working in team of Meri Saheli and Nanhe Farishetey as well as escorting of trains."   In the year-2019, RPF had rescued a total of 111 boys and girls (72 Boys and 39 Girls) out of which 21 (12 Boys & 09 Girls) were rescued at Bokaro. In the year 2020, total 47 (32 Boys and 15 Girls) minors have been rescued out of which 08 (04 Boys & 07 Girls including 03 adults female) were rescued at Bokaro. Then the frequency of train movement was restricted due to lockdown.   In the year 2021 up to July 27, a total 103 (44 Boys and 59 Girls) were rescued by RPF out of which 66 (27 Boys including 03 adult male and 39 Girls including 18 adult female) were rescued in Bokaro. Apart from that the cases of crime against passengers have been reduced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-90
29-07-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad residents write to Hemant demanding private radio operators||Dhanbad residents on Wednesday wrote to Chief Minister Heman Soren and Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur demanding inclusion of private FM radio operators in the list of broadcasters of the district, perturbed over the prolonged delay. Surendra Arora, a social activist and former president of Federation of  Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce who sent tweets to the two leaders in this regard on Wednesday, claimed while the residents of Ranchi and Jamshedpur are availing the services of several private FM operators providing wide range of entertainment options, the residents of Dhanbad could only listen to Vividh Bharti programmes due to lack of any private FM operators in Dhanbad. “Entertainment brings happiness which is the most powerful medicine that helps our mental health and well being,” said Arora and added that it also means downing the monotony of life. Further stressing on the demand for the inclusion of private FM service operators, Arora said, “Broadcast radio today reaches a staggering 99 percent of population and rural India relies overwhelmingly on it for information.” He added that audio programmes can easily surmount the barriers linked to literacy. Notably, the demand for a radio station in Dhanbad was long pending and finally the radio station was established on 2.5 acres of land in Narayanpura Mouza of Dhanbad five years ago. Lack of transmitter at the radio station however was a major hurdle in the launching of the railway station despite the establishment of station but the transmitter was also installed during 2019 after which broad casting of Vividh Bharti programmes began but the private FM Radio operators are yet to launch their operation in Dhanbad. Echoing sentiments, Md Sohrab, another trader of Purana Bazar locality said,“ Radio personalities the experience of listeners, driving them to use their imagination while deciphering what’s unfolding.” “Radio being the cheaper medium of broadcasting allows broadcasting in a wide variety of languages, dialects and  creative forms,” said Sohrab and added that the local radio stations have a more significant role to play .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-91
29-07-2021||Jharkhand||Banna Gupta seeks Padma awards for Shibu Soren, Kartik Oraon||Jharkhand health minister Banna Gupta wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday requesting that tribal leaders Shibu Soren and late Kartik Oraon should be conferred the Padma Vibhushan, the second highest civilian award, during the Republic Day function in 2022. Gupta, the Jamshedpur West Congress MLA, in his letter also expressed happiness that the Union government had conferred the Padma Bhushan to tribal leader and former Lok Sabha deputy Speaker Karia Munda in 2019 and the Padma Vibhushan to former Lok Sabha Speaker late P. A. Sangma in 2017. The letter says that Shibu Soren, an eight-time parliamentarian and former Union coal minister, is the most popular leader among tribals in Jharkhand. He is the father of Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren. “Shibu Soren is looked upon with highest regards by tribals of not only Jharkhand but also neighbouring states of Odisha, Assam, Bengal and Bihar and has an image of a great revolutionary against exploitation of tribals. He had raised voices against social injustice and local alcohol consumption among tribals and deserves Padma Vibhushan for tribal development work,” the letter says. It adds: “Baba Kartik Oraon in Gumla district was one of the most highly qualified tribal leader and had represented Lohardaga parliamentary constituency on three occasions and was Union minister for aviation and communication in Union government and led a committed life for the upliftment of tribal populace and toiled endlessly for the cause of protection and preservation of tribal life and culture. It was Kartik Oraon’s effort that Birsa Agriculture University was established and instrumental in creation of tribal sub-plan.” “Conferring of Padma Vibhushan to these two tribal leaders will not only make 3.5 crore populace of Jharkhand happy but also help people of the state proud about the achievement of these two great leaders,” the letter states. Gupta had earlier in July demanded that the scientists who helped in developing the indigenous Covid-19 vaccines should be conferred with the Bharat Ratna, the highest civilian honour. Sources said Gupta’s appeal is aimed at placating both the JMM and Congress and also score brownie points among tribals for raising the demand for the awards to two leaders who are looked up to with respect. Padma Vibhushan is awarded every year during the Republic Day function for exceptional and distinguished service from the recommendations forwarded by the state governments and independent bodies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-91
