30-07-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Garhwa village put on high alert after discovery of cluster||Haradag Khurd in Garhwa district- has been put on high alert post detection of as many as 21 Covid-19 positive villagers in a short span of two days after return of migrant workers from Madhya Pradesh, officials said Friday. All 21 including eight children in the age group of 2 and 12 years have been admitted to Sadar Hospital, Garhwa and their all contacts have been isolated. Among the returnees from a Madhya Pradesh colliery area where Delta plus variant of the contagion has been detected, one worker was initially found suffering from coronavirus and its suspected that the villagers might have caught the infection from him. "Initially 19 villagers were found positive. All of them have been admitted to Garhwa Sadar hospital. We are taking all possible steps to contain the spread of the virus and have kept officials on high alert in the area,," Jharkhand Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Arun Kumar Singh told PTI. Garhwa civil surgeon said two more have tested positive taking the tally of 21. Singh said the infected migrant worker had returned to Haradag Khurd under Ramana block of Garhwa from Madhya Pradesh where he worked in a collierty area, where Delta Plus variant has been detected. A total of 5,126 people have so far lost their lives due to contagion in Jharkhand which is battling the deadly second wave of Covid-19. The state over quite some time has been witnessing lesser number of new positive cases but detection of 21 cases in a short spell of time in the Garhwa village has raised concerns among the health officials. "Our surveillance team is visiting villages and we are taking all possible steps to contain the spread...Special precautions are taken in the village Haradag Khurd with a population of about 300 villagers," Garhwa Deputy Commissioner Rajesh Kumar Pathak said. Civil Surgeon, Garhwa, Dr Kamlesh Kumar said during the course routine sample collection at railway station, sample of migrant labourer Awadhesh Vishwakarma was found to be positive in the report and he was traced to village Haradag Khurd. "The health machinery swung into action and 25 persons including all his family members were subjected to tests along with two other families with whom he interacted. Twenty people were found to be positive including the migrant worker and eight children who are in the age group of 2-12 years," the Civil Surgeon informed. Officials said if required the samples would be sent to Regional Genome Sequencing Laboratory (RGSL), Institute of Life Sciences (ILS) Bhubaneshwar for WGS as Jharkhand at present does not have the machine for Genome sequencing. Whole genomic sequencing (WGS) is a laboratory process that is used to determine nearly all the approximately 3 billion nucleotides of an individuals complete DNA sequence, including non-coding sequence which is instrumental in characterising the mutations and tracking disease outbreaks. Last month, alarmed at new coronavirus strains like Delta and Alpha afflicting 328 people, the state government had ordered sending samples of patients within 48 hours of their death for genetic study to help evolve a strategy to contain their spread. Battling the deadly second wave of the Covid-19 that has claimed 5,126 lives in tribal-dominated Jharkhand, the state government is concerned as these variants like Delta, Alpha, and Kappa are said to be more transmissible. Of the 328 positive cases last month, 194 cases were of Delta variant B.1.617.2 which is a "variant of concern"". A variant can be labelled as "of concern" if it is more contagious, more deadly, or more resistant to current vaccines and treatments, the World Health Organisation has said. Twenty-nine cases were found to be of B.1.617.1 variant which has been named Kappa while 29 cases were of B.1.1.7 Alpha variant. The Alpha variant is also a strain "of concern" as it spreads more rapidly than the original strain. Chief Minister Hemant Soren has been stressing that even though the rate of recovery is more than 98 per cent in the state, the danger is not over. "According to experts, the third wave may trouble us in six to eight weeks and the state government has made preparations for it but it would not be possible without the help of people", he has said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-88
30-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand allows on-campus classes for senior school students||Jharkhand has decided to allow schools to resume on-campus classes for classes 9 and above and  colleges and universities to start functioning in the wake of a gradual dip in Covid cases in the state. At a meeting chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday, the government also decided to resume  interstate bus services. It has also allowed clubs to reopen. Bars  and restaurants can run till 10 pm with 50 per cent capacity. However, weekend lockdowns from Saturday evening till Monday morning will continue to be in force. After the meeting, Hemant said the government would not hesitate to reintroduce restrictions in the immediate future if  the situation warranted. “At today’s meeting, we decided  to unlock almost all sectors including education, taking into account the fall in Covid-19 cases. But use of masks and covid appropriate behavior in public places must be followed. The threat of Covid-19 is far from over even though cases are on the decline,” he said. As per the communiqué issued by the chief minister’s office, all schools from class 9 to 12 can conduct offline classes, but only with the consent of the parents. “Classes can run for a maximum of 4 hours and only till noon,” read the communiqué, adding that routine covid testing for students and teachers will be conducted by the district administration. The state government also allowed reopening of final year classes for undergraduate and post graduate students in universities and professional colleges. However, before doing so, the management of the concerned institute must ensure that at least the first dose of vaccine has been administered to the staff. This apart, colleges can also take offline exams for UG and PG final year students. National competitive exams will also be held as per  schedule. Coaching institutes can start classes only for students above 18 but the number of students must be restricted to 50 per cent of the total strength. All concerned must had at least the first dose of the vaccine. The government also allowed opening of clubs while private and public offices can function with 100 per cent capacity. “As far as the weekend lockdown is concerned, all other entities except essential services, bars, restaurants will remain closed,” said the order. The cap on the assembly of people in open spaces has also been increased to 100 while in closed spaces, it must not exceed more than 50 per cent or 100 persons, read the order. Activities or services  that are still not permitted include swimming pools, fairs and exhibitions. The  mandatory e-pass for coming into the state has also been withdrawn.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-88
30-07-2021||Jharkhand||Telco shelter home abuse case: Sikh delegation demand Harpal Singh Thapper autopsy report||A delegation of Sikh community on Friday met the East Singhbhum deputy commissioner and demanded the post mortem report of Harpal Singh Thapper who died under mysterious circumstances in judicial custody at Ghaghidih Central Jail on July 16. Operator of a shelter home under Mother Teresa Welfare Trust, 46-year-old Thapper was arrested along with three others on June 16 for allegedly molesting minor girls of the Telco-based shelter home. On July 17, he was found critically ill at the central jail and soon succumbed to the injuries at MGM Medical College Hospital. Injury marks on Thapper's body, especially in the legs and back, have made family members suspect it to be a case of murder. The post mortem was done by a medical board on July 18 under videography in presence of executive magistrate, Chandra Deo Prasad after being deputed by the deputy commissioner. Led by Shailender Singh, chairman of Jharkhand State Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee, the delegates pressed the deputy commissioner, Suraj Kumar for the post mortem report as Thapper's family members suspect it to be a case murder. In a petition handed over to the deputy commissioner, the delegates have said that the officials concerned seem to have been concealing the post mortem report of Thapper in the name of investigation. "Thapper must have succumbed to the injuries sustained in Ghaghidih Central Jail where he was lodged. Though over 12 days have elapsed since the post mortem was done in a medical board, the authority concerned did not reveal anything about the findings. They are trying to hush up the case in the name of investigation," said Shailender Singh to The Telegraph Online. Shailender Singh said they demanded the post mortem report as the family members and others want to know the truth behind Thapper's death which can be known from the autopsy report. The deputy commissioner asked the delegation to obtain the certified copy of the post mortem report from the court where he had sent it for necessary action. Significantly, Thapper's widow Pushpa Rani Tirkey who was also arrested in the case and is presently lodged in Ghaghidih Central Jail has already demanded a CBI enquiry into the custodial death of her husband.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-88
30-07-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel deploys Electric Vehicles to transport products||Tata Steel has tied up with an Indian start-up company to pursue its aspiration of deploying Electric Vehicles (EVs) for transporting steel as part of its sustainability initiative. This is the first-ever deployment of Electric Vehicles by any steel producer in the country for transportation of finished steel. Tata Steel has contracted for 27 EVs, each with a carrying capacity 35 tonnes of steel (minimum capacity). The company plans to deploy 15 EVs at its Jamshedpur plant and 12 EVs at its Sahibabad plant. The first set of EVs for Tata Steel is being put in operation between Tata Steel BSL’s Sahibabad Plant and Pilkhuwa Stockyard in Uttar Pradesh. At a virtual ceremony organised on Thursday, Tata Steel formally flagged-off the loaded vehicle at the Pilkhuwa Stockyard to move to the Sahibabad plant, 38km away. Dibyendu Bose, vice- president, Supply Chain, Tata Steel, said, “It is a great occasion for us today as we are launching Electric Vehicles to move steel on the JRD Tata’s 117th birth anniversary. This initiative is aimed at reduction of Greenhouse gas emissions and will help protect the environment in the long run.  It is the beginning of a new era for Tata Steel and the supply chain division and I wish them all success.” Peeyush Gupta, Vice President Supply Chain (Designate), said “Tata steel has been a pioneer in introducing path-breaking initiatives in the past as well. While we have multiple initiatives focussed on customer service, this is a definitive step towards our commitment to environment. This initiative is also aligned to the government’s larger climate agenda and will surely serve as a cornerstone and a way forward for the industry to follow.” The EVs being deployed comprise a 2.2 ton 230.4 kWh Lithium ion battery pack with a sophisticated cooling system and a battery management system giving it capability to operate at ambient temperatures up to 60 degrees Celsius. The battery pack would be powered by a 160-kWh charger setup which would be able to charge the battery from 0 to 100% in 90 minutes. Tata Steel’s vision is to be the global steel industry benchmark in value creation and corporate citizenship. Sustainable business practices are key enablers to achieving this vision.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-88
30-07-2021||Jharkhand||Low pressure causes very heavy rain in Jharkhand||The low pressure area which originated from the Bay of Bengal moved to Gangetic West Bengal and Jharkhand resulting in heavy to very heavy rainfall in several districts of the state since Thursday night. An associated cyclonic circulation extending up to 7.6 km above the mean sea level assisted in the rainfall activity. Met statistics revealed that Latehar topped the rain chart during the last 24 hours with very heavy rainfall of 102 mm rain. Hindgir in Hazaribagh district too recorded very heavy rain of 93 mm and so was Amarpara in Pakur district which recorded 92 mm of rain. Chatra and Balumath in Latehar district recorded around 90 mm of rain while Mandar in Ranchi district recorded 85 mm of rain. Several places in Dhanbad district including Maithon and Panchet recorded around 78 mm of rain while Nandadih in Koderma district recorded 79 mm of rain. Jamtara recorded 70 mm of rain while Lohardaga recorded 61 mm. Jamshedpur and Ghatshila, both in East singhbhum district recorded around 60 mm of rain while Ramgarh and Ranchi experienced around 50 mm of rain. Deoghar and Hazaribagh recorded around 45 mm of rain while Giridih and Pakur received around 30 mm of rain. Dumka and Daltonganj recorded around 25 mm of rain. About 20 IMD observatories recorded rainfall between 10 mm and 15 mm since last evening due to the impact of the low pressure. The sky remained overcast in most parts of the state on Friday with intermittent rains and winds blowing at an average speed of 20 Kmph. "An active monsoon coupled with the low pressure resulted in heavy to very heavy rain over Jharkhand. The low pressure is likely to move north-westwards towards southern Bihar and Uttar Pradesh during the next two to three days," said Abhishek Anand, head of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. The monsoon trough at mean sea level was on Friday passing through Ganganagar , Narnaul,  Gaya and  some parts of West Bengal and Jharkhand. Today's satellite pictures indicated formation of a fresh low pressure area over southern parts of central Uttar Pradesh and an associated cyclonic circulation extending up to 7.6 km above mean sea level. Weathermen said the impact of the low pressure that originated from the Bay of Bengal would gradually wane from tomorrow resulting in reduced rainfall activity. However, weathermen said a few isolated places in north western and south western parts of the state were expected to witness heavy rain in the next 24 hours. The heavy and widespread rain during the last 24 hours brought down the six per cent deficit rain to zero on Friday. Rain data suggested that so far Jharkhand has received 513.7 mm of rain against a normal of 513 mm, resulting in zero deficit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-88
30-07-2021||Jharkhand||JAC intermediate results best in 10 years||Jharkhand Academic Council declared this year’s intermediate results on Friday with the state registering its best ever performance in the last decade across all the three streams. In science, the overall pass percentage stood at 86.89, Commerce recorded 90.33, while Arts logged 90.71, according to the results announced by state education minister Jagarnath Mahto at the JAC office in Namkum in the presence senior board officials. JAC chairman Arvind Prasad Singh said that going by data of past intermediate results, the overall pass percentage of 2021 in all three disciplines were the highest since 2010. He maintained that anyone seeking a review of his/her results can apply for scrutiny with JAC till August 6. As many as 88,145 students appeared for intermediate exams in science of which 76,590 have passed with 56,445 having got a first division, 19,927 second division and 218 third division. In commerce, 33,677 students appeared for the exams of which 30,422 have passed, including 19,951 in the first division, 9,987 in the  second division and 484 in the third division. In Arts, 189,801 of 209,234 students who appeared have passed. Of them, 52,177 got a first division, 117,245 second and 20,379 third division. JAC devised a 80:20 marking pattern for both matric and intermediate exams which meant that 80 per cent weightage was given to students' past performance in class 9 and 11, and 20 per cent was based on practical exams or internal assessments by respective schools. In terms of districts, Hazaribagh (92.24%), Koderma (92.19%) and Giridih (91.94%) were the top three in overall pass percentage in science. Ranchi remained in 10th position with 85.42%, and East Singhbhum was 12th with 84.08% . Pakur was at te bottome of the list with a pass percentage of 72.65%. In commerce, Simdega (96.03%), Chatra (94.98%) and Jamtara (94.38%) were the top three performers in terms of pass percentages, E.Singhbhum (90.58%) and Ranchi (89.78%) were placed 12th and 13th, respectively, while Godda (77.38%) came last. Similarly, in aArts, Khunti (96.85%), Simdega (96.77%) and Deoghar (94.95%) topped among the districts. Ranchi (92.78%) and East Singhbhum (92.70%) stood 7th and 8th and Sahebganj (80.10) was last. Both the matric and intermediate examinations were cancelled by the state government in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. On Thursday, JAC published matriculation results in which overall pass percentage was 95.92.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-89
30-07-2021||Jharkhand||Railways cancel trains due to heavy rains across Bengal||The South Eastern Railway (SER) on Friday cancelled and short-terminated several trains of various destinations due to incessant rain in Calcutta, Howrah and several other districts of neighbouring West Bengal since Thursday resulting in water logging on tracks and various railway yards. The SER took several measures for the convenience of affected passengers. Frequent announcements were made at all important stations for guidance of passengers. The enquiry counters were being manned by chief ticket inspectors and chief commercial inspectors of respective stations. Help Desks were opened at Howrah, Santragachi and Kharagpur railway stations. Buses were arranged at Howrah railway station for ferrying passengers to Santragachi for boarding trains. Food packets were made available to stranded passengers at all important stations. Bulk SMS were also being sent to passengers regarding cancellation/rescheduling and short termination of trains. Special counters were opened for granting refunds for cancellation of tickets. Moreover, Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) was also directed to ensure proper food and drinking water for passengers on trains. A spokesman of SER said that the situation is likely to improve on Saturday as the intensity of rain in Bengal has reduced. The heavy rain on Thursday was caused by a low pressure originating from the Bay of Bengal. Trains Cancelled # 02096 Howrah-CSMT(Mumbai) Special via Tatanagar scheduled to leave Howrah at 5.45 am. # 02517 Howrah-Titlagarh Special via Tatanagar  scheduled to leave Howrah at 6.35 am # 08011 Howrah-Adra-Chakradharpur/ Bokaro Steel City Special scheduled to leave Howrah at 12.05 am. # 02834 Howrah-Ahmedabad Special via Tatanagar scheduled to leave Howrah at 11.45 pm # 02470 Howrah-Mumbai(CSMT) Special via Tatanagar scheduled to leave Howrah at 2.35 am. # 08014 Bokaro Steel City/ Chakradharpur-Howrah Special scheduled to leave Bokaro at 8.30 am. # 03512 Asansol-Tatanagar Special scheduled to leave Asansol at 9.30 am # 03511 Tatanagar-Asansol Special scheduled to leave Tatanagar at 2.30 pm Short - termination of Trains # 02279 Pune-Howrah  Special via Tatanagar which left Pune on July 28 will be short terminated at Santragachi instead of Howrah. 02803 Ranchi – Howrah Special which left  Ranchi on July 29 will be terminated at Santragachi instead of Howrah railway station. 02809 Mumbai(CSMT) – Howrah Special which left Mumbai on  July 28 will be terminated at Santragachi instead of Howrah. # 08012 Chakradharpur – Howrah Special which left Chakradharpur on July 29 will be short terminated at Santragachi instead of Howrah. # 01051 LTT – Howrah Special via Tatanagar scheduled to arrive Howrah 6.45 am on Friday  was short terminated at Santragachi. # 02259 Mumbai (CSMT) - Howrah Special via Tatanagar scheduled to arrive Howrah at 12.25 pm on Friday was short-terminated at Santragachi. 02833 Ahmedabad – Howrah Special via Tatanagar scheduled to arrive at Howrah at 1.35  am on Friday  was short terminated at Santragachi. 02518 Titlagarh – Howrah Special via Tatanagar scheduled to arrive Howrah 6.15 pm on Friday was short terminated at Santragachi # 08027 Kharagpur-Asansol Special via Tatanagar  was terminated at Burnpur. Rescheduling of Trains # 02260 Howrah-Mumbai(CSMT) Special scheduled to leave Howrah at 2.05 pm on Friday originated from Santragachi at 2.45 pm instead of Howrah # 02804 Howrah-Ranchi Special scheduled to leave Howrah at 10.15 pm on Friday  will instead originate from Santragachi at 11 pm instead of Howrah. # 02834 Howrah-Ahmedabad Special scheduled to leave Howrah at 11.45 pm  on Friday will instead originate from Santragachi at 12.30 am on July 31 instead of Howrah. # 08011 Howrah-Chakradharpur/Bokaro Steel City Special scheduled to leave Howrah at 12.05  am on Friday originated from Santragachi at 12.50 am instead of Howrah. # 02810 Howrah-Mumbai(CSMT) Special scheduled to leave Howrah at 7.50 pm on Friday will originate from Santragachi at 8.45 pm instead of Howrah. #  01052 Howrah-LTT Special scheduled to leave Howrah at 10 pm on  July 30 will instead originate from Shalimar at 10.30 pm and not from Howrah. # 09206 Howrah-Porbandar Special via Tatanagar scheduled to leave Howrah at 9.10pm on Friday will  originate from Shalimar at 11 pm instead of Howrah # 02280 Howrah-Pune Special via Tatanagar scheduled to leave Howrah at 9.50pm  on Friday will originate from Santragachi at 11.30 pm  instead of Howrah # 02020 Ranchi-Howrah Special was  rescheduled to leave Ranchi at 6.45 pm instead of 1.45 pm on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-89
30-07-2021||Jharkhand||Probe reveals auto used to attack Dhanbad judge was stolen||The autorickshaw used to run down Uttam Anand on Wednesday morning was stolen, investigations into the death of the Dhanbad judical officer have revealed, said sources in the SIT that has been set up to probe what the legal fraternity claims was murder constituing an attack on the judiciary. During interactions with police officials of Dhanbad, ADG (Operations) Sanjay Anand Latkar, who is leading a state-level special investigation team to probe the death of the judge, asked them to question the owner of the autorickshaw whihc was was stolen from the Jorapokhar area. He also asked them to scan the mobile call records of the two arrested persons, Lakhan Verma and his accomplice Rahul Verma and question the duo may have spoken to in the last 10 days. Latkar also wanted policemen to question the owner of the restaurant on Dhanbad Station Road where Lakhan, who drove the auto, had apparently dropped by for a drink on the previous night of the incident (Tuesday).  ADG (operations) Latkar reached Dhanbad from Ranchi on Friday after which he was joined by Bokaro IG Priya Dubey for a meeting with senior officials of Dhanbad police to be briefed on the findings of the probe so far. "We are reviewing the case at the moment," he said when the media pressed him for details. Earlier on the day, Dhanbad police took the two arrested persons on five-day remand to continue interrogating them. In the afternoon, over 50 lawyers of Dhanbad braved incessant rain since the morning to take out a march from the Dhanbad r Bar Association office to Randhir Verma Chowk to demand a thorough probe into the death of additional district judge, Uttam Anand so that the guilty are identified and punished. The protesters were led by Amrendra Sahay, President of Dhanbad Bar Association, who abstained from work and boycotted court work also demanded immediate arrest of those involved in murder of an advocate of Tamar, Manoj Kumar Jha, about a week ago. The agitating lawyers,  who were carrying banners and posters bearing slogans like “Dhanbad Bar Association pays tribute to Manoj Kumar Jha advocate and Uttam Anand Additional Session judge VIII of Dhanbad", "we demand a fair investigation and arrest of the culprits at the earliest", " we further demand enactment of an Advocates' Protection Act", held umbrellas in one hand as they marched on. Talking to the media, Sahay said, “We demand immediate legislation and implementation of an Advocates' Protection Act to ensure the safety and security of lawyers who are working in adverse conditions facing attacks. Now, even a sitting judge has been attacked and killed for the first time in Dhanbad which vindicates our stand.” “The CCTV footage indicates some conspiracy in the death of Justice Uttam Anand, who was intentionally hit by an autorickshaw and thus the case requires comprehensive investigation,” added Sahay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-89
30-07-2021||Jharkhand||Daily wager's son comes first in Jharkhand board exam ||Vivek Dutta, a resident of Kumhri village and son of a daily wage labourer, secured first position in the state in Jharkhand Academic Council Matriculation examination. Vivek, a student of Upgraded High School Brahmindwarika of Chandankyari Block, has secured the highest 98.60 per cent marks in the examination. Saraswati Kumari of Ramrudra Plus Two High School, Chas, secured the third position in the state by securing 97.60 per cent. Vivek’s father Ashutosh Dutta, who was a daily wage labourer, died in 2018. His elder brother Suraj Dutta looks after the family working as a labourer. Vivek secured 100 marks in Hindi, 98 in English, 100 in Mathematics, 97 in Sanskrit, 98 in Social Science, and 88 in Science. He was in a difficult situation as he struggled to buy books. Despite the shortage of money, Suraj bought books by taking a loan, so that Vivek's studies would not be hampered. Vivek said that his achievement is dedicated to his late father, mother, brother and teachers. Had his father been alive, he would have been very happy. Suraj said he dreams that one day his younger brother Vivek will be successful and overcome poverty. Vivek said that he is studying diligently to make his elder brother's dream come true. He wants to become an engineer. District Education Officer Neelam Aileen Toppo said, "Vivek Dutta and Saraswati Kumari have performed extremely well." She also said that the students of Bokaro district performed brilliantly in the Jharkhand Academic Council Matriculation examination. 26,032 students of the district had appeared in this examination. Out of these 24,662 students were successful in the examination. 94.73 per cent of students got success in the examination. Toppo said that in the matriculation examination, 17,450 students of different schools of the district passed in first class, 6769 students in second, and 443 students in third class.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-89
30-07-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad judge 'killing': SC seeks report from Jharkhand chief secretary within a week||The Supreme Court Friday took suo motu cognisance of the sad demise of a judge who was allegedly mowed down in Dhanbad and sought a status report within a week from Jharkhand's Chief Secretary and the DGP on the investigation into the incident. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana said the Jharkhand High Court would keep monitoring the probe. The apex court said it has been taking suo motu cognizance of attacks on judicial officers and legal fraternity across the country. The bench indicated it might seek reports from the concerned state governments. "This Dhanbad case has wider ramifications. We are getting reports that judicial officers are being attacked around the country. We intend to examine this and may seek report from all states," CJI Ramana was quoted as saying by ndtv.com. The bench, which also comprised Justice Surya Kant, issued notice to all the states and specifically sought the presence of Jharkhand Advocate General when it hears the case next week. On Thursday, the top court said the Chief Justice of Jharkhand High Court has already taken up the matter related to the alleged killing of the judicial officer. District and Sessions Judge-8 of Dhanbad court, Uttam Anand, was out on a morning walk on Wednesday when he was killed by an auto-rickshaw at Randhir Verma Chowk near the district court in the Sadar police station area, stepping up investigations into his death that has led to a nationwide outrage among the legal fraternity which believes he was murdered. Justice Anand was hearing a case concerning sharpshooters allegedly working at the behest of a UP ganglord. Dhanbad police, which had set up a special investigation team headed by city SP R Ramkumar on Wednesday, revealed that the two were arrested in the wee hours of Thursday. "Based on all available evidence and CCTV footage, police launched a search operation for the auto-rickshaw and its driver. Finally, we were able to arrest the driver, Lakhan Verma of Sonarpatti, and another person, Rahul Verma of Jorapokhar," said Dhanbad SSP Kumar. Dhanbad police have, however, refused to divulge further details of their investigations. They have also indicated their unwillingness to comment on the motive of the killing given the sensitive nature of the case. Kumar said, “We are investigating the case from all angles. But as the case is sensitive we are not in a position to share any details with regard to our findings until the investigation is completed." He said Coal Belt DIG Mayur Patel had also inspected the site of the incident and had issued necessary instructions to a local forensics team that is also part of the investigations. Asked if the arrested duo had criminal antecedents, Kumar said they may have been involved in a theft earlier, but that police were still collecting details. "We are collecting details as a theft case seems to have been lodged in their names,” he said. Anand’s family members had lodged an FIR on Wednesday, calling his death an act of murder. But Kumar has clarified that his family had not named any suspect.  "A case under section 302 IPC has been registered, but nobody has been named in the case,” he said. The auto-rickshaw was recovered by police from Giridih district on Thursday and brought to Dhanbad police station where the forensics team conducted a thorough scan. The forensics team visited the site of the accident on Thursday morning once again and collected more evidence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-89
30-07-2021||Jharkhand||Over 1.6 lakh get vaccinated in a day, the highest for Jharkhand in July  ||Jharkhand on Thursday vaccinated over 1.6 lakh residents against Covid-19, the highest in a day this month, taking the total count of those inoculated in the state closer to the 1 crore mark, provisional figures released by the health department highlighted. According to National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Thursday administered the first dose of vaccine to 1,23,989 residents, while the second jab was administered to 39,926 beneficiaries. Over 1 lakh residents in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years got their first dose of the vaccine and close to 18,000 beneficiaries from this age group received their second jab. NHM data highlighted that the state has over 3.5 lakh vaccine doses in stock to run the immunisation programme for the remaining days of July. As per government data, close to 95 lakh Jharkhand residents have received at least one dose of the vaccine. Jharkhand witnessed a spike in the active caseload of Covid-19 on Thursday with fresh cases of infection outnumbering recoveries. As per a bulletin from NHM, at least 56 people, including 19 from Garhwa alone, tested positive for Covid-19, while only 34 patients recovered from the viral infection. The active caseload in the state reached 259 on Thursday. At least seven districts, including Ranchi, saw a spike in the active caseload. As per NHM data, at least 11 cases against six recoveries took the active caseload in Ranchi to 46, while nine cases against four recoveries took the active caseload in Bokaro to 26. Garhwa reported zero recoveries on the day and the number of patients there jumped to 20. The state, however, did not report fresh Covid casualties on Thursday and the Covid toll remained 5,126. Jharkhand tested samples of 60,755 residents  and 0.09 per cent of them were found infected. The state reported an average positivity rate of 0.06 or less in the past one week or so, which increased on Thursday. The state did not report fresh cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis on Thursday. As per data with Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), at least 104 confirmed and 58 suspected cases of black fungus have been reported in the state so far. The fungal infection has claimed at least 30 lives so far in Jharkhand, IDSP report further highlights.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-89
30-07-2021||Jharkhand||SC Bar Association seeks CBI probe into Dhanbad judge death||The alleged murder of a Jharkhand district judge on a Dhanbad street on Wednesday figured in the Supreme Court on Thursday, with the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) alleging an attack on the “independence of the judiciary” and seeking a CBI probe. Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana told SCBA president Vikas Singh he had already spoken to the chief justice of Jharkhand High Court and learnt that the high court had summoned top police officers of Dhanbad to take stock of the situation. So, no Supreme Court intervention is needed at the moment, Justice Ramana said. Singh said that if a judge got killed after rejecting a gangster’s bail plea, “this is a dangerous situation for the judiciary” and the matter highlighted the need for judges’ protection. Additional district judge Uttam Anand, who had denied bail to two alleged gangsters last week, was jogging around 5am on a two-lane road near Dhanbad city’s Magistrate Colony when an auto-rickshaw hit him from behind. He died in hospital. Initially it was thought a hit-and-run but the family lodged an FIR for murder after the police showed them the CCTV footage. A video clip on social media, which officials have confirmed as leaked CCTV footage, shows a man jogging by the roadside when an auto swerves sharply from the middle of the lane, knocks him down and speeds away. Jharkhand police said two youths had been arrested on Thursday morning and had “confessed” to hitting the judge with the auto but not admitted to murder. Judge Anand, a Hazaribagh native posted in Dhanbad six months ago, had been handling several cases of mafia killings in Dhanbad city. He had denied bail to Ravi Thakur and Anand Verma, suspected shooters who have been linked to alleged Uttar Pradesh gangsters Abhinav Singh and Aman Singh. Dhanbad senior superintendent of police Sanjeev Kumar said the auto — believed to have been stolen before the purported attack on Judge Anand — had been seized from Lakhan Kumar Verma, 24, and Rahul Verma, 20, in Giridih, 45km from Dhanbad city. The duo, residents of Jorapokhar area of Dhanbad, have been arrested. The auto owner, Suchita Devi, had on Wednesday morning lodged a police complaint saying she had woken up around 4.30am and found the three-wheeler, parked in front of her home in Dhanbad city’s Pathardih locality the previous night, had disappeared. “The two youths have confessed to having hit the judge. We are trying to ascertain if they were involved in stealing the auto-rickshaw. We cannot reveal much,” SSP Kumar said. He did not say anything about the two arrested youths’ backgrounds. State advocate-general Rajiv Ranjan told reporters in Ranchi that the high court had appointed an additional director-general of police to lead a special investigation team (SIT) to conduct a probe that the high court would monitor. The SCBA president had first raised the matter before the apex court bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah on Thursday, seeking a probe into the suspected murder. “If the judiciary has to be independent we have to come in very sternly to say that our judicial officers should be protected. The SCBA wants this to be taken up on the judicial side,” Vikas Singh said. But Justice Chandrachud said the matter should be mentioned before the CJI. When Singh did so, Justice Ramana said: “The high court has issued a notice to the police and district officials. They are hearing this matter today. Let them handle it. It does not require interference by us. I have spoken to the chief justice this morning.” Justice Ramana, however, appreciated the SCBA’s efforts to highlight the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-89
30-07-2021||Jharkhand||Low pressure to trigger heavy rain in Jharkhand||A low pressure area hovering over coastal Bangladesh and neighbouring West Bengal  is likely to trigger heavy to very heavy rainfall over Jharkhand in the next 24 hours, said IMD officials on Thursday. Weathermen said the low pressure coupled with an associated cyclonic circulation was extending upto the upper tropospheric  levels. It is likely to move westwards across West Bengal, Jharkhand and Bihar during the next 48- hours. "We are expecting heavy to very heavy rainfall ( more than 100 mm in 24 hours ) especially in north eastern and central Jharkhand  in next 24 hours due to the impact of the low pressure and an associated cyclonic circulation,  which originated from the Bay of Bengal. Another cyclonic circulation was persisting over eastern Uttar Pradesh extending between 1.5 and 4.5 Km above mean sea level which will also assist in rainfall activity over Jharkhand, " said Abhishek Anand, head of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. The monsoon trough at mean sea level was on Thursday passing through Ferozpur, Rohtak , Aligarh Prayagraj and Daltonganj extending up to 0.9 Km. The forecast also indicated moderate to heavy rain in isolated pockets of Jharkhand even after the next 24 hours as the monsoon trough was passing through the state. Meanwhile, several places across the state including Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Hazaribagh, Bokaro, Ramgarh and Koderma witnessed intermittent rains on Thursday. The local IMD observatory in Jamshedpur on Thursday recorded 21 mm of rain while Ranchi recorded 9 mm. Statistics revealed that several places including Hazaribagh, Koderma, Sahibganj, Jamtara and Garhwa experienced a good spell of rain  during the past 24 hours. Data revealed that so far after the advent of monsoon Jharkhand actually received 472.5 mm of rain against a normal of 503.2 mm, a deficit of six per cent. Weathermen said the rainfall during the next 48 hours will help in reducing the rain deficit in Jharkhand. Overcast sky and rain during the last 24 hours resulted in a dip in day's reading in several districts. According to Met data, the day reading was hovering between 28 and 30 degree Celsius in most districts across the state during the last two days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-89
30-07-2021||Jharkhand||Railways extends deadline of special train services||The South Eastern Railway on Thursday notified continuation of several long distance special trains on their existing routes and stoppages. The Hatia- Anand Vihar Special will continue to run till September 30. As per an earlier notification the special train between the two destinations was supposed to run till July 29. It's a tri-weekly train which runs on Monday, Tuesday and Thursday. The return train -  Anand Vihar -Hatia Special will now run till October 1 . The  return train runs on Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday. The Santragachi -Anand Vihar Special which runs via Tatanagar railway station will continue to run till September 27 as per the latest railway circular. The  weekly special train which runs on Monday was earlier notified to run till July 26. The Anand Vihar - Santragachi Special which runs on Tuesday will continue to run till September 28 on its usual route with no alteration in stoppages. The Howrah-Sainagar Shirdi Special, a weekly train which runs via Tatanagar railway station on Thursdays, will continue to run till September 30. The train was earlier notified to run till July 29. The return train Sainagar Shirdi-Howrah Special which runs on Saturday will now continue to run till October 2. The Hatia-Bengaluru Cantt Special, a weekly train which runs on Saturday will now continue to run till September 25. The train was earlier notified to run till July 31. The Bengaluru Cantt-Hatia Special which runs on Tuesday will now continue to run till September 28, according to the railway circular. The running of Tatanagar-Amritsar Special has been extended till September 29. The bi-weekly train used to run on Monday and Wednesday and was earlier notified to run till July 28. The opposite train Amritsar-Tatanagar Special which runs on Wednesday and Friday will now continue to run till October 1. A spokesperson of South Eastern Railway said  the running of special trains have been extended for the convenience of passengers. "We appeal to passengers to continue to follow the Covid appropriate behaviour while traveling for their own safety," said the railway spokesman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-89
30-07-2021||Jharkhand||96 per cent of 4.33 lakh students pass Class X state board exams||Around 96 per cent of the 4.33 lakh students have passed the Class X state board examinations, whose results were announced by the Jharkhand Academic Council on Thursday. The total marks of the candidates were declared on the basis of an assessment formula the council had announced earlier after the board examinations were cancelled because of the pandemic. While 80 per cent weightage was given to the marks obtained by the students in their Class IX examination that was also conducted by the council, the rest 20 per cent weightage was given to practical examinations in case of science students or class assignments in case of other streams. Of the total 433,571 candidates, 415,924 (95.92 per cent) were declared to have passed the Class X examination. Of the successful candidates, 62.49 per cent got first division, 30.88 per cent passed in the second division and 2.55 per cent in third division. While 95.95 per cent of girls were successful, the pass rate of boys was 95.90 per cent, a difference of just 0.05 per cent. The most impressive success rate was, however, that of candidates belonging to most backward classes. Of the total 25,565 candidates belonging to most backward classes, 97.01 per cent were declared to have passed the examination. The success rate of 278,125 general caste candidates was 95.90 per cent, while that of Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and backward class candidates was 94.45 per cent, 95.20 per cent and 96.66 per cent respectively. The total number of girl candidates was 225,692 while the number of boys was 207,879, a difference of 17,813. Many said the drop in the number of boys appearing for the state board exams could be because the guardians preferred to send them to study in private schools affiliated to the central boards wherever possible.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-89
