31-07-2021||Jharkhand||Heavy rain throws life out of gear in Bokaro, one missing||Heavy rainfall in the past three days has thrown life out of gear in Bokaro district. A 14-year-old boy, Faizan Ahmed, went missing after being swept away while bathing in Garga River in Siwandih under Balidih police station and an intake well of rural drinking water supply scheme was washed away in Konar River at Chatrochatti under Gomia block of Bermo subdivision. High alert has been sounded in places near rivers. Several low lying areas in Bokaro, Chas and Bermo sub-divisions have submerged in water. Heavy waterlogging on streets, roads and national highways slowed down the traffic in the entire district. Trees were uprooted in many places. The prominent rivers are inundated with dams opening their radial gates. Kuldeep Kumar, Bokaro DC, visited Tenughat Dam to assess the situation. Konar Dam has opened its six gates releasing 15000 cusec water per second causing the Konar River to overflow. Apart from the intake well, the four gates of barrage on the river also washed off and a transformer drowned in water causing an electricity crisis in few areas. Small bridges above the rivers have submerged completely. The gates of Tenughat, Konar and Garga dams have been opened in the district. The water discharged from these dams has increased the water level in Damodar, Konar, Garga and Bokaro River of the district. Meanwhile, Ijri and Gawai, the two subsidiary rivers of Damodar are also flooded. The district administration sounded alert to the residents residing in the areas close to the rivers. “Six radial gates of Tenughat dam were opened, in which 108141 Cusec of water per second is being discharged into the Damodar River,” said Pankaj Kumar, assistant engineer of Tenughat Dam Division. Kumar said the water level of Damodar River is rising due to incessant rain. The water holding capacity of Tenughat Dam is 852 feet whereas at present the water level in Tenughat Dam is 861.5 feet. Meanwhile, the Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL), which controls Garga Dam, has appealed to residents to be cautious while crossing through the river as water level has increased. And keep their cattle away from the river and avoid going for a bath in the river. A BSL officer said,“Two gates of Garga Dam have been opened 1.5 feet. This has increased the water level in the river which passes through Bokaro and Chas townships and lastly falls in Damodar River. Rise in water level in Damodar River has made Tenughat Dam authorities alert Bokaro and Dhanbad administration as well as West Bengal government from where it passes through.” The district administration has alerted all the block-level officials and panchayat representatives about the flooded rivers. Block Development Officer, Bermo, Madhu Kumari has sent a voice message appealing people to be careful. She said the rivers are flowing above the danger mark. Along with this, patrolling is also being done continuously around the rivers. The district administration is continuously monitoring from the district control room so that there is no danger of any kind.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-87
31-07-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad judge 'murder': Police team recreate crime scene||The SIT of Dhanbad probing Justice Uttam Anand’s death case on Saturday recreated the crime scene at the accident site on NH-32, where the judicial officer was hit by an autorickshaw while out for his morning walk on Wednesday. The SIT team led by Manoj Swargiyar, Additional Superintendent of Police,  carried out a detailed technical and scientific analysis of the site, during which they analysed the road slant and road inclination with the help of Road Construction Department officials. The police team of around 30 officials reached the site at around 10am under the leadership of Swargiyar. They remained at the site for more than four hours till around 2 pm. The police, however, avoided any media interaction. Notably, auto driver, Lakhan Verma and his accomplice during the police interrogation kept insisting that the accident took place as they were in an inebriated condition and they lost control of the vehicle near the road side hitting the judge. Earlier, Sanjay Anand Laktkar, ADJ (Operations), during a prolonged meeting with the senior officers of Dhanbad police on Saturday, including the members of the district level SIT team, also instructed them to enquire about details of a bike rider who was following the autorickshaw from behind as visible in the CCTV footage. The bike rider didn't take any notice of the incident and moved ahead after the accident. The apathetic gesture of the bike rider has raised suspicion if he was guarding the auto rickshaw. Laktar, based on minute scanning of the CCTV footage, instructed the district level SIT officials to find out the details of another motorcycle rider who tried to stop the autorickshaw a few yards away from the site after the incident. The team has been instructed to find out whether the motorcycle rider who tried to stop the auto rickshaw after the incident had any word with the auto driver Lakhan Verma and his accomplice Rahul Verma. Latkar refused to divulge any details of the Friday meeting to the media and said, "Our priority at the moment is to investigate the incident from all angles."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-87
31-07-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant calls for CBI probe into Dhanbad judge's ‘killing' ||The Jharkhand government recommended a CBI probe into the death of additional judicial magistrate Uttam Anand in Dhanbad on July 28, chief minister Hemant Soren's decision coming on Saturday, days after the apex court took cognisance and described the incident an attack on the judiciary. The communique issued by Hemant's office read, "The chief minister has approved a CBI probe into the death of Dhanbad judge, who was killed during his morning walk. Even though the state government has promptly formed a special investigation team (SIT), CM is recommending a CBI probe for thorough investigation into the whole incident.” On Friday, Anand's family members met Hemant at his office in Ranchi and as per the communique, expressed their satisfaction with the ongoing probe constitued by the state government. State police have formed an 11-member special investigation team (SIT) under ADG (operation) Sanjay Anand Latekar. On Saturday, the SIT reconstructed the scene of Anand's death in Dhanbad. On Friday, the coal belt police had seized the stolen auto that was used to attack the judge while he was on his morning walk. The man suspected to have driven the auto and his accomplice have been arrested. Opposition BJP claimed credit for the state government's decision. Party spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said that by recommending a CBI probe, the state government had conceded its failure to crack the case after failing to maintain law and order in Jharkhand. “Our party president and state leadership have been demanding a CBI probe in this case. We are happy that the state government has realised that it couldn’t probe the case and had to recommend a CBI probe in the light of severe criticism from both Supreme Court and high court for shoddy law and order in the state,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-87
31-07-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city residents to get Sputnik V in 10 days||Residents of the steel city will be able to get the high efficacy Sputnik V vaccine here in the next 10 days. Red Cross Society, Jamshedpur is going to provide the opportunity for the inoculation of the Russian-made vaccine at the Red Cross Bhavan in Sakchi, necessary arrangements for which are on. Red Cross Society, Jamshedpur secretary Vijay Kumar Singh said they have got the necessary administrative approval from the health department. "We have not only obtained the permission from the state government and the health department concerned, but also received a special refrigerator necessary for storing the Sputnik V vials. The refrigerator reached here on Saturday itself," said Singh to The Telegraph Online. Speaking about the refrigerator, the Red Cross Society secretary said that it is meant for maintaining a minus 25 degree temperature while storing Sputnik V vials. "Unlike Covaxin or Covishield vials, stored in a temperature of 2.8 degree, the Sputnik V vials have to be stored in a temperature of minus 25 degree. Moreover, there is such an inbuilt mechanism by which the refrigerator's temperature can be monitored from the vaccine manufacturing company," he pointed out. Singh, when queried, said that the stock of Sputnik jabs will come from Delhi by train with a cold-chain maintenance system in it. He said the vehicle which will carry the stock of the vaccine vials should also have the facility for maintaining the required cold-chain maintenance system. The price of the Sputnik V vaccine which will be of single dose only is fixed at Rs 1,600. Significantly, as the effectiveness of Sputnik jab is above 90 per cent against Covid-19 and is to be inoculated a single dose only, a large number of people were looking forward to this here in the steel city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-87
31-07-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro students shine in CBSE Class 12 results||More than 200 students scored above 95 percent while around 700 students of eight prominent schools in Bokaro Steel City scored 90 and above in their Class XII results announced by CBSE on Friday. The students of two educational institutions- Delhi Public School (DPS), Bokaro and Pentecostal Assembly School- have performed exemplary well. Of the three top rankers, one is of DPS and two belong to Pentecostal. The CBSE 12th results have been prepared in an alternative way as board exams could not be held this year due to a surge in Covid-19 cases. The board had adopted an alternative assessment scheme to finalise the result. Varun Tandon of Delhi Public School (DPS), Bokaro was the topper bagging 99.20 per cent in Science stream. Meanwhile, Nandita Kumari of Pentecostal Assembly School topped the district in Arts stream achieving 99.2 per cent. In commerce stream, Mayank Kumar of Pentecostal Assembly School scored 98.6 per cent. As per the press releases, 78 students of DPS, Bokaro have scored above 95 per cent while 240 students secured above 90 per cent. Khushi Dalmia of commerce section scored 97.8 per cent. A.S. Gangwar, Principal of DPS Bokaro, said students were worried that CBSE had to drop board exams this year due to the surge in Covid-19 cases but an alternative was formulated based on the continuous and comprehensive performance of the students. “Despite online classes, our students have done well,” he said. Around 43 students of Pentecostal Assembly School scored above 95 per cent and 91 students have obtained 90 per cent and above. The two students Nandini Nischal and Priya Kumari scored 98.2 per cent in science stream in Pentecostal. Karuna Prasad, principal of The Pentecostal Assembly School said the praiseworthy performance was all possible due to the combined effort of the school administration, the teachers and the students. The overall performance of the students of Guru Gobind Singh Public School (GGPS) is also wonderful. As many as 35 students scored 95 per cent and above while 102 students of GGPS obtained above 90 per cent. There were more than 25 students of Sree Ayyappa Public School who scored 95 per cent and above. Director of Ayyappa Public School, S.S. Mahapatra said, “All the schools have done wonderful this year.” Around 20 students of Chinmaya Vidyalaya secured above 95 per cent marks while 156 students have scored 90 per cent and above. In Adarsh Vidya Mandir, as many as eight students have scored 95 per cent and above while 21 students obtained 90 per cent and above.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-87
31-07-2021||Jharkhand||Anxiety and pressure cost Deepika a medal, say former coaches||Jharkhand archer Deepika Kumari lost a golden opportunity to end India's medal drought in Olympics with her exit from the Tokyo Games on Friday. Deepika lost her quarterfinal match 0-6 to top seed An San of South Korea in the women's individual event at the Yumenoshima Park Archery Field. The 27-year-old world number one archer's former mentors at the elite Tata Archery Academy in Jamshedpur Purnima Mahto and Dharmendra Tiwary feel that anxiety and pressure cost Deepika a medal. Moreover, she could not focus on her current form. Both Mahto and Tiwary went to the Rio de Janeiro Olympics in 2016 as coach of the national squad. "I think Deepika lacked the mental strength and also lost focus on her current form. Anxiety and pressure to win the elusive medal could have put an extra load on her. We have lost yet another opportunity to win a medal in the Olympics," said Mahto, a Dronacharya awardee. According to her, Deepika should have concentrated on improving her poor shooting. "Deepika, instead of trying to improve her shooting, remained focussed on scoring 10. This, I think, put more pressure on her which only compounded the problem and made her lose focus," Mahto, who was the coach of Indian team at the World Cup Stage 3 in Paris last month, said. Deepika won a hat-trick of medals -- women's individual, team and mixed team -- in Paris to become the world number one archer. She won the mixed team gold with her husband Atanu Das, who also lost his pre-quarterfinal 4-6 to Takaharu Furukawa of Japan on Saturday. Tiwary, also a Dronacharya awardee, said pressure in Olympics is much more than other international events. "So, mental strength holds the key when it comes to performance. Deepika looked bogged down by the pressure even though her opponent was not in great form. Deepika also seemed to lose focus on her form. We cannot win medals in the Olympics if our archers lack mental strength," he pointed out. Tiwary said he was optimistic that Deepika will not disappoint this time. "It was her form which had made me optimistic of a medal. But failings in mental strength put paid to all hopes. Deepika also failed to win a medal in London (2012) and Rio de Janeiro (2016). Archery is more mental than physical," he stressed. The seasoned coach has always laid stress on mental strength when it came to Deepika when she trained at the Tata cradle in Jamshedpur. He had helped Deepika overcome bouts of nervousness in the run-up to the 2016 Rio Olympics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-87
31-07-2021||Jharkhand||Rain fury: Ranchi flooded, 3 die as car plunges into rivulet in Jamtara||Widespread showers of the last 48 hours disrupted life in Ranchi and several regions of Jharkhand on Saturday with reports coming in that three of a family were killed in Jamtara district, some 250km from the state capital, after their car fell in a rivulet. Several parts of the state capital were flooded because of the incessant rain since Friday. In the last 24 hours, Ranchi recorded 180mm rain, noted the local  Met office. Widespread power cuts added to the misery. In Jamtara, the bodies of the three accident victims were fished out on Saturday morning after local residents spotted the car in the rivulet. The family from Ranchi was travelling to Bhagalpur when their car fell into a rivulet along the Govindpur-Sahibganj highway under Narayanpur police station late on Friday night. Police said visibility must have been poor because of the heavy rain and accompanying storm. In all, four persons were travelling in the car. One of the occupants managed to jump off before the car hit a railing of the bridge and plunged in the rivulet. Manoj Kumar, officer in-charge of Narayanpur police station, told the media that efforts were on to identify the bodies. “We learnt that four persons, possibly of the same family, were travelling to Bihar (Bhagalpur) from Ranchi when they met with the unfortunate incident. Further probe is on,” he said. Several areas of Ranchi were indundated  since Friday. On Saturday, a large stretch of Argora Chowk on Harmu Road, also known as Raj Path (VIP Road) that connects Raj Bhavan to the airport and Project Building, got flooded after water from a local pond flowed into the street due to clogged drains. An official of Argora police station said, “I don’t recall the last time such an important road turned into a pond due to rains. Rampant construction all around have damaged drains as a result of which the area got flooded. Traffic had to be diverted due to the water-logging.” Sudhir Kumar, who runs a confectionary shop Argora Chowk, said he had suffered heavy losses. “All my stocks got damaged as the flood water entered my shop last night, damaging furniture and electricity cables,” he said. Large parts of Piska More, another heavily populated area, turned into a cesspool. Most cars and bikes at the ground floor parking lot of Lavleen Apartments were almost totally submereg under water. Rakesh Sinha, a resident of the complex, said, “We face flood-like situations every year whenever it rains. No matter which government is in power, our woes are never solved. Need of the hour is to have a proper drainage system in the entire city.” Similar scenes were reported in Kathal More, low-lying areas of Hindpiri, Namkum, Chutia and Gadi Hotwar . Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) officials maintained that they would begin clean-up operations in the flooded areas to prevent the outbreak of  disease. Town commissioner Mukesh Kumar’s phone remained switched off. But a city manager not willing to be named claimed that the civic body had undertaken a massive cleaning exercise of all drains across the city ahead of the monsoon. He blamed volume of rain for the flooding. “In the run up to the monsoon, RMC undertook a mega drive to clean all drains for the first time in the city. But in many areas, there are encroachments, illegal constructions. That's the reason behind the flooding, " he said. Between 2014-19, when the BJP government was in power, it launched a Rs 400-crore city drainage construction project for the capital but it was ineffective due to poor planning. Congress, which is part of the ruling alliance in the state, on Saturday attacked the BJP and its MLA in Ranchi, C.P. Singh for failing the capital city. Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said, “The situation in Ranchi today exposes the BJP government’s drainage construction project which was poorly planned, executed and mired in corruption. Most importantly, Ranchi MLA C.P. Singh, who is a five-time lawmaker from the capital, must take responsibility for the civic mess as he was the minister of state urban development department for last five years.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-87
31-07-2021||Jharkhand||Finally, some rain relief but Subernarekha and Kharkai rivers in spate ||The downpour caused due to the impact of a low-pressure zone originating from Bay of Bengal, stopped in most parts of Jharkhand on Saturday, but not before disrupting life for around 36 hours from Friday in several regions, including the state capital Ranchi. The system moved to towards southern Bihar and parts of Uttar Pradesh. Weathermen said the monsoon was active over Jharkhand as the trough was passing through southern Bihar and Digha in neighbouring Bengal. The heavy showers of the past two days in Jharkhand and neighbouring states prompted Odisha to open three radial gates of the Bankabal dam. also, the Jharkhand water resources department opened four gates of the Chandil dam, resulting in an abrupt rise in the water levels of the Subernarekha and Kharkai. The water level of both rivers crossed the danger mark on Saturday posing a threat of floods in low-lying areas of Jamshedpur and its adjoining areas. The East Singhbhum district administration issued an alert and appealed to slum dwellers residing in low-lying areas to shift to higher ground. Ranchi Met centre has forecast moderate rainfall in north-western parts of the state during the next 24 hours. As per Met data, Latehar district recorded the highest rainfall of 204mm during the past 24 hours (8.30am of Friday to 8.30am of Saturday). Koner in Hazaribagh district recorded the second highest rainfall of 186.8 mm. Ranchi recorded 182.4 mm rain while  Balumath in Latehar witnessed 176 mm of rain. Hazaribagh recorded 171 mm of rain while Hindigir in Ranchi district got 140.8 mm rain. Met data suggest that several districts in central and northern Jharkhand recorded over 100mm rain in last 24 hours. Jamshedpur and several other places in Kolhan region recorded over 50 mm of rain during the past 24 hours. Most districts across Jharkhand woke up to overcast and inclement weather conditions on Saturday. Head of IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre Abhishek Anand said, "The rain has stopped in southern and central Jharkhand as the low-pressure system  shifted to Bihar. The impact of the low-pressure is gradually waning." Weathermen said there will be no significant changes in day's temperature during the next 48 hours. Jharkhand is back to being a rain surplus status after the widespread showers of the last two days. Data suggests that so far, after the onset of the monsoon, Jharkhand has received 588.9mm rain against an average of 522.2 mm, a surplus of 13 per cent. The deficit had rrisen to over 20 per cent earlier this month, due to scanty showers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-88
31-07-2021||Jharkhand||Power cuts add to woes of waterlogged Ranchi localities||Several residential localities in Ranchi, especially Morhabadi, Bariatu and Argora, faced acute power cuts from Friday night to Saturday evening with heavy rains and high-speed winds uprooting trees, causing faults in transformers and snapping electricity cables. Residents of Pralhad Enclave, an apartment near the Ranchi Science Centre, had to suffer without electricity on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday. Power inverters also ran out of juice by Saturday afternoon and residents had no option but to wait for the electricity department to fix the faults. “There has been no supply of electricity since Friday evening. Our inverters have also run out of power and we may have to stay in the dark if the problem is not resolved today (Saturday),” said Asha Kumari, a resident of the apartment. Officials from the Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam (JBVNL) blamed the power cuts on “local faults”, claiming that the electricity department had surplus power for supply in Ranchi and there was no outage. “Continuous rains have uprooted several trees in the city. When trees get uprooted, they often break electricity wires, causing disruption in supply. Most of the areas that suffered from power cuts had faults in local transformers and electricity supply systems,” said MP Yadav, the public relations officer of JBVNL. As heavy rains continued to lash different parts of Jharkhand on Saturday, the electricity department failed to fix the faults in the supply system as engineers and other technical staff couldn’t reach the spots and fix the problems, JBVNL officials said. Some engineers, who tried to fix local glitches in the supply system, had to return without fixing the issues as the weather did not permit them to do their job. Residents of Harihar Singh Road, which connects Morhabadi to Bariatu, had to deal with a power cut for more than five hours on Saturday morning. Power supply remained suspended till noon. “We still had to deal with intermittent power cuts even after the supply was restored,” said Rajiv Shukla, a resident of Harihar Singh Road. Not only did the continuous downpour affect electricity supply, but it also caused water-logging in many localities. Cars and bikes parked at a private parking lot of apartment complex Eklavya Tower on the Argora-Kathal More road were submerged in water after hours of rain. Pictures of the water-logged parking space went viral on social media with some residents claiming that the city has not seen such disastrous effects of rain in several decades while many claiming that the water-logging was a result of poor drainage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-88
31-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: 2 inmates flee Dhanbad jail||Dhanbad: Two inmates of Dhanbad divisional jail on Friday fled by cutting a grill of the jail premises situated on the high security court road area of Dhanbad. Both the inmates, Ankit Rawani , a resident of Kenduadih police station and Deva Bhuian, a resident of Loyabad Police station area, are accused under the Prevention of Children against Sexual Offences (POCSO) act and were arrested in connection with two different cases on October 2019 and August 2020 respectively. Senior officials of the jail administration immediately informed the District administration and police about the incident after which a high level team led by Sub Divisional of Officer, Surendra Kumar reached the divisional jail and took details of the incident from the jail authorities and gave instructions to tighten the security. “We are investigating the incident and taking help of the CCTV Camera installed in the jail to find out how the two accused fled away from the jail,”said Ajay Kumar, Jail Superintendent. The incident, however, raised fresh questions over the security of Dhanbad Divisional jail in which several noted criminals including gangster Sujit Sinha and others are lodged. The jail break incident also assumes significance as former Jharia MLA Sanjeev Singh, main conspirator in Niraj Singh murder case, presently lodged in Dumka Central Jail, will be brought back to Dhanbad divisional jail as per a Jharkhand High court order of July 23. Aman Singh, a notorious UP based criminal and main accused in Niraj Singh murder case has also been transferred from Dhanbad jail to Hotwar jail Ranchi following repeated extortion calls made by him from Dhanbad jail. (Praduman Choubey) Jamshedpur: Jamshedpur FC are in advanced talks with Brazilian central midfielder Alexandre Monteiro de Lima, known as Alex, and are highly optimistic of roping him in again for the upcoming Indian Super League 2021-22 season which begins in Goa in November. The 32-year-old Alex had earlier sent indications that he was not keen to join the Tata Steel-owned club even though Jamshedpur were more than willing to have him on board. JFC continued talks with his (Alex) agent and now it has  reached the final stage. The strong and well-built playmaker is an essential component in head coach Owen Coyle game plan and JFC wants the Brazilian to again be a part of the team. JFC chief executive officer Mukul Choudhari said they were highly optimistic of once again signing Alex. "Alex is an experienced player and we are keen to have him in our team. We are in advanced talks with him and hopefully he will sign on the dotted line," he added. Known for his ability to hold the ball, create chances as well as get into scoring positions, Alex has the experience of playing in Asia with stints in the highly competitive K League 2 (South Korea) with Suwon FC and FC Anyang and most also with Ho Chi Minh City FC in V League (Vietnam). The Brazilan powerhouse with quick reflexes has played under the managership of Coyle at Houston and he did his job perfectly well for the club. He began his career with the youth system of Gremio Mauaense in Brazil. In 2008, he went on to sign as a professional player for FC Wohlen in Switzerland. He became a regular for the Swiss 1. Liga Club where he spent four years and enjoyed  a spell on loan at FC Gossau of the same league. (Jayesh Thaker)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-88
31-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand para-teachers hopeful of regularisation of their service||About 65,000 para-teachers of Jharkhand are hopeful that their 17-year-old demand for regularisation of their services would be addressed after education minister Jagarnath Mahto, who had undergone lung transplant, resumed duty after 10 months. “Things were moving in the right direction last year but suddenly there was a pause as the minister fell ill and couldn’t resume duties,” said Sanjay Kumar Dubey, a leader of the Ekikrit Para Sikshak Sangharsh Morcha, the para-teachers’ organisation. Mahto contracted Covid-19 in September last year and had to be airlifted to Chennai in a critical condition in October. He underwent lungs transplant in November and stayed back in Chennai for availing proper medical care. He returned to Ranchi on June 14 this year. Mahto resumed his ministerial duties on Wednesday after chief minister Hemant Soren, who was looking after the education department in his absence, reallocated the portfolio to him. “I now want to begin from where I had left,” Mahto said after assuming charge, adding that he would look into the case of the para-teachers. The minister was scheduled to attend a meeting related to welfare measures for the teachers in September last year when he tested positive for Covid-19. “I asked for the same file immediately after I took charge and also discussed the matter with senior departmental officers,” Mahto said, emphasising that he was serious about solving the problems of para-teachers. “Once decided, the families of many para-teachers who died during the pandemic would get some compensation,” Dubey said, adding that the dependents of the deceased teachers would not get any financial help otherwise. The state government had recruited para-teachers in 2000 for taking classes in its schools that faced acute shortage of teachers and paid them a consolidated monthly remuneration that was much less than the salary of regular teachers. Since 2004, the para-teachers have been demanding regularisation of their services and a proper pay scale. However, despite vigorous agitations, they did not get anything other than assurances  until the Soren government promised to fulfil their demands, the para-teachers said. “We are now paid between Rs 12,000 and Rs 16,000 per month. It should be revised to at least between Rs 22,000 and Rs 28,000 as has been already done by some other states,” said another leader of the Sangha, Hrishikesh Pathak. We also need assurance that we will be able to continue in service upto 60 years, he added. The government is also considering to allow the para-teachers to continue till they attain 60 years of age and to fill up half of the teacher posts that fell vacant, minister Mahto said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-88
31-07-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant asks Singhbhum industries to prioritise local aspirations  ||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren has asked industries in the mineral-rich Singhbhum area to prioritise the aspirations of local people. After inaugurating a railway overbridge, a renovated town hall and distributing assets and appointment letters to beneficiaries at Chaibasa in West Singhbhum district on Thursday evening, Soren said: “The government is working on ensuring that the benefits of industry are reaped by the local residents. If the industries think about local aspirations, then the villagers and locals would also be with them all the time.” Soren appreciated ACC Cements for giving appointment letters to 45 locals. The chief minister had a few days back written to the Union health minister (Mansukh Mandaviya) expressing concern about the under-representation of local people in the staff of the under-construction All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Deoghar. Soren also handed over apprenticeship letters to 36 candidates who had been selected for apprenticeship in Tata Steel and distributed Kisan Credit Card (KCC) loans to 3,351 farmers on Thursday. “The mineral-rich region of Singhbhum will soon get a steel plant and several big industries and it will create lots of employment opportunities. We would also ensure good transport facilities for industries with a bypass road linking Chaibasa and Hatgamharia and connecting all mining areas of the state to Haldia port (in Bengal) without interfering with city roads. “A detailed project report worth Rs 250 crore has been made. At the moment Rs 3 crore has been sanctioned for strengthening roads and the construction work will start this year itself,” said Soren. The chief minister said the railway overbridge built on the Chaibasa-Hata Main Road will remove traffic bottlenecks for the residents of Chaibasa. The 780-metre long and 11.5m wide ROB has been built at a cost of Rs 43.12 crore. Soren assured that the government is working on reopening of closed mines in the area. The chief minister also appreciated Rungta Mines for utilising its corporate social responsibility funds to renovate the 80-year-old Pillai Town Hall. Soren laid foundation stones for 95 projects and inaugurated another 44 projects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-88
